CHAPTER 49 Red flowers bloom brighter in dazzling snow And venison reeks strangely on rosebud lips WHEN Caltrop saw the cousins talking and laughing about her, she came forward, smiling herself, and handed the poem she was carrying to Dai-yu.
See what you think of this one, she said.
If this one is all tight, I shall go on learning if its still no good, I shall just have to give up the whole idea.
The others clustered round Dai-yu to look.
This is what they read -827 Ethereal splendour no cloud can blot out!
Chaste lovely presence of the cold night sky!
From a white world the washers dull thud sounds, Till in the last watch cocks begin to cry, While, by a fishermans sad flute entranced, A lady leans out from her casement high And you, White Goddess, lulled in sweet delight, Wish every night could be a fifteenth night.
There were exclamations from all of them when they had finished reading it.
But this is not just all right, they said, this is a good and highly original poem.
It shows the truth of the proverb Nothing is too difficult for one who has a mind to do it.
We shall definitely be inviting you now to join our poetry club.
Caltrop, supposing that they were only saying this to humour her, could not quite believe them and continued to press Dai-yu and Bao-chai for the truth.
Just at that moment a number of maids and old serving women came hurrying towards them in a state of great excitement Mrs Zhu!
Young ladies!
Come and meet you relations!
A whole lot of young ladies and other people weve never seen before have just arrived.
Li Wan laughed.
What are you talkin.
8 about?
Whose relations have just arrived?
There are two young cousins of yours, Mrs Zhu, they said, and theres a young lady who says shes Miss Baos cousin, and a young gentleman thats cousin to Mr Xue.
Were on our way now to fetch Mrs Xue.
Why dont you and the young ladies go on ahead and meet them?
They hurried off to complete their mission.
It sounds as if my cousin Xue Ke and his sister must have come, said Bao-chai.
Can it be them, though?
And it sounds as if my Aunt Li must have decided to bring her two daughters to the capital, said Li Wan.
But how strange that they should have arrived together I When she and the cousins entered Lady Wangs main reception room, they found it packed with people.
Apart from the ones whom the servants had mentioned, they found Lady Xings brothers wife with her daughter Xing Xiu-yan.
The three of them, Lady Xings brother and his wife and daughter, had come up to the capital to put themselves under the protection of Lady Xing.
By a coincidence Xi-fengs brother Wang Ren was starting out for the capital just as they were planning to set out themselves, so, on the strength of the marriage connection Wang Ren being the brother of Lady Xings daughter-in-law, they had elected to travel in his company.
While stopping at one of the canal ports half-way along their route, they had made the acquaintance of Li Wans widowed aunt and her two daughters, Li Wen and Li Qi, also on their way to the capital, and when it emerged that all of them were marriage-relations of the Jia family, these three, too, had joined the party.
A little after this, Xue Pans cousin Xue Ke had decided to bring his sister Bao-qin to the capital to attend to the formalities of her betrothal, Some years previously her father, while temporarily residing in the capital, had promised her to the son of a certain Academician Mei, but had died before the betrothal could be made formal.
Hearing that his aunts kinsman Wang Ren was also on his way to the capital, Xue Ke and his sister had pushed on ahead to -join him.
Thus it was that today all these people presented themselves simultaneously at the Rong mansion lo6lting for their various relations.
When at last the introductions and courtesies were over, it became clear that Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang were delighted with the new arrivals.
I knew something nice was going to happen from the way the lampwick was behaving last night, said Grandmother Jia.
It kept flaring up and then forming into little balls at the top.
You see, I was tight!
A general exchange of family talk ensued, and the handling over by the visitors of the presents they had brought with them.
After that Grandmother Jia invited them all to take lunch with her, with wine to celebrate.
Xi-feng, it goes without saying, was now busier than ever.
Li Wan and Bao-chai, who had a great deal of catching up on family news to do, were also kept busy exchanging information with their relations about all the things that had happened during the years since they last met.
Dai-yu, observing them, at first shared in their happiness, but when she began to reflect on the contrast with her own solitary and orphaned state, she was obliged to go away in order to hide her tears.
Bao-yu, well aware of the reason for her sudden disappearance, went after her, and with a good deal of coaxing, succeeded at last in comforting her.
As soon as Dai-yu had dried her tears, Bao-yu hurried back to Green Delights to tell Aroma, Musk and Skybright about the visitors.
You ought to go and have a look, he told them.
This nephew of my Aunt Xues is completely different from Cousin Pan.
From his looks and behaviour youd think he was Bao-chais brother.
Hes certainly more like her than Pan is.
And as for the sisteryoure always saying what a beauty Cousin Chai is, but wait till youve seen her!
And then there are my sister-in-laws two cousinswell, words just fail-me!
Heavenly lord, what a store of beauty you must have at your disposal to be able to produce such paragons!
Ive been like the frog living at the bottom of the well who thought the world was a little round pool of water.
Up to now Ive always believed that the girls in this household were without equals anywhere but now, even without my needing to go outside, here they come, each one more beautiful than the last!
Today has been an education for me.
Dont tell me there are any more like this -320 the shock would be too great!
He laughed excitedly.
Aroma saw that he was in one of his crazy moods and refused to go and look.
But Skybright and the others were more curious and at once hurried over for a peep.
They returned soon after, full of smiles, to report on what they had seen.
Do go and look!
they urged Aroma.
Theres Lady Xings niece and this cousin of Miss Baos and Mrs Zhus two cousins its not often you get a chance to see four such beautiful bulrushes together!
Scarcely had these words been uttered when a smiling Tan-chun came in looking for Bao-yu.
Our poetry club is in luck, she said, finding him indoors with the maids.
Think of all those new members!
Yes, said Bao-yu.
What a happy inspiration of yours it was to start it!
Its almost as though providence had sent these people here to make it prosper.
But are you sure they can all write poetry?
Ive already asked them, said Tan-chun.
They are too modest to say outright, of course, but from what I can judge Im pretty sure that either they all can, or even if they cant, would learn very quickly.
Look how quick Caltrop has been.
Which of the four do you think is the prettiest, Miss?
said Skybright.
I say Miss Baos cousin.
Yes, I think I agree, said Tan-chun.
I think even Bao-chai is not quite as beautiful as her.
Aroma had been listening to all this with growing curiosity.
This is certainly news to me!
she said.
I shouldnt have thought it possible to find anyone more beautiful than Miss Bao.
I must go and have a look.
Grandmother was completely captivated as soon as she set eyes on her, said Tan-chun.
Shes already insisted that Mother should become her godmother, and its decided that Grandmother shall bring her up as her own grandchild.
Really?
Bao-yu seemed delighted.
When have I ever told you a lie?
said Tan-chun.
There was a glint of mischief in her eye Now that shes got such a beautiful granddaughter, shell probably lose interest in her darling grandson.
That doesnt matter, said Bao-yu unconcernedly.
She ought to give preference to girls.
Thats as it should be.
By the way, its the sixteenth today.
Its the day for our poetry dub meeting.
Cousin Lin has only recently got up, and Ying-chun is ill again, said Tan-chun.
Were not really in any shape for a meeting at the moment.
Ying-chun doesnt care much about writing poetry anyway, said Bao-yu.
Surely we can manage without her ?
Yes, but I think we ought to wait a few days, even so said Tan-chun.
Why dont we wait until weve got to know the newcomers a bit better and then invite them to join us?
I shouldnt think sister-in-law or Cousin Chai can either of them be much in the mood for writing poetry at the moment.
And Xiang-yun isnt here.
And Frowner has only just recovered.
No one is really up to it yet.
We ought to wait until Yun arrives and the new lot have settled in then, when Frowner is completely better and sister-in-law and Cousin Chai are a bit less preoccupied and Caltrop has made some more progress, we can invite everyone to a plenary session.
What you and I ought to do now is go round to Grandmas and see what arrangements are being made about these peoples accommodation.
We know that Chais cousin is staying here, because Grandma has adopted her but we dont know yet about the others.
If there are no plans for them to stay here, we must ask Grandma to invite them.
If possible we should get her to let them live in the Garden.
It would be fun to have some more neighbours.
Bao-yu grew quite radiant at the thought.
How clever you are, Tan!
he told his sister admiringly.
-320 Im such a stupid ass.
I get so carried away that I dont think about the important things like you do.
Brother and sister then went together to Grandmother Jias apartment, where they found the old lady in wonderful high spirits following Lady Wangs recognition of Xue Bao-quin as her god-daughter.
She considered that this entitled her to treat the girl as her grandchild, which she had begun doing by insisting that she end the nights with her in her apartment and not in the Garden with Bao-chai.
Xue Ke would naturally stay with his aunt and occupy the study that Xue Pan had vacated.
This niece of yours surely doesnt need to go back to her parents yet?
Grandmother Jia said to Lady Xing.
Let her stay in the Garden for a few days and enjoy herself.
Lady Xings brother and sister-in-law had been living in extremely straitened circumstances, and now that .they had come up to the capital, were relying on her to provide them with accommodation and financial assistance.
She was naturally only too delighted to have one less person to her charge, and promptly handed Xiu-yan over to Xi-feng to dispose of.
Bearing in mind the varied, somewhat peculiar, temperaments of the Gardens inhabitants, Xi-feng doubted the wisdom of putting Xiu-yan in with one of the others on the other hand she foresaw disadvantages in opening up a separate establishment for her.
In the end she put her in with Ying chun, reflecting that if the girl did experience any difficulties in -living with Ying-chun, then even if Lady Xing got to hear of it, she, Xi-feng, could not be held responsible, since Ying-chun was Lady Xings own half-daughter.
From this time onwards, not counting the time she spent at home with her parents, Xiu-yan received, for every whole month that she lived with Ying-chun in Prospect Garden, an allowance from Xi-feng of exactly the same amount as -the monthly allowance that was paid to Ying-chun herself.
To Xi-fengs dispassionate eye it soon became apparent that in both temperament and behaviour Xiu-yan was quite unlike Lady Xing and her parents that she was in fact an extremely sweet and lovable person.
Sorry that so gentle a soul should be so poor and unfortunate, Xi-feng treated her with a tact and considerateness that she did not always show the others.
Lady Xing, on the other hand, seemed -scarcely aware of her nieces existence.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang esteemed Li Wan as a good and virtuous young woman who, having lost her husband at an early age, bore widowhood with fortitude and restraint.
Now that this widowed aunt had arrived, they refused to bear of her taking lodgings outside, and though the good lady made many polite efforts to decline, insisted that she and her two daughters, Li Wen and Li Qi, should move into Sweet-rice Village and stay there with Li Wan at the familys expense.
No sooner had the new arrivals begun settling in than news came that Grandmother Jias nephew Shi Ding, the Marquis of Zhong-jing, was being transferred to an important position in one of the outer provinces and would shortly be leaving for his new post, taking his family with him.
Grandmother Jia could not bear the idea of a permanent separation from her great-niece, and so it was agreed that Xiang-yun, too, should move into residence with the Jias.
It was Grandmother Jias original intention that Xi-feng should set up a separate establishment for her in the Garden but as Xiang-yun herself rigorously opposed this idea and insisted on living with her beloved Bao-chai, she was allowed to have her way.
The Gardens society was now larger and livelier than it bad ever been before.
With Li Wan as its doyenne it numbered if you counted Xi-feng as an honorary member thirteen people Li Wan, Ying-chun, Tan-chun, Xi-chun, Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Xiang-yun, Li Wen, Li Qi, Bao-qin, Xing Xiu-yan, Bao-yu and Xi-feng.
Apart from the two young married women, the rest were all fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years old.
Most of them were in fact born in the same year, several of them in the same month or even on the same day.
Not only Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang and the servants, even the young people themselves had difficulty in remembering who was senior to whom, and soon gave up trying, and abandoned any attempt at observing the usual formalities of address.
Caltrop could now think of nothing else all day long but writing poetry.
Up to now she had refrained from importuning Bao-chai too persistently for advice, but with the arrival of an unwearying talker like Shi Xiang-yun upon the scene she was in her element.
Xiang-yun was only too willing to accede to her requests for instruction, and morning, noon and night the two of them were to be found together, always in animated discussion.
You two are deafening me with your perpetual chatter, Bao-chai complained.
Imagine how ridiculous and unmaidenly it would seem to a man of letters if he heard that girls were treating poetry as a serious occupation!
Caltrop on her own was bad enough, but with a chatterbox like you on top of it, Yun, Im finding it a bit too much.
Everywhere I go its the profundity of Du Fu, or Wei Ying-wu of Soochows limpidity, or the somewhat meretricious charm of Wen Ting-yun, or Li Shang-yins obscurity.
Still, there are two important living poets Ive so far heard no mention of.
Oh?
said Xiang-yun, all agog.
Which two?
Ive heard no mention of Crazy Caltrops prodigious pertinacity or the linguipotent loquacity of Shi Xiang-yun, said Bao-chai.
The other two burst out laughing.. At that moment Bao-qin arrived.
She was wearing a magnificent rain-cape that glittered as she moved with gold and green ish lights.
Bao-chai asked her where she had got it from.
Lady Jia gave me it, said Bao-qin.
She looked it out for me because it was beginning to sleet.
Caltrop examined it curiously.
No wonder it looks so beautiful this is woven out of peacocks down.
Thats not peacocks down, said Xiang-yun.
Its made from mallards head-feathers.
She smiled at Bao-qin teasingly -320 One can see how fond of you she must be.
Shes fond of Bao-yu, but shes never let him wear this.
Bao-chai laughed To each a different fortune meted thats certainly a true saying.
I never dreamt that she would be coming heremuch less that when she did, Lady Jia would immediately fail for her like this!
Apart from the time you spend with Her Old Ladyship, Xiang-yun advised Bao-qin, I should stick to the Garden as much as possible if I were you.
In these two places you can eat and drink and play anywhere you please.
But be careful of Lady Wangs place.
If shes in when you go there, then you can sit and talk with her as long as you like but if shes not, its best not to go inside.
There are a lot of nasty people in there who like to do us harm.
This highly indiscreet warning was uttered so matter-of-factly that Bao-chai, Bao-qin, Caltrop and Oriole were compelled to laugh.
I wont say you are thoughtless, said Bao-chai, because you obviously mean well but you really are a bit too outspoken.
You and Qin ought to be -sisters, since you are so concerned about her.
Xiang-yun looked at Bao-qin appraisingly.
She is the only one of us who could wear this cape, she said.
Anyone else would look wrong in it.
Just then Amber walked in with a message from Grandmother Jia Her Old Ladyship says please Miss Bao dont be too strict with Miss Qin shes still only little and should he allowed to have her own way.
And she says if theres anything Miss Qin wants, she shouldnt be afraid to ask for it.
Bao-chai stood up politely to acknowledge the message.
Afterwards she nudged Bao-qin playfully.
I dont know!
Some people have all the luck.
Youd better leave us, hadnt you, before we start maltreating you?
It beats me.
What have you got that I havent got?
She was still teasing Bao-qin when Bao-yu and Dai-yu arrived.
You say that in jest, Chai, said Xiang-yun, noting their entry, but I know someone who really thinks that way.
If anyones really upset, it must be him, said Amber, pointing her finger at Bao-yu.
Xiang-yun laughed at her simple-mindedness No, hes not that sort of person.. Then if its not him you mean, it must be her, said Amber, pointing now at Dai--yu.
Xiang 7 yun fell silent.
This time it was Bao-chai who spoke Wrong again.
She feels the same way about my cousin as I do.
in fact, I believe if anything shes even fonder of her so how could she be upset?
Dont be taken in by Miss Shis nonsense, my dear Amber.
When did you ever hear Miss Shi say anything serious ?
From past experience Bao-yuwho still knew nothing of Dai-yu and Bao-chais recent rapprochement was too familiar with Dai-yus jealous disposition not to feel apprehensive that Grandmother Jias new partiality for Bao-qin might upset her.
He was puzzled, therefore, by Bao-chais rejoinder, and even more puzzled when he studied the expression on Dai-yus face and found that, far from showing any trace of the resentment he would have expected, it exactly tallied with what Bao-chai had said.
Those two used not to be like this, he thought.
Yet to judge from appearances, they are ten times friendlier towards each other now than they are towards anyone else.
Shortly after this he heard Dai-yu calling Bao-qin dear and fussing over her as if she were Bao-qins elder sister.
Bao-qin was a young, warm-hearted creature she was, moreover, highly intelligent and had been taught her letters from an early age.
By the time she had been a couple of days in the ha household, she had already formed some impression of its members, Finding that her cousins were quite different from the vapid, giggling creatures to be found in the womens quarters of so many houses, she was soon on friendly terms with all of them and was careful not to show off but in Dai-yu she recognized a superior intelligence, and consequently felt even more affection and respect for her than she did for any of the others.
Hence the intimacy which Bao-yu had just witnessed.
He studied the pair of them curiously and marveled in silence.
Shortly after this, when Bao-chai and Bao-qin had gone off to Aunt Xues place and Xiang-yun had gone to see Grandmother Jia and Dai-yu had gone back to her own room to rest, Bao-Yu went after Dai-yu to question her.
Ive read The Western Chamber, he said, and understood it well enough to have offended you on more than one occasion by quoting it at you yet theres one line in it I still dont understand.
Do you think, if I told you it, you could explain it-to me?
Dai-yu realized that something must lie behind this request, nevertheless she smilingly promised that she would do her best.
It comes in the section called Ying-yings Reply, said Bao-yu Since when did Meng Guang accept Lang Hongs tray?
The question seems rather an apposite one.
Those two little words since when particularly intrigue me.
Kindly expound them for me, will you?
Since when did Meng Guang accept Liang Hongs tray?, Dai-yu could not but be amused by the droll way in which he had gone about making his inquiry.
Thats a good question, she said.
It was a good question when Reddie asked it in the play, and its a good question when you ask it now.
There was a time, -not so long past, when you might have been deeply offended by it, said Bao-yu, yet now you say nothing.
Its because now I know shes a very good person, said Dai-yu.
Before I used to think she was two-faced.
She proceeded to tell him, at some length, about the motherly talking to Bao-chai had given her after her lapses in the drinking game and about the gift of birds nest and sugar and the long talk Bao-chai had had with her when she was ill.
I see, said Bao-yu.
I neednt have been so puzzled then.
It seems that the question Since when did Meng Guang accept Liang Hongs tray?
-320 could have been answered with another line from the same act of the same play.
It was since you spoke -320 Like a child whose unbridled tongue knows no concealment!
Dai-yu went on to talk about Bao-qin, whom she evidently looked on as a younger sister.
Alas, this only reminded her that she had no real sister of her own and 8he began to cry.
Bao-yu would have none of this.
Now come on, Dai!
Youre making yourself upset.
Look at you!
Youre thinner than ever this year.
Its because you wont take care of yourself.
You positively look for ways of making yourself miserable.
Its almost as though you felt you hadnt spent the day properly unless youd had at least one good cry in it!
No, said Dai-yu as she wiped her eyes.
I feel very low these days, but I dont think cry as much as I used to.
Im sure you do, said Bao-yu.
Its just that its become so much a habit with you that you no longer know whether youre crying or not.
Im sure you cry just as much as you always did.
Just then one of the maids from his room arrived carrying his scarlet felt rain-cape.
Mrs Zhu has just sent someone round with a message for you, Master Bao, said the maid.
She says its starting to snow now and she wants to discuss with you about inviting people for the poetry meeting.
She had barely finished speaking when Li Wans emissary arrived to deliver the same message to Dai-yu.
Bao-yu suggested that they should go to Sweet-rice Village together and waited while she put on a pair of little red-leather boots which had a gilded cloud pattern cut into their surface, a pelisse of heavy, dark-red bombasine lined with white fox-fur, a complicated woven belt made out of silvery green shot silk, and a snow-hat.
The two of them then set off together through the snow.
They arrived to find that nearly all the others were there already, mostly in red felt or camlet snow-cloaks.
The exceptions were Li Wan, who wore a simple greatcoat of plain woollen material buttoned down the front, Xue Bao-chai in a pelisse of ivy- green whorl-patterned brocade trimmed with some sort of exotic lambs wool, and Xing Xiu-yan, who had no protection against the snow of any kind beyond the every day clothes she was wearing.
Presently Xiang-yun arrived.
She was wearing an enormous fur coat that Grandmother Jia had given her.
The outside was made up of sables heads and the inside lined with long-haired black squirrel.
On her head was a dark-red camlet Princess hood lined with yellow figured velvet, whose cut-out cloud shapes were bordered with gold, and round her neck, muffling her up to the nose, was a large sable tippet.
Look, Monkey!
said Dai-yu, laughing at this furry apparition.
Trust Yun to turn the need for wearing snow-clothes into an excuse for dressing up!
She looks just like a Tartar groom!
You havent seen what I am wearing underneath yet, said Xiang-yun, and opened out the fur coat to show them.
She had on a short, narrow-sleeved, ermine-lined tunic jacket of russet green, edge-fastened down the centre front, purfled at neck and cuffs with a triple band of braiding in contrasting colours, and patterned all over with dragon-roundels embroidered in gold thread and coloured silks.
Under this she was wearing a short riding-skirt of pale-red satin damask lined with white fox belly-fur.
A court girdle of different-coloured silks braided into butterfly knots and ending in long silken tassels was tied tightly round her waist.
Her boots were of deerskin.
The whole ensemble greatly enhanced the somewhat masculine appearance of her figure with its graceful, athletic bearing.
The others laughed She loves dressing up as a boy.
Actually she looks even more fetching in boys clothes than she does as a girl.
Lets get down to business, said Xiang-yun.
What I want to know is, whos paying for the entertainment this time?
Well, this is what I thought, said Li Wan.
Weve already passed the date for our regular meeting, and we dont want to wait until the next one comes round, because its too far ahead.
As its snowing, I thought it would be rather nice if we clubbed together for a little snow-party in honour of the newcomers and used it as an occasion for doing some poetry-making as well.
What do the rest of you think ?
I think thats exactly what we should do, said Bao-yu.
The only thing is, its a bit late for a party today, but if we wait until tomorrow, the snow may have stopped by then and it wont be so much fun.
Its very unlikely to, said the others.
And even if it has stopped by tomorrow morning, it will surely be snowing still tonight, so it should be well worth looking at in the morning.
This place here is all right, of course, said Li Wan, but I thought that for this occasion it would be nicer if we met in Snowy Rushes Retreat.
Ive already told them to light the stove there and get the underground heating system started.
I dont think Grandma would much like the idea of our sitting round the stove making verses, so, as its only a very little party, I propose that we dont tell her about it.
As long as we let Feng know, it should be sufficient.
As regards contributions if each of you will bring one tael to me here, it ought to be enough.
Not you five she pointed to Caltrop, Bao-qin, Li Wen, Li Qi and Xiu-yanAnd Ying-chun and Xi-chun wont be contributing either.
Ying-chun is ill and Xi-chun is on leave of absence.
That leaves only Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Xiang-yun and Dai-yu.
If you four will contribute one tael each, I will undertake to contribute five or six taels myself.
Together that should be ample.
Bao-chai and the other three promised to bring her their contributions later and went on to ask what titles and rhymes should be set for the poetry-making.
Ive already decided that, said Li Wan.
Let it be a surprise for you when you come.
Arrangements for the party having now been settled, the cousins chatted together for a while longer before going off in a body to visit Grandmother Jia.
That concludes the narrative for that day, -320 At first light next morning Bao-yu, who in excited anticipation of the day ahead had barely slept all night, crawled from the covers and lifted up a corner of the bed-curtain to inspect the weather.
Although the doors and windows were still fastened, there was an ominous brightness about the latter which led him to conclude inwardly groaning with disappointment that the snow must have cleared and the sun be shining.
Jumping out of bed, he opened one of the inner casements and looked through the glass.
It was not the sun after all, he found, but the white gleam of snow.
It had been snowing all night there was a good foot of snow on the ground and it was still coming down in great, soft flakes, I like the flock from a torn-up quilt.
Overjoyed to find that he had been wrong, he at once began shouting for his maids, and as soon as he had finished washing and dressed himself in an aubergine-coloured gown lined with fox, a jacket with a sealskin shoulder-cape, and a belt round his waist for warmth, he donned his elegant rain-bat and cape the Prince of Bei-jings present that Dai-yu had so much admired, stepped into his pear wood patterns, and set off for Snowy Rushes Retreat.
Once outside tile courtyard gate, the Garden stretched out on every hand in uniform whiteness, uninterrupted except for the dark green of a pine-tree or the lighter green of some bamboos here and there in the distance.
He felt as if he was standing in the middle of a great glittering crystal bowl.
Proceeding on his way, he had just turned a spur in the miniature mountain whose foot he was skirting, when his senses were suddenly ravished by a delicate cold fragrance.
On looking around him, he found it to be coming from the dozen or so trees of winter-flowering red plum growing inside the walls of Green Bower Hermitage where the nun Adamantina lived.
The brilliance of their carmine hue against the white background and the bravura of their blossoming amidst the snow so enchanted him that he stopped for some minutes to admire them.
As he moved on again, he saw someone carrying a green oiled-silk umbrella crossing over Wasp Waist Bridge.
It was one of Li Wans servants on her way to invite Xi-feng to the party.
Arriving at Snowy Rushes Retreat, be found several women-servants outside, sweeping a pathway up to the door.
Snowy Rushes Retreat was built at the waters margin in the shelter of a little hill.
It had a thatched roof and adobe walls and a post-and-bar fence round it and bamboo-barred windows, just like a farmhouse or a peasants cottage.
By merely opening a casement and leaning out, it was possible to fish in the lake from its rear windows.
Reeds and rushes grew all around it.
A meandering pathway through them led to the bamboo bridge by which Lotus Pavilion could be approached from the back.
When the snow-sweepers caught sight of Bao-yu in his rain hat and cape, they paused from their labours and laughed.
We were just saying a moment ago that all we need now is an old fisherman, and here he comes!
Youre too impatient, Master the young ladies wont be coming until theyve eaten.
Hearing that, there was nothing for Bao-yu to do but go back again.
Looking out from Drenched Blossoms Pavilion while he was crossing over the bridge, he caught sight of his sister Tan-chun emerging from Autumn Studio.
She was wearing a dark-red camlet cloak and Guanyin hood and leaning on the arm of a little maid.
A woman-servant walked behind her carrying a green oiled-silk umbrella.
Realizing that she must be on her way to see Grandmother Jia, Bao-yu waited by the pavilion for her to catch up with him and accompanied her out of the Garden.
When they arrived, Bao-qin was still at her toilet in the inner room.
The other cousins joined them shortly after.
Bao-yu kept telling everyone how hungry he felt and grumbling because the servants were so long in serving.
When the food at last arrived, the first dish to be put on the table was unborn lamb stewed in milk.
Thats a health food, said Grandmother Jia.
Its for old folk like me.
Im afraid you young people couldnt eat it.
Its a creature thats never seen the light.
Theres some fresh venison today, though.
Why dont you wait and have some of that?
The others agreed to wait, but Bao-yu professed himself unable to hold out, and helping himself to a bowl of plain boiled rice, poured a little tea over it and shovelled it straight from the bowl into his mouth with one or two collops of pickled pheasant-meat to help it down.
I know youve got something on today, said Grandmother Jia.
Thats why youve no time to eat properly.
She turned to the servants.
Save some of the venison for them to eat in the evening.
-384 Theres plenty more, said Xi-feng.
Ive already spoken to them about it.
Xiang-yun had a brief consultation on the subject with Bao-yu If theyve got fresh venison, why dont we ask for a piece and cook it ourselves in the Garden?
That would be fun.
Bao-yu eagerly took up her suggestion and begged a piece from Xi-feng.
He got one of the women to take it into the Garden for them.
Presently, when they had all left Grandmother Jias place and reassembled in Snowy Rushes Retreat an-d were waiting to hear what themes and rhymes Li Wan had decided on, they noticed that Xiang-yun and Bao-yu were missing.
Those two should never be allowed together, said Dai-yu.
As soon as ever they get together there is some kind of mischief afoot.
No doubt the reason theyve gone off this time is because they have designs on that deers meat.
Just then Li Wans aunt, Mrs Li, came in, drawn by the noise and numbers to see what was happening.
That boy with the jade and the girl with the gold kylin, she said to Li Wan anxiously, they both seem such clean, well-bred children, and they look as if they had enough to eat, yet just now the two of them were discussing how to eat a piece of raw venison.
They seemed to he quite serious about it, too.
Can one eat venison raw?
I find it hard to believe that it can be very good for you.
Shocking I exclaimed the others.
Better go out and stop them.
Yun is at the bottom of this, said Dai-yu.
Mark my words!
Li Wan hurried off to find the culprits.
If you are proposing to eat raw meat, she said when she had found them, I shall have to send you back to Grandmas to do it there.
You can take a whole deer and stuff yourselves sick on it as long as its not my responsibility.
Come on, now!
Come back and make verses with the rest of us.
Out in all this snowits much too cold!
Youre absolutely mistaken, said Bao-yu, laughing.
Were planning to roast it.
Oh well said Li Wan, thats different.
Some old women arrived just then, carrying an iron stove, some metal skewers and a grill.
Now be careful about cutting that meat, said Li Wan.
If you cut your fingers, youll have nobody to blame but yourselves I Having uttered that warning, she went indoors again.
Not long after she had gone in, Patience came by on her way to the Retreat.
Xi-feng had sent her, in response to Li Wans invitation, to explain that she was unable to join them because she was busy seeing to the various annual payments that fall due at this time of year.
Xiang-yun stopped her to exchange greetings, and having once stopped her, was unwilling to let her go again.
Patience was by nature a fun-loving girl and she knew that Xi-feng would generally let her do as she liked.
Considering the idea of cooking outdoors a great lark, she entered into the spirit of the thing, and taking off her bracelets, joined the other two round the brazier and asked for three of the cut-up pieces of venison to roast.
Bao-chai and Dai-yu had seen this kind of thing before and were not particularly interested, but it was a novelty to Mrs Li and Bao-qin and the newcomers, and they were greatly intrigued.
What a lovely smell!
said Tan-chun, when she and Li Wan had finished discussing the theme for the verse-making.
You can smell it from here.
Im going outside to have some.
She went out to join the three around the brazier.
Li Wan followed her.
Everyones ready and waiting, said Li Wan.
Havent you two finished eating yet?
I need wine to inspire my verse, said Xiang-yun, speaking with a mouth full of venison, and eating roast venison gives me a thirst for wine.
So if I didnt eat this venison, I shouldnt be able to write any poetry for you.
She caught sight of Bao-qin, in the beautiful drakes head cloak that Caltrop had thought was made of peacocks feathers, hanging back somewhat from the rest and smiling wistfully.
Thoppy!
she called out to her.
Come and try thome!
Too dirty!
said Bao-qin.
Go and try some, Bao-chai urged her.
Its very good.
The only reason your Cousin Lin isnt having any is because shes delicate and cant digest it.
If it werent for that, she would love to have some herself.
Hearing this, Bao-qin went over and nibbled a bit, and finding it good, began to tuck in with as much gusto as the rest.
Presently a little maid arrived from Xi-feng summoning Patience to return but Patience told the girl to go back without her and tell her mistress that she was being detained by Miss Shi.
Shortly after the maids departure Xi-feng herself arrived, with a rain-cape over her shoulders.
This looks good, she said jovially.
You might have told me!
With that she joined the other five in their alfresco feast round the brazier -320 You look like a party of down-and-outs, said Dai-yu.
Oh dear, oh dear!
Poor Snowy Rushes Retreat, polluted by Butcher Yun and her reeking carnivores!
I weep for you!
What do you know about it?
said Xiang-yun scornfully.
True wits make elegant whateer they touch.
Yours is a false purity.
Odious purity!
Now we may reek and raven but presently you will see us with the pure spirit of poetry in our breasts and the most delicate, silken phrases On our lips!
Youd better see to it that the verses you make are good ones, said Bao-chai, laughing, otherwise we shall make you expiate the pollution by plucking the venison from your insides and stuffing you with snowy rushes!
They had now made an end of eating, and washed their hands.
In putting on her bracelets again, Patience noticed that one of them was missing but though she and the others looked all around them, they were unable to find it.
They were still puzzling over its disappearance when Xi-feng smilingly put an end to the search I know where the bracelets gone.
You others go in and get on with your poetry.
Theres no need to look for it any longer, she told Patience.
You will have to go home without it but I promise that within three days from now you shall have it back again.
What are your poems to be about this time ?
she asked the cousins.
Grandma says that as its getting near the end of the year, we shall soon be needing some First Month lantern riddles.
Ah yes, of course!
they said.
Wed quite forgotten, Wed better make some good ones up in advance to have ready for the festival.
During this exchange they had been trooping into the room in the Retreat which had the under-floor heating.
Wine-cups and prepared dishes had been laid there in readiness by the servants.
A paper stuck to the wall announced the theme, form and rhyme for the forthcoming poetry contest.
Bao-yu and Xiang-yun, who had not yet seen it, quickly went over to look.
This is what it said Theme The Snow Form Linked Pentameters Rhyme Eyes No order of composition had been indicated.
Im not much good at poetry myself, said Li Wan, so I shall merely start you off by giving you the first three lines.
After that, whoever is the first to think of a good following line can carry on.
I think we ought to have a fixed order, said Bao-chai.
As to whether or not her advice was taken, that will be made clear in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 50 Linked verses in Snowy Rushes Retreat And lantern riddles in the Spring In Winter Room I THINK We ought to have a fixed order, said Bao-chai.
Just let me write the names down and we can decide what it is to be by lot.
When she had written down their names and torn up the paper, the slips were drawn and she copied them down in the order in which they came out.
Li Wan, by coincidence, retained the first place.
If this is what you are doing, said Xi-feng, I may as well contribute a line of my own to start you off with.
Yes, yes, said the others.
Please do!
Bao-chai added the name Feng to the list, above that of Farmer Sweet-rice, while Li Wan explained what the subject was and what sort of line it had to be.
Xi-feng listened attentively and thought for some moments before speaking.
You mustnt laugh if this sounds a bit unpolished, she said at last, but at least I think its the right length.
Mind you, Ive no idea how it could go on.
Never mind how unpolished it is, they said.
just tell us what it is then you can leave, if you want to, and get on with your own work.
Well, when it snows, theres always a north wind, said Xi-feng, and last night I could hear the north wind blowing all night long so Ive made a line up about that Last night the north wind blew the whole night through.
There you aretake it or leave it!
The others looked at each other in pleased surprise.
Even if the language of this line is a bit unpolished and you cant see whats going to follow it, its exactly the kind of line that a skilled poet would begin with.
Not only is the line good in itself, but it leaves so many possibilities open to the person who follows.
Put that down for our first line then, Sweet-rice, and you can finish the couplet.
Before they proceeded any further, however, Xi-feng, Mrs Li and Patience drank two cups of wine with them, after which they left.
As soon as they had gone, Li Wan wrote out the line that Xi-feng had given them, adding a line of her own to make it into a couplet and a third line after that to make the beginning of a second couplet.
Thereafter, as each of them in turn completed the couplet started by the previous person and then added the first line of another couplet, she continued to write down the lines at their dictation -347 XI-FENG Last night the north wind blew the whole night through LI WAN Today outside my door the snow still flies.
On mud and dirt its pure white flakes fall down CALTROP And powdered jade the whole earth beautifies.
Flakes on the dead plants weave a winter dress -1536 TAN-CHUN -294 And on dry grasses gemlike crystallize.
Now will the farmers brew a good puce fetch LI QI His full barn to a good year testifies.
The ash-filled gauge shows winters solstice near LI WEN And the Wain turns as Yang revivifies.
Snow robs the cold bills of their emerald hue XIU-YAN And frost the rivers motion petrifies.
Snow settles thickly on sparse willow boughs -347 XIANG-YUN But on dead plantain-leaves less easy lies.
Now perfumed coals in precious braziers burn -1536 BAO-QIN And heavy furs the girls slim shapes disguise.
Firelight the mirror by the window catches -1536 DAI-YU And burning nard the chamber purifies.
Still sobbing through the night the mournful wind -1344 BAO-YU -294 Each sleepers dreams with sadness sanctifies.
Somewhere a melancholy flute is playing BAO-CHAI -294 Whose sad notes with the winds plaint harmonize.
With groans the Earth Turtle sideways shifts his load At this point Li Wan laid down her brush and rose to her feet.
-1094 I think Ill just slip out and see about getting some more wine heated.
Someone else can take my place.
Ban-chai took up the writing-brush and called on Bao-qin to complete the couplet but before she could do so, Xiang-yun had leapt to her feet with two lines of her own -1344 XIANG-YUN -294 As dragons brawl, the cloud-wrack liquefies.
A lone boat from the lonely shore puts out Nothing daunted, Bao-qin completed that couplet instead DAO-QIN -294 While from the bridge a horseman waves good-byes.
Now warm clothes to the frontier are dispatched Xiang-yun would yield to no one and her invention was so much quicker than anyone elses, that they were content to let her break the order, and watched with amusement as she returned now, exulting, to the attack -934 XIANG-YUN -294 And wives to distant dear ones send supplies.
On still untrodden ways masked pitfalls threaten Thats a good line!
said Bao-chai admiringly as she wrote down what Xiang-yun had recited and she followed with two lines of her own BAO-CHAI -294 In snowbound woods a boughs creak terrifies.
The wind-blown snow around the traveller whirls Dai-yu hurriedly followed DAI-YU -294 And clouds of powdery snow at each step rise.
Steamed taros makes a good snow-party fare She nudged Bao-yu to follow but Bao-yu was so absorbed in watching the contest that seemed to be developing between Xiang-yun on the one hand and Bao-qin, Bao-chai and Dai-yu on the other, that he was failing to think up lines of his own to follow their half-couplets with.
He did the best he could, however, in response to Dai-yus nudge -1536 BAO--YU The guests on scattered salt themes improvise.
Now is the woodmans axe no longer heard Clear off, youyoure no good!
said Xiang-yun, laughing.
All youre doing is getting in other peoples way!
Her pausing to say this gave Bao-qin an opportunity of cutting in -1536 BAO-QIN -294 Yet still his rod the straw-clad fisher plies.
Mountains like sleeping elephants appear Xiang-yun hurried back into the fray -1536 XIANG-YUN A snake-like path the climbers skill defies.
-294 After long cold the trees strange frost-fruits bear This evoked admiring murmurs from Bao-chai and the rest.
Tan-chun managed to get in a contribution at this point -1536 TAN-HUN Which, bold in beauty, winters blasts despise.
-294 The hushed yard startles to a cold choughs chatter Xiang-yun was ready at once with two lines to follow, but as she was feeling thirsty, she first stopped to gulp down some tea.
In doing so, she lost her turn to Xiu-yan -1536 XIU-YAN -294 An old owl wakes the vale with mournful cries.
The driving flakes make angles disappear Xiang-yun put down her teacup in a hurry, before more ground could be lost -1344 XIAN-G-YUN But dimples on -the waters face incise.
In the clear morn how radiant gleams the snow!
Dai-yu followed -1344 DAI-YU -267 How ghostly, as the too short daylight dies!
Its cold the Chengs disciples could withstand Xiang-yun laughed excitedly as she hurried to complete the couplet -1344 XIANG-YUN Its promise can a kings cares exorcise.
Whod lie abed all stiff with cold indoors Bao-qin laughed, too, as she followed BAO-QIN When friends invite to red-cheeked exercise?
Who oer the land the merfolks silk unrolls?
Xiang-yun quickly capped this -1344 XIANG-YUN Who the white weft from Heavens loom unties?
But before she could begin another couplet, Dai-yu slipped in a line of her own -1344 DAI-YU Tall tiled pavilions cold and-empty stand Xiang-yun capped it -1344 XIANG-YUN Snug -thatch more favour finds in poor mens eyes.
Bao-qin, concluding that this was now a free-for-all, -cut in with ?he next half couplet -1344 BAO-QIN Ice lumps we thaw and boil to make our tea Xiang-yun, having evidently thought of something amusing, began to giggle -1344 XIANG-YUN The fuel being damp, they greatly tantalize.
Dai-yu began to giggle too -1344 DAI-Y-U The Zen recluse with non-broom sweeps the ground The infection of giggles had now reached Bao-qin -1344 BAO-QIN -294 His stringless lute-play still more mystifies.
Xiang-yun was by now so doubled up with laughter that the others could not make out the words of her next line.
-294 What?
they asked her.
What was that you said?
Xiang-yun had to repeat it -1344 XIANG-YUN On the stone tower a stork unwatchful sleeps Dai-yu was laughing so much that -she had to clutch painfully at her chest and the words she recited came out in a laughing shout -1344 DAI-YU On the warm mat a cat contented sighs.
All the lines that followed were uttered in rapid succession and to the accompaniment of much laughter.
-1344 BAO-QIN In moonlit caves the silvery water laps XIANG-YUN -294 And red flags flutter against sunset skies.
-1344 DAI-YU Soaked winter plums make the breath fresh and sweet Thats a good line, said Bao-chai.
She capped it herself BAO-CHAI And melted snow the wine-fumes neutralize.
-294 -1344 BAO-QIN The stiffened aigrette gradually thaws XIANG-YUN The snow-soaked silken girdle slowly dries.
-1536 DAI-YU The wind has dropped, but snow still wetly falls Bao-qin capped this, laughing -1536 BAO-QIN And frequent drips the passer-by baptize.
Xiang-yun had collapsed, weak with laughing, upon Bao-chais shoulder.
The others had long since given up trying to participate and become mere laughing spectators of the three-cornered contest between Xiang-yun, Dai-yu and Bao-qin.
Dai-yu urged Xiang-yun to go on.
Dont tell me youve run out of inspiration!
Surely your famous gift of the gab is still good for a few more lines?
Bao-chai prodded Xiang-yun, who was now laughing helplessly upon her lap.
See if you can exhaust the rhyme, Yun.
If you can do that, I shall be really impressed.
This isnt verse-making, said Xiang-yun, raising her head from Bao-chais lap, its more like a duel to the death!
Well, whose fault is that?
they asked her, laughing.
Tan-chun, having decided that she would be unlikely to make any further contributions herself, had some time before this taken over the task of amanuensis from Bao-chai.
She now pointed out -that the poem needed finishing off.
Li Wan, who had just arrived back, took the paper from her and embarked on a suitable finishing couplet -1536 LI WAN Our verses shall this happy day record Her cousin Li Qi completed it -1536 LI QI And a wise Emperor loyally eulogize.
Now thats enough said Li Wan.
We still havent exhausted the rhyme, but if we go on any longer, we shall be tying ourselves up in knots trying to use words that arent really suitable.
They now went over the whole poem from beginning to end and discussed it all in detail.
It appeared that Xiang-yun had contributed far mote lines than anyone else, The others laughed.
Its because of all that venison you ate!
If we consider quality rather than quantity, said Li Wan, I think all the contributions are of about equal merit.
Except Bao-yus, of course.
He goes to the bottom of the list, as usual.
I cant do Linked Verses, anyway, said Bao-yu.
You have to make allowances for me.
Thats all very well, said Li Wan, smiling, but we cant make allowances for you at every single meeting.
One time youre in trouble because we have fixed rhymes, another time you fail to turn up altogether, and this time you tell us you cant do Linked Verses I think this time there really has to be a penalty.
I noticed just now that the red plum in Green Bower Hermitage is very fine.
Id like to have broken off a branch to put in a vase, but I find Adamantina such a difficult person that I prefer not to have anything to do with her.
The first part of your punishment shall be to get us a branch of that red plum and put it in a vase here where all of us can admire it.
What a delightful penalty!
said the others.
How civilized!
Bao-yu, too, was delighted with the penalty, but just as he was setting off to perform it, Xiang-yun and Dai-yu simultaneously rose to their feet and detained him.
Its very, very cold outside.
Have a cup of hot wine before you go.
Xiang-yun already had the wine-kettle in her hand.
Dai-yu found an extra large cup for her to pour the wine in.
There!
said Xiang-yun, filling it up to the brim.
If you come back empty-handed now, after drinking our wine, we shall double the rest of your penalty when you get back!
Bao-yu quickly drank down the proffered cup of freshly heated wine and walked out into the snow.
Li Wan wanted to send a servant out after him, but Dai-yu intervened.
I wouldnt, if I were you.
If he has anyone else with him, he wont be able to get any.
Knowing Adamantina, Li Wan reflected that this was probably true and nodded.
She sent the maids to fetch a large mei ping vase with wide shoulders and a very narrow neck to put the plum-blossom in when it arrived.
When he comes back, we must compose some red plum poems, she said.
I can do one now, said Bao-qin.
Oh no!
said Bao-chai.
Were not letting yon do any more.
Youve already hogged enough turns for today.
Its no fun for the others if they are left with nothing to do.
No, its Bao-yus penalty weve got to think about, He said just now that he cant do Linked Verses.
When he comes back we ought to make him do some other kind of verses for us by himself.
Good ideal said Dai-yu.
And Ive got another idea.
Several people didnt get sufficient opportunity in the Linked Verses of showing what they can do.
I propose that those who contributed least in the Linked Verses should be given the red plum poems to do?
Yes, I agree, said Bao-chai.
Cousin Xing, Cousin Wen and Cousin Qi were practically crowded out altogetherand they are, after all, our guests.
Qin and Yun and you, Frowner, hogged nearly all the turns.
This time the rest of us ought to keep out of it and let Cousin Xing and Cousin Wen and Cousin Qi have the floor to themselves.
Qi isnt very good at making verses, said Li Wan.
I think youd better give her place to your cousin Bao-qin.
This was scarcely what Bao-chai had intended, but she felt herself in no position to dissent.
Why dont we use the words red plum flower as rhymes?
she suggested.
Each of the three can do an octet on Red Plum Flower, but Cousin Xing can use red for her rhyme, Cousin Wen can use plum for hers, and Qin can use flower.
We seem to be letting off Bao-yu, said Li Wan.
I cant agree to that.
Give him a separate theme, Xiang-yun suggested.
What theme shall we give him?
the others asked.
What about On Visiting the Nun Adamantina with a Request for Red Plum blossom?
said Xiang-yun.
That might be interesting.
Oh yes!
said the others.
That would do splendidly.
At that very moment the object of their discussion walked in, smiling triumphantly, with a flowering plum-branch in his hand.
The maids at once relieved him of it and put it in the waiting vase, while the cousins crowded round them to admire it.
I hope you enjoy it, all -of you, said Bao-yu.
It took me enough trouble to get!
Tan-chun handed him a cup of hot wine to revive him but first the maids removed his cape and rain hat and shook the snow off them.
Maids from several different apartments now began arriving with extra-clothing for their mistresses.
Bao-yus Aroma sent him an old surtout lined with foxs belly-fur.
Li Wan made the servants fill three dishes, one with extra large steamed taros, the other two with blood- orange s, yellow Canton orange s and olives, to take back to her.
Xiang-yun now told Bao-yu the title of the poem they wanted him to compose and urged him to begin thinking a bout it.
I will, said Bao-yu but theres just one thing I would ask of you all please let me use my own rhymes please dont make me do it to set rhymes.
All right, said the girls.
Use whatever rhymes you like.
They had been admiring the plum-blossom meanwhile.
The vertical part of the branchthe part, that is, which was stuck into the neck of the vasemust have been less than two feet high but growing at right-angles from the top of it was a side branch which rose and fell in a spreading cascade of blossom all of four feet long.
Of the branchlets forming this flowery cascade -587 some were like writhing serpents, some were like frozen worms some were as straight and smooth as a writing-brush, some were as densely twigged as a tiny coppice.
As for the blossoms, they had -347 A colour like the rosy lips of love And scent that made summers scents seem uninviting.
-1094 While the others-were studying the blossoming branch and praising its beauties, Xing Xiu-yan, Li Wen and Bao-qin were busy composing their poems about it and presently began writing them out for the others to inspect.
This is what the others were now able to read On a Branch of Red Plum Flower I Rhyming red By Xing Xiu-yan -827 So brave, so gay they bloom in winters cold, Before the fragrant peach and almond red Like rosy clouds that clothe the springtime slopes Of Yu-ling, where my dream-soul oft has sped.
Each little lamp in its green calyx lies Like drunken snow-sprite on a rainbow bed.
Yet do these flowers, of hue so rich and rare, Reckless, in ice and snow their charms outspread.
II Rhyming plum By Li Wen -827 What richness blooms before my drunken eyes?
-800 Tis not the white I sing, but the red plum.
See, its pale cheeks are streaked with blood-red tears, -827 Even though its bitter heart with cold is numb.
No flower this, but a fairy maid transformed And here transplanted from Elysium In this bleak North it makes such brave display, Ill tell the bees that springs already come.
III Rhyming flower By Xue Bao-qin -587 Like spendthrift youths in springs new fashions dressed, Its bare thin branches burst in glorious flower.
Snow no more falls, but a bright rosy cloud Tints hills and streams in one long sunset hour.
Through this red flood my dream-boat makes its way, -507 While flutes sound chill from many a maidens bower.
Sure from no earthly stock this beauty came, But trees immortal round the Fairy Tower.
They read these poems with smiles of pleasure.
There were words of praise for all three of them but Bao-qins, they finally agreed, was the best of the three.
Bao-yu, realizing that she was the youngest present, was greatly impressed.
Dai-yu and Xiang-yun between them poured out a tiny cupful of wine and offered it to her in celebration of her victory.
All three were equally good, Bao-chai deprecatingly.
It was you two who in the past were always fooling me that poems were the best.
Now, it appears, youve found someone else to fool.
What about you?
Li Wan asked Bao-yu.
Is yours ready yet?
I did have one ready, said Bao-yu, but these three are so much better that reading them has made me nervous and put it completely out of my mind.
Youll have to give me a bit longer while I think up another.
Xiang-yun picked up one of a pair of large bronze chopsticks used as tongs for feeding the stove with and beat a preliminary tattoo with it on her metal hand-warmer.
Ill drum for you she said If you cant produce something each time the drumming stops, well double your penalty.
-294 I think Ive got something, said Bao-yu.
Dai-yu picked up a writing-brush, Ill write it down for you while you recite it, she said.
Xiang-yun struck up a tattoo.
Right!
she said presently, as she stopped her drumming.
End of first round.
Yes, Ive got something, said Bao-yu.
Get ready to write.
Wine not yet broached nor verses yet composed Dai-yu wrote down the words, shaking her head as she did so.
-294 Thats a very indifferent beginning.
-320 Come on!
said Xiang-yun.
Hurry!
Bao-yu continued -1254 In quest of spring I sped to Elysium -320 Dai-yu and Xiang-yun nodded.
Hmn.
Not bad.
Bao-yu went on -800 Twas not the balm from Guanyins vase I craved Across that threshold, but her flowering plum, -320 Dai-yu -shook her bead again as she wrote this down.
Thats a bit contrived, isnt it?
Xiang--yun began-another tattoo on the hand-warmer.
When she finished, Bao-yu continued at once -987 A frozen worldling, for red flowers I begged -1094 The saint cut fragrant clouds and gave me some.
Pity my verse so angular and thin, For convent snow has soaked it to the skin!
As soon as Dai-yu had finished writing this down, Xiang-yan and the rest began a critical discussion of the whole poem.
They were till in the midst of this when a little maid dashed in to announce that Grandmother Jia was approaching.
Bao-yu and the girls hurried out, laughing and chattering, to welcome her.
She must be feeling in good spirits, they said, to come out in the snow like this.
Grandmother Jia was still quite a way off when they saw her.
She was sitting in a little bamboo carrying-chair and holding a green silk umbrella over herself.
A large cape and squirrel-lined hood almost completely enveloped her.
Faithful, Amber and three or four other maids, all carrying their own umbrellas, formed a little escort around the chair and its bearers.
Li Wan and the others would have gone out into the snow to meet her, but Grandmother Jia called out to them to stay where they were.
Wait there under cover.
Ill come over to you.
Ive given Feng and your Aunt Wang the slip, she told them, chuckling mischievously, when the chair had reached them and they were helping her out of it.
Its all right for me, going out in all this snow, because Im sitting in this thing but I didnt want them trudging along in the snow beside me, getting cold and miserable.
Some of them relieved her of her snow-clothes while others supported her on either -side and conducted her into the room where the heated kang was.
What pretty plum-blossom!
she said as they entered it.
You children certainly know bow to enjoy yourselves.
I feel quite angry with you for not inviting me!
Li Wan made the servants bring in a big wolfskin rug and spread it out in the middle of the kang for Grandmother Jia to sit on.
Now you just all go on enjoying yourselves exactly as you were before I came, said the old lady when she had settled herself on the rug.
I darent sleep after lunch at this time of year, because the days are so short.
I had a little game of dominoes instead then I started wondering what you were all up to and thought I would come over and join you.
Li Wan handed her a hand-warmer while Tan-chun fetched a winecup and a pair of chopsticks, poured out a cup of warm wine, and offered it to her with both her hands.
Grandmother Jia accepted it from her and sipped the wine.
What have you got in that dish over there?
she asked them.
Pickled quails, said one of the cousins, bringing the dish over for her inspection.
That will do very nicely, said Grandmother Jia.
Tear off a little leg for me, will you?
Li Wan called for water, and having first washed her hands, performed the operation for her in person.
Now I want you all to sit down again and go on talking, said Grandmother Jia.
It does me good to hear you.
You too, she said to Li Wan.
Youre to sit down as well.
I want you to behave exactly as if I hadnt come.
Otherwise I shall go away again.
At this the others resumed their former placesall except bearers turned into this and put the chair down just inside it for Grandmother Jia to get out.
Xi-chun was already waiting there to welcome her and conducted them all through the covered way which ran round the sides of the courtyard from the gateway to her living quarters at the back.
A framed board hanging underneath the eaves announced the name of the building SPRING IN WINTER.
-1174 Servants held up the red felt portiere for them as they approached its doorway.
They could feel the hot air fanning their cheeks as they entered it.
Grandmother Jia tackled Xi-chun as soon as .they were inside, not even waiting to sit down.
Whats happened to the painting?
The glue gets tacky in this cold weather, said Xi-chun.
It stops the paint from going on properly.
Ive put the painting away because I was afraid it might get spoiled.
Grandmother Jia brushed aside this excuse with a dismissive laugh.
I want that painting ready by the end of the year.
Dont be so lazy!
Fetch it out at once and get on with it, my girl!
Just then a smiling Xi-feng made her appearance.
A purplish woollen gabardine was thrown loosely over her shoulders.
Youve led me a fine dance, she grumbled, sneaking off on your own like this!
The old lady was delighted to see her.
I didnt want you all catching colds thats why I told them not to let you know I was going out.
I suppose I ought to have realized that that sharp little nose of yours would soon ferret me out again.
You mustnt think you are being dutiful in tracking me down like this.
Being dutiful!
said Xi-feng.
Thats not at all the reason why I came out to look for you.
Just now when I went round to your apartment I found it all deathly quiet, and it was quite clear from the maids answers, when I tried to find out where you had gone, that they didnt want me to go into the Garden to look for you.
That aroused my suspicions and when a moment later a couple of nuns appeared on the scene, my suspicions were confirmed I realized that they must have come to make their annual collection for some charity or other and that my dear, saintly Grannie, who no doubt has rather a lot of subscriptions to pay out at this time of year, had gone into hiding to avoid them.
I asked the nuns, and sure enough it was for your annual subscription that they had come.
I paid it for you myself.
So now your creditors have gone, you can come out of hiding.
You ought to be getting back now in any case.
Youve got some nice, tender pheasant for dinner and if you leave it much longer it will spoil.
All this was spoken, of course, to the accompaniment of much laughter from the others.
Before Grandmother Jia could say anything in reply, Xi-feng had ordered the bearers to bring up the bamboo carrying-chair and Grandmother Jia, in laughing acquiescence, took Xi-fengs hand, got back into it, and was at once lifted up and whisked away by the bearers.
The others followed after, chattering and laughing as they went.
As they emerged from the east end of the alley-way into the silvery snowscape of the Garden, they could see Bao-qin, identifiable by the glossy green mallard-cape, standing a long way off behind the shoulder of a little hill, waiting for the rest of them to arrive.
A maid, hugging a large vase with a branch of red plum in it, was standing behind her.
So there she is!
said the others.
We thought there seemed to be two of us missing.
And shes got herself some plum blossom, as well.
Grandmother Jia smiled proprietorially at the distant figure.
What does that remind you all of, seeing her there on that snowy bank, wearing a cape like that and with the spray of plum-blossom behind her?
Why, they said, its like that painting by Qiu Ying you have hanging in your room The Beauty of the Snow.
Grandmother Jia shook her head.
No, the girl in that picture isnt wearing a cape like thatand she isnt half as pretty as Qin, either.
Just at that moment a third figure, previously invisible, stepped out from behind Bao-qins back.
Whoever it was was wearing a red felt snow-cape.
Which of the girls is that?
said Grandmother Jia.
There arent any more girls were all here, said the others laughing.
Thats Bao-yu.
My eyes are getting worse and worse, said Grandmother Jia.
Soon they had caught up with the three figures on the hill and she could see that it was indeed Bao-yu whom she had failed to recognize with Bao-qin and the maid.
Ive been over to Green Bower Hermitage again, Bao-yu told the girls.
Adamantina ended up by giving me a branch of plum-blossom for each of you.
Ive just been arranging to have them delivered to your rooms.
The others thanked him for his kindness.
Talking as they went, they presently passed through the gate of the Garden and accompanied Grandmother Jia back to her apartment.
After dinner, while they were still sitting there in conversation, Aunt Xue arrived.
What a heavy fall of snow!
she said.
I havent been able to come over and see you all day long.
You ought to go out and have a look at it, Lady Jia, if you are feeling low.
It would do you good.
Who said I was feeling low?
said Grandmother Jia with some amusement.
Ive only just got back from visiting the children.
Ive been having a fine old time!
Oh?
said Aunt Xue.
Yesterday evening I was intending to ask if my sister and I could have the use of the Garden today so that we might arrange a little snow-viewing party for you, but youd already gone to bed, and Bao-chai said that you were feeling out of Sorts, so I thought Id better not bother you.
If Id known differently, Id have come round this morning and invited you.
Were only just into the eleventh month, said Grandmother Jia.
Therell be plenty more snow yet and plenty more opportunities for taking advantage of your kind offer.
I do hope so, said Aunt Xue.
Its something I should very much like to do for you.
Isnt there a danger you might forget, Aunt?
said Xi-feng.
Why not weigh out fifty taels now and leave them with me?
Then next time it snows, I can get it all ready for you.
That would save you the trouble of arranging it yourself and also avoid the danger of your forgetting.
In that case you and I might just as well split the money between us, said Grandmother Jia.
Next time it snows, all I have to do is say that Im feeling out of sorts, and you wont have to do anything at all.
That way Mrs Xue will have even less trouble, while you and I will each of us have twenty-five taels cleat profit.
Xi-feng clapped her hands delightedly.
What a wonderful idea!
Why didnt I think of it myself?
The others laughed.
Shameless hussy!
said Grandmother Jia, laughing with the rest.
Youre-like the monkey on the pole give you an inch and you take an ell.
What you ought to have said is No, Aunt, you are our guest Since you honour us by staying in our house, it is we who should be inviting you.
We cant allow you to go spending money on us.
Thats what you ought to have said not asked your poor aunt for fifty taels.
Whoever heard of such a thing!
Shes a canny old lady, this Grandma of ours, Xi-feng explained to Aunt Xue.
She watches you first to see if youll weaken or not.
If youd weakened and coughed up the fifty taels, shed have been quite willing to go halves with me and pocket twenty-five of them herself but having gauged that you probably wont, she adopts a holier-than-thou attitude and makes an example of me, even though she was the one who suggested it.
All right, all right.
Ill pay for the whole party myself, and when Grandma arrives, Ill have fifty taels out of my own savings wrapped up all ready to give her as a present.
That shall be my punishment for having opened my big mouth and occupied myself with other peoples affairs.
Bao-yu and the girls were by this time rolling about on the kang.
Presently, when the conversation got round to what a beautiful picture Bao-qin had made standing in the snow with the spray of plum-blossom behind her, Grandmother Jia began inquiring about her parentage and the exact day and hour of her birth.
Aunt Xue guessed that she was considering her as a possible match for Bao-yu.
She would have been glad enough to go along with this had not Bao-qin already been promised to the Meis however, since Grandmother Jia had not asked her outright, she could do no more than hint at a prior attachment.
Shes been very unlucky, poor child.
The year before last her father died quite suddenly.
She used to go with him every-where on his travels, so she has seen a great deal of the world for one so young.
Her father was a great one for combining business with pleasure.
He always took the family with him when he went away on business.
They would spend perhaps a whole year in one province, seeing all the sights then the next six months they might spend travelling around in another.
At one time and another they must have covered well over half the provinces of the Empire in that way.
While he was on one of his trips to the capital, he promised her to Academician Meis boy, but unfortunately it was in the year after that That he died, so nothing could be done about it.
And now her poor mother has gone down with a consumption ... Xi-feng interrupted, sighing and stamping her foot in an exaggerated display of disappointment.
Oh, what a shame!
I was just going to offer my services as a match-maker, but it seems that shes already betrothed.
Who did you have in mind?
Grandmother Jia asked her.
Never you mind!
said Xi-feng.
Im sure they would have made a very good pair but since shes already got someone else, there doesnt seem any point in discussing it.
Grandmother Jia knew very well whom Xi-feng had in mind, but hearing that Bao-qin was already spoken for, she dropped the subject and made no further mention of it.
The company talked for a while longer before breaking-up but of the rest of that day and the night which followed our narrative supplies no account.
-1174 Next day the snow had cleared.
After lunch Grandmother Jia told Xi-chun that, cold or no cold, she must get on with the painting as quickly as possible.
If you really cant get it finished by the end of the year, she said, it doesnt matter.
But what you must do is get Bao-qin with the maid and the branch of plum-blossom into it.
I want you to do that straight away and they are to be painted exactly as they looked when we saw them on that bank yesterday.
Xi-chun said that she would, though miserably aware that she would find doing so extremely difficult.
Later, when the others went round to her place to see how she was getting on, she was pondering gloomily over this latest problem.
Li Wan somewhat heartlessly proposed that they should leave her to her own thoughts and carry on their conversation without her.
When we got back from Grandmothers last night, she said, Qi and Wen and I were unable to get to sleep, so we lay in bed making up riddles.
I made up two using quotations from the Four Books and the other two each made up one.
Ah yes, thats what we all ought to be doing, said the others.
Tell us your four first and well try to guess the answers.
Guan-yin lacks a biography, said Li Wan.
The answer is a phrase from the Four Books.
Resting in the highest good, -1536 Xiang-yun promptly suggested.
Whats that got to do with biography?
said Bao-chai.
Try again, said Li Wan.
I know, said Dai-yu.
Isnt it -1227 ... though good, yet having no memorial?
Ah yes, that must be it, said the others.
What is the green plant that grows in the water?
said Li Wan.
That just has to be It is a fast-growing rush, -1174 said xiang-yun.
I dont see how that could be wrong.
Good for you!
said Li Wan.
Now here is Wens riddle Beside the rocks the water runs cold.
-1536 Its the name of an historical person.
That must be Shan Tao, said Tan-chun.
His surname means mountainthats the rocksand Tao means billows Right, said Li Wan.
Now Qis riddle is just a single word Firefly -347 The answer is a single- word, too.
They all puzzled for a long time over this without being able to think of any answer.
It was Bao-qin who finally came up with the solution.
Yes, I see.
Its rather involved.
The answer is flower isnt it?I mean the flower that grows.
Li Qi acknowledged smilingly that this was correct.
What has flower got to do with firefly?
the others asked her.
Bao-qin explained -294 In the Record of Rites it says -800 Corrupt grass by transmutation breedeth fireflies.
-1174 Now the character for flower is written with grass at the top and changeor, if you like, transmutationunderneath.
So corrupt grass by transmutationwhich, according to the Rites, produces firefliesmakes the character for flower The others laughingly acknowledged that the riddle was an ingenious one.
All four of these riddles are very good, said Bao-chai, but I dont think they are quite the sort of thing that Lady Jia had in mind.
I think we ought to make up some about fairly easy, everyday objects, so that those of us who arent quite so learned can enjoy them as well.
Xiang-yun thought for a bit.
Ive got one, she said presently.
Its in the form of a Ruby Lips stanza Far away -2400 From the high fell Where I used to dwell Amidst men I play.
But for what gain?
My labours vain My tale is hard to tell.
No one was able to make out what this could be.
After puzzling for a long time, they produced a number of different guesses.
Someone thought it was a monk someone else thought it was a Taoist a third person suggested that it might be a marionette player.
Youre all wrong, said Bao-yu, who had been grinning silently to himself while the others guessed, Ive thought of the answer.
Its a performing monkey.
Thats it said Xiang-yun.
We can understand the first part all right, said the others but what about the last line?
Whats that supposed to mean?
Have you ever seen a performing monkey that hadnt had its tail docked?
said Xiang-yun.
Groans and laughter.
Trust Yuns to have a frightful pun in itas if the riddle wasnt hard enough already!
Mrs Xue was telling us yesterday that youve travelled a lot and been to all sorts of interesting places, Li Wan said to Bao-qin.
With so much material you ought to be just the person for making up riddlesespecially as youre so good at verse-making as well.
Why dont you make up a few, and the rest of us will try to guess them?
Bao-qin said nothing, but smiled and nodded, and at once went off into a corner to think.
Bao-chai had now composed a riddle, too, and recited it for them to try and guess while Bao-qin was doing her thinking.
-587 Tier upon compact tier of fragrant wood No craftsmans hand could carve one half so well.
A gale blows all about the temples eaves, Yet, though it shakes, no sound comes from my bell.
7 -6774 While the others were still trying to guess the answer to this, Bao-yu recited one that he had just completed himself -854 Twixt heaven and earth amidst the clouds so high -800 Bamboo gives warning to the passer-by.
Eyes strain some feathered traveller to descry -907 Wholl bear my answer back into the sky.
Dai-yu also had one ready, and proceeded to recite it to them -1680 See my little prancing steed!
Of silken rein he has no need, Round the city wall he goes, Wreaking havoc on his foes.
-1707 At his masters touch he moves With thunder of advancing hooves.
In isles by tortoises supported -1680 His deeds are honourably reported.
Tan-chun, too had composed a riddle, but as she was on the point of reciting it, Bao-qin came back from her corner to announce that she had finished.
Ive been visiting places of historical interest ever since I was little, she said, so I really have seen quite a lot.
What Ive done now is to choose ten of them, mostly associated with some famous person or other, and make up a poem about each one.
The verses themselves may sound rather like doggerel, but the point about them is that, as well as commemorating these famous places and people, each of them contains hidden references to some common object which you have to guess.
Ah, that sounds very ingenious!
they said.
But why not write them down, so that we can take our time thinking about them?
What happened next will be related in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 51 A clever cousin composes some ingenious riddles And an unskillful physician prescribes a barbarous remedy WHEN Bao-qin explained that the riddles she had composed were in the form of quatrains, each containing a clue to some well-known object, about famous places she had visited in the course of her travels, the cousins were greatly impressed, and waited with eagerness for her to copy them out.
This is what they read when she had finished doing so 8 Red Cliff -294 The river at Red Cliff was choked with the dead, And the ships without crew carried naught but their names.
A clamour and shouting, a wind took the blaze, And a host of brave souls rode aloft in the flames.
Hanoi -294 His column of brass bade the nations obey The noise of him spread through barbarian parts.
Brave Ma Yuan to conquest and empire was born He needed no Iron Flute to teach him those arts.
Mt Zhong-shan -294 Though ambition had never been part of your nature And the call from retirement was none of your choosing, You danced in the end at anothers commandment, So you cant be surprised if we find it amusing.
Huai-yin -294 The brave must beware of the vicious dogs bite The gift of a throne on your fate set the seal.
-347 Let us learn from your story the humble to prize, And due gratitude show for the gift of a meal.
Guang-ling Your crows and cicadas no more you shall hear By the old Sui embankment back home in the South But the scandalous story of those wanton times Wags in many an idle, unsavoury mouth.
Peach Leaf Ford In the waters a scene of decay is reflected Long since from its bough did the last peach-leaf fall.
Your old Southern mansion has tumbled in ruins, And only your likeness looks down from the wall.
Green Mound The Amurs black flood for pure grief is arrested The frozen string twangs with a heartbroken sound And, deploring the harsh rule that ordered this exile, A few crooked trees bow in shame to the ground.
Ma-wei The sad, ravaged face seemed to shine in its sweat Then soon that sweet softness all vanished away.
Yet something remained, for the well-known perfume In the clothing she wore lingers on to this day.
The Monastery at Pu-dong Young Reddie was ever a light, empty creature, Always to-ing and fro-ing in all kinds of weather.
-347 Though her Mistress in ire hung her up from the ceiling, Those two had already been walking together.
The Plum-tree Shrine Twill be by the willow and not by the plum.
-534 But who is it there will her likeness discover?
Let not her full moon make you think that Springs coming, For the cold parts her now till next year from her lover.
After reading these poems, the cousins all praised the remarkable ingenuity with which they had been constructed.
Only Bao-chai was critical The first eight of these poems have historically verifiable subjects, but what about the last two?
Im afraid I dont quite understand what they are about.
I think you ought to make up another two to replace them with.
Dont be so stuffy, Chai!
said Dai-yu.
Talk about gluing the bridges of the zither!
Its true that the subjects of those last two poems cant be found in the history books, but how can you say that you dont know what they are?
Even if, as well-bred young ladies, we may not read the books in which they are to be found, weve all watched plenty of plays.
Every three-year-old child is familiar with these stories.
Its sheer hypocrisy to pretend that youve never heard of them.
Hear, hear!
said Tan-chun.
In any case, said Li Wan, she has actually been to the places associated with the stories, even if the stories themselves are unhistorical.
Stories pick up all kinds of circumstantial detail in the course of centuries of re-telling.
Sooner or later some know-all invariably equips them with a location in order to fool more people into believing them.
I remember on my journey here when I first came up to the capital we visited three or four different sites all claiming to be the burial-place of Guan Yu.
Now no one doubts that Guan Yu actually existed or that he actually did the heroic things he is supposed to have done but he cant have been buried in more than one grave.
Obviously the tradition that he was buried in those places was invented by peopleliving long after Guan Yus death who loved and admired Guan Yu and all that he had stood for and wanted to claim him for themselves.
And if you look in.
the Geographical Gazetteer, youll find that it isnt only Guan Yu who has graves in several different places practically all the famous men who ever lived appear to have been buried in more than one place.
And when it comes to sites which are famous because of people who never even existed, they are still more numerous.
It may well be that the people those last two poems are about didnt exist but though the stories about them are unhistorical, they are certainly well-known.
You can hear them told -by story-tellers you can see them acted on the stage you can even find references to them on the divination-sticks that people tell their fortunes with in temples.
There cant be a man, woman or child who isnt familiar with them.
And even if one knows them from the books, it can hardly be said that to have read a few lyrics from The Western Chamber or The Souls Return is tantamount to reading pornography.
No, I see no harm in these two poems.
I think she should leave them as they are.
This, coming from Li Wan, effectively silenced Bao-chais objection.
Some time was now spent in trying to guess answers to the riddles concealed in these poems, but all of their guesses were wrong.
The days in winter are very short and in no time at all, it seemed, they were trooping back into the mansion for their dinner.
While they were there, a message arrived for Lady Wang to say that Aromas brother, Hua Zi-fang, had come and was waiting outside in the front.
His mother is seriously ill and has been asking to see Aroma, said the messenger.
He asks if, as a special kindness, you will allow her to go home and see her.
We shouldnt dream of preventing a mother from seeing her daughter under such circumstances, said Lady Wang.
Of course she may go.
She called for Xi-feng and, having explained the situation to her, left it to her to decide what arrangements should be made for Aromas departure.
Xi-feng promised to attend to the matter and hurried back to her own apartment to do so.
She told Zhou Ruis wife to break the news to Aroma about her mother.
She also gave detailed instructions for the visit.
Get hold of another of the women- in your group to go with you as second chaperone.
And take two of the junior maids with you as well.
And youll want four of the grooms from the front.
Take responsible ones not too young.
Tell them youll need two carriages, one large and one small.
You two can sit in the larger one with Aroma, and the two maids can go in the smaller one.
Zhou Ruis wife was on the point of going off to execute these orders, but Xi-feng had evidently not finished.
Aromas a girl.
who doesnt like fuss.
Youd better tell her that its my wish that she should dress herself up in the very best things shes got.
Tell her to take a good big bundle of extra clothes with her as well.
The cloth its wrapped in is to be of the highest quality.
Her hand-warmer is to be a good one, too.
And tell her that before she goes I want her to come here so that I can have a look at her.
Zhou Ruis wife went off to do her bidding.
In due course Aroma herself arrived, dressed up in all her finery.
She was accompanied by Zhou Ruis wife and the other woman and by two little maids, one carrying her bundle and the other one her hand-warmer.
Xi-feng proceeded at once to inspect her, beginning at the top.
Aromas hair, liberally studded with pearled and golden jewellery, was satisfactory her clothing, it seemed, less so.
She had on an ermine-lined silk tapestry dress of peach- pink satin, sprigged with a pattern of different sorts of flowers, a leek- green padded skirt embroidered in couched gold thread and coloured silks, and a black satin jacket lined with squirrel.
I see.
These are all things that Her Ladyship gave you.
Thats good.
But the jacket is too plain.
And its not warm enough for the time of year, either.
You want something with a heavier fur in it.
This is the only one she gave me, said Aroma, and the only other one Ive got is lined with ermine.
She promised me one with a heavier fur in time for the New Year, but I havent been given it yet.
Ive got one with a heavier fur which I havent worn because the trimmings dont suit me, said Xi-feng.
Id been meaning to get it altered, but I could let you have it now if you like and you can give it back to me to have altered when Her Ladyship gets this other one made that shes promised you.
Well call it a loan.
-1014 The servants laughed.
You like to have your little joke, Mrs Lian.
All the year round youre handing things out on the quiet that Her Ladyship has overlooked, yet you never ask her for any thing back for them.
Why so stingy all of a sudden about a little old jacket?
Her Ladyship cant be expected to remember everything, said Xi-feng, and these are, after all, rather trifling matters.
Of course, someone has to think about them, for the sake of appearances.
Even if it leaves me a bit out of pocket, Ive got to see that everyone is dressed decently.
If that gets me a reputation for being generous well, thats just one of the hardships I must learn to put up with!
It would be much worse to have everyone going around looking like tramps.
Think of the jokes I should hear about my housekeeping then!
There cant be many like you, Mrs Lian, said the women admiringly, so considerate towards Her Ladyship and yet at the same time so thoughtful towards us servants.
You really do think of everything.
While they were praising her, Xi-feng was already ordering Patience to fetch the jacket she had mentioned.
It had in fact arrived from the tailors only a day or two previously.
It was a very grand one, in slate- blue satin, with eight large, embroidery-like silk tapestry roundels woven into it, and with a lining of arctic fox.
After giving Aroma the jacket, Xi-feng inspected her bundle.
The carrying-cloth was of silk gauze in a nondescript black-and-white pattern, lined with strawberrycoloured silk.
All she had got wrapped up in it were a couple of padded dresses, by no means new, and her other fur-lined jacket.
Xi-feng told Patience to fetch a better carrying-cloth-one made of a good-quality foreign broadcloth and lined with turquoise-coloured silkand a snow-cape to add to the contents of her bundle.
Patience went off to get them.
When she came back she was carrying not one snow-cape but two one of them, in dark-red felt, showed signs of wear the other, in dark-red camlet, seemed to be almost new.
Aroma protested.
I cant possibly take both of these, she said.
Even one of these would seem a bit on the grand side for me.
Just pack the felt one, said Patience.
You can carry the other one on your arm and on your way out get someone to take it over to Miss Xing.
Yesterday when we had that heavy snow there were ten or a dozen of them all wearing felt or camlet snow-capes.
They made quite a picture in their red capes against the background of white snow.
She was the only one there who hadnt got one.
She looked all hunched-up with the cold, poor thing I felt really sorry for her.
Let her have the camlet one.
-1014 See how liberal she is with my possessions, Xi-feng expostulated jokingly.
Heavens, girl, I give enough away already without needing you to help me!
Like mistress, like maid, said the woman who had spoken before.
Its because you yourself are so considerate towards Her Ladyship and so kind to us servants that she feels free to behave in that way.
If you were a mean.
tight-fisted sort of person, shed never dare.
Xi-feng laughed.
I suppose you could say that she understands me a bitabout thirty per cent perhaps!
She turned back to Aroma to deliver her parting instructions.
-1014 We must hope that your mother recovers, but if by any chance she doesnt, you will obviously have .to stay on for a bit.
Let me know, in that case, and Ill have your bedding sent on to you.
Dont use their bedding or any of their toilet things.
She turned to Zhou Ruis wife.
You know our rules, dont you?
I dont need to go over them again.
Yes, maam, said Zhou Ruis wife.
All their people are to keep away from us while we are there, and if we stay they have to give us one or two inside rooms to ourselves.
-1014 With that she accompanied Aroma outside and called to the pages to fetch lanterns, for it was already getting dark.
The little party then made its way to the carriages, and having disposed themselves inside them, were driven off to Hua Zi-fangs house, where our story leaves them.
Back at the mansion Xi-feng summoned two of the nannies from Green Delights.
-1014 I doubt very much whether Aroma will be coming back for a day or two, she told them.
Youd better tell whichever two of the senior maids you think are most reliable to be on call at night in Bao-yus room while she is away.
And keep an eye on things yourselves.
See that he doesnt get up to mischief.
The two women went off, saying that they would attend to the matter, and a little later came back to report on what they had arranged.
Weve put Skybright and Musk on night-call in his room.
There are always four of us outside, of course.
We take it in turns to be on duty throughout the night.
Xi-feng nodded.
See that he goes to bed early and doesnt get up too late.
The old women promised, and went back into the Garden.
Not long after this Zhou Ruis wife returned with the message that Xi-feng had been half expecting Aromas mother had already breathed her last and Aroma would be unable to come back.
Xi-feng went off to report this news to Lady Wang.
She also sent someone into the Garden to collect Aromas bedding and toilet things.
Bao-yu stood by and supervised, while Skybright and Musk got them ready.
-1014 When Aromas things bad been despatched, the two girls removed their hair ornaments and changed into their night-clothes.
Skybright showed no disposition, after changing, to remove herself from the clothes-warmer over which she was crouched.
Now dont start acting the young lady, said Musk.
I advise you to stir yourself a bit.
Ill stir myself soon enough when you are out of the way, said Skybright.
As long as you are around, I might as well take it easy.
Now come on, theres a good girl!
said busy Musk.
Ill make his bed and you can put the covet over the dressing-mirror and fasten the catch.
Youre taller than I am.
She bustled off and began making up Bao-yus bed.
Hail said Skybright disgustedly.
Just as I was beginning to get warm!
Bao-yu, who up to that moment had been sitting apart, abstractedly wondering about Aromas mother he had still not been told of her death, chanced suddenly to catch this remark.
At once he got up, went into the next room, and attended to the dressing-mirror himself, Carry on warming yourself, he said with a smile to Skybright as he came in again, Ive done it for you.
I dont think I shall ever get warm, said Skybright.
And Ive just remembered I havent brought in the hot-water bottle.
How thoughtful we are all of a sudden!
said Musk.
He never has a hot-water bottle.
And we shant need one tonight.
Itll be much -warmer in here on the clothes-warmer than it is on the kang in the other room.
Youre not both going to sleep on the clothes-warmer, are you?
said Bao-yu.
I shall be scared, all on my own in the closet-bed with nobody near me.
I shant be able to sleep.
-1014 Well, Im sleeping on the clothes-warmer at all events, said Skybright.
Let Musk sleep beside the closet-bed.
The time was well after nine.
Musk, who had by this time let down the curtains, moved the lamp to its night-time position, and lit the slow-burning incense, now helped Bao-yu into bed and tucked him up.
After that she and Skybright themselves settled down for the night, Skybright on top of the clothes-warmer and Musk outside the .curtains which separated the alcove of the closet-bed from the rest of the room.
Some time in the middle watch of the night Bao-yu called out for Aroma a couple of times in his sleep and, not getting the customary response, woke up.
Awake he remembered, with some amusement, that Aroma was not there to answer.
The noise he made had woken Skybright, who called out from where she lay to Musk.
Musk!
Hes even woken me up, over here.
Do you mean to say you really havent heard anything, lying there right beside him?
You must sleep like a corpse!
Musk turned over and yawned.
He was calling for Aroma whats it got to do with me?
What do you want?.
she asked Bao-yu.
I want some tea, he said.
Musk hopped out of bed to get him some.
She was wearing only a quilted red silk tunic.
Youll get cold, said Bao-yu.
Put my fur gown on.
She picked up the winter dressing-gown that lay always ready beside him, in case he should need to get up during the night.
It was lined with the orange - yellow chest fur of pine-martens and had a big fur collar.
Slipping the gown over her shoulders, Musk first washed her hands in the basin, then she poured him a cup of hot water and held the spittoon for him to spit into when he had washed his mouth out.
After that she took a teacup from the shelf where the tea-things were kept, rinsed it out with hot water, and filled it from a pot in a padded wicker case in which ready-brewed tea was kept warm for such emergencies.
Having ministered to Bao-yus wants, she rinsed her own mouth out with the hot water and poured half a cup of tea out for herself.
Musk, Skybright called out to her, give us a drop too, theres a dear!
What a nerve!
Go on!
said Skybright.
Tomorrow night you can lie back all night long and let me wait on you.
Musk held out the spittoon, as she had done for Bao-yu, while Skybright rinsed her mouth out, then fetched her half a cupful of tea.
Dont go to sleep yet, you two, she said, as soon as Skybright had been attended to.
Keep talking while I go outside for a hit.
Theres a ghost waiting for you out there, said Skybright.
Theres no ghost out there, but theres a very fine moon, said Bao-yu.
Go ahead well keep talking, dont worry!
He coughed significantly.
Musk opened the door and lifted up the felt portire.
There was, as Bao-yu had predicted, a beautiful moon outside.
As soon as she had gone out, Skybright slipped down from the clothes-warmer and tip-toed after her, intending to give her a scare.
Physically the hardiest of the maids and, as a rule, the one who was least afraid of the cold, she went as she was, with nothing but a short tunic to cover her.
Bao-yu tried to dissuade her from going out.
I wouldnt, if I were you.
If you catch cold, it wont be quite so funny.
But Skybright motioned impatiently to him to be quiet and crept out of the door.
The .moonlight outside was like water.
Suddenly she heard the wind.
It was only a brief, faint gust, but the chill of it penetrated to the marrow of her bones and made her shudder.
Its certainly true what they say about a warm body fearing the wind, she reflected.
This cold is really no joke.
She was still determined to frighten Musk but just as she was about to do so, Bao-yu called out in a loud voice from indoors.
Careful Musk!
Skybrights outside.
-1014 Immediately Skybright ran in again.
What an old woman you are!
she said.
The shock wouldnt have killed her.
-1014 I wasnt thinking about that, said Bao-yu.
I was worried about your catching cold and besides, if shed called out when you startled her she might have woken somebody up, and you know what it would have been like then.
Theyd never have believed it was a practical joke, theyd have said, Just look, Aroma only away for a single night.
and already the girls in his room are seeing things.
Not one of thems to be trusted.
Come on, come over here and tuck this quilt in for me.
Skybright went over to arrange his bedding.
While she was doing so, she stuck one of her hands inside the cover and held it against his skin.
Your hand is freezing!
he said.
I told you youd get cold.
He noticed how red her cheeks were and put out his hand to touch them.
They were as cold as ice.
Quick, youd better get inside here and warm up, he said.
Just as she did so, there was a loud bang and Musk rushed giggling into the room, slamming the door behind her.
Whew, what a shock I she said.
I thought I saw someone crouching down in the shadows behind the rockery.
Actually it was that long-tailed pheasant.
I was just going to cry out, when it heard me coming and flew up into the light, so that I could see what it was.
If Id lost my head and started screaming, I might have woken everybody up.
She said this while washing her hands.
Presently she finished washing and laughed.
Did you say Skybright had gone outside?
I wonder why I didnt see her.
I bet she went outside to scare me.
Whats this lump here then?
said Bao-yu.
Shes down in here getting warm.
She did go outside.
If I hadnt called out when I did, she would have scared you.
She doesnt need me to scare her, silly little goose!
said Skybright, laughing, from inside the bedclothes.
By the looks of it shes perfectly capable of scaring herself!
She emerged from Bao-yus bedding now and crossed the room to the clothes-warmer to get inside her own.
Musk gazed at her incredulously as she did so.
Is that all you were wearing when you went outside, that circus riders outfit youve got on now ?
Thats all she was wearing, said Bao-yu.
Youll die before your time!
said Musk.
What, standing around with only that on?
Its enough to freeze the skin off you!
She took the copper cover off the brazier and damped down the glowing charcoal by shovelling some ash on to it with the fire shovel.
Before replacing the cover, she threw on a couple of pieces of agalloch to sweeten the air.
Then she went behind the screen and trimmed the lamp up.
After that she too went back to bed.
The effect on Skybright of the sudden change of temperature was to make her sneeze.
Bao-yu groaned.
I told you so.
You have caught a cold.
She was complaining that she -didnt feel too good when we -1094 got up this morning, said Musk, and she hasnt eaten properly all day.
Yet instead of looking after herself she has to go playing pranks on people outside.
It will be her own silly fault if she is ill tomorrow.
Does your head feel hot?
Bao-yu asked Skybright.
Skybright coughed a few times.
Its nothing, she said, Im not that delicate!
Just then the chiming clock that hung on the partition in the outer room struck twice and they heard the old woman on night duty cough a couple of times and call out Go to sleep, young ladies!
Therell be plenty of time for talking in the morning.
Bao-yu gave a subdued chuckle.
Better not talk any more, he said.
We dont want them talking about us.
After that the three of them settled down and went to sleep again.
When Skybright got up next morning, her nose was stuffed up her voice was hoarse, and the slightest movement cost her an effort.
Wed better keep this dark, said Bao-yu.
If my mother gets to hear of it, shes sure to insist on your going back home until youre better and however nice it may be at your home, Im sure it wont be so warm as here, so youll be better off with us.
Ill get a doctor in through the back gate to have a look at you on the quiet.
Thats all very well, said Skybright, but at least let Mrs Zhu know what youre doing.
Otherwise, when the doctor comes, what are you going to say if they start asking questions?
Bao-yu knew that she was right and instructed one of the old nannies to go to Li Wan with a message.
Tell Mrs Zhu that Skybright has got a bit of a chill.
Say its nothing very serious, and with Aroma away we shall be even more short-handed if she goes back home to get better, so wed like to get a doctor in quietly through the back gate to have a look at her and not tell Her Ladyship about it.
The old nannie was gone for quite a long time.
When she did return it was with the following answer.
Mrs Zhu says all right, as long as shes better after one or two doses of medicine, otherwise she thinks it would really be better to send her home.
She says theres so much danger of infection at this time of year.
Shes particularly worried that one of the young ladies might catch something.
All this time Skybright had been lying in the closet-bed inside, coughing.
She stopped coughing when she heard this message and called out angrily.
Anyone would think Id got the plague I suppose Id better go, if shes so scared that I might infect somebody.
It would be just too terrible if any of you lot were to get a headache or a sore throat as long as you live!
She actually began getting up as she said this, but Bao-yu rushed in and made her lie down again.
Now dont start getting angry.
She is, after ail, responsible for the girls and shes probably terrified that Lady Wang might get to know about this and grumble at her.
Im sure thats the only reason she says this to cover herself in case its found Out.
Youre inclined to be quick-tempered at the best of times.
Now, with so much extra heat inside you, you are even more inflammable!
At this point the doctor was announced and Bao-yu barely had time to conceal himself behind a bookcase as he entered the outer doorway, conducted by two or three old women from the gate.
The maids had all fled as soon as the arrival of a male visitor was announced, leaving only three or four old nannies in charge of the apartment.
The old nannies quickly let down the closet-beds red embroidered curtains and Skybright stretched forth her hand through a join in them.
This hand held out for the doctors inspection had nails two or three inches long on two of its fingers, stained with balsam juice to a delicate shade of pink .
The doctor averted his eyes from this inflaming sight and would not proceed with the examination until one of the old nannies had covered it up with a handkerchief.
When he had finished feeling the pulses, he got up, went into the outer room, and announced his diagnosis to the nannies.
The young lady is suffering from inner congestion caused by exposure.
In view of the severe weather we have been having we should probably not be far wrong in calling it a minor case of cold-fever or grippe.
Fortunately your patient is a young lady and therefore probably fairly modest in her diet and the exposure does not appear to have been a very serious one.
What we have, then, is no more than a mild infection picked up ty someone whose stamina is normally rather low.
One or two doses of something to disperse the congestion should be sufficient to put her right.
Having pronounced this diagnosis, he went off, conducted once more by the women who had brought him in.
Li Wan had sent warning of the doctors arrival both to the servants on the gate and the maids in the various apartments, so that his passage through the Garden, both coming and going, was through an empty landscape in which not a single female was to be seen.
After passing through the Garden gate, he sat down in the outer lodge which the pages occupied and wrote -out his prescription.
Dont go yet, sir, said one of the old women when he had finished writing it.
Our young master always likes to have his say about these matters.
Like as not hell have some question to ask you.
The doctor looked startled.
Did you say master?
But surely that was a young lady I examined just now?
The room was certainly a young ladys boudoir, and the consultation was made with the patient behind a curtain.
Surely it cannot have been a young gentleman?
The old woman laughed.
I see now why the boys said we had a new doctor coming in today.
You certainly dont know much about this family, sir!
That was our young masters room you were in -1094 lust now, but the person you examined was one of his maids one of the senior ones.
That was no young ladys room.
If one of the young mistresses had been ill, you wouldnt have got into her room that easy not on your first visit!
She took the prescription from him and went back inside to show Bao-yu.
Bao-yu glanced through it rapidly.
Perilla, kikio root, wind-shield and nepeta-seed appeared among the drugs at the head of the list, and lower down he noticed thorny lime and ephedra.
He was appalled.
Hes prescribing for her as if she were a man.
However bad the congestion is, you cant expect a young girl to stand up to drugs like thorny lime and ephedra.
Who sent for this man, anyway?
Youd better get rid of him straight away and send for someone we know.
We werent to know what his prescriptions would be like, said the woman defensively.
I suppose we could send one of the boys for Dr Wang.
The only thing is, as we didnt tell the Office about this one, we shall have to pay him ourselves.
How much ?
said Bao-yu.
Well, you dont want to give too little, said the old woman.
I should think for a single visit a family like ours would give a tael.
How much do we give Dr Wang for-a visit?
said Bao-yu.
Ah, Dr Wang and Dr Zhang are our regular doctors.
They arent paid by the visit.
They get a fixed yearly amount paid to them in quarterly installments.
But this is a new man whos only ever been here the once, so we have to pay him now.
Bao-yu ordered Musk to fetch a tael for him, but Musk said that she didnt know where Aroma kept her money.
Ive seen her taking silver from the little pearl-inlaid cabinet, said Bao-yu.
Ill go along with you and have a look.
The two of them went into the room that Aroma used as her store-room and opened the cabinet that Bao-yu had referred to.
In the top compartment they found nothing but writing-brushes, ink-sticks, fans, incense-pastilles and a wide variety of scarves and sachets.
In the lower compartment, however, they found several strings of cash, and there was a drawer in it in which they found a work-basket containing several pieces of silver and even a little balance for weighing it with.
Musk picked up the balance.
Which of these is the one tad mark?
she said.
Thats rich, said Bao-yu, your asking me!
Anyone would think you were new here.
Musk laughed.
She was about to go outside and ask, but Bao-yu stopped her.
Just pick out one of the larger pieces and give her that.
Theres no need to bother about the exact amount.
We arent shopkeepers.
Putting the balance back into the basket, Musk picked up one of the pieces of silver and felt the weight of it on her palm.
I should think this one is about a tael, she said.
Anyway, its better to give too much than too little.
A poor creature like that, used to scrimping and scraping himself, would say that it was meanness if we gave him too little.
Hed never believe it was because we didnt know how to use-a balance.
The woman who had brought the prescription was standing in the doorway, following all this with amusement.
That piece youve got in your hand is half of a five-tael ingot, she said.
It must weigh two taels at the very least.
.Since you havent got any silver-shears, I should keep that piece if I were you and pick out a smaller one.
But Musk had already closed the cabinet.
Oh, I cant be bothered to look in there again.
Just take it.
Never mind the weight.
And tell Tealeaf to go and get Dr Wang, said Bao-yu.
The old woman took the silver and went off to deal with the matter.
Tealeaf must have been quick, for Dr Wang arrived quite soon afterwards.
The diagnosis he gave after taking Skybrights pulses was similar to the other mans, but there was no ephedra or thorny lime in his prescription their place was taken by milder drugs such as angelica, bitter-peel and white peony root and the quantities prescribed were smaller.
Bao-yu was pleased.
Thats more like it!
he said.
She certainly needs treating for congestion, but not in the savage way this other man was proposing.
I remember last year when I was suffering from the same thing and Dr Wang came to look at mein my case I was badly constipated as wellhe said that my constitution wouldnt stand- up to harsh decongestants like ephedra, gypsum and thorny lime.
Well, if my constitution wont stand up to those drugs, Im quite sure that yours or Skybrights wouldnt.
In comparison with you girls, Im like one of those old aspens that have stood for half a century or more in some grave-garth in the countryside, while you are like those delicate crab-flowers that Yun brought round for me in the autumn.
Aspens arent the only trees you find growing in gravegarths, said Musk, smiling.
What about pines and cypresses.?
I hate aspens great, stupid trees I Its not as if they had more leaves than others, yet at the slightest breath of wind they start .making a racket.
Why compare yourself to an aspen?
How common!
I wouldnt compare myself with a pine or a cypress, said Bao-yu.
Confucius himself speaks highly of those two trees When the year is coldest, we see that pine and cypress are the last to fade.
That shows you how noble they are.
I should need to be a very conceited person to compare myself with them.
While he was still discussing this with Musk and Skybright, the old woman who had shown him the prescription arrived back again with the drugs.
Bao-yu told one of the maids to find the silver medicine skillet and brew them on the brazier in his room.
Now do be sensible!
said Skybright.
Tell them to do it in the tea-kitchen.
Youll stink the place out with the smell of boiling herbs if you do it in here.
But the smell of boiling herbs is the finest smell in the world, said Bao-yu, far superior to the perfume of any flower.
Even the Immortals are supposed to gather herbs and cook them and gathering herbs to make medicine with is the favourite occupation of hermits and holy men.
The smell of medicine that is the one aesthetic treat that has so far been missing from this apartment and now, today, we shall enjoy it!
And he insisted that they should prepare the medicine on the spot.
Then he told Musk to get some things ready to send to Aroma and commissioned one of the old women to take them to her.
She was to see how Aroma was and urge her not to endanger her health by excessive weeping.
When all these matters had been attended to, he went off to pay his morning calls on Lady Wang and Grandmother Jia and to have his lunch.
He found Xi-feng at Grandmother Jias place discussing mealtime arrangements with his mother and grandmother.
Now that its so cold and the days are so short, she was saying, wouldnt it be better if Li Wan and the young people were to have their meals in the Garden, to avoid all this trekking to and fro?
They can begin coming in for them again when the weather is warmer and the days are not so short.
Oh, much better, surely?
said-Lady Wang.
Especially when its snowing or blowing, as it has been recently.
Its so bad for one to be exposed to the cold immediately after eating.
Its also not good to eat food after being out in the cold with an empty stomach.
The empty parts fill up with cold air and then the food presses it down inside one.
That big five-frame room inside the back gate of the Garden would make an ideal kitchen.
Weve already got all those women there who keep watch in the Garden at night, so there are plenty of hands for fetching and carrying.
All we need are a couple of women from the kitchens here to go over and do the cooking.
There are regular allowances for vegetables and so forth, so they can either get the money from Accounts and do their own shopping themselves, or, if they prefer, they can ask the Office to get the stuff for them.
And when we have anything special here, like pheasant or roebuck, we can always arrange for a share of it to be sent over to them.
Id been thinking along these lines myself, said Grandmother Jia, but I was afraid that opening another kitchen might mean extra trouble for you and Feng.
No trouble at all, said Xi-feng.
Its simply a matter of switching allowancesspending a bit more here and a bit more there.
And even if it does put our expenses up a bit, we dont want the girls getting colds.
Cousin Lin is particularly susceptible.
Even Bao-yu is liable to suffer from the cold and none of our girls is really strong.
How Grandmother Jia replied will be shown in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 52 Kind Patience conceals the theft of a Shrimp Whisker bracelet And brave Skybright repairs the hole in a Peacock Gold snowcape QUITE so, said Grandmother Jia in answer to Xi-fengs advocacy of the separate kitchen.
I would have mentioned it myself, but you have so many burdens already and I didnt want to add to them.
I know, of course, that you wouldnt have complained, but you might easily have got the impression that I only care about the younger ones and have no consideration for you busy people who are responsible for run-ring the household.
However, now that you have suggested it yourself, I am naturally delighted.
It chanced that besides Aunt Xue and Mrs Li, Lady Xing and You-shi were also present on this occasion, having come over some time previously to make their morning calls and not yet gone back again.
Grandmother Jia availed herself of their presence to sing Xi-fengs praises.
I wouldnt say this as a rule because I dont want to make her conceited, and in any case the younger ones might not agree with me but tell me nowas older married women you have all had a good deal to do with her - have you ever met anyone quite as thoughtful as Feng?
Aunt Xue, Mrs Li and You-shi agreed that people with Xi-fengs virtues were indeed extremely rare.
Other young married women put on a show of liking their husbands relations for forms sake, they observed, but she really does seem to care for the young people and she is plainly devoted to you.
Grandmother Jia nodded and sighed.
Im very fond of her, but Im afraid shes a bit too sharp.
It doesnt do to be too sharp.
Xi-feng laughed.
Now there you are quite wrong, Grannie.
The saying is that sharp-witted people dont live long.
Everyone says that and everyone believes it, but you should be the last person to agree with them.
Look how long-lived and lucky you are, and yet you are ten times more sharp-witted than me.
By rights I should live twice as long as you, if there is any truth in the saying.
I expect to live until I am at least a thousand.
At all events I shant die until I have seen you go to heaven!
It will be a very dull sort of world when all the rest are dead and only we two old harpies are left alive, said Grandmother Jia.
The others laughed.
Remembering Skybright, Bao-yu left before the others and hurried back to his apartment to see how she was.
The air in it reeked of medicine.
Skybright, lying on the kang, her face a dusky red now with the fever, appeared to be completely on her own.
He felt her forehead and found it burning to the touch.
Quickly warming his hands over the stove, he slipped one of them inside the bedclothes and felt her body.
That too was fiery hot.
I should have thought Musk and Ripple might have stayed with you, if no one else, he said disgustedly.
I call that pretty heartless, leaving you on your own like this.
Ripples not here because I made her go and have her lunch, said Skybright And Musk has only just this moment been called outside by Patience.
Theyre whispering together in the front about something or other probably about the fact that I didnt go home to get better.
Patience isnt that sort of person, said Bao-yu.
She wouldnt have known that you were ill in any case, so she wouldnt have come specially about you .
Probably she came to talk to Musk about something else, but happening to find you ill, pretended she had come about you out of politeness.
Its the sort of social fib that anyone might tell under the circumstances.
Even if you were in trouble for not going home, its got nothing to do with Patience and as you have always been on good terms with her in the past, theres no earthly reason why she should want to make unpleasantness between you now by interfering in something that doesnt concern her.
I expect youre right, said Skybright.
But I dont under-stand why she should want to hide things from me.
Ill go and find out what theyre talking about, said Bao-yu.
If I go out the back door and round the side, I shall be able to listen to them from outside the window.
Going round to the front as he had said, he inclined his ear to the window and listened.
He could hear Musk talking in a low voice to Patience inside How did you come to get it back again?
It was when I was washing my hands in the Garden that day that I lost it, he heard Patience reply.
Mrs Lian made me keep quiet about it at the time, but as soon as we got back she sent word round to the nannies in the different apartments and told them to investigate.
To tell the truth, we rather suspected Miss Xings maid.
We thought being so poor and not used to seeing things like that lying around she might have been tempted.
We never dreamed that it would turn out to be one of your people.
It was Trinket who stole it.
She was seen by your Mamma Song.
Fortunately, when Mamma Song came round with the bracelet to tell Mrs Lian, Mrs Lian was out, so I quickly took it from her and told her to keep quiet about it.
I couldnt help thinking how considerate is to you girls and how proud of you all he is.
Its only two years since that girl Honesty stole the jade and there are some I could mention who are still gloating about it, and now heres this girl stealing goldnot from him this time but from one of his neighbours, which is worse.
I could just imagine the gloating there would be if that got around.
It seemed so unjust that he, of all people, should be let down by his own girls in this way.
Anyway, I told Mamma Song that she was under no circumstances to let Bao-yu know about this.
In fact, I said, youd better not tell anyone.
Just behave as if nothing had happened.
Of course, it wasnt only Bao-yu I was thinking about.
I knew that Their Ladyships would be very angry if the got to hear of it and then it would be very unpleasant for Aroma and the rest of you.
The story I told Mrs Lian when she got back was that Id been to see Mrs Zhu and picked the bracelet up on the way.
I told her it must have slipped off into the grass that day while I was washing and got buried under the snow, which explains why nobody could find it.
When the snow melted, there it was, shining in the sun for all to see.
I think she believed me.
The reason Im telling you this is so that you should be on your guard about that girl.
Keep an eye on her and dont send her on any errands.
When Aroma gets back, have a word with her about it and see if you cant cook up some excuse for dismissing her.
Little wretch I said Musk.
It isnt as if she hasnt seen things like that before.
How could she be so stupid?
It wasnt a particularly valuable bracelet, said Patience.
Its one that Mrs Lian gave me.
Its what they call a shrimp whisker bracelet.
I think the pearl on it might be quite valuable.
That Skybright of yours is such a fire-brand that if I told her this, Im sure shed never be able to keep quiet about it.
Shed blow up immediately and start hitting the girl or shouting at her, and then the whole thing would be out, in spite of all I had done to keep it dark.
Thats why Im telling you.
I thought someone ought to be warned, so that you can keep an eye on her.
With these words Patience took her leave.
Bao-yu had listened to what she said with conflicting emotions pleasure at discovering that Patience understood him so well anger that Trinket should be a thief regret that so intelligent a person should be capable of so ugly an action.
Going back to Skybright, he relayed to her everything he had just heard except what Patience had said about Skybright herself, which he emended somewhat for her benefit.
She said youre such a worrier that if you were to hear this now, while you are ill, it would make you worse.
Shes planning to tell you about it when you are better.
Skybrights reaction was as fiery as Patience had foreseen it would be.
Her eyebrows flew up and her eyes became round with anger.
She wanted to summon Trinket immediately.
Isnt it rather a poor return for Patiences considerateness immediately to start making an outcry about it?
said Bao-yu, restraining her.
Why not accept what she has done in the spirit in which it was intended and get rid of Trinket later on?
Thats all very well, said Skybright, but I feel so angry.
If I dont get it off my chest now, I shall burst, What have you got to be angry about?
said Bao-yu, amused.
You just concentrate on getting better.
Skybright had already had one dose of her medicine.
Towards evening she was given the second infusion.
But although she perspired a bit during the night, it didnt really seem to do much good.
She still had a temperature, her head still ached, her nose was still blocked, and she was still just as hoarse.
In the morning Dr Wang came again, and after taking her pulses, made a few alterations in the prescription but although the revised dosage brought down her temperature a little, her head still ached as before.
Fetch the snuff, Bao-yu commanded.
If sniffing it can make her give a few good sneezes, it will clear her head.
Musk went off to do his bidding and presently returned with a little oval box made of aventurine, edged and embellished with gold.
Bao-yu took it from her and opened it.
Inside the lid, in West Ocean enamel, was a picture of a naked, yellow -haired girl with wings of flesh.
The box contained snuff of the very highest quality, which foreigners call uncia, Sniff some, he told Skybright, who had taken the box and was gazing fascinatedly at the picture inside it.
If you leave it open too long, it will lose its fragrance and then it wont be so good.
Skybright took a little of the snuff with her fingernail and sniffed it up her nose Nothing happened, so she scooped up a really large amount and sniffed again.
A tingling sensation passed through the root of her nose, right up inside her cranium and she began to sneeze four, five, six times in succession.
Immediately her eyes and nose began to stream.
She shut the box hurriedly with a laugh.
Goodness, how it burns!
Give me some paper.
At once one of the younger maids handed her a wad of tissue.
Skybright used sheet after sheet of it to blow her nose on.
Hows that?
said Bao-yu.
Much clearer, she said.
But I still have this headache in the front of my head.
Now that weve started using foreign medicine, we may as well go the whole bog, said Bao-yu.
I expect well have you better again in no time.
Musk, go to Mrs Lians and tell her I said please could she let me have some of that Western stuff she uses to make her headache plasters with.
Its called yi-fu-na Musk went off, returning after a goodish while with half a tablet.
She hunted out a scrap of red satin and cut out two little circles each about the size of a fingertips from it then, having melted the yi-fu-na to an ointment-like consistency over the stove, she spread a little of it on each of them with a hairpin.
Skybright stuck Them on herself, one over each temple, with the aid of a hand-mirror.
Musk laughed.
You already looked like a banshee to start with, with your ill face and your hair all over the place.
Now, with those two things on you, you really do look a sight!
Funny one hardly notices them on Mrs Lian.
I suppose its because she wears them so often.
By the way she said, turning to Bao-yu, Mrs Lian asked me to tell you that tomorrow is your Uncle Wangs birthday and Her Ladyship wants you to go.
Tell me what clothes youll be wearing tomorrow so that I can get them ready now and not have to rush around in the morning.
Oh, anything, said Bao-yu.
Whatever comes first to hand.
Birthdays!
Its nothing but birthdays from one years end to the next.
He got up and left the room, intending to go to Xi-chuns place to see how she was getting on with the painting but as he came out of the courtyard gate, he saw Baqin little maid Periwinkle hurrying across the pathway ahead of him and hurried forward to catch up with her.
Where are you going?
he asked.
To Miss Lins, said Periwinkle.
Miss Xue and Miss Bao-qin are there alrea4y and Im on my way to join them.
Bao-yu changed his mind about going to see Xi-chun and accompanied Periwinkle to the Naiads House.
He found not only Bao-chai and Bao-qin there but Xing Xiu-yan as well.
Dai-yu and her three visitors were sitting on the clothes-warmer gossiping, while Nightingale sat in the closet-bed alcove by the window, sewing.
The girls laughed when they saw him enter.
Another one?
Theres nowhere for you to sit.
What a charming picture!
said Bao-yu.
A Bevy of Beauties Keeping Warm in Winter.
I should have come earlier.
Still, your room is so warm, I shall be perfectly all right on this chair.
He sat on the chair that Dai-yu normally occupied.
On this occasion it was covered with a squirrel-skin rug.
A marble jardinire in the closet-bed alcove where Nightingale was sit ring caught his eye.
It was full of single-petalled water nymph narcissi growing in clumps of four or five flowers from each bulb.
What beautiful flowers!
he said.
The warmth of the room makes their scent even richer.
How is it I didnt notice them yesterday?
They were given to Qin by your Chief Steward Lai Das wife, said Dai-yu two pots of narcissi and two of winter-sweet.
Qin gave these ones to me and one of the two pots of winter-sweet to Cousin Yun.
I didnt really want them, but as she was kind enough to offer them to me, I thought it would be churlish not to accept.
If youd like them, Id be very happy to pass them on to you.
Thank you, said Bao-yu, but Ive got two pots of them already.
Though mind you, they are not as good as these.
In any case, if Cousin Qin gave them to you, you cant possibly go handing them over to somebody else.
Theres hardly a minute of the day when I havent got a medicine-skillet on the stove, said Dai-yu.
I seem practically to live on medicine nowadays.
The smell of medicine is bad enough as it is, but this heavy flower-scent on top of it makes me feel quite faint.
Besides, the smell of medicine spoils the smell of the flowers, which is a pity.
Much better carry them off somewhere where they can regain their purity away from competing odours.
Ive got a sick person in my room today, said Bao-yu.
My room is full of medicine-smells too.
How did you know?
What an extraordinary question!
said Dai-yu.
I know nothing about it.
How should I know what goes on in your room?
I dont think youve teen attending to a word Ive been saying.
Youre like someone who comes k half-way through a story and disturbs the rest of the audience by asking questions.
At least we shant want for a theme at our next poetry meeting, said Bao-yu.
Narcissus and winter-sweet will make splendid subjects.
Oh no!
wailed Dai-yu, burying her face in her hands.
Whats the point of having poetry meetings?
Another meeting only means another lot of penalties.
Its so shaming.
I suppose thats meant for me, said Bao-yu, since Im the one whos always getting penalized.
But if it doesnt bother me, I dont see what you have got to go burying your face in your hands about.
I shall call the next meeting, said Bao-chai brightly.
There will be four themes for poems in Regular Verse and four for poems in other metres and everyone will have to do all eight of them.
The first will be a three-hundred-line poem in pentasyllabics exhausting the rhyme first.
Its subject will be On the Diagram of the Supreme Ultimate?
Bao-qin laughed.
One can see that it isnt really poetry youre interested in but in making things difficult for others.
It could be done, of course, if one really wanted to do itit would simply be a question of selecting bits from the Book of Changes and torturing them into some sort of versebut what would be the point?
When I was eight I went with my father on one of his trips to buy foreign merchandise to one of the Western sea-ports and while we were there we saw a girl from the country of Ebenash.
She was just like the foreign girls you see in paintings long, yellow hair done into plaits, and her head was smothered in jewels carnelians, cats-eyes and emeralds.
She was wearing a corslet of golden chain-mall and a dress of West Ocean brocade and she had a Japanese sword at her side covered all over with jewels and gold.
Actually she was more beautiful than the foreign girls you see in paintings.
They said that she had a perfect understanding of our literature and could expound the Five Classics and write poems in Chinese.
My father asked her through an interpreter if she would write something for us in Chinese characters and she wrote out one of her own poems for him.
The cousins were enthralled and Bao-yu eagerly begged her to show them the poem.
Thats not possible, said Bao-qin.
I left it behind in Nanking.
Bao-yu was very disappointed.
Just my luck!
he said.
And I was hoping to broaden my experience.
Dont be a tease!
said Dai-yu, giving Bao-qin a tug.
You didnt leave anything behind in Nanking.
Look at all the luggage you brought with you!
I think youre making it up.
The others can believe you if they like, but I dont.
Bao-qin blushed and hung her head.
She made no reply, but a little, secret smile was faintly discernible in her features.
How like you to say that, Frowner!
said Bao-chai.
You really are too sharp.
Well, if shes brought it with her, she ought to let us have a look and satisfy our curiosity, said Dai-yu.
Shes got such a great pile of stuff, said Bao-chai, she simply hasnt had time to go through it all yet.
How does she know which of all those trunks and boxes she put it in?
Wait until shes had time to sort her things out no doubt she will come across the poem and let you see it then.
She turned to Bao-qin.
Or perhaps you can remember it?
If so, why dont you recite it for us now?
It was in Regular Pentameter, said Bao-qin.
I can remember that.
For a foreigner it was really quite a good poem.
Hold on.!
said Bao-chai.
If you are going to recite it, let me first send for Yun, so that she can hear it as well.
She gave instructions to Periwinkle.
Go back to my room and tell Miss Shi that weve got a beautiful foreigner here who can write poems in Chinese.
Tell her that as shes so crazy about poetry, we thought shed like to meet her.
And tell her to bring that other poetry maniac with her when she comes.
Periwinkle went off laughing to deliver the message.
Presently Xiang-yans voice, loudly inquiring Wheres this beautiful foreigner?
could be heard outside, and a moment later she and Caltrop walked into the room.
Ere yet the shape was seen, the voice was heard said the others, laughing.
When xiang-yun and Caltrop were seated, Bao-qin repeated for their benefit what.
she had just been telling the others.
xiang-yun pressed her to recite the poem, and this she now proceeded to do The Land of Ebenash -1014 Last night I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls Tonight beside the watery waste I sing.
The islands cloud-cap drifts above the sea, And mists about its mountain forests cling.
Our pasts and presents to the moon are one Our lives and loves beyond our reckoning.
Yet still my heart yearns for that distant South, Where time is lost in one eternal spring.
Fancy a foreigner being able to write that!
said the cousins admiringly.
Its better than we Chinese could do ourselves.
While they were still enthusing over the poem, Musk arrived to report that someone had just been round with a message for Master Bao from Lady Wang.
Her Ladyship says, when you go to your Uncle Wangs first thing tomorrow, will you tell them that shes sorry she cant go herself, but shes not feeling very well?
Bao-yu stood up, out of respect for his mother, to reply.
He asked Bao-chai and Bao-qin lf they would be going too.
No, said Bao-chai, they had sent a present yesterday, and that was all they would be doing.
Conversation continued a little longer and then the company broke up.
As Bao-yu politely insisted on the others going out before him, he would have been the last to leave, but just as he was about to do so, Dai-yu called him back.
Tell me, she said, just how long will Aroma be away?
I dont know said Bao-yu, but she certainly wont come back until after the funeral?
Dai-yu evidently had something on her mind that she wanted to say but was finding difficulty in expressing.
whatever it was, she must have abandoned it, for, after reflecting for a few moments ins in silence, all she said was Youd better go.
Bao-yu, too, had a feeling that there were a lot of things he ought to be asking her, but he could not for the moment recollect what any of them were.
After trying unsuccessfully to remember, he left her with a cheerful See you tomorrow and went down the steps outside, his head bent low as he continued ruminating.
Just as he was about to set out across the forecourt, something occurred to him and he remounted the steps and went in again.
The nights are getting so much longer now.
How many times do you cough in the night?
Do you wake up very often?
Im much better at night than I was, said Dai-yu.
Last night I only coughed twice.
But I still dont sleep very well.
Last night I only slept between about two and four in the morning.
After that I couldnt get hack to sleep again.
Ah, I knew there was something important I wanted to ask you about, said Bao-yu.
Ive just remembered what it was.
He drew closer to her ear and went on in a lower voice.
You know that birds nest that Cousin Bao sent you, But before he could finish, Aunt Zhao called in to inquire lf Dai-yu was feeling better.
Dai-yu knew that she had dropped in on her way back from seeing Tan-chun, and that the kindness, if kindness it were, was of a-somewhat tangential nature nevertheless she begged her with eager politeness to be seated and thanked her warmly for the visit.
How kind of you to think of me, Mrs Zhao and to come here yourself in such bitter weather!
She ordered tea to be poured for her visitor simultaneously darting a look at Bao-yu which he rightly interpreted as an order to make himself scarce.
It was in any case time for his dinner, so he went to his mothers place to have it.
She made him go back early, bearing in mind that he must be up betimes next morning.
When he got back to his own room, Bao-yu found that Skybright had already taken her medicine.
He judged it best to let her stay where she was in the closet-bed.
He himself slept on the space outside the curtain which Musk had occupied the previous night.
This time Musk slept on the clothes-warmer.
He had it moved up beside the closet-bed before they went to bed, so that she could be near at hand during the night.
The night passed by without event.
-1014 Next day, before it was yet light, Skybright was calling on Musk to wake up.
Come on, Musk!
You ought to be awake by now, Havent you slept enough yet?
You go outside and tell the others to get his morning drink ready while I try waking him up.
Musk hurriedly drew on a garment and got out of bed.
Wed better-both wake him and wait till hes dressed and the clothes-warmer has been carried back to its usual place before we let the others it, she said.
The old women have already said that hes not to sleep in the same room as you in case he catches your sickness.
We shall never hear the end of it, if they find out that weve been sleeping all crowded up together like this.
Yes, said Skybright.
I was thinking that too.
The two girls began calling Bao-yu.
He must in fact have been awake already, for he got out of bed and began dressing immediately.
Musk called in one of the junior maids to help her move the warmer back into place and fold up the bedding.
Only when all traces of the previous nights sleeping arrangements had been effaced were Ripple and Emerald called in to assist Bao-yu with his toilet.
Its very overcast again, said Musk, when Bao-yus toilet had been completed.
It looks as lf it will snow.
Youd better put on your felt.
Bao-yu nodded and changed the outer garment he had put on for a more substantial one.
A junior maid came in carrying a little tea-tray on which was a covered cup containing a concoction of red dates and Fukien lotus-seeds.
Bao-yu drank a few mouthfuls, took a piece of ginger from a saucerful of crystallized shapes held out to him by Musk and put it in his mouth to nibble, addressed a few brief admonitions to Skybright to look after herself while he was away, and went off to see his grandmother.
She had not yet risen when he arrived at her apartment, but the servants, knowing that he was going visiting and could not wait for her to get up, admitted him at once to her bedroom.
He caught a glimpse of Bao-qin lying asleep behind her, her face turned inwards to the wall.
The old lady observed that her grandson was wearing, over his formal dress of lychee-brown broadcloth, a dark-red felt cape embellished with roundels of gold thread and coloured silk embroidery.
Its slate- blue satin border was fringed with tassels.
Is it snowing?
she asked him.
Not yet, said Bao-yu, but it looks as if it will.
Grandmother Jia turned to Faithful Give him that peacock-feather cloak we were looking at yesterday.
Faithful murmured a reply and went out of the room, returning presently with a magnificent snow-cape that gleamed and glittered with gold and green and bronzy-bluish lights.
It was like Bao-qins mallard-cape and yet somehow different.
This is what they call peacock gold, said Grandmother Jia.
It is made by the Russians.
They twist the barbs of peacock-feathers into a kind of yarn and weave it from that.
The other day I gave your cousin Bao-qin a cape like this made out of mallard feathers.
Now I am giving this one to you.
Bao-yu kotowed and put it on.
Grandmother Jia smiled.
Go and show your mother Bao-yu obediently hurried off to do so.
On his way out he came upon Faithful, standing beside the kang in the outer room.
She affected to be rubbing her eyes in order not to have to look at him.
She had avoided speaking to him ever since the frightful scene nearly two months earlier when she had vowed never to marry, and Bao-yu was continually being made uncomfortable by her avoidance of him.
Seeing her once more preparing to ignore him, he went up to her with a friendly smile in the hope of breaking her silence.
Faithful, see this!
How do you think I look in it?
But Faithful simply turned and fled, retreating into Grandmother Jias bedroom.
Obliged to give up, he continued on his way to Lady Wangs.
After his mother had seen the cape, he went into the Garden to show himself off to Musk and Skybright.
After that he returned to his grandmothers to report.
I showed it to Mother.
She said it seems almost a pity to wear it and I must be very, very careful not to spoil it.
That was the only one I had left, said Grandmother Jia.
If you do spoil it I havent got another one to give you.
And there would be no question of getting another one made for you - not in these parts.
She put on her admonitions-for-the-departing-grandchild voice Now dont drink too much.
And leave early.
Yes, Grandma.
Old women from his grandmothers apartment accompanied him as far as the reception hall of the outer mansion.
Below the steps outside it his foster brother Li Gui, together with Wang Rong, Zhang Ruo-jin, Zhao Yi-hua, Qian Sheng and Zhou Rui and the pages Tealeaf, Storky, Ploughboy and Sweeper, had been waiting a long time in readiness.
The pages were carrying clothing-bundles and blankets, and two of the older men were holding a splendidly caparisoned horse by the bridle.
The old women issued a few words of admonition to the men, the men, after acknowledging them with a few perfunctory cries, handed Bao-yu his whip and held the stirrup for him to mount, and Bao-yu, mindful of the precious cape, got up slowly into the saddle.
The little party then began to advance, Li Gui and Wang Rong, one on either side, holding the bridle-rings, Qian Sheng and Zhou Rul walking ahead, and Zhang Ruo-jin and Zhao Yi-hua following closely behind.
Zhou, Qian, Bao-yu called out from the saddle to the two in front, lets go out of the side gate, otherwise it will mean going past my fathers door and I shall have to get down.
Since Sir Zheng went away, his doors kept locked all the time, said Zhou Rui, turning a grinning face back to his young master.
You dont need to get down.
Even though it is locked, I still ought to get down, said Bao-yu.
Quite right, sir, said Li Gui and Qian Sheng approvingly.
If you was to get slack about dismounting and Mr Lai or Mr .Lin was to see you, theyd be sure to have something to say about it.
Even though they couldnt very well tell yon off, like enough theyd blame us for not teaching you manners.
By now Zhou Rui and Qian Sheng were moving towards the side entrance.
While the point of etiquette was still being discussed, they ran head on into Lai Da himself, of whom they had just been speaking.
Bao-yu at once reined to a halt and made as if to dismount, but, Lai Da hurried up and prevented him by clinging to his leg.
Bao-yu thereupon stood up in the stirrups and, taking him by the hand, addressed him graciously for some moments before continuing on his way.
He had barely done so when thirty or forty pages armed with dustpans and brushes came trooping into the courtyard.
Immediately they caught sight of Bao-yu, they lined up in a row along the wall and stood with their arms at their sides while one of their number, evidently the leader, stepped forward and, dropping to one knee in the Manchu salute, wished Bao-yu a good morning.
Bao-yu did not know the pages name, so he merely smiled and nodded.
The whole troop remained motionless until the horse and its rider had passed by.
Bao-yus little party now issued out of the side gate, where ten horses were ready waiting for them one for Li Gui and each of his fellows and one for each of the pages.
All sprang at once into the saddle and were off down the street like a puff of smoke.
At this point our story leaves them and turns to other matters.
Back at Green Delights Skybright, exasperated to find, after another dose of her medicine, that the sickness still showed no disposition to depart, was holding forth loudly against the whole generation of doctors.
Theyre all cheats, she said.
They take your money, but none of the medicine they give you is any good.
Dont be so impatient, said Musk soothingly.
Getting better is always a lengthy business.
You know what they say Sickness comes like an avalanche but goes like reeling silk.
This stuff isnt the Elixir of Life.
You cant expect it to cure you in a twinkling.
Youll be all right if you take things easy for a few days.
Getting yourself worked up will only give the sickness a tighter grip on you.
Skybrights anger changed direction and vented itself now upon the junior maids.
Where have you lot all sneaked off to?
she called out to them.
Very bold, arent you, now that you seem helpless?
Just you wait till Im better Ill have the hide off every one of you.
Her outcry produced a solitary response.
A little girl called Steadfast came hurrying in and inquired, What is it, Miss?
Whats happened to the others?
said Skybright.
Are they all dead?
Are you the only one left alive?
While she was speaking, Trinket, too, came inat a somewhat more ambling pace than the other girl.
Look at this little creature, now!
said Skybright.
Why couldnt she have come sooner?
Youd have come running here fast enough if wed been handing out monthly allowances or sharing out sweets, wouldnt you?
Then youd have been the first to arrive.
Come closer.
Im not a tiger.
I wont eat you.
Trinket edged a few steps nearer.
As she did so, Skybright suddenly raised herself from her lying position, snatched hold of her hand, and began jabbing at it violently with an enormous hairpin which she had been keeping concealed under her pillow.
What do you want this little claw for?
she said.
Its no good with a needle and thread.
All its good for is picking and stealing.
Shifty eyes and light fingers!
A little claw like this can only bring you disgrace.
Much better stab it!and slab it!and stab it!
so that it cant do any more thieving.
Trinket was by now screaming with pain.
Musk quickly dragged her away out of Skybrights clutches and forced Skybright to lie down again in bed.
Youve only just been sweating after the medicine, she said.
Whats the matter with you?
Do you want to die?
If youll just wait until youre better, you can punish her as much as you like.
Dont start making a scene about it now!
But Skybright insisted on calling in Mamma Song and dealing with the matter at once.
Master Bao has told me to tell you that he finds Trinket lazy, she said when Mamma Song arrived.
She answers him back and doesnt do anything when he gives her orders, and even when Aroma tells her to do things she says rude things about her behind her back.
Master Bao is most anxious that she should be dismissed immediately.
He says he will speak to Her Ladyship about it himself when he sees her tomorrow.
When Mamma Song heard this, she knew that the story of the bracelet must have leaked out.
Thats as may be, she said.
But oughtnt we to wait until Miss Aroma comes back and tell her first?
What I am giving you are Master Baos own orders, said Skybright.
He was most particular that she Should be dismissed immediately.
I dont see that Miss Aromaor Miss Sweetscents or Miss Smellypots for that matterhas got anything to do with it.
I know what Im doing.
Just do as I say.
Go and get someone from her family to come here immediately and take her away.
You might just as well, said Musk.
Shell have to go sooner or later.
Let them take her away now and get it over with.
So Mamma Song had to go off and summon the girls mother from outside.
When Trinket had finished getting her belongings together, her mother went in with her to see Musk and Skybright.
Now whats all this about?
she said.
If the girls done wrong, why cant you just punish her for it?
Why do you have to dismiss her?
It doesnt leave us much face, does it, if shes dismissed ?
Youll have to ask Bao-yu about that when he gets back, said Skybright.
Its nothing to do with us.
The woman sneered.
You know perfectly well that I wouldnt dare.
He always does what you young ladies want him to in any case.
Even if I saw him and he agreed that she could stay, theres no guaranteeing that she would if you young ladies werent agreeable.
Take what you said just now.
I know hes not here at the moment, but even so.
if I was to name his name as you did just now without a master or a mister to it, people would say I was a savage, but for you young ladies, seemingly, its quite all right.
Skybright became red with anger.
I called him by his name, did I?
Why dont you go and report me to Their Ladyships?
Tell them that Im a savage and get me dismissed.
I advise you to take that girl out of here and be on your way, said Musk.
If you have anything to say, you can say it later.
You cant stand here wrangling about it now.
When have you ever seen other people bandying words with us?
Even Mrs Lai and Mrs Lin show a bit of restraint when they talk to us.
And as for this business of saying Bao-yu instead of Master Bao everyone knows that its Her Old Ladyships particular wish that we should.
Because hes not strong and shes afraid he might die young, she likes as many people as possible to use his name, to bring him luck.
She even has it written in big characters and pasted up on walls outside to get people saying it.
It would be funny if we couldnt use his name when every water-carrier and dung-carrier and beggar in town can do so.
As a matter of fact only yesterday Mrs Lin got told off by Her Old Ladyship for calling him Master Bao.
And for another thing, we senior maids are constantly having -to take messages to Her Old Ladyship and Her Lady-ship about him, and when we do, we always say Bao-yu, never Master Bao.
Why, I should think we must each of us use his name a couple of hundred times every day.
You certainly chose the wrong thing to find fault with when you picked on that one!
If you dont believe me, go round one of these days when you are free to Her Old Ladyships or Her Ladyships and you will hear us openly calling him Bao-yu to their faces.
But of course, you dont have any important business that would bring you in contact with Their Lady-ships, do you?
All your time is spent doing odd-jobs outside.
One could hardly expect you to know the way things are done in here.
But Im afraid we really cant have you standing around here any longer.
If you stay much longer, Im afraid even though we dont object someone else may come along and ask what you are doing here.
If you want to appeal against the girls dismissal, you should get her out of here first and take it up with Mrs Lin afterwards and she will speak to Master Bao about it.
With all the hundreds of people there are in this household we cant have just anyone running in and out whenever they feel like it.
We dont even know the names of half of them.
By way of emphasizing her point, Musk ordered one of the junior maids to fetch a floor-cloth and begin wiping the floor.
At this Trinkets mother, unable to find a reply and fearful of being caught staying too long, swept out angrily, taking her daughter with her.
But Mamma Song was not letting them get away so easily.
You certainly dont have much idea of manners, my good woman.
After all the time shes been here, your daughter could at least make the young ladies a kotow before she goes.
She may have no other parting gift to give themI dont suppose theyd set much store by it if she had but she might at least have the decency to make - them a kotow.
You cant both just up and go.
Trinket was obliged to come in again and kotow to the two inside.
She also went round to do the same for Ripple and Emerald, but they refused to look at her.
After that she departed with her mother, the latter indicating as they went, by many a sniff and sigh, the hatred that she dared net express more openly.
A consequence of this latest exposure to the cold and of the accompanying emotional upset was that Skybright was now feeling bad again.
At lighting-up time, after tossing about feverishly all day, she was just beginning to settle down at last when Bao-yu returned in a great fret and began stamping and groaning almost as soon as -he entered the room.
Musk asked him what the matter was.
Its this cloak that Grandmother gave me this morning.
She was so pleased about it, and nowI dont know how it happenedIve gone and got a burn in it behind the lapel.
Fortunately it was fairly dark just now when I came back and neither Grandmother nor Mother noticed anything.
He took it off for Musk-to examine.
It was only a little burn, about the size of a finger-print, but clearly visible.
It must have been caused by a- spark from your hand-warmer, said Musk.
Its nothing to worry about.
Well send someone out on the quiet with it immediately to find a good invisible mender and get it mended for you.
She wrapped it up and called in one of the old nannies to take it out for them.
Tell them it has to be ready by daylight tomorrow.
And for heavens sake dont let Her Old Ladyship or Her Ladyship find out about it!
The woman was gone a very long time.
When she at last returned, she was still carrying the bundle with the peacock cloak in it.
Ive tried everywhereinvisible menders, tailors, embroiderers, seamstressesand none of them will touch it.
They all say they dont know what the material is and dont want to be responsible.
Oh dear!
said Musk.
What are we going to do now?
Well, you lust cant wear it tomorrow, thats all.
But I must, said Bao-yu.
Tomorrow is his actual birthday.
Grandmother and Mother have both said I must.
Today was only the first day of the celebrations, not his actual birthday.
Isnt it just my luck to burn it the very first time I put it on?
Skybright, who had listened to all this in silence, could contain herself no longer and sat up immediately in bed.
Come on, let me have a look.
If you werent meant to wear it, you wont wear it.
No good making all this fuss about it now.
Theres something in that, said Bao-yu laughing, and handed it to her.
He brought the lamp over so that she could examine it more closely.
This is made of peacock gold, said Skybright.
If we could get hold of some of the thread .and make a little darn with it I think it would probably pass.
Weve got peacock gold thread, said Musk.
The trouble is that apart from you theres no one else here who could do the darning.
I shall just have to make the effort and do it then, shant I?
said Skybright.
No, thats out of the question, said Bao-yu.
Youve only just started getting better.
Youre not in a fit state to do sewing yet.
Oh, dont be such an old woman!
said Skybright.
I know what Im capable of.
So saying, she sat up again in bed, knotted up her loosely flowing hair, and drew a jacket on over her shoulders.
Her body felt abnormally light and she was almost overcome with dizziness.
It really did seem as if the effort would be too much for her but knowing what a state Bao-yu would be in if the snow-cape was not repaired, she gritted her teeth, and fighting back the weakness that threatened to engulf her, told Musk to pinch the yarn and thread a needle for her while she herself took a length of it and held it against the material.
Its not really a very good match, she said, but I dont suppose it will show very much when its been darned.
Im sure it will do very nicely, said Bao-yu.
At all events, were not going to be able to find a Russian tailor to do it for us!
Skybright began by opening up the seam of the lining underneath the burnt patch so that she could insert a cup-sized darning mushroom from inside.
Having stretched the material out over the mushroom, she scraped away the charred parts and the surrounding nap with a razor until the threads were clearly exposed, then, with her needle and thread, she worked first across in one direction and then at right-angles in the other until she had filled the hole with a criss-cross darn.
Using this as a foundation, she now began to weave the thread in and out with her needle so as to Imitate the surrounding pattern.
This was the most difficult and exhausting part of the work.
After each couple of stitches she had to stop and examine what she had done, and after every four or five she had to lean back on the pillow and rest.
Meanwhile Bao-yu fussed around her unceasingly, one moment asking her if she would like a nice hot drink, another moment suggesting that she should rest, one moment fetching a squirrel-skin cloak to put over her shoulders, the next moment a pillow for her back, until she became quite frantic and had to entreat him to leave her alone My dear little grandfather please just go to bed!
If you stay up any longer, youll have rings under your eyes in the morning, and that will never dot Bao-yu could see that he was exasperating her and made a pretence of settling down in his bed but he could not get to sleep.
After he had been lying awake for some time, he heard the chiming clock strike four.
Skybright had just completed the mending and was finishing off the job by carefully teasing the nap out with a little toothbrush.
Thats wonderful, said Musk.
If you didnt look at it carefully, you could never tell it was a darn.
Bao-yu asked to see.
Its perfect, he said.
It looks exactly the same as the rest.
Skybright had been coughing a good deal during the final stages of her task and it had been all she could do to conclude -960 it.
Anyway, its done, she said.
It doesnt really look right, but I cant do any moreAiyo!
With a cry of weariness she sank back, utterly exhausted, upon the bed.
If you wish to know the outcome, please read the chapter which follows.
CHAPTER 53 Ning-guo House sacrifices to the ancestors on New Years Eve And Rong-guo House entertains the whole family on Fifteenth Night SEEING that Skybrights repair of the peacock gold snow cape had so utterly exhausted her, Bao-yu called in a junior maid to help massage her and for a while they pummelled her between them.
After that they all went to bed but in less than no time it seemed to be broad daylight and they had to get up again.
Instead of going straight off to his uncles, however, Bao-yu first sent someone to summon Dr Wang.
The doctor arrived promptly and proceeded to take Skybrights pulses.
He appeared to be disconcerted by what he found.
Yesterday she seemed to be a little better, he said, but this pulse today takes us right back to where we started fromempty, superficial, faint, constricted.
Now why should that be?
She must have been eating or drinking too much.
Either that, or she has been worrying about something.
The original attack was not a serious one but failure to take care of oneself after perspiration has been induced can be very serious.
He went outside and wrote another prescription, which was presently brought in to Bao-yu.
Bao-yu noticed that the sudorifics and decongestants of the earlier prescription had been omitted and restorative drugs to increase the vitality and nourish the blood, such as lycoperdon, nipplewort and angelica, had been substituted.
He gave instructions for the medicine to be made up immediately.
He seemed distressed.
This is dreadful.
If anything should happen to you after this, I shall never forgive myself.
Skybright, lying back on her pillow, hooted derisively at his concern My dear young Master, just get on with your own affairs and dont worry about me.
Im not about to go into a decline, I assure you!
Bao-yu was in any case obliged to go now but having held out at his uncles place until the afternoon, he managed to get back to her by pretending that he was feeling unwell.
Skybright was certainly quite ill. Fortunately she was normally an active, lively sort of girl, not given to moping and vapours she had always been sensibleeven abstemiousin her diet and her constitution was a sound one.
The Jias were great believers in the virtues of fasting.
Masters and servants alike were put on a starvation diet at the slightest hint of a cough or cold, the physic and nursing they received being considered of only secondary importance to this, and Skybright had been fasting now for two or three days, ever the influenza began.
In addition to this, she had taken her medicine regularly and, except for the one nights lapse, had looked after herself reasonably well.
Although the over-exertion set her back a few days, she was soon on the mend again.
And as the new catering arrangements whereby the cousins now ate in their own apartments made ordering things much easier, Bao-yu was able to get all sorts of soups and broths made up to aid her recovery.
Omitting details of this convalescence, our story passes on to the return of Aroma, which occurred shortly after her mothers funeral.
As soon as she got back, Musk told her all about Trinket and how Skybright had dismissed her first and reported the dismissal afterwards to Bao-yu.
Aroma merely remarked that Skybright had been too hasty, but made no further comment.
Li Wan had herself now fallen a victim to the seasons cold Lady Xing was suffering from an inflammation of the eyes which necessitated Ying-chuns and Xiu-yan attendance on her both mornings and evenings to dress them for her Mrs Li had been invited to spend some days with a younger brother and gone off taking Li Wen and Li Qi with her and Bao-yu was preoccupied with Aroma, who was still thinking constantly of her mother and liable at any moment to break down, as well as with Skybright, who had still not entirely recovered.
So what with one thing and another, no one felt much in the mood for writing poetry and one or two of the clubs fixture-days went by without a meeting.
It was now well into the twelfth month and Lady Wang and Xi-feng were busily preparing for the New Year.
The season of appointments brought news that Wang Zi-teng had been promoted to the post of Inspector-General of Armies in the Nine Provinces and that Jia Yu-cun was to become Under Secretary to the President of the Board of War with occasional duties at Court.
Over in the Ning mansion Cousin Zhen had opened up the Hall of the Ancestors and set his people to work sweeping it, setting the vessels out in readiness for the New Year sacrifices, and welcoming the spirits back into the ancestral tablets.
He also had the main hall of the Ning-guo mansion swept in readiness for the annual ceremonial hanging of the ancestral portraits.
Everyone in both mansions, both high and low, was in a fever of activity.
One morning in the course of these preparations, as You-shi, who had not long since risen, was, with the assistance of Jia Rongs new wife, getting the presents of newly made clothes ready for sending to Grandmother Jia, a maid came in bearing a trayful of New Year medallions.
Its from Merry, maam.
He says that loose silver you gave him the other day was of several different marks but the total weight was one hundred and fifty-three taels and thirteen pennyweights and he says theyve managed to make two hundred and twenty medallions from it.
She held out the tray for You-shi to inspect.
On it there were medallions shaped like plum-flowers, crabflower-shaped medallions, medallions with hearts desire rebus patterns of ingot, brush and sceptre, and others with patterns of auspicious flowers.
Yes, said You-shi, they seem to be all right.
Tell him to take them inside immediately.
The maid went off to do her bidding.
Shortly after that Cousin Zhen came in to have his lunch and Jia Rongs wife hurried out to avoid him.
Have we received the bounty money for the New Year sacrifices yet?
Cousin Zhen asked You-shi when they were alone together.
I sent Rong to draw it this morning, said You-shi.
Its not that we rely on the money exactly, said Cousin Zhen, but it is after all the gift of the Emperor and I think we ought to draw it as soon as possible and get it across to Lady Jia so that it can be used to pay for the offerings.
Its a double blessing when the gracious favour shown us by His Majesty can be passed on to the ancestors.
However many thousands of our own we were to spend on them, it wouldnt do them nearly as much honour as these offerings subsidized by the imperial bountynot to mention the advantages that we enjoy as recipients of Imperial favour.
And we have to remember that apart from the one or two great families like ours who dont really need this money, there are many, many families of poor hereditary officials who do actually depend on it for their ancestral sacrifices and who wouldnt be able to celebrate New Year properly without it.
So you see it really was extraordinarily benevolent and far-seeing of the dynasty to institute this annual bounty.
Yes, indeed, said You-shi.
Master Rong is back, a servant came in to report while the two of them were still talking.
Tell him to come in, said Cousin Zhen Jia Rong entered carrying a little yellow bag, not as one would normally carry a bag, but holding it in both hands at shoulder height.
Youve been a long time, havent you?
said Cousin Zhen.
Jia Rong smiled nervously.
This year theyre not paying it at the Board of Rites any longer but at the treasury of the Imperial Victuallers so having first gone to the Board of Rites, I had to go from there all the way to the Imperial Victuallers to draw the money.
The people at the Imperial Victuallers office all asked after you, by the way.
They say they havent seen you for a long time, but they often think about you.
Its not me they think about but my things, said Cousin Zhen with a dry smile.
Either that, or they are hoping for an invitation to come round over the New Year.
He was inspecting the yellow bag as he said this.
It had a sealing-slip with the words PERPETUAL BOUNTY written on it in large characters.
On the other side was the chop of the Department of Sacrifices of the Board of Rites and some columns of smaller characters -347 Annual grant awarded in perpetuity to Jia Yan, Duke of Ning-guo, and Jia Yuan, Duke of Rong-guo, for New Year Sacrifices goods to the value oftaels net Cash received by Jia Rong, Captain, Imperial Body- guard, Inner Palace, on date Issuing officer for the year name -320 This was followed by a cipher in red ink.
After inspecting the yellow bag, Cousin Zhen had his lunch then, when he had washed his hands and rinsed his mouth out, he changed into formal hat and boots and, ordering Jia Rong to follow him with the bag, set off for the other mansion to report the arrival of the bounty-money, first to Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang and then to Jia She and Lady Xing next door.
When they got back he took out the money and ordered the bag to be carried into the Hall of the Ancestors and burnt there in the great incense-burner in front of the ancestral tablets.
There were further orders now for Jia Rong I want you to go and ask your Aunt Lian whether shes decided yet on which days shell be entertaining in the New Year.
If she has, get the office to make out a good, clear list of the dates, so that we dont have any duplicating this year.
Last year several families got invitations from both of us for the same day, and of course, people being what they are, instead of realizing that it was a mistake, they assumed that we had deliberately worked it out between us as an economy.
Jia Rong hurried off to see Xi-feng, returning presently with the list of dates that his father had asked for.
After running his eye over it, Cousin Zhen handed it to a servant.
Give this to Lai Sheng.
Tell him to avoid these dates when he sends out our New Year invitations.
He and Jia Rong went on to inspect operations in the hall, where a number of pages were carrying in and arranging the large screens on which the portraits of the ancestors were to be hung, and cleaning and polishing the tables and the ritual vessels of gold and silver which were to be set up in front of them.
While they were thus engaged, a page came in holding a red greetings-card and a schedule containing some sort of list.
Bailiff Wu from Black Mountain village, sir.
Hes just arrived.
That old rascal?
said Cousin Zhen.
Hes been long enough getting here!
Jia Rong took the greetings-card and schedule from the servant, and opening up the card, held it out for his father to read.
Cousin Zhen folded his hands behind his back and bent over to read the inscription -108 Wu Jin-xiao, Bailiff, presents his Humble Compliments to the Master and Mistress and compliments to The Young Gentlemen and Ladies wishing you Wealth, Health and Prosperity Increase of Pay and Promotion and all your Hearts Desire in the Coming Year Cousin Zhen laughed.
These country people have an original sense of style.
Never mind the style, said Jia Rong, echoing his fathers laughter with obsequious laughter of his own, just think of all the good luck he is wishing us!
He opened up the schedule and held it out while Cousin Zhen ran his eye down the list tufted deer 30 water deer 50 spotted deer 50 Siamese pigs 20 scalded pigs 20 wild boar 20 wild pigs 20 salted pigs 20 wild sheep 20 goats 20 scalded sheep 20 sheep, salted in fell 20 sturgeons 200 fish, various 200 live chickens, ducks and geese each 200 dried ditto each 200 pheasants hares each 200 brace bears paws 20 pairs deers sinews 20 catties sea-slugs 50 catties deers tongues 50 ox-tongues 10 dried mussels 20 catties filberts, pine-nuts, peach-kernels, almonds each 2 bags crayfish 50 pairs dried shrimps 200 catties -192 high quality selected Silver Frost charcoal 1000 catties medium grade ditto 2000 catties red charcoal 30,000 catties red Emperor rice 5 bushels green glutinous rice 60 bushels white ditto 60 bushels powder rice 60 bushels millet, sorghum other grains each 60 bushels general purpose rice 2500 bushels dried vegetables 1 cartload -1094 Item, total realized from sales of livestock and cereals 2500 taels silver -1094 Item, Present for the young ladies and gentlemenPets 2 deer 4 pair white rabbits 4 pair black rabbits 2 pair golden pheasants 2 pair Foreign ducks Bring him in, said Cousin Zhen when he had finished perusing the schedule.
Wu Jin-xiao promptly appeared.
He knelt down in the courtyard below and had already kotowed and called out his greetings before Cousin Then could have him raised up and brought into the hall.
You are still hale and hearty then?
Cousin Then asked him.
Yes, sir, thank you sir, said the old man, beaming.
I still manage to get about.
Your sons must be quite big fellows by now, said Cousin Then.
Why dont you let them do the travelling for you?
To tell you the truth, sir, Im so used to the journey, Id miss it now if I wasnt to come.
Shouldnt know what to do with myself.
The boys would be only too glad to come if Id let them, of coursesee what its like here in the Emperors shadow as we saybut theyre only youngsters yet Id be afeared of them having some mishap on the way.
A few years longer and I shant need to worry.
How many days have you been on the road?
said Cousin Then.
Well, sir, as you know, there was a lot of snow this year it must have been lying three or four foot thick in places.
And that sudden thaw we had coming on top of it made the going very difficult.
That must have put us back several days.
Its taken a month and two days altogether.
But I do assure you, sir, seeing that the time was running out and knowing how anxious youd be, we made as much speed as we could.
I was wondering what could have made you so late, said Cousin Then.
Well, Ive been looking at this list of yours.
I see youre holding out on me again this year, you old devil.
Wu Jin-xiao advanced a couple of stepsspringing, as it were, to his own defence Its like this, sir.
The harvests this year have been really terrible.
From the third month to the eighth month it rained on and off all the time.
I doubt we had six fine days in a row together.
Then in the ninth month we had hall as big as teacups.
For fifty miles around, the damage to crops and livestockand houses and people as well, for that matterwas terrible.
Thats why I havent brought you more this year.
Thats the honest truth, sir.
You know I wouldnt lie to you.
Id reckoned on your bringing me at least five thousand taels, said Cousin Then, frowning.
What am I supposed to do with an amount like this?
We have only eight or nine farms now and of those eight or nine two have declared themselves disaster areas this year and arent contributing anything.
With you holding back on me too, I might as well give up celebrating New Year altogether.
Your lands have done better than some, said Wu Jin-xiao.
Take my cousins place.
Thats only thirty mile from where I am, but my word, what a difference!
My cousin manages eight farms for your relations at the other House.
Theyve got several times as much land as you, but the vittles hes brought them this year are no more than this lot here, and their cash yield on sales is no more than two or three thousand.
Now they really ha got something to make a fuss about.
Its true, said Cousin Then.
Were not too badly off on this side.
At least we havent got any new major commitments outside our regular annual expenditure.
For us its a question of spending a bit more freely when were flush and economizing a bit when things are tighter.
And even in the case of these New Year expenses, I suppose I could cut down on them if I really had to.
It would simply be a question of brazening it out.
But with our Rong-guo cousins its different.
Theyve had all these new expenses during the past few years, none of which were optional, but no new source of income to set against them.
Which means that for the past year or two theyve had to start eating into their capital.
If you folk cant help them to make up the deficit, who else is there they turn to?
I know theyve got a lot on their plate, said Wu Jin-xiao with a knowing smile, but it cant all be outgoings, can it?
There must be something coming in as well.
Surely Her Grace and old Live-For-Ever must give them a hand-out once in a while?
Cousin Then turned to Jia Rong with a laugh.
You heard that?
Rich, isnt it?
Jia Rong tittered.
What does a countryman like you living at the back of beyond know about such matters?
You dont suppose Her Grace has handed them the keys of the Emperors treasury, do you?
Shes not her own mistress, even if she wanted to.
She does give presents, of course, but its only on birthdays and feastdays and the like and never more than a few lengths of figured satin or some curios or knick-knacks.
Even when she gives money, at the very most it will be a hundred gold.
Now say a hundred gold is worth a thousand silver taelsit cant be much more than thatwhat possible good can a thousand taels do them, when during each of the past two years theyve been forced to draw on their capital to the tune of several thousands a year?
During the first of those two years they had the Visitationincluding the building of that great garden.
Just imagine what that must have cost them.
Another two years like these last two with another Visitation thrown in and theyll be cleaned out!
These simple country souls see the bright outside but not the dark within, said Cousin Zhen.
The situation our Rong-guo cousins are in is like the proverbial chime-hammer made of phellodendron wood imposing to look at but bitter inside.
You can tell they really are hard-up, said Jia Rong half jokingly.
The other day I heard Auntie Lian plotting with Faithful to steal some of Lady Jias things to use as security for a loan.
No, I think that was merely our Feng being her usual artful self, said Cousin Then, laughing.
Theyre still not that poor.
I expect she has noticed how much they have been spending.
beyond their means and is planning some economy or other.
What you overheard would simply have been her way of letting people know how hard-up they are and preparing them for some cuts.
Ive got a rough idea of how their finances stand at present and I assure you that they arent quite as desperate as that yet.
Concluding the conversation on this more reassuring note, Cousin Then gave Wu Jin-xiao into the charge of the servants with instructions that he was to be properly looked after and entertained.
Our narrative does not follow the old man into the servants quarters, however, but remains in the hall with Cousin Then.
Cousin Then had a portion of the things that Wu Jin-xiao had brought set aside to be used as offerings to the ancestors he had another portion set aside for sending to Rong-guo House and while Jia Rong attended to its delivery, he personally supervised the selection of a third portion which he intended to keep for his own use.
What remained he had piled up in orderly heaps on the pavement beneath the hall terrace to be shared out among the junior members of the clan, who were forthwith invited to come and collect their shares.
At that point a large consignment of things arrived from the other mansion, most of them things to be used in the ancestral sacrifices, but some of them for Cousin Then himself.
Having given orders for their disposal, Cousin Then went back to his supervision of the polishing and furniture-shifting in the hall.
When that work was completed, he put on a lynx-skin coat and went out, still in his slippers, on to the terrace, where, having found himself a warm place under the eaves, he got the servants to spread out a wolfskin rug for him so that he could sit there and watch the young clansmen as they came to collect their shares.
He noticed that Jia Qin was among them.
What are you doing here?
he called out to him.
Who told you to come?
Jia Qin came over and stood in front of him, arms held submissively at his sides.
I heard that you were having a family share-out, Uncle, so I came along without waiting to be called.
These things Im giving away now are intended for those of your uncles and cousins who havent got jobs or private incomes to support them, said Cousin Then.
During the years when you were unemployed yourself, I used to give you a share of the New Year things.
But you arent unemployed now youve got that supervisors job that my Rong-guo cousins gave you, looking after those young nuns in the family temple.
Not only have you got a salary of your own, but you control all the nuns allowances as well.
Yet still you come here for my things.
You are too greedy.
And just look at you!
No one would think from your appearance that you had money to spend and a responsible position.
You used to have the excuse that you had no money, but what excuse have you got now?
You look even more disreputable now than you did when you were unemployed!
Ive got a big family to support, said Jia Qin.
I have a lot of expenses.
Humbug!
said Cousin Then.
I know what you get up to in that temple of yours, dont think I dont!
Once you set foot in that place, you are the master and nobody there can gainsay you.
With money to spend and the rest of us a long way away in the city, you can do exactly as you like invite the local riff raff in every night to gamble with you and fill the place with your kept women and fancy boys.
So having squandered all the money and reduced yourself to the disgraceful state I see you in now, you have the effrontery to try and get something out of me.
All you are likely to get out of me, young man, is a good stout stick across the shoulders!
And when this holiday is over, I shall make it my business to have a word with your Uncle Lian and see to it that he has you recalled.
Jia Qin reddened, but dared not say anything.
A servant came up then to report Someone with a present from the Prince of Bei-jing, sir.
Two scrolls and a perfume-bag.
Cousin Then turned to Jia Rong.
Go and entertain him for me.
Tell him Im out.
Jia Rong hurried off.
Cousin Zhen then dismissed Jia Qin, and having presided over the distribution until all the things had been taken, returned to his own apartment to have his dinner with You-shi.
Concerning the rest of that day and the night which followed our narrative is silent.
The day after that was even busier.
But to give further details of these preparations would be tedious.
Suffice it to say that by the twenty-ninth of the twelfth month they had been completed.
In both mansions new door-gods had been pasted up on all the doors, the inscribed boards at the sides and over the tops of gateways had been repainted, and fresh good luck slipsauspicious couplets written in the best calligraphy on strips of scarlet paperhad been pasted up at the sides of all the entrances.
In the Ning-guo mansion the central doors of the main outer gate, of the ornamental gate, of the outer reception hall, of the pavilion-gate, of the inner reception hall, of the triple gate dividing the inner from the outer parts of the mansion, and of the inner ornamental gate were all thrown Open, so that a way was opened up from the street right through into the family hall inside.
Red lanterns on tall scarlet stands lined either side of this route.
At dusk, when the candles in them were lit, they took on the appearance of two long, parallel serpents of light, undulating slightly where they ascended or descended the steps of terraces.
Next day, the last of the Old Year, Grandmother Jia and any of the Jia ladies who possessed patents of nobility attired themselves in the court dress appropriate to their rank and were borne in procession to the Palace, Grandmother Jia at the head in a palanquin carried by eight bearers, to make their kotows to the Imperial Concubine and felicitate her on the successful conclusion of the year.
On their return from the banquet which she gave them, their chairs were set down outside the pavilion-gate of the Ning-guo mansion, where those of the younger Jia males who had not escorted them to the Palace were lined up on either side of the gateway waiting to receive them.
When the ladies had all alighted, the young men conducted them on foot to the Jia familys Hall of the Ancestors.
Bao-qin had never been inside this part of the mansion before.
She was being allowed in on this occasion by virtue of her recent adoption into the family and was anxious to take in every detail in order that she might retain as accurate an impression of it as possible.
The Jia familys Hall of the Ancestors was in a separate courtyard of its own in the west part of Ning-guo House, away from the more domestic parts of the mansiona courtyard that was entered through an imposing five-frame gateway behind a black-lacquered wooden paling.
An inscription in large characters hung over the central arch of the gate ANCESTRAL TEMPLE OF THE JIA FAMILY with a column of smaller characters in the lower left hand part of the board indicating that the calligrapher was a direct descendant in the sixty-somethingth generation of the Sage Confucius.
A long couplet from the brush of the same calligrapher occupied the two vertical boards at the archs sides -384 With loyal blood poured out willingly upon the ground a myriad subjects pay tribute to their benevolent rulers For famous deeds lauded resoundingly to the skies a hundred generations offer sacrifices to their heroic ancestors Inside the gate a raised white marble walk shaded by an avenue of venerable pines and cypresses led up to a terrace on which ancient bronze tripods were ranged.
Over the entrance to the temples vestibule, whose penthouse-roof swept forwards from the main buildings faade, hung a board framed in a carved and gilded border of nine interlacing dragons and inscribed in the Late Emperors calligraphy with the following words HIS MINISTERS ARE AS SHINING STARS The vertical inscriptions on either side were in the same Imperial hand -267 Their achievements outshone the celestial luminaries Their fame is reflected in the generations that come after them The board over the entrance to the main hall of the temple was framed by two contending dragons and its inscription was of incised characters infilled in green.
Both it and the matching couplet below it were in the calligraphy of the reigning sovereign -587 HONOUR THE DEAD AND KEEP THEIR MEMORIAL -267 Their sons and grandsons enjoy the fruits of their blessedness The common people recall Ning and Rong with kindness Beyond the flickering brilliance of many lights and the glint and sheen of drapes and hangings Bao-qin could make out some of the spirit tablets of the ancestors, but not very clearly.
By ancient custom the menfolk were divided in ranks to left and right of the hall so that each generation was on a different side from the one which followed it, fathers and sons separated, grandfathers and grandsons together.
Jia Jing presided over the sacrifice with Jia She acting as his assistant Cousin Then held the drink-offering Jia Lian and Jia Cong the silk-offering Bao-yu carried the incense Jia Chang and Jia Ling unrolled the kneeling-mat in front of the great incense-burner Then the black-coated musicians struck up and the ceremony began.
the threefold offering of the Cup, the standings, kneelings and prostrations, the burning of the silk-offering, the libationevery movement precisely in time to the solemn strains of the music.
The music ceased at the same time as the ceremony, and the participants filed out and, grouping themselves round Grandmother Jia, conducted her to the main hall of the Ning-guo mansion where, under the richly-embroidered frieze which hung high in front of them, against a background of brilliantly-decorated screens, high above the smoking incense and flickering candles of the altar, the portraits of the ancestors hung, those of the ducal siblings, Ning-guo and Rong-guo, resplendent in dragon robes and jade-encrusted belts, in the centre and somewhat raised above the rest.
The men ranged themselves in ascending order of seniority in the space between the hall and the ornamental gate, so that the two most junior ones, Jia Xing and Jia Zhi, were just inside the gate and the two most senior ones, Jia jing and Jia She, were at the top of the terrace steps and under the eaves of the hall.
The womenfolk of the family were ranged inside the hall in corresponding ranks but in reverse order that is to say, the most junior were nearest the threshold and the most senior furthest inside the hall, but whereas the senior male in a generation was at the east end of his row, the senior female in the same generation would be at the west end of hers, and vice versa .
The male domestics of all ages were ranged in the courtyard on the further side of the ornamental gate.
The manner of making the offerings was as follows Each course was passed from hand to hand by the servants until it reached the ornamental gate.
There it was received by Jia Xing and Jia Zhi and passed on from hand to and until it reached Jia Jing at the top of the terrace steps.
Jia Rong, as senior grandson of the senior branch of the family, was permitted, alone of all the males, to stand inside the threshold with the women.
He received the dishes from his grandfather Jia Jings hands and passed them to his wife, Hu-shi.
Hu-shi passed them to the row ending in Xi-feng and You-shi, who passed them forwards to Lady Wang standing at the side of the altar.
Lady Wang then put them into the hands of Grandmother Jia, who raised them up reverently towards the portraits before laying them down on the altar in front of her.
Lady Xing stood to the west of the altar facing eastwards and helped her lay them down.
When meat, vegetables, rice, soup, cakes, wine and tea had all been transmitted to the altar by this human chain and offered up there by Grandmother Jia and her two daughters-in-law, Jia Rong withdrew and took up his position next to Jia Qin in the courtyard below, at the head of the most junior generation of Jia family males.
Now came the most solemn part of the ceremony.
As Grandmother Jia, clasping a little bundle of burning joss sticks with both her hands, knelt down for the incense-offering, the entire congregation of men and women, rank upon rank of them, close-packed as flowers in a flower-bed, knelt down in perfect time with her and proceeded to go through the motions of the Great Obeisance.
This was done with such silent concentration that, from five-frame hall and three-frame vestibule, from portico and terrace, terrace steps and courtyard, for some minutes nothing could be heard but the faint tinkling made by jade girdle-pendants and tiny golden bells and the soft scrape and scuffle of cloth-soled boots and shoes.
The ceremony over, Jia Jing, Jia She and the rest of the menfolk hurried back to the Rong-guo mansion so that they could be waiting there in readiness to make their kotows to Grandmother Jia on her return.
In You-shis main reception-room, whither the ladies repaired now from the hall, the floor had been entirely covered with a great red carpet and a huge gold cloisonn incense-burner with a loach-lipped rim and three massive legs shaped like the trunks of elephants stood in the middle.
In the centre of the kangalso new-carpeted, but in scarleta dark-red back-rest had been placed with a design showing a couchant dragon coiled around the character for longevity.
Large bolsters of the same colour and with the same design on them had been placed as arm-rests at right-angles to it for extra warmth a black fox-fur had been draped around the top of it, and there was a white fox-fur mg between the bolsters, for sitting on.
When Grandmother Jia had been installed on this furry throne, several old great aunts were invited to sit on fur rugs that had been spread out on the kang to left and right of it.
Lady Xing, Lady Wang and other ladies of their generation were installed on fur rugs on a smaller kang in an alcove-room to the side of the main kang and discreetly separated from it by an openwork wooden screen.
On the floor below, in two facing rows, were a dozen carved lacquer chairs, on which Bao-qin and the other cousins were invited to sit.
They had chair-backs and seat-covers of squirrel, and large copper foot-warmers in place of footstools.
You-shi and her daughter-in-law Hu-shi now appeared with tea-trays in their hands, and while You-shi offered tea to Grandmother Jia, Hu-shi served the old aunties.
After that You-shi passed into the alcove and served tea to Lady Xing and the other ladies on the smaller kang, and Hu-shi served the cousins sitting in chairs below.
Xi-feng, Li Wan and a few other young married women of their generation, debarred from taking tea either with the elder ladies or with their young unmarried cousins, stood idly by, on the floor below the kang, in attendance.
Lady Xing and her group, as soon as they had finished drinking their tea, rose and moved over to where Grandmother Jia was sitting on the kang so that they too might be in attendance.
After exchanging a few words with the other old ladies while she sipped her tea, Grandmother Jia gave orders for her palanquin to be made ready.
At once Xi-feng climbed up on to the kang and began helping her to her feet.
But weve already prepared dinner for you here, said You-shi.
You never stay with us for dinner on New Years Eve.
Wont you make an exception just this once?
Surely my catering cant be all that inferior to Fengs?
Xi-feng continued to help Grandmother Jia from the kang.
Come on, Grannie, lets be getting home!
Pay no attention to lien -267 Grandmother Jia laughed.
Youre so busy with the sacrifices, she said.
Youre worked off your feet as it is Im sure you dont want the bother of feeding me as well.
Besides, in past years when I havent stayed, you have Sent the food over to me.
Why dont you do that again this year?
I dont feel like eating very much now but if you send it over, I shall be able to save it up for tomorrow, and then I shall be able to eat more of it than I could now.
This made everyone laugh.
See that you get someone thoroughly dependable to sit up and keep an eye on the candles tonight, Grandmother Jia said by way of parting admonition.
Where fire is concerned, one cant afford to take chances.
You-shi, escorting her meanwhile from the room, assured her that she would do so.
At the pavilion-gate You-shi and the other ladies hid them-selves behind the gate-screen from the eyes of the waiting menservants while Grandmother Jia got into her palanquin.
Pages of the Ning-guo mansion went ahead of the bearers and, as they approached the outer gate, directed them through the centre of its three gateways.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang followed in their less imposing conveyances, accompanied by You-shi, who was also going over to the other mansion.
Outside, while they were being borne in a westerly direction down the street, the ladies could see the achievements, insignia and musical instruments bells, gongs, stone-chimes and drums hung in magnificently carved, painted and tasselled stands of the Dukes of Ning-guo and Rong-guo, those of the Duke of Ning-guo along the eastern half of the street outside the south wall of the Ning-guo property, and those of his brother-duke outside the Rong-guo wall to its west.
As in the other mansion, the centre-gates throughout Rong-guo House were all thrown open so that a way was clear from the outer gate right through to the Hall of Exalted Felicity inside.
But this time, instead of going through to the pavilion-gate and getting out there, they turned left after the outer reception hall and were carried to the main reception hall in Grandmother Jias part of the mansion.
The others assembled round the old lady as they got out of their sedans and followed her into the hall.
Here, too, everything had been transformed brilliantly embroidered screens and cushions specially brought out for the occasion and an incense-burner set down in the middle of the room from which emanated delicious odours of pine and cedar and Hundred Blend aromatic.
As soon as Grandmother Jia was seated, a venerable nannie came up to her to report that the old ladies had arrived to make their kotow and she hurriedly got up again and advanced to welcome two or three elderly female relations who had just come into the hall.
A good deal of polite tussling ensued, accompanied on both sides by laughter and protestations, as Grandmother Jia took the hands of each old lady in turn and, while the old ladies pretended that they were struggling to kneel, made a great show of struggling to prevent themfor although Grandmother Jia was their senior, they were in the same generation as her and too elderly to be allowed to kotow in earnest.
They sat down for a while after that and took a cup of tea then Grandmother Jia saw them out, but no farther than the inner ornamental gate.
When she had returned and was once more enthroned on the principal seat in the hall, Jia Jing and Jia She came forward with all the menfolk in the family in rows behind them to make their kotow.
You all do so much for me during the year, Grandmother Jia protested.
Cant we forget about the kotow?
But nobody heeded her.
Rank upon rank of them, the males in one large group and the females in another, knelt down together and bowed their foreheads to the ground.
After that folding chairs were brought and put down in a row to left and right of Grandmother Jias seat and the next most senior members of the family sat down and received their kotows, and so on by order of seniority downwards, until all but the most junior members of the family had been kotowed to but now even their turn arrived and they too were allowed to sit down as the domestics of both households, men-servants and women-servants, pages and maids, came in by order of their various ranks and duties and made their kotows to their employers.
After that the New Years Eve wish-penny was distributed to servants and childrengold or silver medallions in little embroidered pursesand the New Years love-feast was laid, tables on the east side of the hall for men and boys, tables on the west side for girls and women.
There was herb-flavoured New Years Eve wine and love-feast soup, there were lucky-cakes and wish-puddings and when all had eaten and drunk, Grandmother Jia rose and went into an inner room to change out of her Court dress, which she had all this time been wearing.
This was a signal for the others present to disperse.
As darkness came on, offerings of cakes and burning joss sticks were made in front of all the Buddha-shrines and in all the little niches of the Kitchen God, who is welcomed back this night from his annual trip aloft.
In the main courtyard, outside Lady Wangs apartment, an altar to heaven and earth was set up - a long table on which offerings of sticky fried honey-sticks and fresh apples and steamed wheat-flour cakes and other goodies had been built up, layer upon layer, into a little pagoda of offerings in front of a large colour-print representing the whole host of heaven or as much of it as the artist had been able to fit in.
Great horn lanterns hung at either side of the main entrance to Prospect Garden to illuminate the gateway, and innumerable standard lamps lit up its alley-ways and courtyards and walks.
As for the inhabitants of the mansion, all of them, both masters and servants, seemed, in their dazzling holiday array, like walking flower-gardens of brilliant embroidery and brocade.
And all night long a confused hubbub of talking and shouting and laughter arose, punctuated by the continual, unceasing pops and bangs of exploding firecrackers.
At four oclock in the morning, as the drums of the fifth watch were sounding, Grandmother Jia and the other ladies once more got into their court dresses and were borne in procession to the Palace, this time to felicitate Yuan-chun on the advent of the New Year.
Livened footmen walked ahead of them carrying the full paraphernalia to which Grandmother Jias rank entitled her.
Once more Yuan-chun feasted them once more, on their return from the Palace, they made offerings to the ancestors in their shrine in the Ning-guo mansion and once more, on returning to her own apartment in Rong-guo House, Grandmother Jia received the prostrations of the assembled family.
As soon as that was over, she changed out of her court clothes and declared that she was going to rest, refusing to see any of the friends and relations who now began arriving in great numbers to offer their New Year felicitations, and spending her time either quietly conversing with Aunt Xue and Mrs Li or, as an occasional diversion, playing games of cards or Racing Go with Bao-yu and the girls.
But Lady Wang and Xi-feng, on both this and each of the seven or eight days which followed, were kept busy entertaining the guests whom the family had invited to drink their New Year wine.
In both the reception hall and the courtyard outside it there were plays to watch and tables at which the unending stream of visitors could sit for a while and eat and drink while they watched them.
And no sooner was that lot of entertaining over than another lot had to be prepared for as the First Moon waxed greater and the Lantern Festival drew near.
Again the Ning and Rong mansions were gay with lanterns and decorations.
On the eleventh of the month Jia She entertained Grand-mother Jia and the rest of the family and on the twelfth it was Cousin Zhens turn to play host, while for several days running Lady Wang and Wang Xi-feng were most of the time out visiting one or other of the innumerable families from whom they bad received invitations.
On the evening of the fifteenth Grandmother Jia had tables laid for a feast in her big new reception hallthe scene of Xi-fengs fateful birthday-feast.
A stage was set up for a troupe of child-actors which she had specially hired for this occasion, and both the stage and hall were hung all over with lanterns of every imaginable shape and colour.
When her preparations were completed, she summoned all her children and grandchildren, nephews and nieces, great-nephews and great-nieces to a family feast.
As a matter of fact it is not strictly true that all of them were invited.
Jia Jing was, for religious reasons, a total abstainer from meat and strong drink, so he was not invited.
Obligations to the dead rather than to the living had brought him back for the holiday, and on the seventeenth, two days after this, as soon as the last of the ancestral sacrifices was over, he returned to his Taoist monastery outside the city and the briefly interrupted pursuit of immortality.
Meanwhile, when not actually engaged in discharging ceremonial duties, he spent all the time on his own in a quiet, out-of-the-way corner of the mansion, in a state of incommunicado with the other members of the family.
And Jia She, although he was invited, excused himself as soon as he had received a party-gift from his mother.
She knew that he felt uncomfortable in her presence and did not attempt to detain him.
Back in his own quarters, surrounded by cronies and dependants, he could drink and admire the lanterns while beautiful young women played and sang for his delectation -1680 Ears with pipes and songs beguiled, Eyes by silk skirts hypnotized.
-1014 A different scene altogether from the one he had just left.
But let us return to the latterto the reception hall in Grandmother Jias rear courtyard, where a covered stage had been erected to accommodate the players.
Inside the hall some dozen or more tables had been laid facing outwards towards the stage.
They were arranged in a fan shape, with the two central tables in the place of honour at the back and the rest of them raying out forwards to left and right of them.
At the side of each table a smaller, ornamental table had been placed on which were arranged 1. a little three-piece incense set a vase, a cassolette and a tripod, all made on a miniature scale out of metal in which Hundred Blend aromatica gift from the Palacewas burning 2. a porcelain dish, eight inches long, four or five inches wide and two or three inches deep, containing a miniature landscape made out of stones and mosses 3. a small japanned tea-tray on which was one of Grandmother Jias best china teacups and a little individual mille fiori teapot in which choicest tea was brewing 4. a little table-screen of red silk gauze, embroidered with flowers and appropriate lines of grass character verse, framed in a delicately carved pierced-work sandalwood frame 5. a vase each one a collectors piece and each different from the rest containing the three friends winter or riches in a jade hall or some other flower arrangement, mostly of fresh flowers that had been specially forced for the occasion.
The two tables in the place of honour at the back were occupied by Aunt Xue and Mrs Li.
To their left, at the head of the row of tables radiating outwards towards the east side of the hall, there was a large, low wooden settle with a carved -267 Stones Note to Reader -320 These screens were embroidered by a Soochow girl called Hui-niang, who, as member of a highly-cultivated Service family and an accomplished amateur painter and calligrapher, embroidered only occasionally for her own diversion and not as a means of making money.
As the flowers embroidered on them were all copied from flower-paintings by famous masters, their design and colouring were far superior to the cruder, more garish productions of professional embroiderers and the accompanying verses, all chosen with impeccable taste from a wide range of literary sources, were executed in black embroidery-silk with such consummate skill that every hook and squiggle, every variation in thickness of line, every join and break in the brush-written grass script calligraphy was exactly reproduced, not mangled and deformed as in the stilted, wooden attempts at copying of the commercial embroiderer.
Since Hui-niang did not depend on her embroidery for a living, specimens of it, despite its great fame, have always been hard to come by.
Even among the rich and great there are very few households which can boast a specimen.
Such as do exist are referred to by collectors as Hui embroidery.
But what are sometimes sold as specimens of Hui embroidery today invariably turn out to be imitations deliberately made to take in the inexpert buyer.
The real Hui-niang died tragically at the age of eighteen, and there are in fact no genuine specimens of her work now to be had, since the few houses which posse as a piece or two hold on to them tenaciously and refuse to part with them to would-be purchasers.
Indeed, if a genuine specimen of Hui-niangs work were ever to come upon the market, its value would be incalculable.
The Jia family originally possessed three, of which two had been presented as a gift to the Emperor only a year previously, leaving this set of sixteen little table-screens, to which Grandmother Jia was so much attached that she kept them always in her own apartment, unwilling that they should remain with the stock of objects commonly drawn on for the familys entertainment of guests, and only rarely, on occasions of her own devising, brought them out to be admired.
Stone -320 pierced-work back of interlacing dragons, which had been put there for Grandmother Jia to lie on.
It was furnished with a back-rest and bolsters and was large enough to have a fur rug spread out on it and still leave room at one end for a small, exquisitely gilded table of foreign make on which had been placed a teapot, a teacup, a spittoon, a napkin and, among various other small objects, an eyeglass-case.
Grandmother Jia rested with her feet up on the settle and, after talking for a while with the company, took out the eyeglasses from their case and looked through them at the stage.
I do hope you will forgive me for lying down like this in your presence, she apologized to Aunt Xue and Mrs Li.
Its very rude of me, I know, but Im getting so rheumaticky in my old age?
She made Amber get up on to the settle beside her and massage her legs by gently pounding them with a maidens fista sort of short-handled mallet with a padded leather head.
No feasters table with cover and drapes had been put in front of the settle, only the little ornamental table with the table-screen and the incense set and vase of flowers.
The very elegant, somewhat larger table of normal height which would have been hers if she had been sitting up with the rest had been placed somewhat to the left of the settle and laid with wine-cups, soup-spoons and chopsticks for four.
It was occupied by Bao-qin, Xiang-yun , Dai-yu and Bao-yu.
Although she could not sit with them, Grandmother Jia kept up a pretence that they were eating together each dish as it arrived would be submitted to her inspection, and if she fancied it, would be placed on the little table at her elbow then, when she had tasted it, it would be removed and set down in front of the four young people for them to finish.
After Grandmother Jia and her four grandchildren, the next along on the east side was Lady Xing after her came Lady Wang, then You-shi, then Li Wan, then Xi-feng, and lastly Jia Rongs wife, Hu-shi.
Along the west side Bao-chai came first, next to her mother, then Li Wen, then Li Qi, then Xiu-yan, then Ying-chun, then Tan-chun and then Xi-chun.
Red-tasselled glass lanterns hung in rows from the beams overhead to left and right of the diners.
In front of them, on each of their tables, was an ingenious light consisting of a flower-shaped candle attached to the base of a reflector in the form of a vertical lotus leaf.
These lotus leaves, though made of metal, were so skillfully engraved and enamelled that they looked almost real.
They were attached to their metal stands by means of a swivel, so that the beams of the candle could be concentrated in any direction desired.
When all the reflectors were simultaneously directed towards the stage, the diners view of the players was wonderfully improved.
The wooden partitions with their window-lattices and doors which normally separated the hall from the verandah had been removed and great palace lanterns of glass, whose elaborately carved wooden frames were hung with strings of crimson tassels, were suspended at intervals in the space thus created.
More rows of lanternslanterns of every kind of material and design horn lanterns, glass lanterns, gauze lanterns, lanterns of Yunnan glitter-glass, embroidered ones, painted ones, lanterns with cut-outs of paper or silk in them, hung in lines under the verandah eaves, both inside and outside the architraves, and from the eaves of the loggias on either side of the courtyard.
The tables on the verandah were all occupied by males Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian, Jia Huan, Jia Cong, Jia Rong, Jia Qin, Jia Yun, Jia Ling and Jia Chang.
Although Grandmother Jia had sent invitations by word of mouth to every clansman and clanswoman residing in the city, some of them were too elderly to stand up to the noise and excitement of a party, some were unable to come because they had no one to look after the house for them while they were away, some had intended to come but were prevented from doing so by illness, some stayed away from envy of their richer clansmen or because they were ashamed of their own poverty, others because they could not stand Xi-feng, and yet others because they were so unused to company and incapacitated by shyness that they dared not comein short, although the clan was a numerous one, for one reason or another, of all those invited the only female guest who turned up was Lou-shi, mother of Bao-yus former classmate, the intrepid little Jia Jun, who came bringing Jia Jun with her, and the only male ones were those who had found employment with the family under Xi-fengs auspices and were there-fore obliged to put in an appearance Jia Qin, Jia Yun, Jia Chang and Jia Ling.
Yet even with the absence of so many who had been invited from outside, for a family party the company was a large one.
Presently, while they all sat watching the players, Lin Zhi-xiaos wife came into the hall leading six other women, each pair of whom were carrying between them a small kang-table covered with a red felt top on which was a bundle of strung cash hundreds and hundreds of newly-minted copper coins, specially chosen for size and quality, fastened together by a single long cord of crimson silk.
Under the direction of Lin Zhi-xiaos wife two of these tables were set down in front of Mrs Li and Aunt Xue and the third one beside Grandmother Jias settle.
Do it in the middle, where everyone can see said Grandmother Jia.
The women all knew what was expected of them.
Setting the tables down in the centre of the hall, they simultaneously undid the ends of the crimson cords with which the money was fastened and began pulling them out so that the coins tumbled in heaps upon the tables.
The play being performed on this occasion was The House in Pin-kang Lane , and the actors had just come to the end of that section of it called Meeting in the Sickroom.
The hero Yu Shu-ye, having at last met the love of his life only to be called by stern duty from her side, had just left the stage in chagrin.
At this point the child-actor playing the part of his little page Leopard Boy, observing what was going on in the hall, began to extemporize You can go off in a huff if you like but today is the fifteenth of the first month and did Lady Jia of Rong-guo House is holding a family party so what lam going to do is to get on this horse and gallop there as quickly as I can and ask them for some sweeties!
This caused Grandmother Jia and the rest of the audience to burst out laughing.
Thats a sharp little fellow, said Aunt Xue.
How sweet!
And hes barely nine, said Xi-feng.
Barely nine!
said Grandmother Jia.
And being able to come out with it so pat!
She nodded in the direction of the waiting women.
Largesse!
Three of the women had already provided themselves with small shallow baskets in readiness for this order.
At the word of command they walked up to the little tables, shovelled up basketfuls of coins from the heaped-up money, and took them outside to the foot of the stage which Leopard Boy had just vacated.
Largesse from Lady Jia, Mrs Xue and Mrs Li for Leopard Boy to buy himself some sweets with, said one of the women.
The three of them then discharged the contents of their baskets upon the stage.
The money landed with a mighty clatter and at once the whole stage was covered with shining pennies.
Cousin Then had ordered his own pages to have a large flat basket of money ready for his own largesse to the players.
But you will have to wait for the next volume, gentle reader, in order to find out whether they received it.
EXPLICIT SECUNDA PARS LAPIDIS HISTORIAE
CHAPTER 54 Lady Jia ridicules the cliches of romantic fiction And Wang Xi-feng emulates the filial antics of Lao Lai-zi TO CONTINUE OUR STORY Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian had secretly instructed their pages to have a large flat-bottomed basket of largesse-money in readiness, and when they heard Grandmother Jia call out Largesse!, they told the pages to take this basket and empty it onto the stage.
The money showered down on the boards with a tremendous ringing clatter, which greatly delighted the old lady.
The two men now rose to their feet.
A page hurried forward and handed jia Lian a silver kettle of freshly-heated wine on a tray.
Taking the kettle, Jia Lian followed his cousin into the hall.
Cousin Zhen went first to Mrs Li, bowed, took her wine-cup and, turning back, handed it to Jia Lian to fill.
Then he did the same for Aunt Xue.
The two ladies stood up, meanwhile, politely demurring Please, gentlemen, go back to your seats!
You are too polite!
With the exception of the four senior ladies - Aunt Xue, Mrs Li, Lady Xing and Lady Wang - all the females present now left their seats and stood, hands at their sides, while Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian went over to the couch on which Grandmother Jia reclined.
As it was rather a low one, the two men knelt to serve her.
The other males, who had followed them into the hall and were standing a little behind them drawn up in their order of seniority, with Jia Cong at their head, seeing Cousin Zhen and jia Lian kneel, knelt down in a row behind them, whereupon Bao-yu hurriedly rose from his chair and knelt down as well.
Xiang-yun nudged him, amused.
22 What do you want to kneel down with them for?
she whispered.
If youre feeling so polite all of a sudden, it would be more to the point to get up and serve everyone your-self.
So I shall, presently, Bao-yu whispered back at her.
The two men had now finished serving Grandmother Jia and gone on to serve Lady Xing and Lady Wang.
What about the young ladies?
Cousin Zhen inquired when these last two had been attended to.
No, no, go and sit down now I Grandmother Jia and the senior ladies cried.
Spare them the formality.
At this Cousin Zhen and the other males withdrew.
It was now about ten oclock and the play being performed - the Feast of Lanterns section from The Orphans Revenge - had reached a climax of noise and excitement.
Bao-yu tried to slip out unnoticed under cover of the din, but his grand-mother had spotted him.
Where are you going?
she called.
There are a lot of fireworks about outside.
Mind a piece of burning touch-paper doesnt fall on you and set you alight!
Im not going very far, said Bao-yu.
Ill be back directly.
Grandmother Jia ordered some of the old nannies present to go after him and see that he was all right.
Observing that he had only Musk and Ripple and a couple of little junior maids in attendance, she asked what had become of Aroma.
That girl is getting above herself, she said.
Sending the younger maids to stand in for her!
- What next?
Lady Wang rose hastily in Aromas defence.
It is only a few days since her mother died.
She is still in mourning for her mother.
It wouldnt be right for her to go out in company yet.
Grandmother Jia nodded, but seemed to have second thoughts Thats all very well, but bereavement shouldnt make any difference where a master or mistress is concerned.
Suppose she had still been working for me do you think she would have stayed away then?
One doesnt want this sort of thing to become a precedent.
Xi-feng came to her aunts assistance 23 Even if she werent in mourning, she would still need to be keeping an eye on things.
Tonight, with lanterns and fire-works everywhere, there is a terrible danger of fire.
Whenever we have plays, the people from the Garden all come sneaking over here to watch.
Its just as well to have one careful person like Aroma left behind there who can go round making sure that everything is all right.
Besides, shell be able to see that everything is ready for Bao-yu so that he can go straight to bed when he gets back.
If she were here, you can be sure that no one else would bother.
He would go back to find his bedding cold, and there would be no hot water for his tea or anything else ready for him.
Im afraid I took it for granted that you would prefer her not to come but if you want her here, Grannie, I can easily go and fetch her for you.
No, no, dont fetch her, said Grandmother Jia hurriedly.
You have obviously given the matter more thought than I. Theres only one thing, though.
When did her mother die?
Why didnt I get to hear about it?
But Aroma came to tell you about it herself, said Xi-feng, smiling.
Surely you cant have forgotten already?
Grandmother Jia thought for a bit.
Yes, I do seem to remember something about it.
Im afraid my memory isnt up to much these days.
You cant remember everything the others said reassuringly.
Grandmother Jia sighed She served me all those years when she was a little girl, then she was with Yun for a while, and during these past few years shes had that holy terror who left a moment ago to put up with.
I remember thinking at the time that we owe the girl a bit of kindness - especially as shes not one of our own home-reared servants but one who came to us from outside - and meaning to ask them to give her something towards the funeral when I heard that her mother had died, but Im afraid that afterwards I forgot.
Its already been taken care of, said Xi-feng.
Lady Wang gave her forty taels for funeral expenses the other day.
Grandmother Jia nodded Ah well, thats all right then.
As a matter of fact Faithful lost her mother too, quite recently.
I couldnt let her go to the 24 funeral because her parents.
were living in the South.
Since she and Aroma are both in mourning, why dont we let her go and join Aroma?
The two of them can keep each other company.
She ordered some of the women in attendance to make a selection of the cakes and other delicacies they had been eating and take them for Faithful to eat with Aroma in Green Delights.
Youre a bit late with your suggestion, said Amber, laughing.
Faithful went over to Aromas place hours ago!
This remark concluded the discussion and the companys briefly distracted attention returned now to the business of drinking and watching the play.
After leaving the party, Bao-yu made his way straight through to the Garden.
The old women whom his grandmother had sent after him, realizing that he must be returning to his own apartment, did not accompany him inside but slipped into the tea-kitchen of the gatehouse to warm themselves at the stove and avail themselves of the opportunity for some surreptitious drinking and a hand or two of cards.
On entering his courtyard Bao-yu found Green Delights ablaze with lights but silent as the grave.
Surely they cant all have gone to bed?
said Musk.
Lets go in quietly and make them jump.
Bao-yu and the four girls tiptoed through the outer room and peeped through the apertures of the mirror-wall into the room within.
Aroma and another girl were lying facing each other on the nearer side of the kang.
At the further end two or three old women appeared to be taking a nap.
Bao-yu was just about to push open the mirror-door and enter when the sound of a sigh came from the direction of the kang and he could hear the voice of Faithful speaking You see, you can never be sure of anything in this life.
Look at you, f6r example, on your own here with a free family living outside, never sure from one year to the next where they might move to you never expected to be with your mother at the end, did you?
Yet it just so happened that 25 this year she was living near at hand and you were able to be a good daughter to her when she died.
Its true, said Aroma.
When I first came here, I didnt think Id ever see my mother again.
And do you know, when I went to tell Her Ladyship that shed passed away, she gave me forty taels for funeral expenses.
She couldnt have done more for me if Id been her own daughter.
Its certainly more than Id have dared hope for.
Bao-yu turned back and whispered to Musk and the others behind him Its Faithful in there with her.
I didnt think shed be here.
If I go inside now, shes sure to rush off in a huff - she always does nowadays when she sees me.
Wed better go away again and leave the two of them in peace.
Aroma must have been pretty miserable on her own.
Its nice that shes got Faithful with her to talk to.
He tiptoed out again and taking his stand behind a rock, began hitching up his clothes.
Musk and Ripple, who were standing behind him, suppressed a giggle Why dont you squat down to take off your underthings?
Youll get the wind on your belly, standing up like that!
The two junior maids who had been following behind Musk and Ripple, as soon as they saw the reason for the halt, hurried off to the tea-kitchen for hot water to wash his hands.
Bao-yu had finished and was just turning back to the waiting maids when two womenservants appeared, walking in his direction.
Seeing this dark figure lurking amongst the rocks, they loudly demanded who it was.
Its Bao-yu, said Ripple.
Dont shout at him like that, youll scare the daylights out of him!
Oh I am sorry, said the woman who had shouted.
What an awful thing to do - and today of all days!
How are you, young ladies?
Having a nice holiday?
You certainly deserve it, after all your work during the rest of the year.
As they came closer, Musk asked them what they were carrying.
Its some things from Her Old Ladyship for Miss Faithful and Miss Aroma, said the woman.
She suddenly thought of them, while she was watching the play.
26 Oh?
said Ripple.
I thought it was The Orphans Revenge they were watching, not The Magic Casket!
Take the lids off and lets have a look, said Bao-yu.
The two women squatted on their haunches and held out the food-boxes while Musk and Ripple took off the lids.
Bao- yu leaned over and looked into them.
Each one contained a selection of the very choicest of the various sweet and savoury confections they had been eating at the party.
He nodded approvingly before hurrying on.
Musk and Ripple threw down the lids - somewhat carelessly - and hurried after him.
Now those two women seemed very nice, said Bao-yu.
They were certainly very civil.
Think how hard they must work every day, Yet they could still say those nice things about you - none of that boasting about how busy they are and how much they do for us that you get from some of these people.
Oh, those two are all right, said Musk.
Some of them are really terrible, though.
They cant hep being stupid, said Bao-yu.
Being more intelligent than they are, you ought to feel sorry for them.
You only have to be a bit more forebearing with them and theyd give you no trouble.
While he was speaking, they were passing through the gateway of the Garden.
The old women drinking and playing cards in the tea-kitchen had been taking it in turns to get up and peep outside so as not to be taken off their guard, and seeing Bao-yu through the gate, they came hurrying out after him.
In the gallery leading to the hall where the party was he came upon the two little maids who had gone to fetch hot water.
They had been waiting there for some time, one with a basin of water, the other with a towel over her arm and a pot of hand lotion.
Ripple first tested the water with her hand.
The older you grow the more stupid you get, she said to the girl.
This water is stone cold.
Blame the weather, miss, said the girl.
I was afraid the water would cool quickly so I poured it out boiling from the kettle, but you see it makes no difference.
Just at that moment an old woman chanced to be passing by with a kettle full of freshly-boiled water.
27 Here, missus, the girl with the basin called after her, do us a favour!
Come over and pour some in this basin, will you?
This is for Her Old Ladyships tea, said the old woman.
Go and get some yourself, young lady - walking wont spoil -5947 your feet!
I dont care who its for, said Ripple, but if you wont pour that water out for her, I shall come and do it myself.
The old woman turned.
Recognizing Ripple, she hurriedly lifted the kettle up and poured some water into the basin.
Thats enough, said Ripple.
Really, a person of your age ought to have more sense!
We know its Her Old Ladyships.
Do you suppose wed have dared ask for it if we werent entitled to?
The old woman smiled apologetically My eyesights not too good.
I didnt recognize this young lady as one of yours.
When Bao-yu had finished washing, the other girl poured some of the lotion onto his palm and he rubbed it into his hands.
Ripple and Musk took advantage of the hot water to wash their own hands too, and after rubbing a little of the lotion into them, followed Bao-yu back into the hall.
Calling for a kettle of warm wine, Bao-yu now took his turn at pouring for the ladies, beginning with Mrs Li and Aunt Xue.
They protested smilingly and begged him to go back to his seat, but Grandmother Jia insisted that he should pour for them.
Hes young, she said.
Let him do it.
But let us empty our cups first for this round.
She drained her winecup as she said this.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang followed suit and the other two ladies felt constrained to imitate their example.
Pour Out for the girls too, said Grandmother Jia.
And do it properly.
See that they empty their cups first before you fill them.
Yes, Grandma, said Bao-yu, and proceeded from table to table, pouring for everyone in turn.
When he got to Dai-yu 28 he hesitated, knowing that for her this sort of drinking was an impossibility but Dai-yu held her cup up to his lips and he drained its contents for her at a gulp.
Thank you, she said, smiling gratefully.
Bao-yu refilled the winecup.
Dont go drinking cold wine, Bao-yu, Xi-feng called out to him.
Itll make your hand shake.
You wont be able to write properly or draw a straight bow.
I havent been drinking cold wine, said Bao-yu.
I know, I know, said Xi-feng gaily.
I was only joking.
When Bao-yu had finished pouring out for all the girls -all, that is, except Jia Rongs wife Hu-shi, who, being of a generation below his, had to have her drink poured out for her by a maid - he went onto the verandah outside and poured for Cousin Zhen and the men.
Having done so, he sat and chatted with them for a while before going back into the hall and resuming his seat with the ladies.
Presently soup was served and, shortly after, little First Moon dumplings of sweetened rice-flour.
Grandmother Jia expressed concern for the boy-actors outside in the cold Tell them to break off for a bit, poor little things!
Let them have some hot soup and some good hot food to eat before they go on again.
They can have some of these cakes and things, and some of these dumplings.
A few minutes later, the stage in the courtyard having by now fallen silent, two blind female ballad-singers, both of them familiar visitors to the house, were led in by the women.
A couple of high stools were placed behind them, on which Grandmother Jia invited them to be seated, and their instruments were handed to them, a pipa lute and a three-stringed samisen guitar.
Grandmother Jia asked Mrs Li and Aunt Xue what story they would like to hear.
Anything, they said.
Grandmother Jia turned to the two women Have you added anything new to your repertoire lately?
Yes, said one of the women.
Weve got a new story set in the Five Dynasties period, after the fall of Tang.
Whats it called?
Grandmother Jia asked her.
Its called The Phoenix Seeks a Mate , said the woman.
29 Well, the name sounds all right, said Grandmother Jia.
Can you give us an idea what its about, then we can decide whether we want to hear it or not?
This story took place in the time of the Five Dynasties after the decline of the Tang, said the woman.
There was in those days a certain gentleman called Wang Zhong who, after having served as Chief Minister under two successive reigns, had retired because of old age to live on his estate in the country.
Now this Wang zhong had an only son whose name was Wang Xi-feng - This set everyone laughing.
Fengs double, evidently, said Grandmother Jia.
One of the womenservants gave the blind ballad-singer a prod Dont talk such nonsense!
Thats our Mrs Lians name.
Carry on, carry on!
said Grandmother Jia.
The blind woman rose to her feet Im dreadfully sorry, Mrs Lian.
I had really no idea it was your name.
Do carry on, said Xi-feng, laughing.
Thats quite all right.
Coincidences over names are the commonest thing in the world.
The woman sat down again and continued A time came when this old Sir Wang sent his son off to the capital to sit for the examinations.
One day, while the young man was on his journey, there was a great downpour of rain and he was forced to seek shelter in a near-by grange.
Now it so happened that the owner of this grange was a former acquaintance of old Sir Wangs called Li , and this old Sir Li invited the young man to spend a few days with him at the grange, accommodating him in his own study.
Sir Li had no son of his own, but he had an only daughter called Chuluan, a very accomplished young lady who excelled in everything she turned her hand to, whether it was performing on the qin or playing Go or painting or calligraphy - I can see why its called The Phoenix Seeks a Mate , said Grandmother Jia.
You dont need to tell me what the storys about, I can guess already.
Feng means phoenix and Chu-luan means little hen phoenix.
Obviously its the 30 story of how Wang Xi-feng seeks to make this Li Chu-luan his wife.
I believe Your Old Ladyship has heard this story before, said the blind woman, smiling.
Her Old Ladyship has heard everything, someone told her.
And what she hasnt heard she can guess.
These stories are all the same, said Grandmother Jia, so tedious!
Always the same ideally eligible young bachelors and the same ideally beautiful and accomplished young ladies -at least, they are supposed to be ideal, but theres certainly nothing ideal about their behaviour - in fact theres nothing very ladylike about them at all.
Invariably, we are told how well-born they are.
Their father has been a Prime Minister, or a First Secretary at the very least.
They are always their fathers only child and the apple of his eye.
They are always amazingly well-educated, a model of decorum, a regular paragon of all the virtues - that is, until the first presentable young man comes along.
As soon as he appears on the scene -it doesnt matter who or what he is - all their book-learning and the duty they owe their parents fly out of the window and the next moment they are making their plans for the future and generally carrying on in a way that would bring blushes to the cheek of a cat-burglar - certainly not in the least like respectable, educated young ladies.
You would hardly call a young woman who conducted herself like that a paragon, however many books she might have read - any more than you would acquit a young fellow charged with highway robbery on the grounds that he was a good scholar.
The people who make up these stories give themselves the lie every time they open their mouths.
And for another thing if these young women really belonged to cultivated, aristocratic households in which the girls and their mothers were all educated people, then even allowing for the somewhat reduced circumstances owing to their fathers early retirement, you can be sure there would still be plenty of nannies and maids in attendance on them.
So how is it that in all of these stories there is only ever a single confidante who knows what her young mistress is getting up to?
What are all the other servants supposed to be 31 -5947 doing all this time?
Of course, this is only another example of the way in which these stories contradict themselves.
There was some laughter from the assembled company and someone complimented Grandmother Jia on her perceptiveness in exposing the underlying falseness of these stories.
Theres always a reason for it, the old lady went on.
In some cases its because the writer is envious of people so much better off than himself, or disappointed because he has tried to obtain their patronage and failed, and deliberately portrays them in this unfavourable light as a means of getting his own back on them.
In other cases the writers have been corrupted by reading this sort of stuff before they begin to write any themselves, and, though totally ignorant of what life in educated, aristocratic families is really like, portray their heroines in this way simply because everyone else does so and they think it will please their readers.
I ask you now, never mind very grand families like the ones they pretend to be writing about, even in average well-to-do families like ours when do you ever hear of such carryings-on?
Its a wonder their jaws dont drop off, telling such dreadful lies!
For my part, I have never allowed these sort of stories to be told.
Even the maids here dont know about such matters.
Its true that during the past year or two, since Ive been getting older, and particularly now that the young people are most of the time safely out of the way in the Garden, I do once in a while listen to a snatch or two of one of these stories, when I feel in need of cheering up a bit but as soon as the children arrive, I make the person telling it stop.
Mesdames Li and Xue were thoroughly in agreement That is the general rule in all the best peoples houses.
Even in our households the children arent allowed to listen to such stories.
Xi-feng walked over to pour the old lady a drink Come on, Grannie, thats enough!
Your wine will be getting cold.
Drink this first to wet your whistle.
You can go on with your lecture afterwards.
She turned to the rest of the company The story youve just been listening to is called Falsehood Exposed, or The Tale of a Grandmother.
It is a story which took 32 place under the reigning dynasty, on this very day of this very month of this very year on this very spot and at this very hour.
How can Grannie with one mouth tell a double tale?
Ah, how indeed!
Our tale puts forth two tails.
Which tail to wag?
Wig-wag.
But for the time being we do not inquire which tale is false, which true.
Our story turns rather to those people in the party who were admiring the lanterns and watching the play... Just give these two kinsfolk a chance to drink a cup of wine and watch a scene or two more of the play, Grannie, and then you can get on with your Exposure of Falsehood - dynasty by dynasty.
She continued unconcernedly pouring wine while her audience convulsed themselves.
Even the blind ballad-singers were in stitches.
Youve got the gift, Mrs Lian, they said.
Its what we call a hard mouth.
If you were to take up story-telling as a profession, we should be out of business!
Dont let them encourage you, said Aunt Xue to Xi-feng, laughing.
You must behave yourself.
There are people outside listening.
This isnt like every day, you know.
Its only Cousin Zhen outside there, said Xi-feng.
He and I used to get up to all sorts of mischief together in our younger days.
Its only during the last few years since Ive grown up and married Lian that Ive had to start being a bit more strait-laced with him.
But even though we have to treat each other like solemn in-laws nowadays, Im sure he doesnt mind me fooling about like this.
Think of Lao Lai-zi in the Twenty-Four Patterns of Filial Piety, dressing up in childrens clothes at the age of seventy and playing at dicky-bird in front of his aged parents to keep them amused.
If Cousin Zhen and the other menfolk wont come in here and play dicky-bird themselves, the fact that Im taking so much trouble to make Grannie laugh and get her to eat a bit should make them feel pleased and grateful, not critical of my behaviour.
Its true, I havent had a really good laugh for days, said Grandmother Jia.
She has made me laugh so much, I really do feel better for it.
I think Ill have another drop of wine.
33 She took a sip from her cup and then turned to address -5947 Bao-yu Pour a cup for your Cousin Feng.
No need, said Xi-feng.
Let me share your good health.
She took the cup that Grandmother Jia had just been drinking from and tossed back what remained of the wine in it, then, handing the cup to a maid to take away, she replaced it with a clean one that had been previously warmed in hot water.
She then proceeded to do the same for everyone else, removing their dirty cups and replacing them with clean, warmed ones.
After that she poured out a fresh supply of wine for everyone before returning to her seat.
If Your Old Ladyship doesnt want to hear a story, said the blind woman who had spoken before, perhaps youd like us to do a song for you.
Give us O Captain, Captain, said Grandmother Jia.
The two women at once began tuning their instruments and presently struck up a lively tune, the words of which were divided alternately between them.
Grandmother Jia inquired what the time was.
Midnight, said one of the senior womenservants.
No wonder its getting so cold, said Grandmother Jia.
It really is bitter.
Maids were already arriving with more clothes, which they helped their mistresses to change into or put on over what they were already wearing.
Lady Wang rose, smiling, to her feet Why dont you go into the room at the back, Mother, where the heated kang is?
Mrs Li and my sister are not outsiders Im sure they wont mind.
And the rest of us will take care of them for you.
Why dont we all go inside?
said Grandmother Jia.
That will be much cosier.
I doubt theres room for us all, said Lady Wang.
Ill tell you what, said Grandmother Jia.
We dont need all these tables now.
Why dont we have just two or three of them taken inside?
We can have them put together to make one big table, then we can all squeeze up round it and keep each other warm.
That will be much jollier!
54 Everyone agreed that this was a good idea and got up from their places in preparation for the move.
The tables were cleared, the three largest ones were carried into the inner room and put together, and the dessert, with various additions and replacements, was relaid on them inside.
Now, said Grandmother Jia when everybody was inside, you must forget about seniority now and sit down where I put you.
She made Mrs Li and Mrs Xue sit at one end, facing south, and placed herself close to them on the east side, with Xiangyun squeezed in on one side of her and Dai-yu and Bao-qin on the other.
You must sit next to your mother, she told Bao-yu.
So Lady Xing and Lady Wang came next on the east side with Bao-yu sandwiched between them.
She put Bao-chai on the west side at the end nearest to Mrs Li, then came the Three Springs, then Lou-shi with her little boy Jia Jun, then Li Wan and You-shi with little Jia Lan squeezed in between them, and finally Xi-feng.
Jia Rongs wife, Hu-shi, sat on her own at the north end, round the corner from Xi-feng.
When they were all seated, Grandmother Jia called to Cousin Zhen and the menfolk to leave, saying that she herself would shortly be going off to bed.
Hearing her call, Cousin Zhen came hurrying inside, bringing the others with him.
Go away, go away!
said Grandmother Jia.
Dont come in here!
Theyve only just sat down, they dont want to have to all get up again.
Off to bed with you!
Youve got important things to do in the morning.
Very good, said Cousin Zhen.
Ill leave Rong behind then, to pour the drinks for you.
Ah yes, said Grandmother Jia.
Id forgotten him.
Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian withdrew.
Pleased to be so soon released, they arranged for Jia Cong and Jia Huan to be escorted back to their own apartments and went off, as they had planned to do if possible, to spend the rest of the night together on the town.
But that is no part of our story.
I was just thinking, said Grandmother Jia when they had gone, all these people enjoying themselves here tonight 35 -5947 all we lacked was a young married couple to make it seem like a proper reunion.
I was forgetting about Rong.
Sit next to your wife, Rong.
Lets see you both together.
Just then some of the women came in bringing a playbill with them.
The players were preparing to resume.
Oh, just as we were beginning to enjoy a little conversation, said Grandmother Jia.
Now we shant be able to hear ourselves speak.
And those poor children must be getting dreadfully cold after so many hours in the open.
Why dont we give them a rest?
Call our own troupe over and let t hem do something on this stage.
The other ones can stay here and watch them.
With answering cries the women went out to make the necessary arrangements.
Messengers were sent, some into Prospect Garden to summon the young actresses, others to the inner gate to requisition some pages.
When the pages presented themselves at the green -room door they were told to take away all the grown-up members of the visiting troupe and entertain them elsewhere so that only the boy-actors should be present when the little actresses arrived.
These last were to be observed shortly afterwards, issuing from the gallery at the corner entrance to the courtyard, preceded by their chief singing instructor and accompanied by a number of women carrying bundles.
There had not been time to bring the wardrobe-boxes, so they had had to make a guess at the three or four plays that Grandmother Jia was likeliest to want to hear and hurriedly bundle together the costumes that would be needed for their performance.
Led by the women who had summoned them, Elegante and the rest entered the heated back room of the hall, made their curtsies to Grandmother Jia and the rest of the company, and then stood, arms held stiffly at their sides, awaiting instructions.
Grandmother Jia smiled at them benevolently Doesnt your teacher give you a holiday even for First Moon?
Dear, dear, dear!
- Well now, what are you going to sing for us?
Weve just been listening to The Orphans Revenge which was so noisy that its given us all headaches.
Wed like to hear something a bit quieter now.
I ought to tell you that 36 we have a very discriminating audience here tonight.
Theres Mrs Xue and Mrs Li here who both come from families which used to keep their own troupes of players and who have heard heaven knows how many good performances between them there are some young ladies here who know much more than our own girls about plays and music and the troupe you saw just now outside, though they are only children, belong to a famous conn9isseur and are better than many commercial companies of grown-up players.
So if we dont want to disgrace ourselves, we shall have to be on our best.
Now lets see.
Lets try to think of something a bit different to show them.
Suppose we get Parfumee to sing The Dream Recalled from The Return of the Soul with just a fiddle to accompany her - leaving out all the woodwind.
How would that be for a start?
Just the thing, Your Old Ladyship, said Elegante drily.
Were certainly not good enough for Mrs Xue and Mrs Li to want to see us in full performance.
They just want an idea of what our diction and voice-production are like.
Quite so, said Grandmother Jia.
The two ladies referred to were much diverted by Elegantes reply.
I believe you and Her Old Ladyship are pulling our legs, they told her.
Not at all, said Grandmother Jia.
These girls are trained only for our own private amusement, not as an investment.
We dont hire them out , like some people.
So they really arent up to commercial standards.
She turned to Althee, the performer of painted face parts You can do Hui-ming Takes the Letter from The Western Chamber.
Dont bother to make up for it, though.
I think those two scenes should be enough to give our guests some idea of what you can do.
Put all youve got into it, now, or I shall have something to say to you!
The little actresses went out.
Those who were to play had soon got into their costumes and the performance began -5947 first The Dream Recalled and then Taking the Letter.
The audience listened throughout with rapt attention.
When the performance had ended, Aunt Xue observed that, though she had seen hundreds of different companies in her time, she had 37 never before heard a performance in which the woodwind in the orchestra was silent.
Oh yes, said Grandmother Jia.
Take that Chu River aria the heroine sings in The House in Ping-kang Lane that we were listening to earlier in the evening.
Quite often you can see productions which leave out the woodwind parts in the orchestral accompaniment.
Instead they have the male lead playing a flute accompaniment on the stage.
I agree, a whole sequence with only string accompaniment is unusual, but theres nothing very special about it.
It depends entirely on the individual preference of the person who owns the troupe.
She pointed to Xiang-yun When I was this childs age her grandfather had a troupe of young actresses one of whom was a very good qin -player.
She took a number of qin -playing scenes like the famous one from The Western Chamber and the scene in which Miao-chang plays the qin in The Jade Hairpin and the Eighteen Stanzas for the Barbarian Pipe from the modern sequel to The Story of the Lute, and arranged them in a single sequence with qin accompaniment.
That was rather impressive.
More what-shall-I-say than the things we have just been listening to., Yes, the others agreed, that does sound most unusual.
Grandmother Jia called the women over and told them that she would now like Elegante and the others to perform an instrumental piece called Lantern Festival Moon.
The women went out again to transmit her order.
Meanwhile Jia Rong and his wife went round replenishing the winecups.
Xi-feng observed that Grandmother Jia was in very good spirits.
While the ballad-singers are still here, she said, why dont we get them to play Spring Joy on Every Brow for us and we can have a game of Pass the Plum?
Oh yes, thats a good game, said Grandmother Jia.
Just right for this time of year, too.
Orders were given for a pair of drums to be fetched - special drinkers drums whose black lacquered sides were studded with patterns of brass nails - and handed to the blind women.
Someone produced a flowering spray of red plum for the game.
Now, said Grandmother Jia, whoevers hand the branch 38 is in when the drumming stops must first drink a cup of wine and then they have to say something but what shall it be?
You can turn your hand to anything, Grannie, said Xi-feng, but for those of us who arent so clever it wont be much fun if its something that were no good at.
I think it should be something that all of us can enjoy.
Why not say that whoever the branch stops with must tell a joke?
Everyone present knew that Xi-feng was a wonderful raconteuse with a seemingly inexhaustible stock of new and funny stories.
The servants standing below in attendance seemed quite as much delighted by this proposal as the members of the family sitting around the table on the kang, and several little maids went racing off to inform sisters or cousins outside Quick, come inside!
Mrs Lian is going to tell a joke.
In no time at all the room was packed with maids.
The actresses had by now finished playing.
Grandmother Jia, after first seeing to it that they were given some soup and a selection of the delicacies available, gave orders for the drumming to begin.
The blind women were practised performers in this game and deliberately varied the speed of the beat.
Sometimes it would be as slow as the last drips of a water-clock, sometimes as fast as the rattle of dried beans poured from a bag, sometimes it would go galloping along like a runaway horse, sometimes it became a soft whisper interspersed with sudden bursts of sound to make you jump, like flashes of lightning in the darkness.
When the beat was slow, the branch passed slowly from hand to hand when it was hurried, the passing too grew faster.
Then suddenly it stopped altogether while Grandmother Jia was holding it.
This, in itself, was enough to make everyone laugh.
Jia Rong quickly came round and filled up the old ladys winecup.
Naturally Grandma is the lucky first, the others said.
You must let us share your luck, Grandma!
The wine is no problem, said Grandmother Jia.
Its the joke thats worrying me.
Come now, your jokes are better even than Fengs, Grandma, they said.
Do tell us one.
Make us all laugh.
39 I dont know any good new ones, said Grandmother Jia.
Ill just have to put a bold face on it and do the best I can.
She began her story.
In a certain family there were ten sons, all of whom were married, but of the girls they married only one, the youngest, was intelligent and nimble-witted and a good talker.
The old couple doted on this clever daughter-in4aw and day in day out found fault with the other nine.
The other nine naturally resented this and took counsel together what they should do about it.
At heart we are every bit as dutiful as she is, they said, but because the little wretch is so glib, father-in-law and mother-in-law only care for her.
Isnt there anything we can do about this injustice?
Then one of the nine had an idea Why dont we go to the temple of Yama, the King of the Underworld, and ask him why, when our souls first went into human bodies, he gave that little horror a clever tongue and made all the rest of us so stupid?
The others were delighted with this suggestion, and so next day they all went trooping off to the temple of King Yama and, after offering up incense, lay down on the steps of the altar and went to sleep.
When they were asleep, the souls of the nine sisters-in-law waited and waited and waited, but King Yama didnt come.
Presently, just as they were growing desperate, Monkey came bowling along on his cloud-trapeze, and seeing the nine souls there, lifted up his metal-clasped cudgel to strike them with.
The souls knelt down in terror and begged him to spare them.
Monkey asked them what they were doing there, so they told him their story.
When they had finished, Monkey stamped his foot and sighed sympathetically.
What a good job you met me here and not old Yama, he said.
He wouldnt have been able to help you at all.
The nine souls implored him to tell them what they should do.
Do but have compassion on us, Great Sage, they said, and our troubles will be over.
Its quite simple, said Monkey with a laugh.
The day 40 that the ten of you were due to enter your human bodies, I happened to have been around at old Yamas place and done a little piddle on the floor, and just before she was born, that little sister-in-law of yours drank it all up.
Thats what gave her such a clever tongue.
If clever tongues are all you want, I can do as much piddle for you as you like.
The story ended amidst laughter.
Its a good job all of us are such stupid, tongue-tied creatures, said Xi-feng.
I should hate to think that any of us had drunk monkeys piddle!
You-shi and Lou-shi turned towards Li Wan, laughing I wonder who she thinks shes fooling.
Its very clear which of us in this room is the one who drank monkeys piddle!
A joke is always the better for being apt, Aunt Xue observed.
While she was speaking, the drumming began again.
The maids, who wanted only to hear Wang Xi-feng tell a joke, had come to a secret understanding with the blind women that if one of them coughed it would be a signal to stop, and when the branch had been round twice and had just reached Xi-feng for the second time, the maids all coughed and the drumming stopped.
There was a shout of laughter from all present.
Ha!
they said.
Now weve got you!
Hurry up with your wine and tell us a good one - only dont make us laugh so much that we get stomach-ache!
Xi-feng thought for a few moments and then started A family was celebrating the First Moon festival, just as we are doing, admiring the lanterns and drinking wine together.
It was a very lively party and everyone in the family was there the grandmother, the great-grandmother, the daughters-in-law, the granddaughters-in-law, the greatgranddaughters-in-law, the grandsons, the great-nephews, the great-grandsons, the great-great-grandsons, the great-little-medium-grandsons, the granddaughters, the great-nieces, the first cousins once removed, the first cousins twice removed, the second cousins two-and-a-half times removed - oh, goodness gracious me, it was a really lively party!
- 41 Her audience were already laughing.
Shes a caution!
they said.
I wonder which of us shes got it in for this time.
Dont you bring me into it, said You-shi, laughing Ill tear your mouth for you!
Xi-feng stood up and struck her hands together in mock despair Here am I going to all this trouble to entertain you and all you do is keep interrupting.
All right then, I wont go on.
Go on, go on!
Take no notice of them!
said Grandmother Jia.
What happened then?
What happened then?
said Xi-feng.
Oh, there they all sat, and after drinking together all night long, they went to bed.
She said this straight-faced and in a very matter-of-fact tone of voice.
Her audience waited open-mouthed for her to continue, but nothing was forthcoming, and at last they realized, with a chill of disappointment, that that was all they were going to hear.
After a long, old-fashioned look from Shi Xiang-yun she relented, however.
All right, let me tell you another story about people celebrating the First Moon festival.
Some men were taking an enormous rocket outside the city and a crowd of thousands had collected behind them to see them let it off.
While they were still on their way, some impatient character who couldnt bear to wait any longer put a lighted incense-stick to the touch-paper and lit the fuse.
There was a great WHOOSH!
and the rocket went off.
Everyone burst out laughing and went off home - all except the man who had been underneath, carrying the rocket on his back.
He just stood there all on his own, complaining what a rotten job the firework-maker had made of the rocket.
Hed put it together so badly, he said, that all the gunpowder had trickled away before theyd had a chance to let it off.
But surely hed have heard it go off?
said Xiang-yun.
He was stone deaf, said Xi-feng.
There was a burst of laughter from her audience.
But they were still worried about her earlier story.
What about the other one you were telling?
What did happen then?
You really ought to finish it, you know.
42 Oh how you do pester one!
said Xi-feng, thumping the table in pretended annoyance.
Next day was the sixteenth the party was over the festival had ended.
If you ask me, I think they were too busy clearing up and putting things away to know what had happened then.
This brought another burst of laughter.
Thats two oclock sounding outside, said Xi-feng.
Im sure Grannie must be tired.
If you ask me, I think we all ought to be like the deaf mans firework and trickle away You-shi, who in the vehemence of her mirth was rocking back and forth with a handkerchief stuffed in her mouth, stopped for a moment to point a minatory finger at Xi-feng She really is a caution, this one!
Shes a caution all right, and no mistake!
said Grandmother Jia.
By the way, talking of fireworks, why dont we let ours off now?
They will help us to overcome the effects of all that wine.
At once Jia Rong jumped up and hurried out.
Under his supervision a team of pages set up a number of framework stands in the courtyard on which fireworks were then fastened or hung.
Though none of them particularly large ones, they were all imported tribute fireworks of the very highest quality.
There were fireworks of all sorts, including a number of bangers.
Dai-yu, being of a nervous disposition, was terrified of pops and bangs.
Knowing this, Grandmother Jia hugged her to her bosom to comfort her.
Aunt Xue offered the same protection to Xiang-yun, but Xiang-yun laughed and said that she didnt mind the fireworks.
Theres nothing she likes better than letting them off herself, said Bao-chai.
Shes not afraid of fireworks!
Lady Wang hugged Bao-yu.
What about me?
said Xi-feng.
Doesnt anyone love me?
Ill hold you, said You-shi, laughing, though why you should act the shrinking young thing now I cant imagine.
Normally when you hear fireworks you get so excited Id sooner eat a bees turd than stand by and watch you!
Wait until this is over, said Xi-feng.
Well go out in the courtyard and let some off ourselves.
Im sure I can do it better than these boys.
43 While they were speaking, a succession of different sorts of fireworks were going off outside golden rain, nine dragon rockets, thunderflashes, cloud-hoppers, and many other sorts.
When the display was over, the boy-actors were asked to go up on the stage again and play the Beggars Song, and everyone amused themselves by throwing money onto the stage and watching them scramble for it.
As hot soup was once more being served, Grandmother Jia remarked that after being up for so many hours she was beginning to feel rather empty.
We have some duck and rice stew ready, Xi-feng told her.
I think Id like something a bit lighter than that, said Grandmother Jia.
Weve got a rice and date frumenty that was made for the ladies who dont eat meat, said Xi-feng.
That will do, said Grandmother Jia.
The used things were removed now from the table and another set of dishes containing all sorts of tempting entremets laid out in their place.
When everyone had sampled what they fancied, they rinsed their mouths out with tea supplied for that purpose and the party finally broke up.
Early on the morning of the seventeenth the family paid a formal visit to the Ning-guo mansion to attend the ceremonial closing of the Hall of Ancestors and the taking down and putting away of the ancestral portraits.
Later in that day, when they were back at Rong-guo House, they attended a New Year reception by Aunt Xue.
There was no question of another Visitation that year.
A Dowager Consort, who had been the late Emperors favourite concubine, had fallen seriously ill and the filial feelings of the reigning Emperor had prompted him to curtail all seasonal festivities at the Palace.
So from Yuan-chun that year there was not so much as a lantern riddle.
There was, however, during the days which followed, a succession of parties or receptions given by the senior domestics of the household, to which the family were, of course, invited Lai Das on the eighteenth, Lai Shengs at the 44 Ning-guo mansion on the nineteenth, Lin Zhi-xiaos on the twentieth, Widow Shans on the twenty-first and Wu Xindengs on the twenty-second.
Grandmother Jia attended these or not as the fancy took her, sometimes coming at the beginning and staying until all the other guests had gone, sometimes only putting in a brief appearance long after her arrival had been despaired of.
But she refused absolutely to turn up when friends or relations were visiting, or to attend the receptions to which they invited her, leaving Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Xi-feng to stand in for her on these occasions.
Bao-yu, too - apart from a single duty visit to his uncle Wang Zi-tengs house - managed to avoid all social gatherings by saying that his grandmother needed him at home to keep her amused.
Then suddenly, when all the festivities were over, an event occurred which filled the whole household with dismay.
Xi-feng had a miscarriage.
For further information on this subject you must turn to the following chapter.
CHAPTER 55 A foolish concubine seeks to humiliate her own daughter And an ill-natured stewardess tries to outwit Her young mistress As we were saying, the First Month festivities in the Rongguo mansion were scarcely over when Xi-feng had a miscarriage.
Confined for a month to her room by doctors orders and with two or three physicians in daily attendance on her, she was unable to keep up her usual management of the households affairs yet so confident was she of her powers of recovery that she continued, in spite of remonstrances, to plan things from her sick-room, despatching Patience with messages to Lady Wang whenever she thought of something that needed doing.
Lady Wang for her part was like a woman who has lost a limb.
Never at the best of times an energetic person, she attended to only the most important matters herself and left most of the routine business to Li Wan.
Unfortunately Li Wan, though a model young woman in some respects, was not a good manager and allowed the servants to do more or less as they liked.
Soon Lady Wang was obliged to call in Tan-chun as a reinforcement.
It would only be for a month, she told them.
If they could bold out for a month, Xi-feng would by then be better and would be able to take over once more.
But Xi-feng was not as robust as she supposed.
Like many young people she had not been taking proper care of herself, and the excessive demands she had for some time past been making on her nervous energies had seriously weakened a constitution that was already far from strong.
The miscarriage was in fact only a symptom of her bodys exhaustion.
A month later it was followed by the beginning of a chronic small discharge of blood from the womb.
Although she was unwilling to tell anyone about it, it was apparent to everyone from her 46 gaunt and yellow look that something must be seriously the matter with her.
Lady Wang insisted that she should make a more serious effort to get better she must follow the treatment prescribed for her above all she must stop worrying about the household.
Xi-feng was herself beginning to be afraid that the trouble might develop into a major illness which would leave her at the mercy of her enemies and was now willing to take time off to recuperate.
But in spite of her impatience to get better, the weakness was not to be cured in a day, and it was not until well into the autumn of that year, after months of slow convalescence, that her body recovered its strength and the discharge of blood finally dried up.
But we anticipate.
Let us return to the time about a month after the miscarriage when Lady Wang was beginning to realize that her niece was far from better and could not be expected to relieve Li Wan and Tan-chun of their duties.
Lady Wang was worried about the Garden.
There were far too many people in it she feared that they were receiving insufficient supervision.
Calling Bao-chai to her, she entrusted her with their surveillance.
Those older women are no good, she told her.
They drink and play cards whenever they have a moment to spare.
They sleep in the daytime and play cards at night, I know they do.
When Feng was up and about, there was someone they were afraid of but now that she is out of the way, I expect they do just as they please.
Now my dear, I know you are a dependable person.
Your cousins are too young for these matters and I am too busy.
Will you please, for my sake, keep your eye on things for the next week or two?
If you come across anything I have missed, point it out to me.
I dont want Lady Jia asking me about things and finding that I dont know the answer.
If you see any of the servants misbehaving, let me know.
And report them if they are disobedient.
Dont wait for things to get out of hand before speaking up about them.
Bao-chai, whatever she thought of this request, could not very well refuse it.
Spring was now at its height.
Dai-yus seasonal cough had returned, and in All-spice Court Shi Xiang-yun lay ill in bed 47 with some epidemic sickness that required constant medical attention.
Li Wan and Tan-chun, though neighbours, were too far apart for their present circumstances, since servants had to keep going from one place to the other looking for them, so it was decided that for purposes of household management they should meet at six oclock each morning in a little three4rame reception room on the south side of the Garden gate.
They would eat their lunch there and would be available for seeing people on household business there up to the end of the morning.
This reception room had originally been intended as a place for the senior eunuchs to sit at the time of the Visitation.
After the Visitation was over there was no further use for it -in the daytime, at any rate at night it provided a convenient meeting-place for the women who made up the watch.
Now that the weather was getting warmer, it did not need a great deal doing to it - beyond moving in one or two pieces of furniture - to turn it into a comfortable office for the young managers.
It had a board over the doorway bearing the inscription SUPPORT BENEVOLENCE PROMOTE VIRTUE but the servants always referred to it simply as the jobs room.
Thither, then, at six oclock each morning the two sisters-in-law repaired and sat there until noon while a stream of stewardesses and serving women trooped in and out reporting on their duties and asking for their instructions.
To begin with, when the servants heard that Li Wan would be managing the household on her own, all of them were secretly pleased.
She was known to be a kind, easy-going sort of person who disliked giving punishments, and with her in command they felt sure that it would be much easier than usual to get away with things.
Even the addition of Tan-chun did not materially alter these expectations.
Tan-chun was young and unmarried and, so far as one could judge, a quiet and docile girl.
They foresaw no trouble from that quarter and were, as a consequence, inclined to take liberties in her presence that they would not have dared to do with Xi-feng.
48 Within only a few days of her arrival, however, they had begun to sense, from the way in which she handled one or two of the matters that were brought to her attention, that though quieter-spoken than Xi-feng and of a much more equable disposition, she yielded nothing to her in thoroughness.
By coincidence it happened that about this time a dozen or more important events - promotions, demotions, marriages, deaths and the like - occurred in rapid succession among the group of aristocratic and official families connected by matrimonial or other ties with the Ning-guo and Rong-guo Jias, and for days on end Lady Wangs time was taken up with visits of condolence or felicitation.
Some responsible person was needed to stand in for her while she was away so while Li Wan and Tan-chun spent all their mornings in the office, Bao-chai spent hers in Lady Wangs apartment, only leaving it when her aunt got home from her visiting.
At night the three young guardians spent whatever time could be spared from their sewing patrolling the Garden in sedans, escorted by the old women of the watch.
Working together in this way they soon came to feel that they had evolved a system of supervision more careful even than Xi-fengs - a view amply borne out by the grumbles of the domestics themselves No sooner is the Terror of the Seas put out of action than along come these three Scourges of the Mountains to take her place.
Nowadays you cant even take time off for a quiet drink of a night or a little game of cards!
A day came when Lady Wang was due to attend a luncheon at the Marquis of Jin-xiangs.
Li Wan and Tan-chun, after an early toilet, had attended her to the gate and seen her off.
They had just got back to their office and were enjoying a morning cup of tea when Wu Xin-dengs wife came in to report Mrs Zhaos brother, Zhao Guo-ji, died yesterday.
I told Her Ladyship and she said I was to report it to you.
Having delivered this brief communiqu, she stood in silence, her arms held stiffly at her sides, waiting for a reply.
A number of stewardesses who were waiting their turn to report, pricked up their ears at this mention of Tan-chuns natural mother and waited with interest to see what the two young deputies would decide.
If their decision was a good one, 49 they would in future treat them with respect but if it was one in which there was the slightest possibility of picking holes, not only would they not respect them, but afterwards, when they got back outside, they would have many a good laugh at their expense.
The behaviour of Wu Xin-dengs wife on this occasion was quite deliberate.
If it had been Xi-feng that she was reporting to, she would have demonstrated her efficiency by making one or two helpful suggestions, having armed herself beforehand with some precedents for Xi-feng to choose from but as it was only Li Wan and Tan-chun, one of whom she despised for her softness and the other for her youth, she merely stated her business and left them to flounder unaided.
Tan-chun turned questioningly to Li Wan.
When Aromas mother died recently, didnt they give her forty taels?
said Li Wan after thinking for a bit.
I suppose wed better give her forty taels.
Yes maam, said Wu Xin-dengs wife, and taking up a tally, went hurrying off to collect the money.
Just a minute!
Tan-chun called out after her.
Wu xinLdengs wife returned - a trifle reluctantly it could be observed.
Dont collect that money yet, said Tan-chun.
Theres something I want to ask you.
Of the old women in Lady Jias apartment who used to be chamber-wives when my grandfather was alive, some must have been home-reared and some must have been bought outside.
Theres a different scale for the two kinds, isnt there?
How much do the home-reared ones get when someone in their family dies and how much do the ones from outside get?
Give us one or two examples so that we have something to go on.
Not having prepared herself for such a question, Wu Xindengs wife was unable to answer it.
She covered up for herself, all smiles Its not a very important matter.
Just give what you think.
No ones going to question your decision.
Tan-chun smiled back Now you are talking nonsense.
Suppose I said, Give her a hundred taels?
No, we have to give what is right other- 50 wise, quite apart from the fact that you will all laugh at us, how am I going to face Mrs Lian when I next see her?
Very good then, Ill go and look up the old accounts, said Wu Xin-dengs wife.
I cant at the moment remember.
Youve been working here all these years and you cant remember?
said Tan-chun.
I think you are trying to make things difficult for us.
I cant believe that you have to go off and look things up when Mrs Lian asks you a question.
If you do, all I can say is that she is not such a strict mistress as she is supposed to be in fact, I should say that she was a rather indulgent one.
All right, hurry up and fetch the accounts then!
If this matter is delayed, it isnt your negligence that will be blamed but our incompetence.
Blushing to the roots of her hair, Wu Xin-dengs wife hurried off to do as she was bidden.
The other women gasped and stuck their tongues out in surprise.
Reporting on other matters continued in her absence.
After a little while she returned with the account-books.
On examination Tan-chun found two instances of home-reared concubines receiving twenty taels and two of outsiders receiving forty taels.
She also found an instance of an outsider receiving a hundred taels and one of an outsider receiving sixty but in each case a note explaining special circumstances had been made against the entry in the first case the body of a parent had had to be conveyed in its coffin for interment in another province and the extra sixty taels was to cover the cost of transport in the second case the extra twenty taels was for the purchase of a plot of ground for burial.
Tan-chun handed Li Wan the relevant account to look at, while at the same time informing Wu Xin-dengs wife of her decision Give her twenty taels.
And leave these accounts with us, so that we can have a good look at them.
Wu Xin-dengs wife went off once more.
The next thing that happened was that Aunt Zhao came stalking in.
Li Wan and Tan-chun invited her to be seated, but Aunt Zhao was in no mood for polite preliminaries.
Everyone in this family tramples on me, she said, addressing herself to Tan-chun.
Dont you think that you at least might stick up for me?
51 She began crying messily, the abundant moisture seeming to come as much from her nostrils as from her eyes.
Who are you complaining about?
said Tan-chun.
I really dont understand you.
Whos been trampling on you?
If you would tell me, perhaps I might be able to stick up for you.
You have, for a start, said Aunt Zhao.
That doesnt leave me anyone to turn to, does it?
Tan-chun leaped to her feet I shouldnt dream of trampling on you.
Li Wan, too, stood up and made some soothing remark or other.
But Aunt Zhao was not to be placated Sit down both of you, and listen to me.
Ive given the best years of my life to this family - years and years and years.
Ive borne two children for them, you and your brother.
And now, after all that, Im not even to be treated as well as Aroma.
What sort of face does that leave me with?
What sort of face does it leave you with - never mind me?
Tan-chun laughed mirthlessly Oh thats what this is about!
The simple answer to that is that I have to follow the rules.
She sat down again, opened up the account-book and, holding it out for Aunt Zhao to see, read the relevant entries out to her.
These regulations were laid down by the ancestors for everyone to follow.
I cant suddenly go altering them.
It isnt just Aroma.
It will be exactly the same if one day Huan has a chamber-wife from outside.
If someone in her family dies, then, as an outsider, she will get exactly the same amount as Aroma did.
It has nothing to do with who is more important than whom.
It isnt a matter of prestige at all.
Zhao Guo-ji was Lady Wangs bondservant.
That means that he belongs to the home-reared class.
The rules lay down a certain scale of payments for that class.
All I have done is to follow the rules.
I am sure that Zhao Guo-ji must approve and be grateful to the ancestors and Lady Wang for their generosity.
If he doesnt - if he thinks he is being unfairly treated - then all I can say is that he is stupid and ungrateful and one cant really care very much what he thinks.
As regards face, it makes no difference to me whether Lady Wang gives him everything 52 shes got or nothing at all.
And I really do think that while she is away you might try to compose yourself a bit and not go working yourself up into such a state.
Although Lady Wang is so good to me, I am constantly worried that you will spoil everything with your perpetual trouble-making.
If Id been a boy I should have left home long ago and done something to show myself worthy of her kindness but as I am a girl, I have to stay at home and never say a word out of turn.
I believe she realizes this, and because she thinks highly of me she has entrusted me with this managing job as a means of proving myself.
But before I have had a chance to do anything, you have to come along and start making things difficult for me.
If Lady Wang gets to hear of it, she will probably conclude that the job is too hard for me and take it away again.
That would be a real loss of face - for you as well as for me.
Tan-chuns shoulders began to shake as she said this and she ended up by bursting into tears.
Aunt Zhao did not really have an answer to what Tan-chun had said, so she tried another tack.
If Lady Wang is so fond of you, you ought to use your position to give us a helping hand.
The fact is, though, you are so anxious to keep in her good books that you forget about us altogether.
Of course I dont forget about you, said Tan-chun.
But what do you mean by giving you a helping hand?
A good mistress will always be favourable to those who try hard and make themselves useful, and a good servant doesnt need any helping hand in order to keep in her favour.
Li Wan hovered between them, still trying to act the peace maker Please dont be angry, Mrs Zhao.
You mustnt blame Tanchun.
Im sure shes most anxious to give you all the help she can but you could hardly expect her to say so.
Dont talk such stuff, Wan!
said Tan-chun impatiently.
Help whom, for goodness sake?
Whoever heard of the young mistress in a family helping the servants?
Their private interests are no concern of mine, as you perfectly well know.
Were not talking about servants, were talking about 53 me, said Aunt Zhao angrily.
If you hadnt been in charge now, Id never have asked you.
At this particular moment you happen to be in charge here.
Very well.
Your mothers brother has just died.
If you decide to give an extra twenty or thirty taels towards his funeral, Her Ladyship isnt going to stop you, is she?
Of course she isnt.
We all know what a good, kind person Her Ladyship is.
Its mean, tight-fisted people like you interfering that stop her being generous.
I simply dont know what youre worried about.
It isnt your money youre spending.
Id been hoping that one of these days when you grew up and got married youd be able to do our Zhao family a bit of good.
But not you!
Youre in such a hurry to find a higher branch to perch on, youve forgotten the nest even before your feathers are full-grown I Tan-chun went white, and for a moment anger deprived her of her breath.
When she regained it she broke into louder sobs.
Who is this mothers brother?
The only mothers brother I know about is the one who has just been appointed Inspector-General of Armies in the Nine Provinces.
Im sure I always try to show respect where it is due, but no one ever told me that I ought to think of Zhao Guo-ji as my uncle.
If so, how is it that he always stood up for Huan and walked behind him on his way to school in the mornings?
Why didnt he insist on being treated as an uncle by Huan?
But whats the point?
Everyone knows it was you who bore me.
Two or three months never go by without your making a scene about something or other just to give yourself an opportunity of proclaiming the fact.
And you talk about face!
Its a good job I understand your little game.
If I were a simple-minded person and not very sure of my position, it would have driven me distracted long ago.
The ever more agitated attempts at peace-making by Li Wan and continuing gabble of complaint from Aunt Zhao which followed this outburst were suddenly interrupted by a call from the women outside Heres Miss Patience with a message from Mrs Lian.
At once Aunt Zhao fell silent.
She advanced fawningly on Patience as she entered 54 Is your mistress any better, Patience?
Ive been meaning to go round and see her, but I just havent had the time.
Li Wan asked Patience what she had come for.
Mrs Lian heard that Mrs Zhaos brother had died and she was afraid you might not know what to give.
She said according to the rule it should be twenty taels, but in this particular case Miss Tan should feel free to add on a bit if she sees fit.
Oh?
On what grounds, I wonder?
said Tan-chun, who had by this time wiped the traces of tears from her face.
Im not aware that there was anything very special about this person.
His mother didnt carry him for twenty-four months before he was born.
He didnt rescue his master on the battlefield from under a heap of corpses and carry him to safety on his back.
It is very ingenious of your mistress, getting me to break the rules so that she can take the credit for being generous, but if she wishes to play the Lady Bountiful by giving away other peoples money, Im afraid she will have to wait.
Tell her that I absolutely refuse to take responsibility for any change in the rules.
If she wants to make a change, let her wait until she is better.
Then she can add on as much as she likes!
Patience had already had a rough idea of the situation when she arrived and by the time Tan-chun finished speaking she had sized it up completely.
Observing the anger in Tan-chuns face, she did not presume to reply in the joking, light-hearted manner she would normally have adopted with her, but stood in silence, with her arms held submissively at her sides.
It was now about the time when Bao-chai usually came over from Lady Wangs apartment for discussion.
Tan-chun and Li Wan stood up to greet her as she entered and invited her to sit with them.
Before they had a chance to begin talking, however, one of the women who had been waiting outside came in to make her report.
Because Tan-chun had recently been crying, three or four maids had already been to fetch water and towels and a hand-mirror so that she could wash her face.
As she was at this moment sitting cross-legged on a low wooden couch, the maid carrying the hand-basin went down on both her knees 55 to bring it to a convenient level for her, whereupon the girls bearing the towels, hand-mirror, cosmetics and so forth also knelt down on either side.
Seeing that Tan-chuns body-servant Scribe was not present, Patience hurriedly stepped forward, rolled back Tan-chuns sleeves for her, removed her bracelets and tucked a large towel round her neck to protect the front of her dress.
As Tan-chun stretched out her hands to begin washing, the woman who had just entered began to make her report Excuse me Mrs Zhu excuse me Miss Tan.
The school want to draw this years allowance for Master Huan and Master Lan.
Whats the hurry?
snapped Patience.
Havent you got eyes in your head?
Cant you see that Miss Tan is washing?
You ought to be waiting outside.
What do you mean by bursting in like this?
Would you behave like this if Mrs Lian were here?
Miss Tan is a kind young lady and lets you get away with it, but if I tell Mrs Lian when I get back how little respect you show her, youll be in serious trouble - and dont say I didnt warn you!
Thoroughly alarmed, the woman put on her broadest smile and retreated, apologizing, from the room.
Tan-chun, who had finished washing and was now making up her face, looked up at Patience with a sardonic smile Its a pity you didnt come a bit earlier.
You missed the best part of the comedy.
Wu xin-dengs wife, who has spent a whole lifetime in service, came here without having bothered to look up the records, in the hope of making us look foolish.
Fortunately I thought to ask her what the rule was but then she had the effrontery to tell me that she had forgotten.
I told her that I didnt think she would forget things and have to go off and look them up if it was your mistress that she was dealing with.
I should think not, indeed!
said Patience.
If she had ever tried a trick like that on Mrs Lian, shed have some nasty scars on her backside to show for it, I can tell you!
Dont you believe any of them, miss!
They think that because Mrs Zhu is such a kind, saintly person and you are such a quiet, shy young lady they can get away with anything.
56 She turned to address the women who were standing outside the door Keep it up all of you!
Just carry on with these little tricks!
See what happens to you when Mrs Lian is better!
Now, now, you know us better than that, miss!
said the women, laughing.
Let him face the summons that did the offence.
We wouldnt pull the wool over a young mistresss eyes.
We know perfectly well that if a young unmarried lady like Miss Tan was to get really angry with us, it would be more than our lives was worth.
Well, as long as you know, thats all tight, said Patience drily.
She turned back to Tan-chun.
Im sure you must realize, miss Mrs Lian is much too busy to think of everything and there must be quite a few things that shes over1ooked, They say the bystander sees all, and during the years that youve been quietly looking on as a bystander you may have noticed cases in which more or perhaps less ought to be given that Mrs Lian herself has never got around to dealing with.
If you were to take this opportunity of putting them right, youd be doing Her Ladyship a good turn and at the same time it would be a kindness to my mistress which Im sure she would appreciate.
Before she bad finished, Bao-chai and Li Wan were both laughing.
Patience, youre wonderful!
No wonder Feng is so devoted to you.
The way youve just put it, you make us feel that even if there are no grounds for altering the rules, we ought to try and find some, just so as not to disappoint you!
Tan-chun joined in their laughter I still feel very angry.
Until she came along, I was hoping to work some of it off on her mistress, but shes been so reasonable about it all that I hardly know what to do!
She called in the woman whom Patience had chased out a few minutes earlier.
What are these allowances for Master Huan and Master Lan that the school is asking for?
Eight taels each a year, miss.
Its for paper, writing-brushes and refreshments.
But these expenses are already provided for in the monthly 57 allowances, said Tan-chun.
Mrs Zhao gets two taels a month for Huan, Aroma gets two a month for Bao-yu from Her Ladyship, and Lans expenses are covered by Mrs Zhus allowance.
Why should we pay an additional eight taels for each of them to the school?
Is that what they go to school for, to collect the money?
I think we should cancel that payment from now on.
Patience, go back and tell your mistress I insist that these payments should be discontinued.
They should have been long ago, said Patience.
Mrs Lian had decided to stop them last year, but with so much going on over the New Year, she forgot about it.
The woman who had come for the allowances had to go off empty-handed.
Women from Prospect Garden now arrived carrying food-boxes containing Li Wans and Tan-chuns lunch.
They were preceded by the maids Scribe and Candida who carried a little table between them which they put down in front of their mistresses.
Patience busied herself by taking dishes from the food-boxes and putting them on the table but Tan-chun stopped her If you have nothing more to say, you had better be about your own business.
There is nothing for you to do here.
I havent got any other business, said Patience, smiling.
Thats why Mrs Lian sent me here.
Partly it was to bring you the message, but partly it was because she was afraid the servants here might be giving you trouble and she thought I might be able to make myself useful.
Why hasnt Miss Baos lunch been brought here so that she can eat with us?
Tan-chun inquired.
At once one of the maids went outside and gave an order to the women who were waiting there under the eaves Miss Baos going to have her lunch here with the other young ladies.
Tell them to bring it here.
The raised voice of Tan-chun, who had overheard her, issued from behind her in reproof Who are you ordering about like that?
Those are stewardesses out there and senior members of the domestic staff.
You cant make them run to and fro fetching and carrying things for you.
Have you no respect for seniority?
Patience is 58 standing around here with nothing to do why dont you get her to go?
Not waiting to be ordered, Patience murmured something and hurried out but the women outside silently waylaid her and with broad smiles prevented her from going.
We cant let you go, miss that would never do!
In any case, weve already sent someone.
They dusted the steps with their handkerchiefs and invited her to sit down There you are, miss, sit there in the sun and rest yourself.
You must be tired after standing about for so long.
Patience was about to sit down when two women from the tea-kitchen rushed up to her with a rug That stones too cold to sit on.
Heres a nice clean rug.
You sit on this, miss.
Patience smiled and nodded Thank you very much.
Another woman came out carrying a cup of tea for her on a tray.
Here you are, miss, she whispered.
This isnt the tea we usually drink.
This is the kind we make for the mistresses.
Try some of that for a change.
Patience bowed and took the cup, then, shaking a reproving finger at the women, she admonished them in a voice that she kept low so as not to be audible inside Youve gone too far this time and no mistake!
Miss Tan is a real little lady, but just because she is too well-bred to throw her weight about, it doesnt mean that you can afford to take advantage of her.
On the contrary, you ought to respect her all the more for it.
If she were ever to get really angry, my word you would be in trouble!
It wouldnt just be a question of saying sorry then.
If she took it into her head to throw a tantrum, even Her Ladyship would have to give in to her.
Mrs Lian certainly wouldnt stand in her way, she wouldnt dare.
So just what makes you so bold against her I do not know.
You might just as well pelt a rock with eggs as set yourselves up against her!
We wouldnt dare set ourselves up against her, said the women.
This was all Mrs Zhaos doing.
59 Oh, come on now!
said Patience, still speaking in a halfwhisper.
Everyone likes to push a falling wall.
We all know that Mrs Zhao isnt the most sensible of mortals.
She doesnt know whether shes coming or going half the time.
Its just a bit too easy to blame it all on her when things go wrong.
Do you think after all the years Ive been here I dont know how unmanageable and how ruthless you can be?
If Mrs Lian were just a shade less determined, shed have been finished off by you lot years ago.
As it is, you only need half a chance to start making things difficult for her.
Many and manys the time shes nearly come unstuck because of your whispering.
Everyones always saying what a holy terror she is and how youre all afraid of her.
Im probably the only one who realizes that in her heart of hearts shes actually afraid of you.
As a matter of fact she and I were talking about this only the other day.
We both agreed that if you didnt make yourselves a bit more accommodating, there were sure to be one or two explosions.
Miss Tan may be only a young girl, but youre completely mistaken in treating her like this.
Even Mrs Lian is a tiny bit scared of Miss Tan.
Of all the young ladies in this household Miss Tan is the only one she feels that way about.
And yet you think you can do what you like with her!
Just then Ripple approached and the women all crowded round to greet her.
Better stay outside with us for a bit, miss, they said.
Theyve just laid for lunch inside.
Better wait until they take the table away before going in to report anything.
-267 Im not like you, said Ripple loftily.
I cant wait.
She began mounting the steps.
Come back at once!
Patience called after her.
Ripple looked back and saw that it was Patience.
Oh, what are you doing here?
Sentry duty?
She came down again then and sat beside Patience on the rug.
What have you come about?
Patience asked her in a low voice.
I want to ask about Bao-yus and our allowances for this month.
Weve been wondering when were going to get them.
60 Oh that!
said Patience.
Thats not very important.
Go back and tell Aroma this - say I told you to tell her no matter what it is, dont come here asking for anything today.
Anything you ask for will be refused.
If you ask for a hundred things, one after the other, the answer will be no every time.
Whys that?
said Ripple.
Patience and the women explained, pointing out that to go in and ask for something on Bao-yus behalf at the very moment when Tan-chun was looking around for someone of consequence to make an example of would be simply courting disaster.
Theres no sense in your going in now, said Patience.
Either way it will be awkward.
If they make an example of Bao-yu they will risk offending Their Ladyships if they dont make an example of him You Know Who will call it favouritism and complain that they darent provoke anyone who has Their Ladyships behind them and only take it out on the weak ones who cant protect themselves.
You wait and see theyll even turn down one or two requests from Mrs Lian before theyve finished, just to stop certain people talking.
Ripple stuck her tongue out in a grimace.
Its a good job I met you here.
I should only have got smut on my nose if Id gone inside.
Id better go back straight away then and tell the others.
She rose and went away.
Presently Bao-chais lunch arrived and Patience went inside again to help serve it.
By this time Aunt Zhao had already left.
The three young women sat cross-legged on the wooden settle around the low lunch-table which had been placed upon it, Bao-chai facing south, towards the doorway, Tan-chun facing west and Li Wan facing east.
Only their personal maids stayed inside the room to serve them no one else dared enter.
The women waited quietly on the verandah outside, discussing the situation in whispers Better keep out of trouble from now on.
Better not try any more funny business.
Look what happened to Mrs Wu, and shes ever so much senior to us!
Their whispered conversation continued intermittently until lunch was over.
They knew it was over when the sound -880 61 of chopsticks on bowls and dishes ceased and only an occasional low cough could be heard from inside.
Presently a maid appeared in the doorway and held the portiere up high to let two other maids through who were carrying out the lunch-table.
Another three maids with wash-basins were already waiting outside who went in as soon as the other two had finished carrying out the table.
Soon they too came out again, each carrying a wash-basin as before and also a spittoon.
Then Scribe, Candida and Oriole arrived, each with a covered teacup on a tray, and went in.
A little later this last trio reemerged.
As they did so, Scribe stopped for a moment to admonish the junior maids who were remaining behind Now do your job properly.
Well be back to relieve you as soon as weve had our lunch.
No sneaking off to sit down while were away!
The departure of Scribe and the other two was a signal for the women outside to begin going in, one by one, to report on their various business.
They did this sedately enough, with none of the careless insolence they had been showing previously.
Tan-chuns customary good nature gradually reasserted itself and presently she turned to Patience and addressed her in a normal tone of voice Theres an important matter that I have been wanting to consult your mistress about.
Im glad Ive remembered it now.
Come back again as soon as you have finished your lunch, while Miss Bao is still here, and the four of us can discuss it together then, when weve worked out all the details, we can ask your mistress whether to go forward with it or not.
Yes, miss, said Patience, and promptly left.
When she got back, Xi-feng asked her why she had been so long and received a full account of what had happened which greatly entertained her.
Good!
Good!
she said.
Good for Tan-chun!
I always said shed make an excellent little manager.
Oh, what a pity she wasnt born in the right bed I Now youre talking stupid, madam, said Patience.
Although shes not Her Ladyships child by birth, surely no one is going to think any the worse of her because of that?
Wont she always be treated exactly the same as the rest?
62 Xi-feng sighed Im afraid its not quite as simple as you think.
I know being a wifes or a concubines child is not supposed to make any difference, and in a boys case perhaps it doesnt but Im afraid with girls, when the time comes to start finding husbands for them, it often does.
Nowadays you get a very shallow class of person who will ask about that before anything else and often, if they hear that the girl is a concubines child, will have nothing further to do with her.
Its silly, really, because if they did but know it, even the maids in a household like ours are better than the wifes daughters in many another household, let alone the daughters of concubines.
In the case of girls like Tan-chun and Ying-chun its hard to say.
They might be unlucky and make a bad match through being discriminated against, or then again they might be lucky someone might come along who didnt care about these distinctions and they might make a perfectly good marriage.
Xi-feng paused for a moment and smiled at Patience confidingly Because of all the economies Ive introduced during these last few years theres hardly anyone in this household who doesnt secretly hate me.
But its like riding a tiger I darent relax my grip for a single moment for fear of being eaten.
In any case, our expenditure is still far above our income.
The trouble is, everything in this household from the largest down to the smallest item has to be done on a scale and according to rules that were laid down by our ancestors but unfortunately the income from our property is not what it was in their days.
If we do economize, the family looks ridiculous, Their Ladyships feel uncomfortable, and the servants complain of our harshness yet if we dont economize, in a very few years time we shall be bankrupt.
I know said Patience.
And there are three or four young ladies and two or three young masters to provide for, and Her Old Ladyship all these big expenses are yet to come.
Ah, Ive allowed for them, said Xi-feng.
Those expenses I think we can just about manage.
Bao-yus bride-price and Miss Lins dowry wont involve us in any expense because 63 -880 Her Old Ladyship will pay them Out of her private savings and Miss Ying will be taken care of by Sir She.
Of the girls, that only leaves Miss Tan and Miss Xi .
Theyre not going to cost more than seven or eight thousand each at the outside.
Then theres Huan theyre not going to spend all that much on him say three thousand.
Even if we cant raise all of that, we can probably get by with a little judicious pruning.
As for Her Old Ladyship the main things have been paid for already there will only be various miscellaneous expenses.
Four or five thousand will probably be ample.
No, as long as we can economize a bit, we shall be able to deal with those expenses as they come along.
What really worries me is the possibility of one or two large items of expenditure turning up which we hadnt been expecting.
Then I am afraid we really shall be done for!
But lets not worry about these far-off things just now.
You must hurry up and have your lunch so that you can get back and find out what it is they want to talk about.
Im delighted that things should be turning out in this way.
Its what Ive.
always wanted, someone to take a bit of the weight off my shoulders.
Theres Bao-yu of course but he isnt really one of us, so even if I were to win him over, he wouldnt be very much use.
Mrs Zhu is such a Holy Buddha, shes no good.
Miss Yings even worse - and anyway she doesnt properly belong to this household.
Miss Xi is still childish.
Lan is little more than a baby.
Huan is like a singed cat in the cold, only looking for a warm stove or a corner of a kang to curl up on - How the same mother could produce two children such poles apart as him and Tan-chun I never shall understand I - Miss Lin and Miss Bao are both very capable girls, but unfortunately theyre not of our surname and cant very well be expected to involve themselves in running our affairs.
And in any case, one of thems like a beautiful picture-lantern you feel that a puff of wind would blow her out and the other is so determined not to open her mouth about what doesnt concern her that a shake or a nod or an I dont know is about all you can ever get out of her and you feel a bit awkward about asking her to do anything.
And that only leaves Miss Tan.
Shes got a good mind shes good at expressing 64 -1094 herself she belongs to the right lineage Her Ladyship likes her shes a bit unsure of herself perhaps, but thats all the doing of that wretched Zhao woman in other respects shes very much like Bao-yu.
Shes certainly not in the least like Huan.
He really is the most objectionable child.
If I had my way hed have been sent packing long ago.
No, if shes got the determination to do this job, lets go along with her, I say.
Lets make an ally of her, so that I dont have to go on feeling so isolated.
From a high-minded, honourable point of view, having her to help us will save us a good deal of anxiety, and in the long run Her Ladyship will benefit.
But there is also a not so high-minded, rather more selfish way of looking at it.
Ive been too ruthless, I know I have.
I ought to step back now and take stock of things.
I cant keep the pressure up any longer.
People hate me so much already, there are daggers in their smiles.
You and I have only two pairs of eyes between us.
If I carry on as I have been doing, sooner or later they are bound to catch us off our guard and I shall be destroyed.
So you see, her stepping forward and taking command just when things are at their liveliest means that the heat will be turned off me for the time being and peoples resentment against me will have a chance to cool down.
Theres something else I want to say to you.
I know you are a very intelligent person, but I am afraid you may find it rather hard to transfer your allegiance, so I want to impress this on you now.
Although Miss Tan may be only a girl, there are very few things that she doesnt know about.
You mustnt be taken in by her quiet manner.
In fact, being able to read and write, shes if anything better equipped to manage things than I am.
Now they always say that anyone who wants to break a gang up should begin by arresting the leader, and her immediate concern must be to make an example of someone as a means of establishing her authority.
That being so, you can be quite sure that I shall be the person shell pick on first to make an example of.
If she starts criticizing anything I have said or done, dont try to defend it just be very polite and say that the criticism is justified.
Dont, whatever you do, stand up to her out of a mistaken sense of loyalty to me thats the last thing I want you to do.
65 Before she could go on, Patience laughingly interrupted her Why are you so ready to assume that other people are stupid?
Ive been taking that line with her already I dont need you to tell me!
I was afraid you might have no time for anyone but me, said Xi-feng.
That was my only reason for warning you.
If you have been taking that line with her already, so much the better.
Evidently you are cleverer than I am.
By the way, arent you perhaps getting a little carried away - this you, you, you all of a sudden?
Whats wrong with madam?
Ill say you if I want to, said Patience.
If you dont like it, theres always my face to slap.
It wont be the first time its enjoyed that privilege!
Little beast!
said Xi-feng.
How many times do you intend to go on dragging that up?
Fancy provoking me with a thing like that when you know how ill I am!
Come on!
There arent any visitors about.
Come over and sit here with me.
Wed better get on with our lunch.
Felicity and three or four junior maids came in at this point carrying a short-legged table between them which they set down on the kang.
Xi-fengs lunch consisted of no more than some birds nest soup and a couple of small, light dishes suitable for an invalid palate.
Unable to eat more, she had cancelled the portion that under normal catering arrangements would have been her due.
Felicity put the four dishes to which Patience was entitled on Xi-fengs table and filled her a bowlful of rice.
Patience then half sat, half stood with one foot curled underneath her on the edge of the kang and the other one resting on the floor, and in that position kept Xi-feng company while she ate her lunch.
When they had both finished eating, she helped Xi-feng to wash and rinse Out her mouth, then, after a few admonitory words to Felicity, went back to rejoin Tan-chun and the others in the office.
Outside the office building the forecourt was quiet and deserted.
The stewardesses who had formerly been waiting there had now all gone off about their business.
What happened when she went inside will be related in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 56 Resourceful Tan-chun abolishes abuses in the interests of economy -1344 And sapient Bao-chai shows how small concessions can be made without loss of dignity Having kept Xi-feng company while she ate her lunch and waited on her while she rinsed her mouth out and washed, Patience made her way back to the lobs room.
The courtyard outside it was quiet now, deserted except for the silent row of maids and womenservants waiting outside the windows until their mistresses inside the room should require them.
The latter were already in the midst of a discussion.
They were talking about Lai Das garden, which they had visited in Grandmother Jias company some months previously on the occasion of the party which had had such unfortunate consequences for Xue Pan.
Tan-chun broke off as Patience entered and indicated a low stool for her to sit on.
Ive been thinking about those two taels we get every month for hair-oil and cosmetics, she told Patience.
We already get a monthly allowance of two taels each and our maids get allowances too.
It looks to me as if this is another case of duplication, like the eight taels paid to the school every year which we were dealing with earlier.
I know its not a very important matter, and the sum involved is not very great, but its obvious at a glance that this is a bad arrangement, and I cant understand why your mistress hasnt noticed it.
There is a reason, said Patience.
Obviously you young ladies need a regular fixed.supply of these things, and as there wouldnt be much sense in our constantly running out with a few coppers to make individual purchases, the cosmetic allowances for the various departments are drawn by our buyers and used to make bulk purchases with.
The stewardesses collect monthly supplies from the buyers and distribute them to the different apartments, and we maids in the different 67 apartments look after them for use by you as and when you need them.
The two-tael monthly allowance you get is quite separate from the cosmetics money.
It isnt meant to be spent on cosmetics its simply to keep you in money, so that if the need should ever arise to spend on something, you shouldnt have the inconvenience of finding yourselves short and perhaps running round for some only to find that Her Ladyship or whoever is in charge at the time is out or too busy to see you.
I have to admit though that about half of us do in fact seem to go outside these arrangements and buy cosmetics with our spending money but whether its because the official buyers simply pocket the money and dont deliver the goods, or because the stuff they supply us with is so inferior, I simply dont know.
Tan-chun and Li Wan exchanged knowing smiles.
You ve noticed, too, then, said Tan-chun.
I dont think they actually embezzle the money, but sometimes the supply is very much delayed.
If you try to hurry them they produce something so awful that it is quite unusable, and in the end you are forced to buy your own.
Theres only one way of doing that, too.
You have to give a couple of taels to a nannie and ask her to get one of her sons or nephews to buy it for you.
Its no good trying to do it through the regular staff.
If you do, you only get the same awful, unusable stuff as before, I dont know why.
Its because if they bought you stuff of better quality, theyd be in trouble with the regular buyers, said Patience.
The regular buyers would complain that they were trying to do them out of a job.
Theyd rather offend you than risk offending the buyers.
Of course, if you get the stuff through your nannies, theres nothing the buyers can do about it Well, I am very uneasy about the whole arrangement, said Tan-chun.
Here we are paying the same money twice over and half the stuff that is paid for has to be wasted.
It would be much better if this monthly payment to the buyers were abolished altogether.
Thats one thing.
Another thing is this.
Last year when we went to Lai Das place, you went too.
What did you think of that little garden of theirs?
How do you think it compares with ours?
68 Its not half as big, said Patience, and it has far, far fewer trees and flowers and things in it.
I got talking to one of the daughters while we were there, said Tan-chun.
That garden of theirs is let out annually on contract.
She told me that quite apart from supplying them through the year with flowers for their hair and with all the bamboo-shoots, vegetables and fish that they eat, it brings them in an annual income of two hundred taels of silver.
Ever since that day I have realized that even a broken lotus-leaf or a withered grass-root is worth something.
Bao-chai laughed.
There speaks the voice of gilded youth.
How typical!
But even though, O delicately-nurtured one, you have no immediate experience of such matters, you can, after all, read and write.
Surely you must at some time or other have read Zhuxiuss essay On Not Throwing Away?
Yes, said Tan-chun, but in that essay isnt he merely urging the people, in a fairly general sort of way, to exert themselves?
And isnt it all rather empty and rhetorical?
Surely he didnt mean every word of it to be taken literally?
Zhuxius empty and rhetorical?
said Bao-chai.
He meant every word of it.
If, after only a few days of household management, the greed for gain has already so clouded your judgement that the teachings of Zhuxius seem empty and rhetorical, I fancy that if you were to venture outside into the corrupting atmosphere of the market-place, you would soon be finding even Confucius himself too abstract for you!
Since you are so learned, said Tan-chun, Im surprised that you should appear to be unfamiliar with the views of Fixius.
Fixius once said, Whosoever sets his foot in the market-place or takes his seat at the counting-board must forget about Yao and Shun and turn his back on the teachings of Confucius and Mencius... How does it go on?
said Bao-chai.
I must claim the quoters privilege of giving only as much of the text as will suit my purpose, said Tan-chun.
If I told you how it went on, I should end up by contradicting myself!
Everything in the world has some use or other, said Bao- 69 chai, and if it has a use, it must have a monetary value.
Surely to an intelligent person like you so obvious a truism can hardly have come as a revelation?
You call people here to discuss important business, said Li Wan, but all we have had so far is talk about books!
But talk about books is important business, said Bao-chai.
Without it we should be no better than vulgar tradesmen I The three of them continued chaffing a little longer before Tan-chun returned to her theme Lets say for the sake of argument that our garden is only twice as big as theirs.
Doubling the income they get from theirs would mean a clear profit of four hundred taels per annum.
Now of course, a family like ours couldnt possibly put its garden under contract and turn it into a business in the way that they do it would look too mercenary.
On the other hand, when you know how valuable everything is, it seems a terrible waste of natural resources not to have a few people whose special job is to look after it and just let everyone trample on it and despoil it as they please.
I think we ought to pick out a few experienced trustworthy old women from among the ones who work in the Garden - women who know something about gardening already - and put the upkeep of the Garden into their hands.
We neednt ask them to pay us rent all we need ask them for is an annual share of the produce.
There would be four advantages in this arrangement.
In the first place, if we have people whose sole occupation is to look after trees and flowers and so on, the condition of the garden will improve gradually year after year and there will be no more of those long periods of neglect followed by bursts of feverish activity when things have been allowed to get out of hand.
Secondly there wont be the spoiling and wastage we get at present.
Thirdly the women themselves will gain a little extra to add to their incomes which will compensate them for the hard work they put in throughout the year.
And fourthly, theres no reason why we shouldnt use the money we should otherwise have spent on nurserymen, rockery specialists, horticultural cleaners and so on for other purposes.
And after three years there shall be no more famine nor hunger in the land, Bao-chai intoned.
She had wandered 70 off in the course of Tan-chuns exposition and was examining some calligraphy on the wall.
Its a very good idea, said Li Wan.
If we could really do this, Im sure Lady Wang would be pleased.
Its not so much the saving of money thats important but if there are going to be people whose special job is to look after the Garden and they are allowed to make a little money out of it as well, then what with the allurement of status on the one hand and the incentive of gain on the other, they are sure to make a good job of it.
It needed you to suggest this, miss, said Patience.
My mistress has thought of something like this in the past, but she hasnt liked to mention it to anyone, because she thought that now all you young ladies are living in the Garden you might feel that we ought to be spending more on it rather than less and if she had people snooping around in it making economies you might feel that that really was the last straw.
Bao-chai walked over and began feeling Patiences face Open your mouth, Patience I want to see what your teeth are made of.
Ever since early this morning youve been keeping up this tune.
You never give Miss Tan credit for anything.
You never admit that Mrs Lian is less than perfect and that there are things she may not have thought of.
Whenever Miss Tan has finished saying something, you come back at her with the same refrain your mistress has thought of that too, only for some compelling reason or other she hasnt been able to do anything about it.
This time you tell us that she didnt like to save money by putting the Garden under supervision because of us living there.
She turned to the others Shes right, of course.
If you do hand this Garden over to a few of the old women to look after, they will naturally be unwilling that a single fruit or flower that they have charge over should be picked.
Obviously where we are concerned they will not dare to say anything but it is sure to prove a source of endless quarrelling with the maids.
Patience is farseeing enough to realize this and, in her own inimitable way, without fear or flattery, she gives us warning.
How tactful she is!
Even if we werent on good terms with her mistress, I 71 think after hearing Patience we should be shamed into making our peace with her!
And I was so angry this morning, said Tan-chun.
When I heard that Patience had come, I suddenly thought of her mistress and the insufferable behaviour of those henchwomen of hers - which she, no doubt, encourages and it made me even angrier.
But Patience was so quiet and timid, like a poor little mouse that the cat has been after, and stood there all the time so meekly and when she did speak, it was not to remind me of the many kindnesses that I owe her mistress, but to tell me that if I decided to make any changes, I should be doing her mistress a kindness which she was sure she would appreciate.
It really wrung my heart when she said that.
Not only did I stop feeling angry then I felt ashamed.
Here am I, I thought, only a young girl, but behaving in such a way that nobody can ever like me or care what happens to me.
When shall I ever be in a position to do anyone a kindness?
At this point her emotion got the better of her and she shed some tears.
The others, moved by the sincerity with which she had spoken and remembering how Aunt Zhao was constantly maligning her and making things difficult for her with Lady Wang, were themselves moved to tears of sympathy but they did their best to rally her.
What better return can we possibly make Lady Wang for placing her trust in us, said Li Wan, than to take advantage of the fact that things are a little quieter now by discussing some much-needed economies?
What do you want to go bringing in an unimportant matter like that for?
Ive got the gist of your plan, Miss, said Patience.
All you need do now is tell us which of the women you want to appoint and we can go straight ahead with it.
Thats all very well, said Tan-chun, but you ought to have a word with your mistress about it first.
It was a bit presumptuous of us to go poking about and making these little economies in the first place - I should never have ventured to do so if I hadnt known that your mistress was so understanding if shed been a stupid or touchy person, she might have suspected me of trying to shine at her expense All the same, the very least we can do is to consult her first.
72 Very well, said Patience pleasantly.
Ill go and tell her, then.
She was gone for some time, but returned eventually, full of smiles I knew it wasnt necessary to go.
Of course she agrees.
A good idea like this how could she do otherwise?
As soon as Tan-chun had received this confirmation, she and Li Wan sent for the list of women employed in the Garden.
Bao-chai joined them in scrutinizing it and in making a provisional selection of those most likely to be suitable.
These were summoned forthwith and Li Wan, addressing them in a group, outlined the scheme to them in general terms.
The women were enthusiastic.
Let me have the bamboo, said one of them.
Ill have double the amount growing within a year.
I can keep you in bamboo-shoots for the kitchen and pay you an annual rent for it as well.
Let me have that bit of rice-paddy, said another.
Ill keep you in grain for your cage-birds so that you dont have to spend money on feed, and Ill pay you annual tent.
Before Tan-chun could say anything, someone arrived with a message The doctors arrived.
Hes waiting to come into the Garden to have a look at Miss Shi.
Just a moment!
said Patience as the women went scurrying off to escort the doctor.
Theres no point in a hundred people going if there isnt anyone responsible to receive him.
Wu xin-dengs wife and Mrs Shan are already waiting for him at the Painted Gate on the south-west corner of the Garden, said the woman who had brought the message.
When Patience heard that, she made no further objection.
After the women had gone, Tan-chun looked at Bao-chai inquiringly Well?
Bac-chal laughed He who shows most enthusiasm in the beginning proves often to be a sluggard in the end and he who promises the fairest is often thinking more of his profit than of his performance.
73 Tan-chun nodded in agreement and praised the aptness of the quotation.
She turned to the register once more and pointed out a few more names for the other two to consider.
Patience fetched a brush and inkstone for her to write with.
Mamma Zhu is a very reliable body, said the others of one of these.
Her old man used to be a bamboo specialist and her son still is its in the family.
Shes the one we should put in charge of all the bamboos in the Garden.
And Mamma Tian comes from a farming family.
The farm at Sweet-rice Village may be only a plaything and not meant for serious cultivation, but if she were in charge of all those vegetable and paddy strips and doing the things that needed doing at the proper times, we should probably get a lot more out of it.
When you think of the amount of land that goes with them, it seems a pity that All-spice Court and Green Delights dont produce anything marketable, said Tan-chun.
Oh, but they do!
said Li Wan.
Especially All-spice Court.
Half the aromatics sold in perfumers shops and on the herb stalls at markets and temple fairs come from plants like the ones grown in All-spice.
I wouldnt be surprised if there were more profit to be had out of them than out of anything else that this Garden produces.
And as for Green Delights to mention nothing else, just look at all the flowers produced by that rosa rugosa during the spring and summer months!
And all the rambler roses and monthly roses and rosa glabra and honeysuckle and wistaria on the pergolas think how much you could make out of them if the flowers were dried properly and sold to tea-merchants for flavouring!
Tan-chun nodded enthusiastically.
But, she reflected, we havent got anyone who knows the art of flower-drying, have we?
The mother of Miss Baos maid Oriole knows all about that sort of thing, said Patience.
Dont you remember her drying a lot of flowers once and filling little baskets and gourds with them to make us presents?
Is this the thanks I get for praising you?
Bao-chai asked Patience.
What can you mean?
said the others, in some surprise.
74 You can't possibly give the job to her,' said Bao-chai.
'You have so many able and willing women of your own who won't be getting any of these jobs they are going to think very poorly of me if they know that I am responsible for bringing in an outsider.
I can think of someone that you could give this job to, though Old Mamma Ye at Green Delights - Tealeaf's mother.
She's a very honest old woman and what's more, she is on very good terms with Oriole's mother.
You'd much better give the job to her.
She will probably consult Oriole's mother whenever there is anything she is not sure about in any case.
She may even elect to hand over to her altogether.
But that would be entirely a private matter between the two of them.
The other servants might resent it, but at least they couldn't blame u The advantage of this arrangement is that it would look fair as well as being effective.'
Li Wan and Patience agreed.
Tan-chun was more sceptical 'That may be but what if cupidity proves stronger than friendship?'
'Not likely in this case,' said Patience.
'Only the other day Mamma Ye was invited to become Oriole's godmother.
The three of them had a little party to celebrate.
The two families are very close.'
Tan-chun dropped her objection and proceeded, with the others, to deliberate on the rest of their choices - all of them women whom the four of them had mentally noted in the past for their dependability.
As each one's selection was confirmed, she made a little circle with her writing-brush against the corresponding name in the register.
Shortly after this the women arrived back again to report that the doctor had gone and to hand in the prescription he had left.
After studying it, Li Wan, Tan-chun and Bao-chai sent one of the women to obtain the drugs from outside and to supervise the making-up and administering of the medicine.
Then Li Wan and Tan-chun told the women which of them were to have the cultivation of which parts of the Garden and what the conditions of their tenure were to be 'You will be expected to give us, in due season, a fixed amount of your crops for our own use but apart from that it will be up to you to make whatever profit from them you can.
75 Accounts will be submitted and dues paid at the end of the year.'
'I've been having second thoughts about that,' said Tan-chun.
'If you are submitting annual accounts and paying dues, presumably it will be to the Office.
But that means another lot of people with control over you and another layer skimmed off your profits.
Now in thinking up this new arrangement and appointing you ourselves, we are already in a sense going above their heads, which is sure to anger them.
They probably won't dare to say anything about it now, but there will be nothing to stop them getting their own back later on when you go round to settle accounts with them at the end of the year.
And there's another thing.
If they are going to be in on this, they are sure to expect a share of the produce.
Whatever you agree to give us in the course of each year, they will expect the equivalent of half the amount for themselves.
That's an old, established rule.
Everyone knows that.
But since the new arrangement is our creation, I say let's keep it out of their hands altogether.
If there's to be an annual settling of accounts, let it be done here, internally.'
'If you ask me,' said Bao-chai, I don't think there should be any settling of accounts at all.
You'd always be finding that this one had too much and that one too little.
It would only be a lot of extra trouble.
Why not get each of them to take over some regular item of your expenditure and pay for it out of their profits?
That will keep it all inside the Garden.
I've just been running over in my mind what your regular expenses are.
They aren't very many.
There's hair-oil, cosmetics, incense, paper every mistress and her maids get a fixed amount of those every month.
Then there are brushes, dust-pans, feather-dusters and food for the livestock birds, rabbits, deer and so forth.
That's really all.
Now suppose instead of drawing money from Accounts for all those things we gave these women the responsibility of paying for them how much do you reckon the saving would be?'
'They're small items in themselves,' said Patience, 'but I should think if you added them all together the total annual saving would be well over four hundred taels.'
'There you are I' said Bao-chai.
'Four hundred a year, eight 76 hundred in two years you could buy a small house for letting with that or add half an acre of poor farm4and to your landholdings.
But though there should be quite a lot left over after they have covered the expenses we are assigning to them, we want them to have a little something to spend on themselves after working hard all through the year and though, from our point of view, the main object of these operations is economy, we dont want to overdo it.
There would be no point in saving an extra two or three hundred taels if it meant resorting to undignified methods in order to do so.
What we are now proposing means that Accounts will be paying out four or five hundred taels a year less than they do now without anyone outside feeling the pinch.
And as for inside, the women doing these jobs will be getting a little extra for themselves, the ones not doing them will be able to relax a bit, the Gardens stock of trees and flowers will thrive and increase through being better cared for, and we shall he better off when we have this regular supply of the produce for our own use - all this without any loss of dignity.
Whereas if we went all out to economize with no other consideration but making money in mind, no doubt we should have little difficulty in squeezing more out, but the effect of paying everything back into the common account would be wails of protest from everyone, both inside the Garden and out, and a consequent loss of dignity that in a household like yours would be quite unacceptable.
Altogether there must be several dozen old women working in this Garden.
If you give the money-making jobs to these few here and leave the others out in the cold, the others are going to complain that it isnt fair.
Now as I said, theres still going to be quite a lot of money left over when theyve finished paying these various expenses for you, and I think we should be letting them off a bit too lightly if we let them keep all of it.
Why dont we say that every year, no matter how much or how little they have made, they are to pay so many strings of cash into a common pool which will be shared out among all the other women?
Although those others wont any longer have anything to do with the upkeep of the Garden, they are responsible, day and night, for keeping an eye on the 77 other servants they have the responsibility of opening and closing the gates, which means that they have to get up earlier and go to bed later than everyone else and whenever any of us go out, whatever the weather, even if it is raining or snowing heavily, they have to carry sedans, punt boats, draw sledges - in fact do any heavy work that needs to be done.
Since they work so hard in the Garden from one years end to the next, it seems only fair that if any money is going to be made out of the Garden, they should have a share in it.
And theres another reason for this, if it doesnt seem too petty-minded to mention it - Bao-chai turned to the women to explain - If you think only of how much you can make out of this for yourselves and dont let the others have a share, they are sure to feel resentful even if they dont like to say anything and will try to make up for it by misappropriating what they can for their own use - filching a fruit here and a flower there whenever they have the opportunity.
Whereas if they know in advance that they are going to get a share of whatever you make from your produce, they will be as anxious as you are that none of it is stolen and will even keep an eye on it for you when you arent able to watch over it yourselves.
The women were quick to see the force of this argument - no control by the Office, no settling of accounts with Xi-feng, only a few strings of cash to pay out every year.
They were all of them delighted and accepted these conditions unanimously.
Better than being pushed around by Accounts, they said.
If we were paying them anything, theyd want a dash on top of it for themselves.
Those of the women present who were not getting one of the gardening jobs, when they heard that they were going to be given money at the end of every year without having to do anything to earn it, were, if anything, even more delighted -though for politeness sake they pretended to demur After all the hard work theyll be putting into it they ought to have a bit extra for themselves.
Doesnt seem right that we should sit back and collect the jackpot without having to do anything for it!
78 Dont refuse the offer, said Bao-chai, smiling.
Its no less than you deserve.
As long as you continue to keep a close watch on things and dont get slack and allow people to drink and gamble.
Otherwise it puts me in such an awkward position.
This isnt really my business, of course but as you have no doubt heard, my aunt has repeatedly urged me to take over responsibility for it on the grounds that Mrs Zhu is too busy and the other young ladles are too young to attend to it.
I cant refuse her, knowing that to do so would be deliberately adding to her worries.
She has such indifferent health and so many household cares and I have so little to do myself that even if she were only a neighbour and not my aunt, I could scarcely refuse to help her.
Its no good worrying that I shall make myself unpopular.
If I care only about being popular and allow people to drink and gamble as much as they like, sooner or later someone who has drunk too much will start a quarrel.
If an incident like that were to happen, how should I be able to look my aunt in the face?
And think what it would be like for you.
You would have forfeited your reputation as responsible seniors that you have taken so many years to build up.
After all, the reason all these dozens of maids and the whole of this great Garden have been placed under your supervision is because you have served here under three or four generations of masters and are considered more dependable than any of the other servants.
At a time when we all ought to be doing our best to keep up appearances, you will have allowed other people to drink and gamble.
It will be bad enough if my aunt gets to hear of it and gives you a talking-to but what if you are found out by the stewardesses and they decide to discipline you themselves without bothering to tell my aunt?
What a disgrace, that people of your years should be punished by servants younger than yourselves They would be within their rights, of course.
As stewardesses they have power over all other members of the staff.
But how much better if you conducted yourselves in such a way that you could keep your self-respect and not be in a position where they had you at their mercy!
That is why I have thought of this plan for bringing you in a little extra money.
I am hoping that everyone will now collaborate to make this 79 -1094 Garden such a model of discipline and good management that those who have the power to intervene, when they see how tight a discipline you are able to keep by yourselves, will decide that there is nothing for them to worry about and will respect you and leave you alone.
Then we shall feel that the trouble we have taken in planning this little extra income for you was justified.
Think about it!
The women were all smiles of pleasure Youre right, Miss Bao.
Dont worry, Mrs Zhu and young ladies both!
We should be lost souls indeed if we didnt show a bit of consideration for you after you have been so kind and thoughtful to us!
At that moment Lin Zhi-xiaos wife came in The Zhen family from Nanking arrived in town yesterday.
Today they have gone to the Palace to offer their felicitations.
Some of their people have just arrived here to pay their respects.
They have brought presents with them.
She held out the list of presents with both hands.
Tan-chun took it from her and ran her eye over it Imperial use decorated satins and mang satins 12 lengths Imperial use satins, various 12 lengths Imperial use gauzes, in different shades 12 lengths Imperial use Palace taffetas 12 lengths Official use satins, gauzes, taffetas and damasks in various colours 24 lengths When Li Wan too had seen the list, she told Lin Zhi-xiaos wife to use the largest size of gratuity packet for tipping the bearers with.
She also sent someone to report to Grandmother Jia, who sent word back that Li Wan, Tan-chun and Bao-chai were to come over and inspect the presents.
After they had done so, Li Wan told the women in charge of the store-room to wait until Lady Wang had got back and had a look at them before putting them into store.
The Zhens are rather special people, said Grandmother Jia.
You had better use one of the largest gratuity packets when you are tipping the bearers.
And youd better get some cloth-lengths ready I expect we shall have some of their women arriving shortly, to pay their respects.
80 The words were scarcely out of her mouth when the arrival of four women from the Zhen household was announced.
Grandmother Jia at once gave orders that they should be brought in.
All four were sober matrons of forty years or more and so genteelly dressed that it would have been impossible to guess from their appearance that they were servants.
When the formal salutations and the inquiries after Grandmother Jias health had been completed, the old lady called for footstools to be brought for them to sit on.
They acknowledged the courtesy but waited until Bao-chai and the others were seated before they would sit down themselves.
When Grandmother Jia asked them when they had arrived in town, they stood up again to reply We arrived yesterday.
Today Her Ladyship has had to take our young lady to the Palace, so she has sent us to offer you her respects and ask after the young ladies.
Its many years since they have been to the capital, said Grandmother Jia.
Its rather unexpected, that they should suddenly turn up like this.
The women smiled Yes, madam.
They had an Imperial Summons to come this year.
Have they all come?
said Grandmother Jia.
No, madam.
Her Old Ladyship and the young master and our fourth and fifth young ladies and the other ladles all stayed at home.
Only Her Ladyship and our third young lady have accompanied the Master on this journey.
Is your third young lady betrothed yet?
said Grandmother Jia.
No, madam, not yet.
Your first and second young ladies both.
married into families on very good terms with ours, said Grandmother Jia.
Yes, madam, said the spokeswoman.
Every year when they write home they tell us how much they are beholden to you for your kind concern.
Grandmother Jia laughed deprecatingly One could hardly call it that.
Our families have known each other for so long and we are connected by marriage its 81 only right that we should take an interest in them.
We are particularly fond of your second young lady.
She is so unassuming, in spite of her rank.
I think I could say, without offence, that we have grown quite attached to her.
The women laughed You are too polite, madam.
Grandmother Jia pursued her questioning Your young master lives with his grandmother, then?
Yes, madam.
How old is he?
Has he started school yet?
Thirteen this year, said the woman.
He has started school, but he is always playing truant.
He has always been naughty, since he was little.
Hes a good-looking boy, though, and his grandmothers favourite, so theres not much his father and mother can do about it.
Grandmother Jia was greatly diverted.
Just like us!
And what is his name?
Well, because she says he is her treasure and because he has such a milky-white complexion, his grandmother calls him Bao-yu.
That means Precious Jade, you see.
Grandmother Jia turned to Li Wan, laughing Fancy that!
Hes even called Bao-yu, too.
Li Wan inclined politely Coincidences over names have always been common, whether among contemporaries or among people of different periods.
We did wonder, after he was given this name, whether there wasnt some family of our acquaintance in the capital in which the name had already been used, said the woman but as it was ten or more years since wed been there, we couldnt remember for sure whether there was or not.
Its my grandsons name, said Grandmother Jia.
Come here, someone.
Hei!
shouted the womenservants in attendance, and a few of them stepped forward.
Go over to the Garden and tell our Bao-yu to come here so that our visitors can have a look at him and tell us how he compares with their Bao-yu.
The women hurried off in obedience to her order and 82 returned after ten minutes or so with Bao-yu in their midst.
When the four women from the Zhen household saw him enter, they hurriedly rose to their feet.
You gave us quite a turn, they said.
If we hadnt been here and had met you in some other place, wed have thought that our own Bao-yu must have followed after to join us!
They took him by the hand and made much of him, plying him with all sorts of questions.
Bao-yu smiled back at them and greeted them politely.
Well, how does he compare with yours?
Grandmother Jia asked them.
It would appear that the two Bao-yus are very like each other from what they have already said, Li Wan remarked.
I doubt such a coincidence is possible, said Grandmother Jia.
Children of the upper classes, especially if they are reared delicately and provided they are not pock-marked or ill-favoured, are all much of a muchness as far as good looks are concerned.
There would be nothing remarkable in a slight resemblance between them.
In appearance he is exactly like our Bao-yu, said the women but though Your Ladyship was saying just now that he is mischievous, I think your Bao-yu must be better-tempered than ours.
Oh?
said Grandmother Jia, immediately interested.
Why do you think that?
Because he let us hold his hand just now when we talked to him.
If it had been our young gentleman, he would have called us old fools.
We are not allowed to lay a finger on any of his things even, let alone take him by the hand.
The only servants he will have about him are young girls - Before they could go on, Li Wan, Tan-chun and Bao-chai had burst out laughing.
Grandmother Jia was laughing too Im sure that if I were to send some of my women to see your Bao-yu now and they took him by the hand, he would somehow or other contrive to put up with it.
Children brought up in families like ours, no matter how odd or eccentric they may be, will always conduct themselves in a courteous, well-bred manner in the presence of strangers.
Otherwise their eccentricity would not be tolerated.
In fact, the reason why 83 grown-ups are so fond of them, though partly because of their good looks, is mainly because their beautiful manners - much better than many a grown-ups - make it such a pleasure to be with them.
No one meeting them can help liking them, and that makes us more tolerant of what they do on their own, when they are out of sight.
But if they were to carry on in exactly the same way all the time, never allowing the grown-ups to get a word in edgeways, they would be fit for nothing but a whipping.
Thats true, madam, said the women, smiling.
Although our Bao-yu is so odd and mischievous, he can at times, when he is with visitors, behave himself better than a grown-up, so that its a pleasure to watch him.
No one who meets him can help liking him.
Often they ask us what his father should want to beat him for, not realizing what a holy terror he can be inside the family.
Sir Zhen and Lady Zhen are driven half distracted by him.
If it were just his wilfulness, which is fairly normal in a child, it could be cured in time so could his extravagance, which is normal in the sons of well-to-do people and so could his hatred of study, which again is fairly normal in a young person.
But this weird perverseness of his seems to be inbred there seems to be no cure for it.
Just then Lady Wangs return was announced.
She went straight up to Grandmother Jia on entering and saluted her, after which she received the salutations of the four visitors and exchanged a few words with them.
You are tired, said Grandmother Jia.
Go and rest Lady Wang served her mother-in-law with some tea before withdrawing to her own apartment.
Shortly after she had gone, the four women took their leave of Grandmother Jia and went to join her.
Lady Wang chatted with them for a while about family affairs before sending them on their way - suitably primed, of course, with messages and gratuities but those are details which need not concern us.
Greatly tickled by what the women had told her, Grandmother Jia, for some time after their visit would announce to anyone who came to see her 84 There is another Bao-yu, you know, exactly like our Bao-yu in every particular.
The other memhers of the family, bearing in mind that the world was a large place and instances of the same name among its innumerable upper-class families probably of not very rare occurrence, and that a grandmother who doted on her grandson was a fairly unremarkable phenomenon, were unimpressed by the coincidence and gave little thought to it.
But Bao-yu, convinced, like many another young gentleman, of his own uniqueness, dismissed what the four women had said as a fabrication designed to give pleasure to his grandmother.
He was taunted about it by Xiang-yun when he visited her in her sick-room in the Garden to see how she was getting on.
Youll be able to get up to all sorts of mischief now, she said.
Previously it was a case of The single strand makes not a thread Nor the single tree a wood.
We thought there was only one of you.
But now you know you are a pair, there will be no stopping you.
If your father beats you really badly, you can always run off to Nanking and get this other Bao-yu to stand in for you!
You dont believe that rubbish, do you?
said Bao-yu.
How could there be another Bao-yu?
There was a Lin Xiang-ru in the Warring States period and a Si-ma Xiang-ru under the Former Han, said Xiang-yun.
Yes, but this ones supposed to look the same as well, said Bao-yu.
Thats not something you can find precedents for, surely?
What about when the men of Kuang mistook Confucius for Yang Huo?
said Xiang-yun.
Confucius and Yang Huo may have looked the same, said Bao-yu, but they didnt have the same name.
Lin xiangru and Si-ma Xiang-ru had the same name but they didnt look alike.
We are supposed both to have the same name and to look the same.
It isnt possible.
Xiang-yun, unable to think of a reply, took the easy way out.
85 Pleathe yourthelf.
Whether it is or whether it isnt, its of no concern to me.
And she lay back on the bed and closed her eyes.
But Bao-yus confidence was shaken.
Had he a double?
When he told himself that he couldnt possibly, he now began to feel that perhaps after all he had.
On the other hand how could he be sure that he had when he had never seen him?
Brooding on this uncertainty, he went back to his room and lay down on his bed to ponder it in silence.
Soon he had drifted into sleep.
He was in a garden, which, he remarked with surprise, bore some resemblance to Prospect Garden.
While he was still puzzling over the similarity, he became aware that some girls were coming towards him, all of them maids.
Again he was surprised Strange that there should be another lot of maids here like Faithful and Aroma and Patience!
He observed that they were laughing at him Bao-yu, what are you doing here?
Bao-yu, naturally supposing that they meant him, smiled back at them Ive strayed in here by accident.
I think this garden must belong to some friend or other of my family.
Wont you take me with you and show me round it?
It isnt our Bao-yu after all, said the girls.
Hes not bad-looking, though, and he sounds reasonably intelligent.
Tell me, said Bao-yu eagerly, is there another Bao-yu here then?
Bao-yu?
rejoined one of the girls sharply.
We have Her Old Ladyships and Her Ladyships orders to use that name as much as possible as a means of bringing him luck and Bao-yu likes to hear us use it but what business has a boy like you from some remote place outside to be making free with it?
Dont let them catch you doing that here, boy or theyll flay your backside for you!
Come, lets be going, said another.
We dont want Bao- yu to see him.
Dont lets stand here talking to the nasty creature, said a third.
We shall be contaminated!
86 And they hurried off.
Bao-yu was nonplussed No one has ever been as horrid as that to me before.
I wonder why they are?
And I wonder if there really is another person exactly like me here.
As he mused on the unaccountable hostility of the maids, his feet were carrying him along in no particular direction and presently he found himself inside a courtyard.
He looked around him in some surprise Strange!
Theres even a place like Green Delights here.
He mounted the steps of the verandah and walked inside the building.
Someone was lying there on a bed.
On the other side of the room were some maids, some of them sewing, some of them giggling over a game they were playing.
Presently the person on the bed - it was a youth - could he heard to sigh and one of the maids laughingly inquired what he was sighing for.
Arent you asleep, Bao-yu?
I suppose you are worried about your cousins illness again and imagining all sorts of foolish things about her.
Bao-yu heard this with some astonishment.
He listened while the youth on the bed replied I heard Grandmother say that there is another Bao-yu in the capital who is exactly like me, but I didnt believe her.
Ive just been having a dream in which I went into a large garden and met some girls there who called me a nasty creature and wouldnt have anything to do with me.
I managed to find this Bao-yus room, but he was asleep.
What I saw was only an empty shell lying there on the bed.
I was wondering where the real person could have got to.
I came here looking for Bao-yu.
Are you Bao-yu then?
Bao-yu could not help blurting out.
The youth leaped down from the bed and seized Bao-yu by the hands So you are Bao-yu, and this isnt a dream after all?
Of course it isnt a dream, said Bao-yu.
It couldnt be more real!
Just then someone arrived with a summons The Master wants to see Bao-yu.
87 For a moment the two Bao-yus were stunned and then one Bao-yu hurried off and the other Bao-yu was left calling after him Come back, Bao-yu!
Come back, Bao-yu!
Aroma heard him calling his own name in his sleep and shook him awake.
Wheres Bao-yu ?
she asked him jokingly.
Though awake, Bao-yu had not yet regained consciousness of his surroundings.
He pointed to the doorway Hes only just left.
He cant have got very far.
Youre still dreaming, Aroma said, amused.
Rub your eyes and have another look.
Thats the mirror.
Youre looking at your own reflection in the mirror.
Bao-yu leaned forward and looked The doorway he had pointed to was his dressing-mirror.
He joined Aroma in laughing at himself.
Seeing him awake, maids were already at hand with a spittoon and a cup of strong tea for him to rinse his mouth with.
Musk recalled Grandmother Jias strictures against young people having too many mirrors around them.
She says that when youre young your soul isnt fully formed yet, and if youre reflected in mirrors too often, it can give your soul a shock which causes you to have bad dreams.
Fancy putting your bed right in front of that great mirror!
Its all right as long as its kept covered, but sometimes when youve been out to the front, especially in hot weather when youre feeling tired, they forget to cover it.
Thats what must have happened just now.
And you must have been looking at yourself in it before you dropped off to sleep.
That would be a sure way of bringing on a bad dream.
And it would explain why you were calling your own name out in your sleep.
Lets move this bed inside, away from the mirror, for goodness sake!
Just then a message arrived for Bao-yu from Lady Wang saying that she wanted to see him.
But as to what it was she wanted to see him about that will be revealed in the chapter which follows.
CHAPTER 57 Nightingale tests Jade Boy with a startling message And Aunt Xue comforts Frowner with words of loving kindness Obedient to the summons, Bao-yu hurried from the Garden and over to his mothers apartment.
It appeared that she was about to pay a call on Lady Zhen and wanted to take him with her.
Bao-yu was delighted and hurried back again to get changed.
The Zhens town house was very much like the Ning and Rong establishments - if anything, a shade more opulent.
In answer to Bao-yus questioning, Lady Zhen assured him that there was indeed a Bao-yu in Nanking.
She kept the two of them to dinner and they stayed there for the rest of the day.
Bao-yu was at last convinced.
As soon as they got back in the evening, Lady Wang made arrangements for entertaining Lady Zhen.
A first-class dinner was ordered, a well-known troupe of adult players engaged, and Lady Zhen and her daughter were invited to come over next day.
The day after that mother and daughter left town.
They had no time for farewells Sir Zhen had been ordered back to his post.
It was on the day of their departure that Bao-yu, after visiting Xiang-yun and finding that she was distinctly on the mend, went over to see how Dai-yu was getting on, only to be told that she was taking her afternoon nap.
Nightingale chanced to be sitting outside in the covered walk doing some sewing, so, not wishing to disturb Dai-yu, he went over to talk to Nightingale instead.
How was she last night?
Is her cough any better?
Yes, a bit better, said Nightingale.
Thank the Lord for that!
said Bao-yu fervently.
If only she could shake it off altogether!
Nightingale looked up at him with amusement Its not often we hear you calling on the Lord.
89 Bao-yu returned her smile Any doctor will do in an emergency.
His eye took in her costume as he said this a cotton-padded dress of thin black-and-white material with only a lined black satin waistcoat over the top of it.
He reached out his hand to feel it.
What youre wearing is much too thin for this time of year.
Youre sitting in a draught here as well.
If you go sick too, things here will be in a pretty pickle!
Look, said Nightingale sharply, lets just talk to each other in future, shall we, without any of this pawing about?
Now that were all beginning to grow up, it creates such a bad impression.
However much that horrible lot over there say things about you behind your back, you still carry on the same as when you were little.
It wont do.
Miss Lin has warned us time and again about getting into conversations with you.
Look at the way she behaves towards you herself nowadays she cant keep far enough away from you.
She rose to her feet as she said this and moved, with her sewing, into the house.
The effect of this rebuff on Bao-yus feelings was as if a bowl of icy water had been emptied over him.
For some moments he was stunned and stood gazing stupidly at the clump of bamboos that were growing in front of him then, as he became gradually aware that Mamma Zhu, to whose expert care they had been entrusted, was rooting about in their midst, he took himself off, but still in a daze, and scarcely aware what he was doing.
Presently he sat down on a rock somewhere to think.
Tears rolled down his cheeks, but he did not feel them.
For an hour or more he continued to sit there motionless, turning the same question, What am I to do?, over and over in his mind, but never reaching a conclusion.
Snowgoose, sent on an errand to fetch ginseng from Lady Wangs, passed by him on her way back.
As she glanced sideways from the path, she saw a figure sitting motionless on a rock underneath a peach-tree, chin cupped in hand and evidently lost in thought, which she recognized, with some surprise, as Bao-yu.
90 Its ever so cold, she thought what can he be doing, all on his own out here?
They say that sickly people are specially liable to catch things in spring.
Perhaps hes gone mental.
She went over to where he was sitting and, squatting down in front of him, peered smilingly into his face.
What are you doing out here?
Bao-yu noticed her with a start.
Why do you come up to me like this?
Youre a girl, arent you?
Shes told you all not to have anything to do with me, for fear of creating a scandal so why do you still come up to me?
If were seen here talking together therell only be more gossip.
Go back home!
Snowgoose assumed that Dai-yu had been upsetting him and continued on her way.
When she got back to the Naiads House, Dai-yu was still asleep, so she gave the ginseng to Nightingale.
What was Her Ladyship doing?
Nightingale asked her.
She was having an afternoon nap, too.
Thats why I was so long.
Ill tell you something that will make you laugh, Night.
While I was sitting in the servants room talking to Silver and waiting for Her Ladyship to get up, who should look in but Mrs Zhao, and beckoned me over to her.
And do you know what she wanted?
Theyre burying her brother tomorrow and shes got leave from Her Ladyship to go there for the wake.
Young Fortunes going with her, and she said Fortune hasnt got anything to wear, would I please lend her my pale- blue dress?
Well, I thought to myself, Fortunes got just as many dresses as I have the only reason she wants to borrow someone elses is because shes too mean to let her wear her own there and risk getting it dirtied.
I wouldnt mind lending it to her - even if she dirtied it, it wouldnt matter all that much - but what has she ever done for us?
So I said, Miss Lin told me to hand all my clothes and jewellery to Nightingale to look after.
I should have to see Nightingale about it first, and I should have to tell Miss Lin.
It might take rather a long time.
I might not be able to get it to you before you go, I said.
Perhaps it would be safer to borrow someone elses.
Nightingale laughed.
Youre an artful little minx, arent you?
You dont want 91 -5947 to lend her your dress, but you take very good care that its me and Miss Lin that get blamed for refusing it, and not you.
Is Mrs Zhao going now, then, or first thing tomorrow?
Now, said Snowgoose.
Shes probably already left.
Nightingale nodded.
It looks as if Miss Lins still asleep, said Snowgoose.
If it wasnt her, I wonder who it was that made Bao-yu so upset.
He was sitting Out there in the Garden crying.
Oh?
said Nightingale sharply.
Where?
Under that peach-tree behind Drenched Blossoms Pavilion.
Nightingale hurriedly put down her sewing and stood up.
You take over in case she calls.
If she wants me, tell her Ill be back directly.
She sped off to look for Bao-yu.
There was a reassuring smile on her face as she came up to him.
That was only a harmless little remark I made, and it was only for your own and everyone elses good.
Why did you need to get in such a passion and go rushing off to sit in the wind here and cry?
Suppose you were to get ill as a result of this.
Immediately Bao-yu was his smiling self once more I wasnt in a passion.
I thought what you said was very reasonable.
What upset me was the thought that if you felt that way, then other people must feel that way too, in which case soon everyone would stop having anything to do with me.
Nightingale sat down companionably at his side.
A short while ago you moved away from me when I was standing opposite you, said Bao-yu.
Now, apparently, it is all right to sit close beside me.
I suppose youve forgotten the time when you and Miss Lin were talking together and Mrs Zhao burst in on you, said Nightingale.
That was what made me careful.
Now Ive just heard that shes away, so its quite safe.
Incidentally, theres something about that occasion Ive always wanted to ask you.
You were about to say something about birds nest when she came in but didnt have a chance to finish and youve never referred to it since.
Oh, it was nothing important, said Bao-yu.
Its just that 92 once you start taking birds nest, youve got to keep it up, and it seemed to me that as Cousin Bao is really here as our guest, it would be rather boorish to keep asking her for more on the other hand it would be rather awkward to have to ask Lady Wang for it so I dropped a hint to Grandma, and I rather think that she had a word on the subject with Feng.
Thats all I was going to tell Dai when we were interrupted.
Ive since heard that youre getting an ounce a day regularly, so there hasnt seemed any need to mention it., Oh, so it was you who told her about it, said Nightingale.
In that case we owe you our thanks.
We couldnt think what it was that could have suddenly put it into her head.
She should take it regularly, every day, said Bao-yu.
If she can keep it up for two or three years, she should get completely better.
Its easy enough now, said Nightingale, but where will she find the money for it next year, when she goes home?
Bao-yu was startled.
When who goes home?
What home?
When your Cousin Dai goes back to Soochow.
Bao-yu laughed Youre joking.
Soochow is where her father came from, I know.
But the reason we brought her here in the first place was because when my Aunt Lin died there was no one to look after her.
There wouldnt be anyone in Soochow for her to go to.
You must be lying.
How arrogant you are I said Nightingale scornfully.
I suppose you think yours is the only big family in the world.
According to you, I suppose, other people only have fathers and mothers they couldnt possibly have uncles and aunts on their fathers side like you do.
As a matter of fact, when Miss Lin came here it wasnt because there werent any relations of her fathers that she could have gone to it was because Her Old Ladyship was afraid that being so little she might not be as happy with them as she would with her mothers folk.
But it was only ever her intention to keep her here for a few years.
As soon as shes old enough to be married, shell have to go back to the Lin family.
You could hardly expect a Lin family girl to spend the rest of her days among Jias, now 93 could you?
The Lins may be too poor to afford a square meal, but they are people of education.
Theyd never sink so low as to hand over responsibility for one of their own number to their marriage-kin.
Next year - next spring at the earliest, but certainly not later than next autumn - either your family will send her back to them or the Lins themselves will come here to fetch her.
Miss Lin was talking to me about it only the other night.
She said I was to ask you to get together all the little presents shes ever given you and send them back to her, and shell do the same with yours.
To Bao-yu these words were like a thunderclap exploding immediately overhead.
Nightingale waited to see how he would reply, but he made no sound.
Growing at last impatient, she was about to speak to him again when Skybright appeared.
She had been looking for him everywhere, she said.
He was wanted by his grandmother.
Hes been here all this time talking about Miss Lins ill-ness, said Nightingale.
I keep telling him how she is, but he wont believe me.
If you want him to go with you, youll have to take hold of him and make him go.
She left then, without waiting to see more.
Skybright noticed Bao-yus vacant expression.
His forehead was beaded with sweat and there was a red, inflamed look about his face.
She seized him by the hand and hurried him back to Green Delights.
Aroma was naturally alarmed to see Bao-yu come back in such a state, but attributed it to the weather it was an in-clement spring and he had gone out while overheated and exposed himself to the wind.
But it soon became apparent that feverishness was the least serious of his symptoms.
His eyes had a fixed and glassy stare, a little trickle of saliva ran from each corner of his mouth, and he seemed to have lost all consciousness of what he was doing when they brought him a pillow he lay down when they pulled him by the hand he sat up again when they handed him a cup of tea he drank it but all with the mechanical movements of an automaton.
The maids, when they saw this, were in a panic but not daring to report yet to Grandmother Jia, they first sent for Nannie Li to tell them what was wrong.
94 Nannie Li came promptly.
Before she did anything else, she spent a good long while simply observing him.
Then she asked him a few questions, but he made no reply.
Then she took his wrist in her hand and felt his pulse.
Finally, taking the raphe of his lip between her thumb and finger, she pinched it a couple of times, so hard that a deep imprint was made by her nails yet he seemed to feel nothing.
Lord a mercy!
cried the old woman in a pathetic voice, and clinging to his body, she set up a howl and wept.
Aroma, beside herself with anxiety, tugged imploringly at her sleeve Nannie, Nannie, have another look at him and tell us how serious it is, so that we know what to say to Their Ladyships.
Dont just cry!
Nannie Li hammered the bed with her fists Its all up with him, I tell you.
All the heartache Ive had on account of him was wasted.
Aroma and the girls who, whatever else they might think of Nannie Li, respected her age and experience, assumed that she must know what she was talking about and all began crying too.
Skybright now told Aroma the circumstances in which she had found Bao-yu.
Without a moments hesitation Aroma flew over to the Naiads House, arriving just as Nightingale was giving Dai-yu her medicine.
Wasting no time on civility, she stalked straight up to Nightingale and confronted her there and then.
What did you say just now to our Bao-yu?
Just go and take a look at him, will you, then go and tell Her Old Lady ship, because I wont be responsible.
She concluded by sitting down rudely in a chair.
The sight of Aroma, with her angry, tear-stained face, behaving in a way that was so utterly uncharacteristic of her, filled Dai-yu with alarm.
What is it?
Aroma made an effort to control herself and answered tearfully I dont know what Her Ladyship here can have said to him, but that simpleton of ours just stares into space without speaking, his hands and feet are icy-cold, and when Nannie 95 Li pinches him, he doesnt seem to feel anything.
He looked half dead when I left.
Even Nannie Li said it was all up with him.
Shes over there wailing for him now.
He may be already dead for all I know.
To Dai-yu, as to the girls, Nannie Li, for all her failings, was an old woman whose words carried the weight of experience.
If she said it was all up with Bao-yu, it must be all up with him.
There was a horrible sickening sound as she vomited up the medicine she had just taken, followed by a dreadful paroxysm of silent coughing that seemed to rack every nerve and fibre of her body.
She coughed until her face was scarlet and her hair was in disorder, until her eyes bulged and the veins stood out on her forehead, coughed until she was so breathless that she was unable to lift her face up from the bed.
Nightingale at once began thumping her, but Dai-yu raised herself with an effort from the pillow and, after struggling for some moments to regain her breath, pushed her away Dont do that.
Get a rope and strangle me - that would be kinder!
But I didnt say anything, Nightingale protested.
I was only joking.
He must have taken me seriously.
Surely you know better by now than to joke with him?
said Aroma.
Hes such a fool, he always takes everything seriously.
Whatever it was you said to him, said Dai-yu, youd better go over there straight away and unsay it.
That might bring him back to his senses.
Nightingale climbed hurriedly off the bed and accompanied Aroma to Green Delights.
Unfortunately Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang were also there when they arrived.
At the sight of Nightingale, Grandmother Jias eyes flashed angrily.
Wicked creature!
What did you say to him?
I didnt say anything, said Nightingale.
I was only pulling his leg.
There was a sudden Aiya!
from the bed.
It was Bao-yu, who had just caught sight of Nightingale and who now, to everyones relief, burst into tears.
Grandmother Jia seized hold of Nightingale and thrust her towards him.
She supposed that Nightingale had offended 96 Bao-yu in some way and that he would find relief in beating her.
To her surprise, instead of doing any such thing, he clung to her imploringly If youre going, take me with you!
No one could make head or tall of this until Nightingale had been questioned and explained to them the nature of her hoax.
So thats all it was!
said Grandmother Jia in tears.
And I was thinking it must be something serious!
She chided Nightingale, but less unkindly now Youre normally such a sensible girl.
Surely you know hes inclined to be a bit simple at times?
What on earth possessed you to tease him like that?
Aunt Xue urged a less serious view of Bao-yus derangement Its true that he is a simple-hearted child but his Cousin Lin came here when they were both little and they have grown up together and are closer to each other than any of the other children.
I think you would expect him to be upset, suddenly out of the blue like that being told that she was going away.
Never mind a simple-hearted child, I should think even a sophisticated grown-up would be!
This isnt a serious illness, Lady Jia.
Im sure you and my sister have no reason to feel worried.
A dose or two of medicine and hell be perfectly all right again.
Just at that moment the wives of Lin Zhi-xiab and Lai Da were announced, come to see how the young master was.
How thoughtful of them!
said Grandmother Jia.
Tell them to come in.
But at the sound of the name Lin Bao-yu began threshing about wildly on the bed, calling out that the Lins had come to fetch Dai-yu and insisting that they should be sent away.
Yes, send them away, said Grandmother Jia, while at the same time she did her best to soothe him There, there, there.
That wasnt anyone from the Lin family.
The Lins all died out long ago.
There arent any of them left to fetch her.
Dont worry!
I dont care who it was, said Bao-yu.
I dont want any Lins here, apart from Cousin Lin.
There arent any Lins here, said Grandmother Jia.
All the Lins in this place have been sent away.
97 She turned to the servants In future Lin Zhi-xlaos wife is not to be allowed inside the Garden.
And I dont want the word Lin to pass your lips even.
Is that clearly understood, everyone?
Yes, madam, the servants replied in chorus, not daring to laugh.
Presently Bao-yus eye chanced to light on a little metal self-propelling boat - a West Ocean toy - which stood on one of the alcove shelves in the carved partition.
Immediately he became excited again.
Look!
he said, pointing, the ship thats come to fetch her - thats where theyve docked it, over there.
At a hurried order from his grandmother, Aroma took it down from the shelf.
He held his hand out to receive it, and as soon as it was in his possession, hid it under the quilt, chuckling with satisfaction as he did so They wont get away now!
All this time he continued to hold tightly on to Nightingale with his other hand.
The doctors arrival was announced and Grandmother Jia gave orders that he should be brought in immediately.
Lady Wang, Aunt Xue and the girls withdrew into the inner room.
Grandmother Jia herself continued to sit beside Bao-yu on the edge of the bed.
As her attendants also remained, there were a good many people in the room when the doctor entered.
It was Dr Wang.
He paid his respects to the old lady before proceeding to take Bao-yus pulse, mystified by the presence of a shame-faced Nightingale, who, unable to leave Bao-yus side, could only stand there and hang her head.
After feeling the pulse for a while, Dr Wang rose to his feet.
The young gentleman is suffering from a delirium caused by a phlegmatic occlusion of the cardiac orifices.
The ancients recognized three main types of this form of dementia in the first type the delirium is associated with an anaemic deficiency, when the body is failing to absorb its nourishment in the second, it is brought on by some violent emotional disturbance, such as anger in the third, the occlusion occurs as a result of shock.
This is a delirium of the third type.
In this 98 type, fortunately, the occlusion is only a temporary one, so it is less serious than the other two.
Just tell us whether its dangerous or not, said Grand mother Jia.
Were not asking you for a treatise on medicine.
Dr Wang laughed deprecatingly and bowed Hell be all right.
Will he really be all right?
Unquestionably, said the doctor.
I give you my word for it.
Very well, said Grandmother Jia.
Then perhaps you will go outside now and write your prescription.
If he recovers, I promise you a handsome reward, and Bao-yu himself shall bring it to you and kotow to you when he brings it.
But if he doesnt get better, I shall have the main hall of the College of Physicians pulled down about your ears!
How kind!
How kind!
The doctor, bowing and smiling at the prospect of a handsome reward and Bao-yu kotowing at his feet, could not have heard the threat which followed, for he continued to say How kind!
after it had been uttered and left the room pursued by a wave of laughter.
The medicine he prescribed was soon concocted and Bao-yu did, after taking it, become a good deal calmer.
But he would not release Nightingale.
If she goes, he said, I shall know that they are leaving for Soochow.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang saw that there was nothing for it but to let Nightingale stay with him.
Amber was sent to look after Dai-yu in her place.
Dai-yus other maid, Snowgoose, was kept busy running to and fro for news of Bao-yus condition.
By evening this was sufficiently improved for Grandmother Jia and the other visitors to feel that they could return to their own apartments.
They continued to inquire after him by messenger, however, throughout the course of the night.
Nannie Li came again, bringing Mamma Song and several other old nannies to help watch over him.
Nightingale, Aroma, Skybright and Musk kept up a constant vigil at his bedside throughout the night.
From time to time Bao-yu would drop off, but invariably he would wake up with a start from some 99 dream and tearfully announce to them either that Dai-yu had already gone or that people had come to take her away.
Each time this happened Nightingale was the only one who could calm him.
Grandmother Jia had sent over various nostrums -pills and powders she had heard recommended as sovereign specifics in cases of mental disorder - and they used these to dose him with when he woke up.
Next day, after another dose of Dr Wangs medicine, Bao- yu was distinctly better.
His mind was clear now, but because he did not wish to lose Nightingale yet, he pretended that it was still affected.
Nightingale regretted what she had done and bore the antics of this pseudo-madman and the weariness of waiting on him both night and day with uncomplaining fortitude.
Its only right that you should have to nurse him, seeing that you were the one who set him off, said Aroma, relieved that Bao-yu was only play-acting.
You should have known better.
Hes a case, this young master of ours.
Tell him the winds blowing on a fine day, and next minute he can hear the rain!
Heighho!
What hell be like when hes grown up doesnt bear thinking of!
But she did not pursue the subject.
Xiang-yun had by now recovered completely and could drop in daily to see how Bao-yu was progressing.
As soon as he seemed normal, she treated them all to an imitation of his madness.
Her mimicry was so droll that even Bao-yu had to laugh, shamefacedly, into his pillow.
He had no recollection of what he had been like when it all started and now, when they told him, he did not believe them.
Once, when no one was about, he took Nightingales hand in his own and drew her to him.
-320 Why did you scare me like that?
I was pulling your leg, said Nightingale.
It was only a joke, but you took it seriously.
That was no joke, said Bao-yu.
It was too well-reasoned.
Nightingale laughed.
I made it all up.
Theres no Lin family - leastways, if there 100 is, theyre very, very distant relations, and not in Soochow, either, but scattered all over the place, in different provinces.
And even if one of them did come to take her away, Her Old Ladyship would never let her go.
I wouldnt, even if she did, said Bao-yu.
I wonder, said Nightingale.
I think youre only saying that.
Youre not a child any longer now.
Youre already betrothed.
Another two or three years, when youre married, you wont have time for anyone else.
Bao-yu heard her with astonishment.
Betrothed?
To whom?
Just before New Year I heard Her Old Ladyship say that she was betrothing you to Miss Qin.
Thats why she makes so much of her, isnt it?
Bao-yu burst out laughing.
Everyone calls me a simpleton, but youre an even bigger simpleton than I am.
That was only a joke.
Qins already betrothed to Academician Meis son.
Do you think I would have taken it so calmly if I had been betrothed to her?
Dont you remember the scene we had last time, when I swore all those oaths and tried to break this beastly thing - he pointed to his jade - and you had such a job trying to stop me?
What are you trying to do?
Start me off again?
He ground his teeth.
If only I could die this minute and my heart burst out of my body so that you could see how true it is!
After that I shouldnt care if all of me - flesh, blood and bones - was burned to ashes, and the ashes turned to smoke, and the smoke blown by the winds into every corner of the earth !
Big tears rolled down his cheeks.
Nightingale covered his mouth up in alarm then, as she wiped his eyes for him, she spoke to him soothingly as to a child There, there.
Theres no need to get so worked up about it.
Im the one who needs to worry.
Thats why I said those things to test you.
You?
said Bao-yu in surprise.
What have you got to be worried about?
You know I never belonged to the Lin family, dont you, said Nightingale.
I was originally one of Her Old Ladyships 101 servants, like Faithful and your Aroma.
I was transferred to Miss Lin, but as it turned out I got on very well with her -ten times better, as a matter of fact, than the maid she brought with her from Yangchow - and since then weve become inseparable.
Lately Ive been worried by the thought that she might have to leave here - in which case, of course, I should want to go with her.
But all my family is here.
If I didnt go with her, it would seem like a betrayal after what weve been to each other all these years.
On the other hand if I did go, it would mean leaving my family behind.
I wasnt sure about how serious you were in wanting her to stay.
Thats why I made those things up.
I wanted to test you.
I never imagined you were going to make such an uproar, or I wouldnt have said them.
So thats what was worrying you!
said Bao-yu, smiling.
Well, you are a simpleton.
Please dont worry about that any more.
Let me try to put it for you in a nutshell.
In life we shall live together in death we shall mingle our dust.
How will that do?
Nightingale said nothing, but appeared to be thinking.
One of the old women came in to announce that Jia Huan and Jia Lan had come to inquire after Bao-yus health.
Tell them its very kind of them, said Bao-yu, but not to come in here, because Ive only just gone to sleep.
Very good, said the old woman, and went off to relay the message.
Now that youre better, said Nightingale, you ought to let me go back to see how my other invalid is getting on.
Yes, youre right, said Bao-yu.
I was meaning to tell you last night that you could go back, but I forgot.
I am completely better now.
You can go back straight away.
Nightingale began tying up her bedding and getting her toilet things together.
I notice youve got several mirrors in your vanity box, said Bao-yu.
Why dont you give me that little one with the pattern of caltrops on it as a keepsake?
I can keep it by my pillow to use when Im in bed, and it will be handy to take with me when I go out.
Nightingale gave him the mirror, then, having first 102 arranged for someone to carry over her things, took leave of the other maids and returned on her own to the Naiads House.
During the past few days Dai-yus anxiety for Bao-yu had led to a relapse and had been the occasion of several fits of weeping.
On inquiring nervously why Nightingale had returned, she was relieved to hear that it was because Bao-yu was better.
As Ambers services were now no longer needed, she sent her back to Grandmother Jia.
That night, when all the others had gone to bed and she had undressed and was lying not far off from her mistress, Nightingale addressed her, in guarded undertone, on the subject of Bao-yus intentions.
Bao-yu really is a simple soul.
Do you know what made him ill?
It was because he heard that we were going away.
Dai-yu said nothing.
After waiting in vain for a reply, Nightingale went on as if speaking to herself.
Much better stay where we are.
You couldnt ask for a better family than this.
And the two of you have grown up together and know each others likes and dislikes.
Where else would you find someone who understood you so well?
Dai-yu snorted at her disgustedly.
Arent you tired after all your exertions during these last few days?
I cant understand why, instead of chattering away to yourself, you dont take this opportunity to get a bit of rest.
It isnt lust chatter, said Nightingale.
Im concerned about your future, Miss.
Its been worrying me for years.
Youve no father or mother or brothers theres no one else who will concern themselves about it.
The important thing is to get it all properly settled while Her Old Ladyship is still well and in her right mind.
You know what they say Good health in the old is like warm weather in winter you cant depend on it.
If anything were suddenly to happen to her, the chance of getting someone you really liked would have passed you by.
No doubt they would do their best to marry you to someone of good family, but look how many of these young aristocrats keep concubines, and how changeable they are in their affections.
Some of them if they were married to the Queen 103 of Heaven would tire of her in a week.
And neglect is not the worst part of it often there are hard words and harsh treatment to follow.
When that happens, if the wife has a powerful family to stick up for her, it isnt so bad but what about someone in your position?
As long as Her Old Ladyship is alive youll be all right, but once shes gone, youll be at everyones mercy.
Thats why I say weve got to make our minds up.
-1654 Easier a golden hoard to win Than find one understanding heart.
Youre a clever young lady.
Im sure you must know that saying.
This girls gone out of her mind, said Dai-yu.
Just these few days away and shes come back completely altered.
I shall have to tell Her Old Ladyship about this tomorrow and get her to take you back.
Im afraid you cant stay with me any longer.
I meant no harm, said Nightingale.
Ive only told you to think about it I havent asked you to do anything wicked.
Why should you tell Her Old Ladyship?
Itll only get me into trouble, and what good will that do you?
She said no more, and presently went to sleep.
Not so Dai-yu.
However she might have concealed the fact from Nightingale, she was deeply affected by what the maid had said, and while Nightingale slept beside her, she lay awake weeping through the greater part of the night.
The darkness was beginning to lighten when she finally dropped off to sleep.
Washing that morning required an effort.
Not long after she had finished her birds nest syrup, Grandmother Jia came in person to see her and waxed eloquent on the importance of getting well.
It was Aunt Xues birthday and everyone from Grandmother Jia downwards sent her a present.
Dai-yu looked out two little articles of her own embroidering to send her.
Aunt Xue hired a troupe of child actors and threw a birthday party which everyone except Bao-yu and Dai-yu attended.
Grand- 104 mother Jia took everyone to call on them both on her way hack from it.
Next day there was another party for the employees of the Xue family at which Xue Ke acted as host on his aunts behalf.
There were more festivities on the day which followed.
Altogether three or four days were spent just in celebrating the one birthday.
Aunt Xue was very impressed with what she had seen of Xing Xiu-yan.
She was such a refined, serious girl, in spite of her unfortunate upbringing the very model of virtue in homespun and a wooden hairpin.
Aunt Xue had thought of her as a possible daughter-in-law, but when she reflected on the lawless nature of her son, it seemed a pity that so nice a girl should be thrown away on him.
She was still trying to make her mind up about this when suddenly it occurred to her that Xue Ke was not yet betrothed and that he and Xiu-yan would make an ideal couple.
She decided to ask Xi-feng for her advice.
Xi-feng was enthusiastic.
But you know how difficult Lady Xing can be, she said.
Why dont you leave it to me, Auntie?
Let me deal with it in my own time.
She found her opportunity of broaching the subject when Grandmother Jia next came to call on her.
Theres something my Aunt Xue wants you to do for her, Grannie, but shes a little bit shy of asking.
Oh?
Whats that?
said Grandmother Jia.
She laughed when Xi-feng explained.
Good gracious, thats nothing to be shy about!
Its a splendid idea.
Let me have a talk with your mother-in-law about this.
She wont refuse, I promise you.
As soon as she was back in her own apartment, she summoned Lady Xing and proposed the match to her, urging its suitability in forceful terms.
Lady Xing did some rapid thinking the Xue family were of respectable origins they were immensely rich Xue Ke was a good-looking boy and Grandmother Jia was making herself responsible for the match.
Confident that she would be able to turn it to her own advantage, she assented, to Grandmother Jias intense satisfaction, without more ado.
The 105 presence of Aunt Xue was now requested and the self-abasing civilities customary on these occasions exchanged between her and Lady Xing.
When these had somewhat abated, Lady Xing sent someone to inform Xing Xiu-yans parents, Xing De-quan and his wife, of the Xue familys proposal.
Living as they now did on Lady Xings charity, they were scarcely in a position to refuse even if they wanted to, and the messenger was soon back again reporting their prompt and enthusiastic acceptance.
I love meddling in other peoples affairs, said Grandmother Jia jovially.
I seem to have meddled successfully in this one.
I hope I am going to be paid something for my services.
Of course, said Aunt Xue.
The only difficulty will be knowing how much to give you.
What shall we say?
Ten thousand taels?
Probably you would regard that as too little!
What we really need is a sponsor to settle these matters for us.
We may be short of manpower in this family, said Grandmother Jia, but I dare say we could rustle up a couple of cripples for you!
She sent someone to fetch You-shi and her daughter-in-law from Ning-guo House.
As soon as they arrived, she explained why she had invited them, whereupon they turned to the other two ladies and offered them their congratulations.
Now, said Grandmother Jia when they had finished, you know our way of doing things in this family, dont you - you know we never haggle about bride-prices and face and that sort of thing?
We want you to act as a third party and settle this for us.
What we want is a settlement that is not too lavish and yet not too economical something between the two.
And when youve worked out what each of the parties should contribute, come and tell me what you have decided.
You-shi promptly agreed to do this.
Aunt Xue, delighted that everything had gone off so well, hurried home and at once had a formal invitation to act as marriage-sponsor drawn up and sent over to Ning-guo House to confirm the arrangement.
You-shi knew Lady Xing too well to want to be mixed up 106 -1307 in any affairs - particularly one of a pecuniary nature - to which she was a party.
She had agreed in this instance only because Grandmother Jia had asked her to and she could not very well refuse.
In the event she simply arranged matters in the way she thought would best please Lady Xing .
Aunt Xue was a very accommodating person and could be relied on to fall in with almost any terms.
But it is not with details such as these that our narrative is concerned.
Aunt Xue's betrothal of her nephew to Xing Xiu-yan was soon common knowledge throughout the household.
At first Lady Xing wanted to segregate the girl by moving her in with herself, but Grandmother Jia objected.
'Surely she can stay where she is?
She can't see anything of the boy, of course, but surely there's no harm in her continuing to see Mrs Xue and Bao-chai and little Qin?
They're all females, after all.
It will be cosier if they get to know each other better.'
Lady Xing did not renew her offer.
And what of the parties themselves?
Xue Ke and Xing Xiu-yan had met briefly on the journey to the capital and there was no reason to suppose that they were not extremely pleased with the betrothal.
Inevitably Xiu-yan became a little more withdrawn after it, spending rather less of her time in Bao-chai's and Bao-qin's company and speaking, when she was in it, rather more sparingly.
But this was partly because Shi Xiang-yun was such a tease.
Fortunately she was far too intelligent and well-bred to indulge in any of that false modesty, so common among girls in her position, which shows itself in affected simpering and ridiculous grimaces.
Ever since the day they first met, Bao-chai had felt sorry for Xiu-yan.
First of all she was so poor.
And then there was her father.
Unlike most of the fathers that Bao-chai knew about - grave gentlemen who had gained wisdom with their years - Xiu-yan's father was a drunken sot who took little interest in his daughter's welfare.
As for Lady Xing, Bao-chai could see that the affection she showed her niece was simulated and that really she did not care for her in the least.
And Ying-chun, whose apartment she shared, was too docile to assert herself even on her own behalf, let alone anyone else's.
107 -1307 Since Xiu-yan was too proud to ask for things, this meant that whenever anything was lacking, even one of the simple necessities of life, she had simply to go with out it.
Knowing this, Bao-chai did all she could to anticipate her wants but she gave by stealth, careful lest Lady Xing, who was sensitive to gossip, if to nothing else should get to hear of it.
Xiu-yan had learned to cherish Bao-chai as a special friend long before this magnificent betrothal so wildly beyond her own and everyone else's expectations and, after it, continued from time to time to confide in her.
Bao-chai for her part continued to treat her as an intimate friend and would use none of the formalities that are customary between prospective sisters-in-law.
One day, when Bao-chai was on her way to visit Dai-yu, she caught sight of Xiu-yan, who, as it happened, was also on her way there.
Bao-chai smiled and beckoned and waited for Xiu-yan to catch up with her.
The two girls then walked on together until they came to the rear side of a miniature mountain of rock.
There, where no prying eyes could see them, Bao-chai stopped again.
'The weather is still really cold.
Why have you changed Out of your winter clothes already and put on single linings?'
Xiu-yan hung her head and said nothing.
Ba-chai guessed at once that she had been forced to pawn them.
'It must be because you haven't had this month's allowance yet,' she said.
'How could Cousin Feng be so thoughtless?'
'No,' said Xiu-yan.
'She didn't forget.
She paid the allowance on time.
But Aunt Xing sent someone to tell me that she thought I didn't really need two taels a month and that I ought to contribute one of them towards my parents' upkeep.
She said that if there ever was anything I needed, I could always hent it from Cousin Ying's things' - suppressed emotion was causing her to lapse into her native dialect -'But I ask you, coz, how could I?
Cousin Ying wouldn't mind - she is so meek - and she probably wouldn't notice, any road.
But though she wouldn't say anything, you can be quite sure that the servants would.
The nannies and maids in that apartment are such a prickly lot and so spiteful with their tongues.
Although I am living there, I dare not ask them to do very 108 much for me, and even for what little they do I am expected to find money to buy them drinks and other little treats with every four or five days.
Even when I was getting two taels it wasnt enough, and now its only one.
The only way of raising money I could think of was by pawning my winter clothes.
I got someone to slip out and do it for me the other day.
-294 Bao-chai sighed.
Its a pity all the Mei family areaway just now.
Academician Mei isnt due back from his posting until the year after next.
if they were here in town, Bao-qin could get married straight away and then we could go ahead with your affair and get you out of this mess.
But as things are, your Prospective will never consent to get married before his sister, so the difficulty remains.
I shall have to have a word with Mamma about this.
Obviously you cant go on as you are.
Another year or two like this and I am afraid you will go into a decline.
In future, if those people are nasty to you, you must learn to put up with it.
You mustnt make yourself ill trying to please them.
Perhaps you had better hand over the whole of your remaining tad to them when it comes see if that will keep them quiet.
But dont go treating them any more, whatever you do.
Never mind the spiteful things they say to you.
If it gets too bad, you can always walk away.
And if you are short of anything, dont behave like a little frightened mouse ask me straight out for it, without delay.
I say this not because we are future sisters-in-law but because we are friends.
We are friends, arent we, and have been ever since you came?
If you are afraid of gossip, dont come yourself when you want something, send your maid for it, then no one will know.
Xiu-yan hung her head and the reply she made was scarcely audible.
In order to change the subject, Bao-chai pointed to a green jade girdle-ring that was hanging from her waist.
Who gave you that?
Cousin Tan, said Xiu-yan.
Bao-chai nodded.
She must have noticed that all the other girls were wearing one of these things and wanted to spare you the embarrassment of being the only one without.
It is typical of her to be so thoughtful.
However, I think you ought to realize that 109 these sort of gewgaws are really for the daughters of mandarins and noblemen.
Look at me you dont see any jewellery on me.
A few years ago, its true, I would have been smothered with it but I know now that we are less well off than we used to be, and have given up wearing it as a means of economizing.
No doubt when you marry you will be provided with a whole trunkful of this stuff, In the meantime, though, we dont need to compete with the others in finery, you and I.
As long as we are honest and remain true to ourselves, it doesnt matter that we cannot equal them in appearance.
Xiu-yan smiled.
In that case, I shall go back and take it off, she said.
Dont be so precipitate, said Bao-chai.
She meant it as a kindness.
If she sees you not wearing it, she will wonder why.
I spoke only in general terms, for your future guidance.
Xiu-yan murmured her assent.
Where are you going now, coz?
she asked Bao-chai.
To the Naiads House, said Bao-chai.
Why dont you go back now and get your maid to bring me that pawn ticket?
Ill send someone out on the quiet to redeem the things for you and get them round to you in the evening without anyone knowing, so that you can begin wearing them again as soon as possible.
We dont want you catching cold in this wind, do we?
Oh, theres just one other thing where did you pawn them?
I think its called the Reliant, said Xiu-yan.
Its in Drum Tower Street West.
Bao-chai laughed.
Well, at least theyve stayed in the family.
If the assistants realized where they had come from, they must have thought they were receiving an advance instalment of your trousseau!
Xiu-yan coloured, realizing that the Reliant must be one of the Xue familys businesses.
She did not say anything, however, but with a little laugh hurried back to look for the pawn ticket.
Bao-chai continued on her way to the Naiads House.
She arrived to find her mother already ensconced and in the midst of conversation with Dai-yu.
Mamma, what a surprise!
When did you arrive?
110 Ive been so busy during these last few days that I havent had time to see her or Bao-yu.
Today I decided to see both of them, but both of them seem to be better.
Dai-yu urged Bao-chai to be seated.
The worlds affairs are very mysterious, she said, by way of bringing her into the conversation.
Who would ever have thought that your mother and Aunt Xing would end up as c ommeres?
My child, said Aunt Xue, you are too young to understand these things.
Old folk talk about the unseen thread that binds.
They say that marriages are decided by an Old Man Under the Moon who joins future couples together by tying them round the ankles with a scarlet thread, and that once hes done that, it doesnt matter how far apart they are, even if there are oceans between them, sooner or later something will happen to bring them together and they will end up husband and wife.
These things are quite unpredictable.
Sometimes there will be two young people whose parents on both sides are favourable to their union, who have lived years together in the same place, and who take it as a foregone conclusion that they are going to marry, yet if the Old Man Under the Moon hasnt tied them with his scarlet thread, then in spite of everything, they never will.
Take you two girls, now we dont know whether at this moment the two young men you will marry are right here under our noses or somewhere south of the mountains and north of the sea!
Mamma!
said Bao-chai, burying her head in her mothers dress, how you do always drag one in when you get talking!
Look at her!
said Dai-yu, mockingly.
What a great baby!
Shes ever so poised and grown-up when you arent here, Auntie.
Its only when shes with you that she puts on this little girl act.
Aunt Xue stroked the recumbent head, still buried in her lap, and sighed indulgently.
I suppose its a bit like Cousin Feng and your grandmother.
Chai can be perfectly serious with me when things need discussing, but at the same time she knows the little ways of cheering me up - she knows that when she becomes my little girl again, it helps me forget my troubles.
111 It was Dai-yus turn to sigh now.
A tear rolled down each cheek.
I dont know why she has to do it here though unless she wants to rub in the fact that I havent got a mother.
Oh Mamma, just listen to that!
said Bao-chai.
Whos putting on a little girl act now?
You mustnt blame her for being upset, said Aunt Xue.
Poor child!
She has no one.
She stroked Dai-yus hair and tried to comfort her.
Dont cry, my dear.
You mustnt be upset because I make a fuss of your cousin.
Im as fond of you, you know- perhaps even more so.
Although Chai has no father, she has got me and Pan so you see I know that you have the greater need.
She knows how fond I am of you, because I am always telling her.
The only reason I dont show it more is because there are a lot of people in this household who are always ready to put a false construction on things.
If they saw me being nice to you, they would say that I did it not for the very obvious reason that everything about you cries out to be loved and that one can hardly help loving you, but because I saw how much your grandmother loves you and wanted to curry favour with her.
You say you love me as much as Chai, said Dai-yu.
Let me be your god-daughter then.
Dont refuse, Auntie, or I shall think you dont really mean it., If you will have me for your godmother, I should like nothing better.
-294 Out of the question, said Bao-chai flatly.
But why?
said Dai-yu.
Bao-chai smiled mischievously Tell me, why do you think Cousin Xing was betrothed to my Cousin Ke?
Why wasnt she betrothed to my brother, who is Cousin Kes senior and who still hasnt got a betrothed?
I suppose because your brother is away, said Dai-yu, or perhaps their horoscopes are incompatible.
No, said Bao-chai, thats not the reason.
Its because someone has already been chosen for my brother.
We are only waiting for him to come home to make it public.
I dont need 112 to name names.
If I tell you that you cant possibly become Mammas god-daughter, you ought to be able to work it out for yourself.
She winked at her mother and broke into a laugh.
This time it was Dai-yu who buried her face in Aunt Xues bosom.
Beat her, Auntie, beat her - I insist!
Aunt Xue hugged her niece, laughing You mustnt believe what she says.
Shes only teasing.
No, seriously, Mamma, said Bao-chai, why dont you ask Lady Jia some time if you can have Cousin Lin for your daughter-in-law?
You will never find a better one elsewhere.
Dai-yu threw herself on Bao-chai and made as if to scratch her Have you gone quite mad?
Aunt Xue laughingly held them apart.
If I thought that your brother was not good enough for Xiu-yan - which is why I betrothed her to your cousin Ke -I certainly wouldnt inflict him on this child here.
Not so long ago Lady Jia was asking me about Bao-qin as a possible match for Bao-yu, but I had to tell her that Bao-qin was already betrothed - not that otherwise it wouldnt have been a very good match.
The other day, when wed finished discussing Ke and Xiu-yans betrothal, she began teasing me about it.
Last time, when I wanted one of her girls, she said, I couldnt have her and now here she is snapping up one of ours!
She was only joking, of course, but I could see that she was thinking about Bao-yu still and half inviting me to make a suggestion.
I rather wish now that I had.
She is so concerned about him, and he is such a peculiar boy.
You cant see him getting on with some girl chosen for him from outside.
I think much the most satisfactory arrangement would be to betroth him to your Cousin Lin here.
Dai-yu, who up to this moment had been listening open-mouthed, turned scarlet at the mention of her own name and with a cry of rage threw herself again on Bao-chai.
Ill kill you!
You deliberately led Auntie up to this.
How ridiculous!
said Bao-chai, laughing.
Its Mamma who said it, not I.
What are you hitting me for?
113 Already Nightingale had darted forward If thats what you think, Mrs Xue, why dont you talk to Her Old Ladyship about it?
Goodness, child, you are impatient!
said Aunt Xue, laughing, I suppose if you are in such a hurry to get your mistress married, you must be thinking of a little husband for yourself!
Mrs Xue!
said Nightingale, crimson-faced.
You ought to know better at your age!
She turned and fled.
Dai-yu who, when Nightingale intervened, had angrily bidden her to mind her own business, now gloated over her discomfiture Holy Name, it serves you right!
You would poke your nose in, wouldnt you, and now youve got smut on it!
There was a burst of laughter in which the maids and serving-women joined.
They were still laughing when Xiang- yun ran into the room, brandishing a piece of paper.
What sort of bill is this?
Dai-yu examined the paper but could make nothing of it.
The women below had recognized it, however, and tittered with amusement.
Thats a nice thing for a young lady to be carrying!
they said.
If you want to know what that is, Miss, youll have to pay for the lesson!
Bao-chai snatched the paper from Xiang-yuns hand and looked.
It was Xiu-yans pawn ticket.
She hurriedly folded it away.
It looks like a pawn ticket that one of the women must have dropped, said Aunt Xue.
Whoever it is will be worried when she misses it.
Where did you pick it up?
Whats a pawn ticket?
Xiang-yun asked her.
The women laughed What a simpleton!
Fancy not knowing what a pawn ticket is!
Its hardly surprising, said Aunt Xue.
Shes had a very aristocratic upbringing, dont forget, and in any case she is still very young.
How could she know about pawn tickets?
What occasion would she ever have of seeing one?
In the 114 household she comes from even if one of the servants had such a thing, they would take very good care that she didnt see it.
You shouldnt call her a simpleton.
I doubt very much whether any of your own young ladies would know a pawn ticket if she saw one.
Thats true, said the women, smiling.
Miss Lin here didnt know, so you can be quite sure the others wouldnt.
Even Bao-yu, although he goes outside quite a lot, has probably never seen one.
Aunt Xue now explained what a pawn ticket was.
Xiangyun and Dai-yu laughed incredulously.
The things people do for money!
Is that what they do in your pawnshops, Aunt?
Thats a funny question!
said the women, laughing.
All crows are black, you know.
Where did you find this?
Aunt Xue asked again.
But before Xiang-yun could reply, Bao-chai interrupted Its an old ticket, Mamma it was cancelled years ago.
Caltrop has been using it to fool them with.
Aunt Xue believed her and did not pursue the matter.
Shortly after that a messenger arrived from the Ning-guo mansion to say that You-shi would like a word when convenient with Mrs Xue and Aunt Xue got up and left them.
As soon as she had gone, Bao-chai asked Xiang-yun where she had found the ticket.
I saw Xiu-yans maid Signet handing it, very furtively, to Oriole and Oriole slip it between the pages of a book.
They thought I hadnt noticed.
I had a peep when theyd gone, but I couldnt make out what it was, and as I knew you were both here, I thought I would come over and see if either of you could make anything of it.
But why should Cousin Xing be pawning her clothes?
said Dai-yu, puzzled.
And why, having pawned them, should she want you, Chai, to have the ticket?
Bao-chai saw that Xiu-yans circumstances could no longer be concealed and explained to them both what had happened.
Dai-yu, feeling the foxs sympathy for the hunted hare, was much distressed, but Xiang-yuns reaction was one of anger.
Im going straight over to see Ying-chun about this, she 115 said.
Youll feel better, both of you, when Ive given those beastly servants a piece of my mind.
She would have gone, too, had not Bao-chai restrained her.
Are you out of your mind?
Sit down and stay where you are.
If you were a man, said Dai-yu, laughing, you could go around like a knight-errant putting the world to rights but a Jing Ke in skirts is just plain ridiculous!
All right then, said Xiang-yun, if you wont let me talk to Cousin Ying about it, lets simply have Xiu-yan over to live with us.
Well talk about that tomorrow, said Bao-chai.
A servant put her head round the door to make an announcement Miss Tan and Miss Xi have called.
Hearing of their arrival, the three in the room fell silent.
For further details of the visit our reader is referred to the next chapter.
CHAPTER 58 In which the cock-bird who mourns his mate Is found to be a hen And a true heart is able to sympathize with a strange kind of love Our last chapter concluded with Tan-chuns and Xi-chuns arrival at the Naiads House, which put a sudden stop to the discussion of Xiu-yans affairs by the other three.
Conversation was renewed after the new arrivals had inquired about Dai-yus health, but of a general, unserious nature, and shortly afterwards all four visitors took their leave and went their separate ways.
The Dowager Consort of the late Emperor whose illness we referred to in an earlier chapter had now passed away and all noblewomen and wives of officials resident in the capital had to put on the mourning appropriate to their rank and present themselves at the Palace.
A Special Edict was published prohibiting the holding of musical or dramatic entertainments by persons of rank for a period of one year and banning the celebration of marriages between commoners for a period of three months.
Every day Grandmother Jia together with Lady Xing, Lady Wang, You-shi and Jia Rongs wife Hu-shi had to go to the Palace to take part in the ceremonies of mourning, seldom returning until well after two oclock in the afternoon.
These ceremonies, which took place in one of the side halls of the Palace, were due to last for twenty-one days, at the end of which time the body of the Consort was to be conveyed to the late Emperors mausoleum in Goodson prefecture, a distance of some ten days journey from the capital.
On reaching there, the coffin was to lie in state for several more days while further ceremonies were performed preliminary to its final interment in the mausoleum.
The whole expedition, 117 from start to finish, would take about a month.
Cousin Then and You-shi were both supposed to take part in it, which would mean that throughout that period both the Ning-guo and Rong-guo mansions would be left masterless.
A family council was held and it was decided, in order that one person at least should be left in charge of the two mansions, to petition for You-shis exemption on the grounds that she was enceinte.
At the same time Aunt Xues help was enlisted to keep an eye on the young people.
For this purpose it was essential that she should move into the Garden but it was something of a prQblem to know in which of its buildings she should stay.
Bao-chai already had Xiang-yun and Caltrop living with her Li Wan was having to accommodate Bao-qin, whom Grandmother Jia had placed temporarily in her care, and though Mrs Li and her girls were still at their uncles place in the city, they too were constantly dropping in on her and staying for three or four nights Ying-chun was sharing with Xu-yan Tan-chun was fully occupied with household business, and in any case the noisy bickering of Aunt Zhao and Jia Huan, who were constantly coming round to pester her, would have made her apartment a highly unsuitable place for Aunt Xue to live in and Xi-chuns place was too small.
That left only the Naiads House for her to move into.
Aunt Xue did so the more readily because, in discussing these arrangements with her, Grandmother Jia had impressed upon her that Dai-yu was the young person most particularly in need of her care.
And besides, Aunt Xue had always had a very great affection for Dai-yu.
Now that they shared the same apartment she was able to give her undivided attention to Dai-yus welfare - to seeing that she had good food and enough of it, and that she took her medicines at the proper times.
Never before had Dai-yu been so well looked after.
She responded with a gratitude deeper than words, though it was by words that it was most often expressed Aunt Xue was now her kind Mamma, and when Bao-chai and Bao-qin were present, she addressed them and referred to them exactly as if they were her elder and younger sisters.
Grandmother Jia, who had been worried at the prospect of being separated, even for a month, from her orphaned 118 granddaughter, was both relieved and happy to observe this new development.
Aunt Xue, now that she was in the Garden, concerned herself only with the welfare of the cousins and disciplining of their maids in other domestic matters, however important, she was unwilling to intervene.
You-shi, too, although she visited the Rong-guo mansion daily, did little more than hear the roll-call and was most unwilling to exercise any real authority.
As the only responsible person left in it she already had her hands full with the affairs of the other mansion and was kept extremely busy seeing that the temporary lodgings near the Palace which Grandmother Jia and the other ladies retired to in between ceremonies were kept regularly supplied with food and bedding and so forth.
While the senior members of the Ning-guo and Rong-guo mansions were so busy, the stewards and stewardesses of the two mansions were no less occupied, some of them in accompanying their mistresses each day to and from the Palace, some in attending to the provisioning and maintenance of the temporary lodgings, and some as an advanced party who staffed the lodgings in readiness for their mistresses arrival.
Lacking the discipline normally imposed by these officers, the domestics of both mansions who remained behind grew slovenly in their duties or took advantage of the exceptional circumstances to ally themselves with those placed temporarily in charge as a means of scoring off fellow-servants.
Of the male staff at Rong-guo House only Lai Da and one or two others remained.
Nearly all Lal Das most trusted lieutenants had gone.
Owing to their inexperience he was finding the replacements he had made extremely unserviceable -and so stupid their peculations were so transparently gross, their reports so patently unreliable, their recommendations so obviously biased he would have had difficulty in enumerating all the defects he found in them or the troubles they caused him.
At this time all the great families which kept troupes of actors or actresses in their households were beginning to disband them.
Hearing this, You-shi, after discussing the rnatter with other members of the family, approached Lady 119 Wang with the suggestion that their own troupe of actresses should be disbanded.
The method by which she proposed to do this was economical.
We have, of course, bought these girls, she said.
Although they cant keep up their music, theres no reason why we shouldnt use them as maids.
Its only really the instructors that we need to get rid of.
No, said Lady Wang firmly.
We cannot treat them like servants.
These are daughters of free men, sold into their profession because their parents could not afford to keep them.
They have given us a year or two of good entertainment.
Now that this opportunity of releasing them has arisen, we ought to give them each a few taels and let them go.
That was certainly what our ancestors would have done and I do not believe that we have become quite so degenerate or so ungenerous that we cannot, in this matter at least, follow the ancestors example.
Its true that we have a few members of an earlier troupe still living with us but there was a special reason for their staying.
They didnt want to go, so we gave them employment and found husbands among the staff for them when they were old enough to marry.
Very well, we shall ask them, said You-shi.
If they want to go, we can send for their parents to come and fetch them and give the money to their parents.
That will be safest.
Otherwise we shall have all sorts of dubious characters turning up here to collect them and selling them when they get them outside, and our kindness in freeing them will be wasted.
Of course, any of them who dont want to go can stay with us.
Lady Wang agreed and You-shi sent someone to Xi-feng to explain what had been decided.
She also instructed the clerks in the counting-house to pay eight taels to each of the instructors and tell them that they were free to go where they liked.
The costumes, theatrical properties and other movables in Pear Tree Court were carefully checked against the inventories and stored away and a caretaker was put in charge of the buildings.
As for the little actresses, on interviewing them individually, You-shi found that hardly any of them wanted to go.
Some said that their parents were alive but did not care for them 120 -1307 and would only sell them again if they went back to them others that they had no parents and had been sold by uncles or brothers others that they had no relations at all that they could go to others that they had become attached to the Jia family and did not want to leave.
In the end all but three of them elected to stay.
After what she had said, Lady Wang could scarcely refuse to have them.
The three who were leaving were taken away by their foster-mothers to stay with them for the time being until their real parents could come to fetch them.
Those who had chosen to stay were assigned to different apartments - mostly in the Garden - as servants.
Elegante, the leader of the troupe 1 was reserved for Grandmother Jia the 'leading lady', Parfumee, went to Bao-yu Etarnine, the soubrette, to Bao-chai the 'principal boy', Nenuphar, to Dai-yu Althee, the leading 'painted face', to Xiang-yun Cardamome, the second 'painted face', to Bao-qin Artemisie, who specialized in old men's parts, to Tan-chun and You-shi asked if she might keep Aubergine, who specialized in old women's parts, for herself.
The little actresses, though nominally in service, did nothing all day but wander about happily in the Garden, like uncaged birds rejoicing in their new freedom.
Nobody made much effort to discourage them, as it was understood that they were wholly unaccustomed to waiting on other people and were none of them able to sew.
It is true that one or two of them had the good sense to see that the future would be bleak for them without a craft, now that their theatrical training had been discontinued, and who applied themselves to learning domestic skills like sewing and spinning but they were the exception.
An important day in the obsequies of the late Consort arrived when it was necessary for Grandmother Jia and the other ladies to start out for their temporary lodgings near the Palace at four o'clock in the morning.
After recruiting themselves there with a small collation, they proceeded to the Palace to attend the ghostly breakfast of the Deceased.
When that was over, they went back to their lodgings and had lunch.
Then, after a brief rest, they returned to the Palace and 121 -1307 remained there for both the None and Vesper offerings.
Then back to their lodgings again for dinner before finally returning home.
The temporary lodgings were in the family temple of a high official in which perpetual devotions were maintained by a sisterhood of Buddhist nuns.
The nuns occupied the two courtyards to east and west of the shrine-hall, but there were a great many spare rooms in these courtyards, all of them kept scrupulously clean by the nuns.
The Rong-guo ladies had rented the rooms in the east courtyard and the Prince of Bei-jing's ladies those in the west one.
As they had to leave for the Palace and return from it at the same times, the two lots of ladies had plenty of opportunities of meeting each other, and many courtesies were exchanged between them.
But it is not with these outside matters that we are concerned.
Back, then, to the Garden.
With Grandmother Jia and Lady Jia away for so much of the day and the prospect of their being away altogether during the month it would take them to travel to and from the mausoleum, there were a great many maids and womenservants with nothing much to do but wander about in it enjoying themselves.
Their numbers were augmented by the women from Pear Tree Court, who were now attached to different apartments in the Garden.
Suddenly there seemed to be dozens more people about in it than there ever had been before.
The girl-actresses were arrogant little creatures, imperious and tyrannical towards the servants, demanding and fastidious about their food and clothing, sharp and disputatious with their tongues - in a word, thoroughly difficult characters to deal with.
The Pear Tree Court women all hated them, but had not hitherto dared to quarrel with them openly.
To these women the closing of the drama school was a great relief.
Some of them, in their gladness to be free of it, were willing to let bygones be bygones.
Others, less magnanimous, still nursed their rancour but, the diaspora having separated them from their former charges, dared not carry warfare against them into another's territory.
It was the day of the Spring Cleaning festival and Jia Lian, having prepared the usual offerings, had gone with Jia Huan, 122 -1014 Jia Cong and Jia Lan to the Temple of the Iron Threshold outside the city to clean the family graves.
Jia Rong, accompanied by a party of clansmen from the Ning-guo side of the family, had set out separately for the same destination.
Of the young male members of the family only Bao-yu, having not yet wholly recovered from his illness, was unable to go.
After lunch Aroma noticed that he was showing a disposition to sleep.
Its such a fine day, she said, why dont you take a stroll in the Garden?
If you lie down as soon as youve eaten, you wont digest your food.
Bao-yu stepped somewhat reluctantly into a pair of slippers and, supporting himself with a walking-stick, shuffled off through the courtyard and out into the Garden.
Care of the Garden and its produce had lately been put into the hands of female experts and, this being the busy tune of year for gardeners, they were t6 be observed on every hand, trimming the bamboos, pruning trees and bushes, bedding plants Out, planting bulbs and sowing seeds.
Other women were moving over the surface of the lake in punts, dredging up mud from the bottom and planting lotus-roots.
On a miniature mountain of rock overlooking the lake an appreciative audience consisting of Xiang-yun, Caltrop, Bao-qin and some of the maids sat watching them.
As Bao-yu slowly made his way up to them, Xiang-yun cried out in mock alarm Quick, send the boats away!
Theyve come to take Cousin Lin!
Bao-yu blushed and laughed sheepishly.
People cant help what they do when theyre ill. You shouldnt make fun.
Its your fault for being so comical, said Xiang-yun.
Why do you always have to be so different?
Even your illnesses are different from everyone elses.
Bao-yu sat down with them for a while and watched the women working.
Its a bit win4y here, said Xiang-yun presently, and the rock is rather cold to sit on.
Dont you think you ought to go indoors?
123 Bao-yu had already decided that he would like to go and see Dai-yu, so, hauling himself up with his walking-stick, he took his leave of the girls and walked off, over Drenched Blossoms Bridge and along the embankment on the other side.
New growth hung from the weeping willows in strings of gold and the blossom-buds of the peach-trees had burst into a vermilion haze but the big apricot-tree behind the rockery, its flowering past, was already in full leaf and covered with tiny apricots, each no bigger than a pea.
What a shame!
he thought.
Just those few days in bed and I missed the apricot blossom.
-1227 And in among the green leaves now -1254 The young fruit hangs from every bough.
He stood and gazed at the tree.
They were Du Mus lines, written on his last visit to Hu-zhou, when he met the beautiful young dancer of a dozen years before and found that she was now a married woman with a brood of children.
How did it go?
-1227 The spring-time blossoms, white and red, Before the thieving wind have fled And in among the green leaves now The young fruit hangs from every bough.
He thought of Xing Xiu-yans betrothal.
It would only be a year or two now before she married, and soon she too, like the girl that Du Mu wrote about, would be a mother with a brood of young children about her.
People had to marry, of course they had to reproduce their kind.
But what a way for a lovely young girl to end!
-1227 The spring-time blossoms, white and red ... -1014 Not so many years from now her jet-black tresses would turn to silver and her rosy cheeks become wrinkled and colourless.
The thought of it made him feel sad and an involuntary sigh escaped from him.
Then, as he continued to gaze at the tree, a little bird flew up, and perching on one of its branches, began to sing away for all it was worth.
Bao-yus day-dreaming took another turn.
That bird must have come here when the tree was in 124 blossom, he told himself.
What hes singing is a lament at finding the blossoms gone.
You can tell its a lament by the sound.
Pity Gong-ye Chang, who understood the language of birds, isnt around!
I could have asked him what it was saying.
I wonder if it will remember to come here next year when the apricot-tree is in flower again?
-384 His reverie was interrupted by a sudden burst of flame beyond the rockery which caused the bird to fly off in alarm.
Bao-yu was almost as startled as the bird.
The brief crackle of flames was followed by an outburst of angry shouting.
Nenuphar, you little wretch, how dare you burn paper offerings here in the Garden!
Im going straight off to report you.
Youre in for a whipping, my girl.
Wondering what on earth could be happening, Bao-yu hurried round to the other side of the rockery to investigate.
A tear-stained Nenuphar crouched on the ground, holding the chafing-dish with which the recent blaze had been kindled, and gazing with a sorrowful expression at the charred, still smouldering remains of a pile of gold paper spirit money.
Whos it for?
he asked her.
You really shouldnt burn it here, you know.
I suppose it must be for one of your parents -or is it for a brother, perhaps?
Tell me the persons name and Ill get my boys to go out and buy a proper baofu for you and write the name on it.
When she saw that it was Bao-yu, Nenuphar closed her lips tightly and no amount of questioning would elicit an answer from her.
Just then the woman he had heard shouting came hurrying back, an evil expression of triumph on her face, and seized hold of the girl.
-384 Well, Ive reported you to the young mistresses, she said, and theyre very, very angry.
Nenuphar was still only a child.
Terrified of the humiliation that awaited her, she now made a childish attempt to resist going.
I said all along you were getting above yourselves, said the woman.
You cant do as you please in here like you could outside.
Its different here.
We like to have a bit of law and order.
She pointed to Bao-yu.
Even Master Bao has to abide by the rules.
I dont know what sort of a young madam you 125 -1094 think you are to come along here and start breaking them.
Come on!
Its too late to start being afraid now.
Youll have to come along and see them.
Thats not spirit money, said Bao-yu hurriedly.
Its waste paper shes been burning for Miss Lin.
You should have looked more carefully before you reported her.
To Nenuphar in her desperation Bao-yus appearance on the scene had been an added terror.
She could hardly believe her ears when she heard him covering up for her.
Her fear gave way to a surprised delight and she plucked up courage to defend herself.
Yes, what makes you so sure it was spirit money?
That was used writing-paper of Miss Lins.
But the woman was unimpressed.
Stooping down, she picked out one or two of the unconsumed fragments from the ashes.
Dont argue with me!
Heres evidence!
Youll have to come with me to the jobs room and explain yourself to them there.
She took hold of Nenuphar by the sleeve and begun dragging her off but Bao-yu held her by the other sleeve and struck at the womans hand with his walking-stick until she let go.
Take those bits of paper to them if you must, he said.
I suppose I shall have to tell you.
Last night I dreamed that the Spirit of the Apricot-tree came to me and said that if I wanted to get better quickly, I must have an offering of spirit money made to her.
She said it had to be made by a stranger, not by anyone from my own room, and no one else must know about it.
And now, after Ive been to the trouble of getting the stuff and finding this girl to make the offering for me, its all wasted, because you saw her doing it.
This is the first day Ive been up since my illness.
If I get ill again now, it will be your fault.
Do you still want to take her?
Nenuphar, go with her and see them.
Tell them exactly what I have just said.
And when my grandmother gets back I shall tell her what happened.
I shall tell her that this woman interrupted you deliberately.
Nenuphar was by now thoroughly cock-a-hoop.
Now it was she who was tugging at the woman.
The woman threw the bits of paper to the ground and addressed herself beseechingly to Bao-yu, a sickly smile on her face 126 I didnt know, really I didnt.
If you tell Her Old Ladyship that, it will be all up with me.
Dont report back then, and I wont tell her.
But when I reported just now, they said I was to bring her, said the woman.
Id better tell them shes been called away by Miss Lin.
Bao-yu thought for a bit and then nodded.
The woman went off to do as she had said.
When she had gone, Bao-yu resumed his questioning.
Who was it for then?
Im sure it wasnt for anyone in your family.
Is it a secret?
Nenuphar was grateful to Bao-yu for having protected her.
Knowing now that he was a kindred spirit and to be trusted, she could hardly refuse him any longer.
There were tears in her eyes when she answered Besides myself there are only two other people in the world who know about this Parfumee in your room and Etamine in Miss Baos.
After what happened today, I think I shall have to let you be a third but you must promise never to speak about it to anyone else.
She began to cry.
Its no good, she said.
I cant say it to your face.
After youve got back, when theres no one else around, you can get Parfumee to tell you.
She slipped away then, leaving him full of curiosity.
Continuing his walk to the Naiads House, he found Dai-yu looking thinner than ever but feeling, she assured him, very much better than she had been a few days earlier.
She noticed how much thinner be had become, and the recollection of what had caused them both to look so haggard provoked the shedding of a few tears.
They had not been speaking for more than a few minutes when, mindful that he was still convalescent, she urged him to go back and rest and he felt obliged to obey her.
When he got back, he was anxious to ask Parfumee about Nenuphars secret, but Xiang-yun and Caltrop had just arrived and were engaged in lively conversation with her and Aroma in the adjoining room.
Fearing that if he called her to him the others might ask questions, he resolved to be patient.
127 After a while Parfumee went off with her foster-mother to have her hair washed.
Her foster-mother had already let her own daughter wash her hair in the water.
When Parfumee noticed this, she was loud in protest.
What, give me the water your daughters washed in?
Considering you take the whole of my monthly allowance, I think I deserve better than left-overs!
Angry - the more so because she was in the wrong - the woman shouted back at her.
Ungrateful little wretch!
Im not surprised they say players are hard folk to handle.
However good a person may be to start with, once they get into that profession, theyre ruined.
Youd never think a scrubby little creature like this could have so many airs and graces.
Nothing but the best for young madam!
Sixes or aces, nothing else!
And such a spiteful, sharp little tongue if she doesnt get what she wants!
Worse than a biting mule!
The two of them began to go at it then, hammer and tongs.
Aroma Sent someone outside to quieten them A little less shouting, you two!
Just because Her Old Ladyship isnt here, nobody seems able to say anything without hollering at the tops of their voices!
Its that Paffumee making trouble, said Skybright.
I dont know what makes her think shes so wonderful.
Just because she knows a few plays, youd think shed won the war or something!
It takes two to make an argument, said Aroma.
The older one shouldnt be so unjust and the younger one shouldnt be so unpleasant.
You cant blame Parfumee, said Bao-yu.
Any departure from the straight or even causes things to give voice.
A famous philosopher wrote that.
Shes here without parents or anyone to look after her.
This woman takes her money and then doesnt treat her properly.
If thats not a departure from the straight and even, I dont know what is.
You can hardly blame her for giving voice about it!
How much does she get a month, anyway?
he asked Aroma.
Wouldnt it save a lot of trouble if you took the money and looked after her yourself?
128 I dont mind looking after her, said Aroma, but if I do, it certainly wont be for the money.
It wouldnt be worth making enemies over.
She got up as she said this and, going into the other room, took a little bottle of Oil of Flowers, some hens eggs, some soap and a hair-string and told one of the old women to convey them to Paffumee outside.
Tell her to stop quarrelling.
Tell her she can get some more water and wash her own hair with these.
Unfortunately the foster-mother chose to regard this as a public humiliation for her and grew even angrier.
You wicked child, she said to Parfumee, pretending that I keep back your money!
She dealt her a couple of slaps, whereupon Parfumee burst out crying.
Bao-yu was about to rush outside, but Aroma restrained him.
What are you doing?
Ill speak to her.
But Skybright had already darted outside and was pointing at the woman angrily You ought to know better, at your age!
If we give her the things to wash her hair with that you wouldnt give her yourself, you ought to feel ashamed.
I dont know how you can have the face to hit her.
You wouldnt have dared hit her if shed been in the school still, carrying on with her training.
I hit her for trying to show me up in public, said the woman.
Im her foster-mother.
Ive a right to.
Musk, said Aroma, Im no good at arguing with people and Skybright is too excitable.
Youll have to go and deal with her.
Musk hurried over.
All right, all right.
Theres no need to shout.
Let me just ask you this one question.
When have you ever seen anyone punishing their daughter in the masters or mistresss presence - I dont lust mean here, I mean anywhere in the whole Garden?
Even in the case of a real daughter, not just a foster-daughter, once shes left home and gone into service its for her master or mistress to punish her or the senior maids.
We cant have parents chipping in all the time - otherwise how should we ever manage to train a girl?
I dont know!
129 You people, the older you get, the worse you seem td behave!
Its not so long ago that we had Trinkets mother in here making a scene.
I suppose she must be your model.
But dont worry.
During these last few days what with this one ill and that one ill and Her Old Ladyship busy all the time with other matters we havent had a chance to report anything.
But give us a few more days.
We shall find an opportunity.
Well tell her everything.
Then perhaps we shall see some of you highhanded people taken down a peg.
And another thing.
Theres Bao-yu in there only just beginning to get better - even we darent raise our voices above a whisper - yet here are you hitting a girl outside his room and making her cry like a howling wolf or a banshee.
The top people only have to be away from the house for a day or two and already you are behaving as if you were above the law.
No one is safe from you.
A few more days and youll be hitting us, I shouldnt wonder!
If you ask me, youre the sort of foster-mother the girl could do without.
If you think the plant will only flourish with your tender care, youre very much mistaken!
Bao-yu was so angry that he banged on the threshold with his stick.
These old women have hearts of stone.
Its bad enough that they cant look alter the girls, but to go maltreating them as well ...!
-1254 Almighty earth and heaven, whats to do?
Whats to do?
said Skybright.
Send the lot of them packing, useless baggages!
The woman, shamed into silence by Musks tirade, made no reply.
Musk looked at Parfumee, in her crabflower-red padded tunic and patterned green silk trousers unbound at the ankles, her glossy black hair hanging down her back, crying as if her heart would break.
It was a spectacle so different from her more familiar stage appearances that Musk could not help laughing at its incongruousness I must say, you dont look much like Cui Ying-ying at the moment.
Reddie after her beating, though now thats a part you could play without having to make up for it!
130 Skybright led Parfumee away and washed her hair for her.
When she had towelled it dry, she did it up for her in a lazy knot and told her to go back to Bao-yus room when she had finished dressing.
Shortly after, a woman arrived from the kitchen to say that the food was ready, should they send it over yet?
One of the junior maids went inside to ask Aroma.
What does the clock say?
Aroma asked.
With all that rumpus going on outside, I didnt hear it strike.
It didnt, said Skybright.
The wretched thing needs repairing again, I dont know why.
She fetched a watch from somewhere and inspected it.
Its about half a cup of tea off dinner-time, she said.
Tell them well be ready directly.
The girl went off to relay this message.
Come to think of it, said Musk, smiling, that Parfumee deserved a slap or two for being so mischievous.
She was the one who made the clock stop by playing about with the pendulum yesterday.
She began getting things out and laying them in readiness for the meal.
Presently junior maids carrying food-boxes came into the room and stood there while Skybright and Musk removed the covers and inspected the contents a bowl of soup and the now familiar rice-gruel flanked by four different kinds of pickle.
But hes better now, said Skybright.
How much longer has he got to go on eating gruel and vegetables in brine?
Why cant they send him some proper food for a change?
Musk had finished laying now.
Taking the large bowl of soup ham and bamboo-shoots from the food-box, she put it on the table for Bao-yu to try.
He bent down over the bowl and slurped up a mouthful.
Ow, hot!
Aroma laughed.
Holy Buddha!
Youre not all that starved for meat, surely?
Im not surprised you burn yourself if you go at it so greedily.
She picked up the bowl and gently blew on it, then, as Parfumee happened to be standing by, she handed it to her Here, you can do it.
You may as well make yourself 131 -1094 useful, instead of mooning around all day doing nothing.
But blow on it gently we dont want you spitting in it.
Parfumee began blowing as instructed.
She seemed to be managing very nicely, but the foster-mother, who was standing outside the partition doorway whither she had insisted on coming to help and who, in her ignorance of the Gardens etiquette, saw this as an opportunity of making up to the maids, came hurrying officiously into the room and tried to take the bowl from her.
Shes too inexperienced.
She might drop it.
Let me blow.
Skybright shouted at her angrily Get out of here at once!
Whether she breaks the bowl or not is our affair we dont need you blowing on it, at all events.
Who said you could come inside the partition, anyway?
Her anger transferred itself to the junior maids Young idiots!
She probably doesnt know about these things.
You ought to have told her.
We tried to keep her out, the maids protested.
We tried to tell her, but she wouldnt believe us.
Now do you believe us?
they asked the woman.
Even the places were allowed into youre only allowed into about half of but you seemed to think you could go bursting in even where we arent allowed to go - and you were shouting and waving your hands at us when we tried to stop you.
They hustled her from the outer room, into which she had retreated, onto the verandah outside.
The old women waiting in the courtyard below to take back the food-boxes and empty bowls laughed at her when she emerged.
You should a taken a look at yourself in the mirror before you went inside, missus!
The woman, angry and ashamed, had to bear their taunts in silence.
Parfumee was still blowing away at the soup.
Bao-yu smiled at her Dont destroy your lungs with all that blowing!
Why dont you try it now, to see if its all right?
Parfumee thought he must be joking and smiled timidly at Aroma and the rest.
132 Go ahead, taste it!
said Aroma.
Why not?
Watch me taste it, said Skybright, and took a sip from the bowl.
Encouraged by her example, Parfumee took a sip too.
Its all right, she said, and handed Bao-yu the bowl.
Bao-yu drank about half the soup, ate a few pieces of bamboo-shoot, consumed half a bowlful of the gruel, and declared himself satisfied.
The servants cleared away.
A little maid came in with a wash-bowl.
After he had washed his hands and rinsed his mouth out, it was Aromas and the other senior maids turn to have their dinner.
Bao-yu signalled to Parfumee with his eyes.
A sharp-witted child - one, moreover, who had spent several years of young life in a school of drama - Parfumee responded like an old trouper.
She had a stomach-ache, she told them.
She didnt feel like any dinner.
Oh well, if youre not eating, said Aroma, you may as well stay and keep him company.
Well leave the gruel here.
If you get hungry, you can eat some of that.
She and the other maids then left.
Bao-yu was now able to tell Parfumee about his encounter with Nenuphar - how he had lied to protect her and how, feeling unable to answer his question herself, she had referred him to Parfumee for an explanation.
So who was she making the offering for?
Parfumees eyes reddened slightly and she sighed.
Oh, Nenuphar is crazy.
Why?
said Bao-yu.
What do you mean?
It was for Pivoine, said Parfumee, the girl in our troupe who died.
Theres nothing crazy about that, said Bao-yu, if they were friends.
Friends!
said Partumee.
They were more than that.
It was Nenuphars soppy ideas that started it all.
You see, Nenuphar is our Principal Boy and Pivoine always played opposite her as Principal Girl.
They became so accustomed to acting the part of lovers on the stage, that gradually it came to seem real to them and Nenuphar began carrying on as if they were really lovers.
When Pivoine died, Nenuphar 133 -1094 cried herself into fits, and even now she still thinks about her.
Thats why she makes offerings to her on feast-days.
When Etamine took over the roles that Pivoine used to play, Nenuphar became just the same towards her.
We even teased her about it Have you forgotten your old love then, now that youve got yourself a new one?
But she said, No, I havent forgotten.
Its like when a man loses his wife and remarries.
He can still be faithful to the first wife, as long as he keeps her memory green.
Did you ever hear anything so soppy in your life?
Soppy or whatever it was, there was a strain in Bao-yus own nature which responded to it with a powerful mixture of emotions pleasure, sorrow, and an unbounded admiration for the little actress.
He took Parfumees hands in his own and told her with great earnestness what she must say to Nenuphar.
Tell her never, never to use that paper stuff again.
Spirit money is a superstitious invention of modern times youll find nothing about it in the teachings of Confucius.
All she needs to do when feast-days come round is to light a little incense in a burner.
Provided that its done with reverence, thats all thats needed for conveying ones feelings to the dead.
Its the sincerity with which we make the offering, not the offering itself that counts.
You see that burner on the table over there?
Whenever I want to remember someone dear to me - it doesnt necessarily have to be on a feast-day or any particular day, by the way - I light some incense in it and put out a cup of fresh tea or water, or sometimes some flowers or fruit if I have any.
You can even use unclean foods- as long as theyre devoutly offered thats the important thing.
Tell her not to go burning that paper stuff any more.
Parfumee promised.
After that she finished off the gruel.
Then someone came in to say that Grandmother Jia had got back.
Of that you shall hear more in the next chapter.
CHAPTER 59 By Willow Walk the conservers of property resort to violence and abuse And at Green Delights the defenders of law and order invoke a higher authority Hearing that his grandmother and the other ladies were back, Bao-yu put on an extra garment and shuffled off, walking-stick in hand, to greet them.
He found them tired out by the taxing routine of the past few days and anxious to retire to bed as soon as possible.
Nothing of interest happened during that night.
The ladies were up again at four oclock next morning and off once more to the Palace.
The date of their departure for the mausoleum was fast approaching.
Faithful, Amber, Parrot and Pearl busied themselves getting together the things that Grandmother Jia would need on the journey, while Silver, Suncloud and Sunset did the same for Lady Wang.
When all was ready, they went over everything, item by item, with the most senior of the servants who were accompanying their mistresses.
There were altogether sixteen of these six maids and ten older women.
The male servants, who are not included in that number, were meanwhile preparing the mule-litters that their mistresses would ride in and getting the harness and other gear into good order.
Faithful and Silver were not among the sixteen.
They were to stay behind and look after their mistresses apartments while they were away.
Some days before the funeral cortege was due to set out, the maids packed up the covers and hangings of their mistresses travelling-beds.
These were collected by a party of four or five women, who, with the aid of some menservants, took them by cart through the back streets to the lodgings where their mistresses were to spend the night before their departure and put them up ready for them to sleep 135 The Jia ladies and their retinue left the mansion the day before the cortege was due to start.
Grandmother Jia and Jia Rongs wife shared the first litter Lady Wang followed on her own in the second Cousin Zhen and the menservants provided them with a mounted escort.
Then followed several large covered carts in which the maids and womenservants were travelling.
The carts also carried a large number of bundles containing changes of clothing for the ladies.
The other members of the family, led by Aunt Xue and You-shi, accompanied the little procession as far as the outer threshold of the main gate to see the old lady off.
While the column was reforming itself in the street, Jia Lian appeared on horseback at the head of a small party of mounted grooms.
He shepherded his parents litters into place between those of Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang, then, fearful of the possible consequences of leaving the baggage train with its female freight unguarded, trotted back to a position behind the carts and, with his mounted followers, brought up the rear.
Inside the mansion Lai Da greatly increased the numbers of the watch and ordered the entrances to the two main courtyards to be kept permanently closed.
Anyone wanting to go in or out of the mansion now had to do so through the small side gate on the west corner.
The ornamental gate dividing the outer from the inner part of the mansion was closed at sundown.
So, too, were the main and side gates of the Garden.
The gate which the cousins normally used for getting into or out of the rear part of Lady Wangs quarters and the gate on the east side which gave access to the corner gate of Aunt Xues courtyard were left open.
Since they affected only the intercommunication of the already sealed-off inner parts of the mansion, it did not seem necessary to close them.
Faithful and Silver shut up the living-rooms normally occupied by their mistresses and went to sleep with the other maids in the servants quarters at the back.
Each day at sundown Lin Zhi-xiaos wife conducted a party of ten or so senior women into the Garden to police it during the night.
The number of pages employed in the gallery outside for the purpose of sounding the night-watches was increased.
Everything was 136 done, in short, to ensure that the security of the mansion was maintained.
Waking one fine, fresh morning from vernal slumbers, Bao- chai, on raising the bed-curtain and stepping down into the room, became sensible of a very slight chilliness in the air, the reason for which was apparent when she opened the door and looked out.
A little shower, falling in the last watch before dawn, had refreshed the earth and turned the mosses everywhere a more brilliant shade of green.
She went in again and called to the others to get up.
While they were washing, Xiang-yun complained of an irritation in her cheeks which she feared might herald an outbreak of the mild eczema she sometimes suffered from and asked Bao-chai for some rose-root orris to put on them.
I gave the last of it to Qin a few days ago, said Bao-chai.
Frowner has a lot.
I had been meaning to ask her for some, but as I havent had any trouble with my own cheeks this year, I forgot about it.
She ordered Oriole to go and get some.
As Oriole was about to leave, Etamine said that she would like to go with her because she wanted to talk to Nenuphar.
The two girls set off from All-spice Court, chattering and laughing as they went.
At Willow Walk they followed the line of the embankment.
The trailing golden strings of the weeping willows were already flecked with emerald.
Do you know how to weave things with these?
Oriole smilingly asked her companion.
What sort of things?
said Etamine.
Oh, things to look at, things to use - all sorts.
Just wait while I break off a few and Ill weave a little basket out of them.
Ill leave the leaves on, then, if we fill it with different kinds of flowers, it will look ever so pretty.
Temporarily forgetting about the orris-powder, she reached up and broke off some of the tender willow-twigs.
She got Etamine to hold them for her then, as they walked along together, she plaited them into a little basket.
From time to 137 time she stopped to pick a flower or two that grew beside the way.
The finished basket was a pretty little open-work one with a handle, bursting all over with the green ery which she had been careful not to pull off.
When it was filled up and stuck all over with flowers, it looked really charming.
Etamine was enraptured Oh, Oriole, do let me have it!
Well give this one to Miss Lin, said Oriole.
We can pick some more twigs on the way back and Ill make baskets like this for you all.
By this time the two girls had arrived at the Naiads House.
Dai-yu had not yet completed her toilet.
She was very much taken with Orioles handiwork.
Ah, a living basket!
Who made it?
I did, said Oriole.
Its for you, miss.
Oh, but its charming!
said Dai-yu, taking it.
No wonder theyre always saying how clever you are with your hands.
After admiring it a little longer, she told Nightingale to hang it up where she could see it Oriole first inquired politely after Aunt Xue and then asked Dai-yu about the rose-orris.
Dai-yu told Nightingale to wrap some up for her.
Im better now, she told Oriole as she handed her the packet.
I feel like going out today for some exercise.
Tell Chai that theres no need for her to pay her call on Mamma today or to visit me.
As soon as Ive done my hair, Mamma and I will be coming over to her place.
We can have our lunch there.
We shall be quite a little family party!
Oriole promised to relay the message and went into Nightingales room to collect Etamine but Etamine and Nenuphar had just reached the most interesting part of their conversation and were most unwilling to be separated.
Oriole proposed a solution to Nightingale.
Your mistress is going over to our place presently.
Why not let Nenuphar come with us now and wait for her there?
By all means, said Nightingale.
She gets up to so much mischief, we shall be glad to have her off our hands for a bit!
She got out Dai-yus spoon and chopsticks, wrapped them 138 up in a napkin of West Ocean linen, and held them out for Nenuphar.
Here you are you can take these for her.
May as well make yourself useful.
Nenuphar took the things from her and set off, smiling happily, with the other two.
They made their way to Willow Walk again and Oriole broke off a lot more twigs and, sitting down on a nearby rock, began straightway plaiting them to make into another basket.
She told Etamine to go ahead with the rose-orris and come back for her presently when she had delivered it but both girls were fascinated by Orioles skilful weaving and could not tear themselves away.
Oriole threatened to suspend work on the basket if Etamine did not do as she was told.
Come on, said Nenuphar.
Ill go with you.
We can hurry back in no time.
After they had gone, while Oriole sat plaiting on her own, Mamma Hes daughter Swallow walked up and smilingly asked her what she was making.
Oriole was still talking to her when the other two got back.
Swallow looked at Nenuphar curiously.
Tell me, what was that paper you were burning the other day when my Aunt Xia caught you?
She was going to report you, but Bao-yu made out that it was she who was in the wrong, so she couldnt go through with it.
She was ever so angry.
She came and told my mother all about it.
What on earth did you do during all that time you were living outside together to make such an enemy of her?
Nenuphar sniffed.
I didnt do anything.
Its because shes so greedy.
She cant squeeze as much out of me as she used to be able to.
To mention nothing else, look at all the food she and the others used to take home with them when they were working with us outside.
You know they did.
Swallow laughed.
Shes my own aunt.
I cant very well criticize her in front of other people.
I must admit, though, it does seem to be as Bao-yu once said.
A girl before she marries is like a priceless pearl, but once she marries the pearl loses its lustre and 139 develops all sorts of disagreeable flaws, and by the time shes an old woman, shes no longer like a pearl at all, more like a boiled fishs eye.
He said, How can the same person, at different times in her life, seem like three completely different people?
- Of course, I knew at the time he was only talking his usual nonsense but really there does seem to be some truth in it.
I dont know about other peoples families, but its certainly true of my mother and my aunt.
The older they get, the more they seem to care about nothing else but money.
When we were all living together at home, they used to complain that there werent any job for us that would bring in a bit of income.
Then this Garden was built and I was lucky enough to be among those who were chosen to work in it -doubly lucky, in fact, because I was assigned to Green Delights.
That meant that quite apart from the fact that they didnt have to find my keep any more, they were getting an additional four or five hundred cash each month that I managed to save out of my wages.
Youd have thought theyd have been satisfied with that, but oh no!
Then they got jobs themselves, looking after these player-girls in Pear Tree Court.
My Aunt Xia had Nenuphar for foster-daughter and my mother had Parfumee.
So for this last year or two theyve been really comfortably off.
Now that youve all moved inside, of course, its rather out of their hands but they wont give up.
It really makes you laugh.
First my aunt having that row with Nenuphar, and then my mother having that row with Parfumtee.
That was over the shampoo.
Parfumee had asked my mother I dont know how many times to shampoo her hair for her.
Then Parfumees monthly allowance came in and my mother had no excuse for putting her off any longer, so she bought the shampoo, but when shed bought it, she told me to wash my hair with it first.
Well, I didnt like to do that.
I mean, Ive got money of my own, and even if I hadnt, I could always get the stuff for washing my hair with from Aroma or Skybright or Musk without any trouble by simply asking for it.
So I said no, I wouldnt.
So then she got hold of my younger sister and washed her hair first.
Needless to say, when she called Parfumee after that there was a quarrel.
Oh, and then she wanted to go and blow on Bao-yus soup.
Oh dear, 140 -5947 I could have died!
I told her about the rule as soon as I saw her going in, but she wouldnt believe me.
Oh no, Mother knows best!
So of course she made a fool of herself.
Its a good job there are so many of us working in the Garden and no one can ever remember who is related to who, otherwise they might get the impression that the people in my family do nothing but quarrel all the time.
Incidentally, this place where youve chosen to do your basket-making is on the territory of another of my aunts - my fathers sister.
Ever since she was put in charge of it, shes treated it as if it were her own property.
She slaves away on it from morning to night.
Whats more, she makes me come and watch over it for her shes so terrified of any of it getting spoiled.
Its got so that I can hardly do my own job properly.
And now that Mothers moved into the Garden, she keeps an eye on it too.
The pair of them watch over it like hawks.
No one else is allowed to touch a blade of grass here.
I dont mind telling you, if they come along this way and find youve been picking their flowers and breaking their young willow-twigs, they wont be at all pleased!
In anyone elses case, perhaps not, said Oriole but my case is different.
When the Garden was divided up, it.
was agreed that dally supplies of stuff from it were to be sent to all the apartments.
That included, apart from things to eat, flowers for everyones hair and flowers to put in the vases.
Now my mistress, it so happens, was the only one who said she didnt want a daily supply of flowers.
She said she would let them know whenever she wanted any, but up to now she never has.
So you see, in my case they are hardly likely to object even if they do find out that Ive been picking some.
These words were scarcely out of her mouth when who should appear, hobbling along on her stick, but this same aunt that Swallow had been talking about.
Oriole and Swallow invited her to come and sit down on the rock.
The old woman felt a pang of displeasure as her eye travelled from the little heap of broken willow-twigs to the freshly-picked flowers that Nenuphar and Etamine were holding, but since it was Oriole who appeared to be responsible, she forbore to complain 141 -5947 of the vandalism and found something to grumble at her own niece about instead.
When I tell you to come here and keep an eye on things, you prefer to stay at home and play.
Then when the others ask you to do something for them, you pretend that you cant because youre already working for me.
You use me like a magic charm, so that you can do a disappearing act whenever theres a job of work to be done!
First you tell me to come here, then youre afraid the others will want me so you tell me off for being here, Swallow protested.
I cant be in two places at once, aunt!
Dont you believe her, missus!
said Oriole teasingly.
Sbes the one who picked all these things and pestered me to weave them for her.
I tried to get rid of her, but she wouldnt leave me alone.
For goodness sake I said Swallow agitatedly.
Dont make jokes like that.
Shell take you seriously.
Alas, it was all too true!
This aunt of Swallows was a 8tupid old woman whose senile infatuation with money was such that beside it all human ties had long since ceased to count.
At Orioles words the pent-up anguish with which she viewed this hateful spoliation of her domain found relief in action she raised her stick and, with the presumptuous tyranny of old age, struck Swallow several times with it across the back.
Little baggage!
she said.
How dare you answer me back!
Your own mother hates you so much shes itching to get her teeth in you.
Dont you go raising your voice at me!
Oriole was only joking, said Swallow, weeping - partly from the pain and partly from the humiliation of being beaten in front of the others.
Why should my mother hate me?
I havent burnt the washing-up water!
What am I supposed to have done?
Dismayed that her words should have had such an effect, Oriole stepped hurriedly between them and seized the aunts upraised arm.
I was only joking, missus.
Is it to shame me that you are beating her?
Ill thank you not to meddle in what doesnt concern you, 142 -5947 miss, said the old woman.
Do you think I should not be allowed to discipline my own niece just because you are here?
The crassness of this reply caused Oriole to flush with anger.
You can discipline her any time you like, but I dont see why you should choose to do it when I make a joke, she said scornfully.
All right, go ahead and discipline her, then.
And releasing the old womans arm, she sat down on the rock again and got on with her weaving.
The next thing that happened was that Swallows mother appeared on the scene, looking for her daughter.
What are you doing there?
she shouted as she caught sight of her.
I thought I told you to go and fetch some water.
Come over and see what shes been doing, the old aunt shouted back at her.
Ive no hold over her any more than you now, it seems.
Shes being very impertinent to me.
Oh, whats she been doing this time, sister-in-law?
said the woman, coming up to them.
Shes got no use for her own mother any more, I knew that but I thought she might have a bit of respect left for you still.
Recognizing the newcomer as Swallows mother, Oriole wanted to explain but the aunt did not give her a chance.
Look at that!
she said, pointing to the willow-twigs on the rock.
A great girl like her - youd think shed know better!
And not content with that, leading other people on to ruin me as well!
Swallows mother was still smarting from her unsuccessful quarrel with Parfumee and was angry with Swallow for not having taken her side.
Little strumpet!
she shouted, bearing down on her wrathfully and slapping her across the head.
How long now have you been working with those young madams?
- it hasnt taken you very long to pick up their airs and graces!
But dont you go thinking I cant lay my hands on you any more.
A foster-daughters one thing, but you are my own flesh and blood.
I can still look after you when I feel like it.
Little painted whores, telling me I cant go inside where you can go!
I wish youd go inside and stay there perhaps if you stayed inside long enough, you might find a customer!
143 She grabbed hold of the little half-made willow basket and waved it in Swallows face.
And whats this supposed to be?
Whats the bloody meaning of this?
I made that, said Oriole.
Dont curse the mulberry tree when you mean the locust.
If its me youre angry with, why not say so and leave her out of it?
Swallows mother was intensely jealous of these senior maids like Oriole and Aroma and Skybright, for she knew that their status and authority were greatly superior to her own.
She feared them and deferred to them, but doing so cost her a good deal of angry resentment which she vented on the junior maids.
On this occasion her anger was further exacerbated by the presence of her sisters enemy, Nenuphar.
Swallow was now making her way tearfully towards Green Delights.
Her mother was afraid that if they asked her there why she was crying and she told them, there would be further insults to put up with from Skybright, so she hurried after her to try and stop her.
You come back I she shouted.
Youll go when I say you can.
But Swallow refused to stop, and her mother, greatly incensed, rushed forward, intending to lay hands on her.
Swallow happened to turn and see her coming, however, and got away by running even faster.
Her mother, continuing the pursuit, slipped on the moss and fell over, to the great delight of Oriole and the other two.
Oriole was by now so disgusted with the whole affair that she threw everything - basket, twigs and flowers - into the water and went off home, leaving the old aunt blessing herself in pious horror at the waste.
Wicked creature!
she called out after her.
You ought to be struck by lightning, throwing away good flowers like that!
She set about picking some herself then, to deliver to the various apartments.
As for Swallow, she went on running until she came to Green Delights.
There, just inside the courtyard, she ran full tilt into Aroma, who was just at that moment setting 144 out to pay a c all on Dai-yu.
Swallow clung to her imploringly.
Save me, miss!
My mothers going to beat me again.
At the sight of the mother, arriving now in hot pursuit, Aroma could no longer contain her annoyance.
Thats twice in three days first your foster-daughter and now your own daughter.
Is it to show off the size of your family that you do this, or do you really not know any better?
Being a relative newcomer to the Garden, Swallows mother had as yet formed no very clear impression of Aroma beyond that she spoke very little and was probably a fairly harmless sort of person.
I should mind your own business, if I was you, miss, she said rudely.
You know nothing about these matters.
Its because youre all so soft with the girl that shes got so out of hand.
She darted after Swallow again, her hand upraised to strike her.
Aroma was so angry that she turned round and began marching back to the house.
On her way she passed Musk, who was hanging some handkerchiefs out to dry under the crab-apple tree.
Musk looked over her shoulder to see what all the shouting was about.
I should leave them to it, if I were you, she advised Aroma.
Just let them get on with it and see what happens.
She signalled to Swallow with her eyes as she said this.
Swallow understood her immediately and dashed inside the house to take refuge with Bao-yu.
The other servants smiled at each other in pleasurable anticipation.
Now therell be trouble, they said.
Now we shall really see something!
Why dont you calm down a bit?
Musk said to the woman.
Surely youre not going to set yourself up against the whole apartment?
The woman saw her daughter go up to Bao-yu inside the house and Bao-yu take her by the hand.
Dont worry, Bao-yu said to the girl.
Ill look after you.
Swallow, still crying, told him the whole story of Oriole and the willow-wigs.
Bao-yu was deeply shocked, but, for forms sake, pretended to blame Swallow for what had happened.
145 Its bad enough having rows in here what do you want to go upsetting your aunt outside for?
What this good woman said just now is right, Musk said to the other servants.
Perhaps we are too slack.
Perhaps we dont know enough about these matters to deal with them properly ourselves.
What we need is someone whose opinion she will listen to, someone who really knows whats what.
She turned to a little maid standing near by.
Go and fetch Patience.
If Patience cant come, fetch Mrs Lin.
As the little maid ran off on her errand, the other women in the compound drew round Swallows mother with interested smiles.
Better ask them to call that child back, they advised her.
You dont want Miss Patience coming here.
If shes Miss Patience, shell just have to be patient and listen to reason, said the woman defiantly.
I never yet heard of a mother being disciplined for trying to discipline her own daughter.
The others smiled at her ignorance.
You dont know who Miss Patience is, though.
Miss Patience is Mrs Lians Number One.
If shes in a good mood, you might get away with a telling-off but if shes not my goodness, youre in for a packet of trouble!
Just then the little maid came back with a message.
Miss Patience was busy, but she asked me why Id come and when I told her she said, Tell her shes dismissed and get Mrs Lin on the corner gate to give her forty strokes of the bamboo.
It was now the mothers turn for tears and entreaties.
It wasnt easy for me to get this job, she said.
I shant get another like it.
And Im a widow, too Ive no one else at home.
From your point of view thats an advantage, because I can give all my attention to serving you.
But it means that its my only livelihood if you turn me out, I dont know how Im going to keep alive.
Aroma began to relent.
But if you want to stay here, she said, you really must learn to behave yourself and do what you are told.
You 146 -5947 really cant go around hitting people all the time.
What are we to do with a person like you?
This daily shouting and quarrelling is giving our place a bad name.
Take no notice of her, said Skybright.
Send her packing.
Whos got time to stand around arguing with people like her?
Swallows mother appealed to the other maids I admit I was in the wrong but if you tell me what to do, Im willing to learn.
Give me another chance, young ladies, you wont regret it.
Its a work of merit, dont forget, to help another person mend their ways.
She appealed to Swallow It was on account of beating you that I got into this tr6uble.
And I didnt beat you very hard.
Put in a word for me, theres a good child!
Bao-yu himself now felt sorry for the woman and told her that she could stay.
But no more trouble, mind!
Any more trouble from you, and youll be out like a shot - and youll be given the beating!
The woman thanked first Bao-yu and then all the others in turn.
She had already left when Patience looked in to see what the trouble was.
Forget about it!
said Aroma.
Its all over.
Well, they say where mercy is possible, mercy should be shown, Patience observed.
If you can see your way to letting her off, it certainly saves us some trouble.
I cant understand it, though.
Its only a few days since Their Ladyships left, yet already the whole place seems to be in a state of mutiny.
Before Ive finished dealing with trouble in one place, it crops up in another.
I scarcely know which way to turn.
I thought we were the only ones, said Aroma.
I didnt realize there were others.
Oh, this is nothing!
said Patience.
There have been seven or eight outbreaks just during these last three or four days.
Compared with the others, this trouble of yours is a very minor affair.
Weve had something much more upsetting - and more ridiculous - than this to contend with.
-384 Aroma was curious to know what it was.
But as to whether Patience told her or not, that will be revealed in the chapter which follows.
CHAPTER 60 As a substitute for rose-orris Jia Huan is given jasmine face-powder And in return for rose essence Cook Liu is given lycoperdon snow Aroma, you will recall, had asked Patience what in particular it was that had been giving her so much trouble.
Patience smiled mysteriously Something no one would ever guess.
Youll have a good laugh when I tell you.
I wont tell you for a few days yet, though, because I still havent quite got to the bottom of it -and I havent got time now, in any case.
As if to prove that this was so, one of Li Wans little maids arrived at that very moment Miss Patience?
Oh, there you are!
Mrs Zhus waiting for you.
Why dont you come?
Im coming, Im coming, said Patience, breaking away from the others with a laugh and hurrying after her.
Aroma and the others laughed, too.
Shes grown as popular as hot cakes since her mistresss illness everyone wants her at once!
Patiences business with Li Wan is no part of our story.
We remain with Bao-yu and the test at Green Delights.
Swallow, said Bao-yu, you and your mother had better go to Miss Baos place and make it up with Oriole.
You cant let her go on feeling offended.
Yes, said Swallow, and hurried out to find her mother.
Bao-yu shouted to them through the window as the two of them were crossing the courtyard Dont say anything about it in front of Miss Bao.
You dont want Oriole to get a telling-off.
Mother and daughter shouted back a reply and continued on their way, conversing as they went.
Swallow began reproaching her mother when they were out of earshot 148 I told you, Mother, again and again, but you wouldnt believe me.
All this trouble youve got yourself into - it was so unnecessary.
Get along with you, little hussy!
said her mother, laughing.
You know what the proverb says Never suffer, never learn.
Ive learned my lesson.
I dont need any lectures from you!
If only you could be content with the job youve got, Ma, and not be always pushing forward so, said Swallow gently.
There are all sorts of benefits to be had from working here, after youve been here some length of time.
Ill tell you just one of them.
Bao-yu says that when the time comes, hes going to ask Her Ladyship to give us maids - all of us, that is, not just the ones who work in his room - our freedom, so that you can marry us to whoever you like.
What about that for a start?
Really?
Her mothers delight was tempered with incredulity.
Why should I tell a lie?
The pious invocations which this news evoked continued until they were almost at All-spice Court.
They arrived there when Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Aunt Xue and the others were having lunch.
Swallow and her mother waited until Oriole came out to make the tea, then, as she emerged, Swallows mother stepped forward to make her apology.
Im afraid I was a bit hasty just now, miss.
I said sonic things I shouldnt have done.
I hope you wont hold it against me.
Anyway, Im very sorry.
Oriole, all smiles, begged them both to be seated and would have given them tea but mother and daughter said they had business to attend to and took their leave.
They were already on their way back to Green Delights when Etamine came hurrying after them.
Just a minute, just a minute!
She was holding a little packet which she wanted them to deliver to Parfumee for her.
It was rose-orris, she explained, for the face.
Thats a bit unnecessary, isnt it?
said Swallow.
They must have plenty of it there theyd be only too willing to give 149 -347 her if she wanted any.
Why go to the trouble of sending her some?
What they do with theirs is their concern, said Etamine.
This is mine and I want to give it to her as a present.
Please take it with you.
Swallow could scarcely refuse.
When she and her mother got back to Green Delights, Jia Huan and Jia Cong were with Bao-yu inside, having arrived on a formal visit a few moments previously to inquire about his health.
Swallow turned to her mother.
Now, Mother Ill go in alone.
Theres no need for you to come in with me.
Her mother received this without a murmur.
All her former wilfulness was quite forgotten and she stood docilely outside while Swallow entered.
Bao-yu, seeing her come in, realized that it was Only to report the successful conclusion of her mission and nodded to her curtly to show that he had understood.
There was therefore no need for her to say anything, and after standing silently for a few moments inside the doorway, she slipped out again, signalling with her eyes to Parfumee as she did so to follow her into the Outer room.
There she handed the packet to her and told her in an undertone what Etamine had asked her to say.
Bao-yu, having nothing whatever to talk to his visitors about, had been idly following this transaction out of the corner of his eye, and when Parfumee came in again, he asked her what it was that she was holding.
Parfumee told him and handed him the packet.
He praised Etamines thoughtfulness while opening it up to have a look.
Jia Huan craned forward and smelt the powders cool, delicious scent.
Stooping down, he fished a sheet of paper from inside his boot.
Give us a bit, brother!
he said, holding the paper out for Bao-yu to pour some in.
Bao-yu would have given him some, but Parfumee was unwilling that Etamines gift to her should be shared.
No, dont take any of that, she said.
Ill get some more for you from outside.
150 Bao-yu, divining the reason for her reluctance, quickly did the packet up again.
Here you are.
Hurry up and get some more then.
-5947 Parfumee took the packet, and having stored it safely away in the room where she kept her things, looked in the drawer of her vanity-case for her own supply, only to find that the box she had kept it in was empty - why she could not imagine, because she was sure there had been some left in it that morning But when she asked the others, of course, no one knew anything about it.
Theres no time to bother about that now, said Musk.
Obviously it must have been someone from this room.
They must have found themselves short and borrowed yours.
Give him something else.
It doesnt matter what hell never know the difference.
Anything to get rid of them, so that we can get on with our lunch!
Following this advice, Parfumee made up a little packet of jasmine-scented face-powder and took it inside to the boys.
Jia Huan, grinning broadly, stretched out his hand to receive it, but she threw it contemptuously on the kang and he had to stoop down to pick it up.
When he had stowed it inside the breast of his jacket, he and Jia Cong finally took their leave.
With Jia Zheng permanently away and Lady Wang and the other ladles now also absent, Jia Huan had lately taken to staying away from school for several days at a time on the pretext that he was ill he therefore felt no compunction in entering his mothers courtyard during the daytime.
He did so now, very pleased with himself, to look for Sunset, whom he found chatting with Aunt Zhao.
Look, Ive brought you something nice, he said, going up to her, all smiles, and holding out the packet something for your face.
You know youre always saying how good roseorris is for skin troubles - how much better than the silver powder you get from outside - well, have a look at this!
Sunset opened the packet, took one look at its contents, and let out a hoot of laughter.
Who did you get this from?
Jia Huan told her.
151 -5947 Theyve been having you on, said Sunset.
This stuff isnt rose-orris, its jasmine face-powder.
Jia Huan looked again.
It did in fact have a slightly pink ish tinge, and when he sniffed it, he found that it had a sweet, almost sickly perfume, quite unlike the clean, fresh scent of the orris.
Well, anyway, its good stuff, he said.
Orris or this stuff its all powder, isnt it?
You can keep it to use on your face.
This is still better than anything you could buy from outside.
-5947 Sunset put it away resignedly.
Aunt Zhao eyed her offspring scornfully.
You dont think if theyd got anything really good theyd give it to you, do you?
Im not surprised she made a fool of you Im surprised you bothered to ask her for it.
Take it back and throw it in her face, thats what you ought to do.
Now that the others are all either chasing around the countryside after this funeral or lying with their toes curled up in bed is just the moment for a good old row.
Stir them all up a bit.
Pay them back for some of the things theyve done to us in the past.
No ones going to be bothered to dig a little thing like this up in two months time when theyre all back again.
And even if they do, youve got a good excuse.
Bao-yus your elder brother you cant do anything to offend him, I agree.
But that doesnt mean that you have to put up with what every little cat or dog of his chooses to do to you.
-5947 Jia Huan hung his head.
Its not worth a quarrel, said Sunset, defending him.
Much better just grin and bear it, whatever we think.
Just stay out of this, will you?
said Aunt Zhao.
Its got nothing to do with you.
He knows hes in the right.
Its a golden opportunity to go and tell these little hussies exactly what he thinks of them.
She pointed at Jia Huan scornfully.
Pah!
Spineless creature I If ever I say a word out of place or give you the wrong thing by mistake, I get black looks from you soon enough!
Oh yes, you can be very fierce with your own mother!
But when some little chit of a girl makes a fool of you, you take it lying down.
How can you expect the servants to respect you when you grow up if you always behave like this?
Oh, youre so useless, you make me sick!
152 Shamed and angered by her words, yet still not daring to act upon them Jia Huan made a dismissive gesture with his hand.
-5947 Its all very well to talk, but you wouldnt dare to go there any more than I would.
You want me to go back there and have a row with them, dont you?
All right, suppose I do and they tell the school.
Im the one wholl feel the pain when I get beaten, not you.
Youre always stirring me up to do things then, when I get beaten and sworn at, you just keep your head down and say nothing.
This time youre trying to stir me up to have a row with these girls.
Well, if youre not afraid of Tan-chun, why dont you do it yourself?
Then perhaps in future I might take a bit more notice of what you said.
His words touched Aunt Zhao on the raw.
What?
she screamed.
Me afraid Of my own flesh and blood, of my own daughter that I once carried inside me?
Thats a good story!
She snatched up the packet of orris-powder from where Sunset had placed it and went rushing off in the direction of the Garden.
Sunset, having found expostulation in vain, slipped off to another apartment to shelter from the storm.
Jia Huan slunk off through the ornamental gate to play on his own outside.
As Aunt Zhao, still in a highly combustible state, went charging into the Garden, who should she run into but old Mamma Xia, that aunt of Swallows who was also the foster-mother and implacable enemy of Nenuphar.
From Aunt Zhaos livid face and bloodshot eyes it was evident to the old nannie that she was in a very nasty temper.
Mamma Xia politely inquired where she was going.
Now even the little painted actresses who havent been with us more than a few days are discriminating against us.
I could take it from anyone else, but to have little creatures like that putting you in your place - its more than flesh and blood can bear!
As these sentiments, insofar as she could make sense of them, seemed very much in accord with her own, Mamma Xia asked her, with some interest, precisely what it was that had 153 -134 upset her.
Aunt Zhao explained how Jia Huan had asked for rose-orris and been fobbed off with ordinary face-powder.
My dear Mrs Zhao, said Mamma Xia, have you only now begun to realize what they are like?
Why, what you have just told me is nothing I The other day they were even burning ghost money in here - and Bao-yu sticking up for them, if you please I If anyone else brings anything into the Garden, its all unclean, unclean I - theres no end of a fuss.
But ghost money, than which theres nothing more unclean that I know of, thats all right, apparently.
Youre the most senior person after Her Ladyship, Mrs Zhao.
I think you ought to put your foot down for once.
Im sure if you did, everyone would respect you for it.
If you ask me, players is only trash anyway, so even if you upset them, theres nothing much they can do about it.
Let these two things, the powder and the ghost money, be your justification for making an example of them.
Ill support you with my evidence.
Give them a taste of your authority now and you will find it that much easier to deal with other things later on.
Even if the young mistresses dont like it, theyre not going to side against you with riff-raff like these.
Aunt Zhaos resolve was strengthened by this encouragement.
I didnt know about the ghost money, she said.
Tell me what happened.
Mamma Xia did so, in great detail, concluding with a further incitement to action.
Go and have it out with them, Mrs Zhao I Well stand by you If theres any trouble.
These words were as music in Aunt Zhaos ears.
Emboldened by them, she marched off without more delay to Green Delights.
It chanced that Bao-yu was out when she arrived he had heard that Dai-yu was visiting All-spice Court and gone off to join her there and Parfumee was having lunch with Aroma and the other maids.
The girls all rose to their feet as Aunt Zhao entered and politely invited her to join them.
Wont you have some lunch, Mrs Zhao?
Why are you in such a hurry?
154 -5947 Ignoring the invitation, Aunt Zhao stepped forward, threw the powder she was carrying in Parfumees face and, with stabbing index finger for emphasis, began shouting at her abusively.
Little strumpet!
Youre a bit of bought goods, thats all you are.
We paid down money and bought you, so that you could be trained to sing for our entertainment.
Play-actors and prostitutes are the class of people you belong to the lowest servant in this household is still a few steps above you.
So what makes you think you have the right to go discriminating between one person and another?
Its no skin off your nose if Bao-yu wants to give something of his away to somebody what business have you to try and stop him?
I suppose you thought when you palmed that stuff off on Huan that he wouldnt know the difference.
Well, let me tell you Master Huan is Bao-yus brother, whatever you may think of him, and that means hes one of the masters, and theres no cause for you to look down on him.
Parfumee, never one to take things quietly, Set up a howl of tearful protest.
I gave that stuff to him because I hadnt got any orris and I was afraid if I told him I hadnt got any he wouldnt believe me.
Anyway, its good powder.
And suppose I have been trained as an actress, Ive never played outside for money.
Im a little girl, not a trumpet or whatever it was you called me.
And as for being bought goods, well, it wasnt you who bought me.
And anyway, look whos talking!
I thought all of us here were bought goods.
I dont know why you of all people would want to drag that up.
Stop that at once!
said Aroma, shocked, and tried to pull her Out of the way.
But Aunt Zhao, in speechless fury, had already advanced on Parfumee and dealt her a couple of resounding slaps on the head.
Aroma expostulated.
Shes only a child, Mrs Zhao, you dont want to put yourself on the same level.
Leave it to us to deal with her.
Parfumee was not to he struck with impunity and reacted to the assault with a fine display of histrionics, weeping, shouting and throwing herself about in all directions.
How dare you hit me, you horrible old woman!
You should 155 -1014 look at yourself in the mirror!
Go on, hit me again then, hit me again!
I dont want to go on living!
Lowering her head, she drove it into Aunt Zhaos midriff, continuing, as she butted into leer, to repeat her challenge.
Several of the servants shouted at her and attempted to pull her off.
Aroma would have done so too, but Sky-bright drew her to one side and advised her against joining them.
Leave them to it, Aroma Y6u and I dont want to get mixed up in this.
Its the law of the jungle now you hit me, I hit you.
Heaven knows where it will end!
The servants who had followed in Aunt Zhaos wake, when they heard the rumpus inside, gave thanks to the Lord Buddha that justice was at last being done.
Among them, the old women who bore grudges against the little actresses were particularly gratified to hear that Parfumee was being beaten.
The news travelled quickly.
Nenuphar and Etamine, who had found a quiet corner of All-spice Court in which to be alone together, heard it when the two former painted faces of their troupe, Xiang-yuns Althee and Bao-qins Cardamome, burst in on them to enlist their support.
Come on, you two!
If we let them bully Parfumee, we shall all of us suffer.
Its time to come out in the open and make a stand.
Lets show them a bit of spirit!
The four of them were only children, full of righteous indignation for their friend.
Without a moments reflection they rushed off in a body and went charging into Green Delights.
Cardamome made first impact, and Aunt Zhao would have been swept off her feet had she not been simultaneously ringed round by the three others, who, with fists flailing, heads butting, and all emitting loud boo-hoos, pressed in upon her rear and sides.
Skybright and the senior maids, though pretending concern and making half-hearted attempts to intervene, found it difficult not to laugh but Aroma was genuinely distressed and dashed from one to another of them, dragging them away from Aunt Zhao.
It was useless.
As she pulled one off, another would dart in to replace her.
Whats the matter with you all?
wailed Aroma.
If youve got a grievance, why cant you discuss it like sensible human 156 -134 beings?
You cant go taking the law into your own hands like this.
I never heard of such a thing!
Aunt Zhao could only curse helplessly.
Etamine and Nenuphar held her firmly by each arm and Althee and Cardamome had her pinned between them with their heads.
Kill us!
they kept shouting, Kill us all four!
Parfumee meanwhile lay stretched out corpselike on the ground, having cried herself into a swoon.
The little actresses might have remained locked in their grapple with Aunt Zhao indefinitely, but Skybright had already sent Swallow to bear word of what was happening to Tan-chun, and You-shi, Li Wan and Tan-chun, together with Patience and a number of female domestics, now arrived upon the scene and shouted to them peremptorily to release her.
Aunt Thao was by now pop-eyed with anger and the veins stood out thickly on her forehead.
They asked her how she came to be in such a predicament, but her reply, though long and voluble, was made almost incomprehensible by rage, and You-shi and Li Wan, unable to make anything of it, contented themselves with shouting some more at the actresses.
Tan-chun, though, merely sighed.
-5947 This isnt really very serious.
You are too easily angered, Aunt.
As a matter of fact there was something I wanted to discuss with you, but the maids didnt seem to know where you had got to.
Now it appears that you were in here, working yourself into a rage.
Do come with us now.
You-shi and Li Wan smilingly confirmed the invitation.
Yes, Mrs Zhao.
Come with us to the office and we can discuss things with you there.
Since she could scarcely object to being consulted, Aunt Zhao was constrained to go along with them, but even as she went she continued muttering angrily to herself until Tan-chun cut her short These girls are here for our amusement, Tan-chun said.
They are like pets.
You can talk to them and play with them if you feel like it, or if you dont, you can simply ignore them.
Its the same when they are naughty.
Just as, when your puppy-dog bites you or your kitten scratches you, you can either ignore it or have it punished, so with these 157 -1014 girls.
If they do something to offend you, you can either let it pass, or, if you dont feel able to, you can call in one of the stewardesses and have them punished.
There is absolutely no need to go rushing off in person, shouting and hollering at them.
Its so undignified.
And besides, it sets so bad an example.
Look at Aunt Zhou.
She doesnt seem to suffer any of this disrespect you complain of and she isnt always rushing off after people to have it out with them.
If I were you, Aunt, I should go back to your room now and try to calm down a bit.
And dont go listening any more to those trouble-makers.
Theres no reason why you should do other peoples work for them you get no thanks for it they merely laugh at you for being stupid.
However angry you may feel now, try to be patient for a few days until Lady Wang gets back and well see what we can do to get all this sorted out then.
This dressing-down was effective, insofar as it left Aunt Zhao without a word to say, and she returned in silence to her room.
As soon as she had gone, Tan-chun burst out angrily to the others.
Youd think shed know better at her age.
Why cant she do anything to make people respect her?
I mean, what a ridiculous thing to quarrel about!
And what a way to behave!
She will listen to absolutely anything anyone tells her.
She has absolutely no judgement of her own.
And those wretched old women take advantage of the fact to use her as their cats-paw.
The more Tan-chun thought about it, the angrier she became.
She ended up by ordering the women to make some inquiries and find out whose incitement it was that had goaded Aunt Zhao into action.
The women went off obediently to investigate, but turned to each other with shrugs and smiles as they left the building.
Like looking for a needle on the ocean bed!
And though they had Aunt Zhaos women and all the women from the Garden up in front of them for questioning, not one of them would admit to knowing anything at all about it, and they were obliged to report back to Tan-chun that they had failed.
158 But we shall go on making inquiries, miss, they said.
If we find anything suspicious, we shall report it to you.
-5947 Tan-chuns anger had by this time subsided and she would have let the matter drop but Artemisie, the little actress who had been assigned to her apartment, came to her privately to tell her that she could identify the culprit.
It was Mamma Xia, she said.
She hates us and she is always trying to get us into trouble.
The other day she tried to get Nenuphar into trouble for burning spirit-money, but Bao-yu had asked her to burn it, and when he owned up, Mamma Xia hadnt a leg to stand on.
Today, when I was delivering those handkerchiefs for you, I noticed her and Mrs Zhao twittering away for ever such a long time together and when they saw me coming they moved out of the way to avoid me.
It seemed highly probable that it was Mamma Xia who had done the inciting but these little actresses were all closely in league together, Tan-chun reflected, and all of them were exceptionally mischievous it would be too risky to act on the evidence of what one of them had said.
She thanked Artemisie for her information, but inwardly decided to do nothing.
By an unlucky chance Mamma Xia had a granddaughter who worked in Tan-chuns apartment and did various little errands for the maids, with all of whom she was popular.
Her name was Cicada, but the maids all called her Ciggy.
On this particular occasion Tan-chun had gone back to the jobs room after lunch, leaving Ebony in charge of her apartment.
Ebony now asked Ciggy to go to the Garden gatehouse and get one of the pages there to run out and buy her a sweet-cake.
Ciggy objected that she had just finished sweeping the courtyard and had a backache.
She told Ebony to ask someone else.
Theres no one else I can ask, said Ebony.
I tell you what.
If youll do this errand for me now, Ill give you a piece of good advice that you can pass on to your grandma when you get there.
And she proceeded to tell her about Artemisies denunciation.
159 -1014 Tell her to be on her guard.
The little beast!
said Ciggy, taking the money for the sweetcake.
She wants to join in too, does she?
Wait till I tell my gran!
And off she went to the back gate of the Garden.
It was a slack time now in the kitchen and the women, Mamma Xia among them, having for the time being finished with fetching and carrying were sitting outside on the steps and gossiping.
Ciggy asked one of them to go out and buy a hot fried sweetcake for her and then proceeded to give her grandmother an account, interlarded with much bad language of her own, of what Ebony had told her about Artemisie.
Mamma Xia, both angered and alarmed by what she heard, was all for going off straight away, having it out with the little actress, and protesting her innocence to Tan-chun but Ciggy prevented her.
Dont go, Gran!
What can you say to them if you do go?
How are you going to explain how you got to know about it?
Once they start asking questions, youll be in the soup again.
Ive told you this to put you on your guard.
You dont have to do anything about it.
Just then Parfumee peered in the gateway of the kitchen courtyard and called across to Mrs Liu, the cook, who was still banging about inside the kitchen.
Cookie, Master Bao says, for his vegetable dish this evening could he have something cold and vinegary again, please, only not so oily as last time?
Very good, Cook Liu stood in her doorway and called back cheerfully.
Why should they send you about such a great, important matter?
Come in and look around, if its not too dirty for you.
Parfumee had barely stepped into the courtyard when the woman to whom Ciggy had entrusted the money arrived back carrying Ebonys hot fritter on a saucer.
Oo, lovely hot fritter!
Give us a taste!
said Parfumee jokingly.
-5947 That has been ordered and paid for by someone else, said Ciggy primly, as she took the saucer from the woman.
It is not for you.
160 -5947 Do you fancy one, miss?
Cook Liu asked Parfumee.
Ive got one in here that I bought for our Fivey you can have if you like.
It hasnt been touched yet, so its quite clean.
She brought the fried cake out on a saucer and handed it to Parfumee.
There you are.
Now you wait there a moment and Ill heat up a nice cup of tea for you to go with it.
She went inside again to rake the top off the fire and heat some tea up in a skillet.
But instead of waiting for her, Parfumee picked the fritter up from its saucer, went over to Ciggy with it, and held it under her nose for her to inspect.
Look Whats that, then?
Fritter.
Who wants your mouldy fritter?
I was only joking.
I wouldnt eat yours if you went down on your bended knees and begged me to!
She began to crumble it up between her fingers and throw the pieces to the birds.
Dont worry, Mrs Liu!
she called out in the direction of the kitchen.
Ill buy two catties of these for you presently.
Ciggy glared at her in outrage.
Old Thunder up there must be blind not to strike you dead, she said bitterly.
Either that, or he must be angry with me for something.
Still, I cant compete with you, can I!
I havent got anyone to rush out and give me things, or trot around after me like a self-adopted slave, or chip in with a good word for me when theres an argument.
All right, young ladies, thats enough!
said the women on the steps.
Cant you even see each other without having words?
The more discerning of them, sensing that a storm was brewing and not wanting to get involved, had already begun slipping off elsewhere.
But Ciggy had no stomach for a fight and went off, muttering angrily to herself, without further argument.
When the women had all gone, Cook Liu came bustling Out of her kitchen for a private word with Parfumee.
That business we were talking about the other day -have you spoken to him about it yet?
Yes, I have, said Parfumee.
I was going to remind him of it today, but that wretched Zhao woman came along and 161 -880 upset everything with her quarrelling.
Hows Fivey?
Did she drink any of that Essence of Roses I brought her the other day?
She drank it all, said Cook Liu.
She loved it.
Shed really like some more, to tell the truth, but she doesnt like to ask.
Thats all right, said Parfumee.
I can easily get her some more.
I only have to ask for it.
The object of Parfumees inquiry, who owed her strange name to the fact that she was the fifth of Old Lius granddaughters, though only the daughter of a cook, was in both looks and intelligence a match for any of the senior maids -Patience, Aroma, Faithful or Nightingale - and it was only because of a weakly constitution that she was still, in her sixteenth year, without employment.
Recently, however, observing how numerous the maids were in Bao-yus apartment and how light their duties were, and hearing that it was his intention to give them their freedom when they had finished service with him, her mother had conceived the ambition of getting her on the staff of Green Delights.
Lack of a contact there had at first made this ambition seem unrealizable but Cook Liu had previously worked at Pear Tree Court, where her cheerful and ungrudging service had won her golden opinions with the girls.
They greatly preferred her to their own foster-mothers.
And so when Parfumee moved into Green Delights, the cook had easily.
prevailed on her to tackle Bao-yu on her daughters behalf.
Bao-yu had consented willingly, but the situation created by Xi-fengs illness together with other more recent developments had so far prevented him from seeking higher approval for the appointment.
But we digress.
Bao-yu heard about the fracas created in his apartment by Aunt Zhao while he was at All-spice Court visiting the girls.
Though deeply distressed on Parfumees behalf, he decided, after some hesitation, that intervention by him could only make matters worse, and resolved to stay where he was.
He did so until word reached All-spice Court that Tan-chun had succeeded in getting Aunt Zhao out of the way.
Re- 162 -880 turning then, he had formally reproved Parfumee for her belligerency and then sent her on an errand to the kitchen.
Parfumee now arrived back at Green Delights and reported on the fulfilment of her mission.
She also told him that, if he still had any, Fivey would like some more of the Essence of Roses.
Yes, I think Ive still got some, said Bao-yu.
Look, why dont you give her all of it?
I dont drink it very often myself.
He sent Aroma to fetch it.
As there was not a great deal of it left, he told Parfumee that Fivey might as well keep the bottle.
Parfumee went back to the kitchen again to give the bottle to Cook Liu.
When she got there, she found Fivey there as well.
To give her ailing, cooped-up daughter a little treat, Cook Liu had brought her along with her that day when she went to work.
The girl had just been taking a little walk in the environs of her mothers kitchen and was now resting her feet in the kitchen and having a cup of tea.
Mother and daughter, when they saw the glittering five-inch crystal bottle half-full of ruby liquid that Parfumee was carrying, assumed that it was some of Bao-yus West Ocean grape wine that she was bringing them.
Sit yourself down, said Cook Liu.
Ill just fetch the mulling-pan and boil up some water to heat it in.
Parfumee laughed.
Thats all there is, Im afraid.
He says you can keep the bottle.
Fivey realized that the red liquid must be not grape wine but some more Essence of Roses, and thanked her effusively for her kindness.
Parfumee asked her how she felt.
A bit livelier today, said Fivey.
Thats why I came in with Mother.
Ive been for a walk all around here, but theres really not much to look at just a lot of rocks and the backs of buildings.
I havent seen anything that you could really call a view.
Why dont you go right inside?
said Parfumee.
Because I wont let her, her mother chipped in.
None of the young ladies in there knows her.
If some inquisitive person 163 -1094 were to stop her and start asking questions, shed have a lot of trouble explaining what she was doing.
Once youve got her a place in there, as you so kindly promised, Im sure there will be plenty willing to show her around.
Shell be able to look around the Garden then until shes sick of the sight of it!
You dont want to worry, said Parfumee.
Id look after her.
Im sure you would, bless you!
said the cook.
But folks like us have to be more careful.
-5947 She poured Parfumee a cup of tea.
Parfumee accepted her hospitality to the extent of using some of this as a mouthwash before getting up to go.
My hands are a bit full at the moment, said Cook Liu.
Fivey will see you out.
The two girls went out together.
Having first ascertained that there was no one else about, Fivey impulsively took Parfumee by the hand Did you really ask him about that?
Of C ourse I did!
said Parfumee.
I wouldnt deceive you.
Ive found out that there are two vacancies that havent yet been filled one of them is the place left by Crimson, for whom Mrs Lian still hasnt found him a substitute the other one is Trinkets.
If he asks for you, it will be only one out of those two places, so he will be perfectly within his rights.
The only reason he hasnt done so already is because Patience keeps telling Aroma that if we have any requests concerning either jobs or allowances to make, wed be well advised to put them off for the time being.
The fact is that Miss Tan is looking for someone to make an example of.
Shes already made an example of Mrs Lian by turning down two or three of her requests in a row, and now shes trying to pick on us.
She hasnt found an excuse for doing so yet, but she hasnt given up trying.
So if we go asking her about a thing like this now, its almost a foregone conclusion that she will say no and once shes turned it down, it will be very difficult to get that refusal reversed.
Much better wait until the situation here has quietened down a bit - till Their Lady-ships are back again and everyone is in a good mood.
If he 164 -347 approaches the old girl then, shell give him anything he asks for, no matter what it is.
I know, said Fivey, but Im too impatient to wait that long.
I want that job now.
In the first place it will make my mother happy.
Shell feel that all the trouble she has had in bringing me up has not been wasted.
Secondly, the pay I shall earn will make things easier for them at home.
And thirdly, if only I felt a bit more cheerful, as I shall do if I get that job, I do believe that this illness of mine would get better - and that would mean a great saving for my family on doctors fees and medicines.
At that point Parfumee left her and continued on her way back alone.
Fivey returned to the kitchen.
She and her mother spoke warmly together of Parfumees kindness.
Id never have thought anything like this would ever come our way, said Cook Liu.
Still, though its so precious, you can have too much of a good thing.
You dont want to overheat your blood.
I think it would be rather a nice gesture if we were to pour a little of this off to give to someone else.
Fivey asked her who she had in mind.
I was thinking of taking half a cupful to your uncles boy, said Cook Liu.
Hes been down with a fever this last day or two, and its just the sort of thing he would enjoy.
Fivey made no reply and watched in silence while her rnother decanted a small quantity of the red liquid into a teacup and then placed the bottle, after corking it up again, on a shelf of the kitchen cupboard.
I think if I were you I wouldnt give him that, she said finally.
There was a wry little smile on her face.
If anyone should ask you where it came from, we might find ourselves in trouble.
-5947 Oh, fiddlesticks!
said her mother.
Surely we dont have to be that careful?
If you work as hard as I do all the year round, you are entitled to a few perks.
No one is going to say that we stole it, surely?
She sailed off cup in hand then to her brothers, leaving Fivey alone in the kitchen.
She found her nephew in bed.
He and his parents were all three delighted when they learned what she had brought them.
A cupful of cool water freshly 165 -347 drawn from the well was mixed with a little of the essence and handed to the sick boy to drink.
He finished it at one draught and immediately declared that he felt better and that his head seemed somewhat clearer.
The cup containing the remainder of the essence was covered with a square of paper and set on the table beside him.
While Cook Liu was still there, some of the sick boys workmates from the mansion called in to visit him.
Among them was a young fellow called Qian Huai, related on his mothers side to Aunt Zhao.
His father worked in Accounts.
Qian Huais own job was to accompany Jia Huan when he went to school.
A bachelor and with money to spend, he had for long been an admirer of Fiveys and in time past his parents had, at his insistence, made several approaches to Fiveys parents through intermediaries asking for Fiveys hand in marriage.
Her parents were by no means averse to the match, but as Fivey herself, though without actually saying anything, made it perfectly plain by her behaviour that the idea was repugnant to her, they had not dared to accept.
More recently, with talk of Fivey going into service in the Garden, they had been less inclined than ever to look on Qian Huai as a possible son-in-law, for it now seemed probable that after four or five years service as a maid, Fivey would be at liberty to marry someone of their own choice from outside.
Qian Huais parents, too, when they saw the way things stood, were inclined to let the matter drop.
Not so Qian Huai, however.
Wounded in his amour propre by Fiveys rejection, he made a fierce vow that he would pursue her relentlessly, with all the force and guile at his command, until he had succeeded in making her his wife.
It was a surprise to him, needless to say, to call with the other pages on his sick workmate and find Fiveys mother at the bedside.
Cook Liu was equally flustered on recognizing Qian Huai among the little group of visitors and got up to go, on the pretext of being busy.
Do just stay for a cup of tea, said her brother and sister-in-law.
It was so kind of you to think of him.
I expect theyll he wanting their dinner inside now, said 166 Cook Liu.
Ill come and see him again when Im not so busy.
The sister-in-law opened a drawer and took out a small paper packet from it as they were leaving.
Outside, at the corner by the gate, she pressed it, smilingly, into Cook Lius hand.
This is something your brother brought back yesterday, from the gate.
He was five days on duty there and not a single tip all the time.
Then suddenly yesterday some high-up from Canton came here on a visit and left three little baskets of this white stuff - Lycoperdon Snow its called - two for the masters and one for the people on the gate.
This here is your brothers share of it.
I opened it last night to have a look.
Its beautiful stuff - so white and fine.
They say that a little of it taken every morning mixed with breast-milk is wonderful for building up the body.
If you cant get breast-milk, you can use cows milk, or even plain boiled water.
Of course, we immediately thought of your Fivey it would be just the thing for her.
I sent our little maid round with some this morning, but she said your door was locked.
She said you must have taken Fivey in with you.
I would have gone in then to see her and given it to her myself but then I thought that with the mistresses away theyre much stricter about letting people in and out now and theyd be sure to ask what business I had going inside.
And besides, this last day or two weve heard rumours of such terrible goings-on in there, I should be afraid of getting mixed up in something.
So its a good job you came today, sister-in-law youll be able to take the packet to her yourself.
Cook Liu thanked her and left.
At the corner gate of the Garden her way was blocked by a grinning page.
Where have you been, missus?
There have been two or three calls from inside asking for you.
Me and the others have been looking for you all over the place.
Where have you just come from?
You dont live out in this direction.
I bet youve been up to something!
Cheeky little monkey!
said the cook.
The rest of their exchange is recorded in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 61 Bao-yu owns up to a crime he did not commit And Patience bends authority in order that the innocent may be spared Cook Liu was trying to get back into the Garden, but the bantering page-boy delayed her.
You dont live in this direction.
Naughty old Auntie!
What have you been up to?
Auntie is it?
said Cook Liu, laughing.
Cheeky little monkey!
If your auntie has got herself a fancy man, that means you have a new uncle, so what are you worrying about?
You open that gate quickly, my lad, and let me in, or Ill take hold of you by that little po-cover of yours and pull your hair out!
If I let you in, promise youll pinch a few apricots for me, said the boy, to make up for having kept me waiting so long.
Mind you dont forget, now, or next time you want to nip out in the middle of the night for a bottle of wine or some oil, Ill not open for you.
Ill just let you stand there shouting and not even answer you.
You must be mad!
said the cook.
We cant do that sort of thing any more now.
Nowadays its all divided up among the garden-women and there isnt one of them, either, that wouldnt just as soon scratch your eyes out as look at you.
You only have to walk under one of the fruit-trees and theyre watching you like hawks.
Fat chance I should have of picking any of the fruit for you I only yesterday I was walking underneath a plum-tree and raised my hand to drive a bee away that was buzzing in front of my face.
One of your old aunties happened to see me, but as she was quite a long way off, she couldnt quite make out what I was doing.
She thought I was picking the plums.
Oh, you should have heard her shout!
Dont take them!
We 168 havent offered the first-fruits yet.
No one must have any of those plums until Their Ladyships have got back and made the offerings.
Youll get your share in time.
I suppose she thought I had a craving and couldnt wait!
Im afraid I wasnt very polite.
I gave her a piece of my mind.
You ask one of your old aunties if you want some fruit, my boy, its no good asking me.
You asking me for fruit is like the granary rat asking the crow for corn Have asking Have-not!
Oh dear, oh dear!
said the boy sarcastically.
If you cant get me any, you cant theres no need to go on about it so.
I suppose you think you wont be needing my services any more but you will.
When your Fivey gets her job inside, youre going to need my services more than ever.
Whatever rubbish will the boy come out with next?
said the cook.
What job are you talking about?
Its no good pretending, the boy crowed.
I know.
You neednt think youre the only one with contacts inside.
Ive got my contacts too.
I may be all the time working here outside, but Ive got two girl cousins inside who keep me informed.
Theres nothing much going on inside there that I dont know about.
At that point in their exchange they were interrupted by an old womans voice from within Come on, you little monkey, you let Mrs Liu in this minute!
If she doesnt come in directly, they wont get their dinners in time.
Dont worry, Im coming!
Cook Liu brushed past the boy and, pushing the gate open for herself, went hurrying back to the kitchen.
Several of her assistants were waiting there already.
They had been standing about doing nothing, none of them having dared to take the initiative without her.
Wheres Fivey gone?
she asked them.
She lust this minute went off to look for her cousins in the tea-room, they said.
Cook Liu put the packet of Lycoperdon Snow somewhere to give to her daughter later and began making up the food-boxes for the different apartments.
While she was engaged in 169 this work, Ying-chuns little maid Lotus arrived with a message from Chess.
Chess says for dinner tonight she wants a bowl of egg-custard, lightly done.
Thats a bit of a luxury just now, said the cook.
I dont know why it is, but for some reason hens eggs seem to be in very short supply this year.
Ten cash each theyre charging for them at the moment, and even then youre lucky if you can find any.
The other day, when they were making up a present for one of Her Ladyships relations that had just had a baby, there were four or five of our buyers out scouring the markets for eggs.
They had no end of a job getting together two thousand.
So you can imagine what it must be like for me.
Tell her to ask for eggs some other time.
The other day when she wanted bean-curd, you gave me some that was rancid, said Lotus, and I got a telling-off for it.
Now she wants eggs and you say you havent got any.
I bet I could find some here if I looked.
She stepped over to the food-container and took the lid off.
Among the other things revealed was a little cache of some ten or a dozen eggs.
There you are, what are they then?
she said.
Arent you terrible?
The food we eat is all paid for, I dont know why youre so grudging with it.
It isnt as if youd laid the eggs yourself!
Ill give you laying eggs, my girl!
If anyone lays eggs around here, itll be your mother!
Those are the only eggs Ive got left and Ive been saving them up to use as garnishing on other dishes.
Even then Ill only use them if the young mistresses ask for them specially.
I need to have a few eggs by me in case of emergency.
What am I going to do if one of the mistresses asks for some eggs and you lot have already eaten them all?
What?
shell say.
No eggs?
Not even any eggs?
You people lead such soft, sheltered lives.
All youve got to do is stretch your hands out for washing-water and your mouths open for food.
You think eggs are the commonest things in the world, you dont realize there can be such things as shortages.
Never mind eggs, the day may yet come when theres not even a corn-stalk to be had.
My advice to you 170 girls is to try and make do with what youre given.
After all, you get the best quality white rice, and chicken and duck to eat every day.
Its too much pampering that causes this passion for variety eggs one day, bean-curd the next, fried pickled turnips in gluten batter ... Its all very well saying you want something different, but Im afraid it wont do.
If each lot wants something different, thats ten different dishes Ive got to prepare.
I might lust as well stop catering for the young mistresses altogether and do nothing but cook for you girls!
Lotus went red and shouted angrily back at her.
Its not true that were always asking for something different.
This rigmarole of yours is quite uncalled for.
Anyway, its your job to give us what we want.
If that isnt your job, Id like to know what is.
You were obliging enough to Swallow the other day, when she came to say that Skybright wanted a dish of artemisia shoots.
With pork or with chicken?
you asked her.
And when Swallow said Skybright didnt eat meat, shed have it with wheat gluten, only not too much oil, Oh, you said, how stupid of me!
Id quite forgotten she was a vegetarian.
You scurried off to wash your hands first before you cooked it, and when youd cooked it, you carried it all the way there for her yourself, just like a little dog that runs wagging its tall to its master.
Why you should pick on me to make an example of in front of all these people, I do not know.
Holy name!
said Cook Liu.
These people here will be my witness.
Whenever anyone from one of the other apartments, whether mistress or maid, asks me for a special order -and Im not just talking about that occasion you mentioned, Im talking about ever since this kitchen here first started -they invariably offer me something to cover the extra cost.
Whether I have to buy anything extra or not, its a nice gesture and I appreciate it.
Some people think that as I only have the young ladies to cater for, I must make a lot out of it but if anyone took the trouble to sit down and work it out, theyd get a shock.
Between forty and fifty people I have to cater for, counting both mistresses and maids.
And do you know what my daily allowance is?
Two chickens, 171 two ducks, ten catties of pork and a thousand cash worth of vegetables.
You try managing on that!
I can barely make it stretch to two meals a day provided everyone sticks to the egular menu but if Im going to have one person ordering one thing and one person ordering another, turning down the food Ive bought for them and expecting me to buy other materials to make up their orders, my allowance simply wont stretch to it.
If thats the way you want it, youll just have to ask Her Ladyship to give you all bigger allowances then we can do what they do in the main kitchen for Her Old Ladyships meals have a blackboard with the names of all the dishes under the sun chalked up on it and work through them one by one, having a different dish every day.
Then you could settle with me for what youd eaten at the end of each month.
A week or two ago Miss Tan and Miss Bao suddenly thought theyd fancy a dish of salted bean-sprouts and Miss Tan sent one of the girls over with five hundred cash to ask me if I would prepare it for them.
I laughed.
Theyd never eat five hundred cash worth, I said, not if they had bellies like the Laughing Buddha.
Twenty or thirty cash would be ample.
I sent the money back to her, but she wouldnt take it - said I should keep it to buy myself a drink with.
Now that the kitchens inside, she said, I expect you often have people coming round and asking you for favours.
She said, I know its hard for you to refuse them, but even salt and soy sauce cost something, and we dont want you to end up out of pocket.
Lets call this a payment to make up for some of the extras that other people have had out of you.
Now theres a kind, understanding young lady!
I praise the Lord in my heart for a young lady like that!
Too bad that Mrs Zhao got to hear about it.
She was furious, of course thought I was doing far too well out of it.
And sure enough she sent one of her little maids round less than ten days later asking for this and asking for that.
I couldnt help laughing.
Youre just the same.
I suppose youve taken a leaf out of her book.
Well, its no good.
My allowance just wont stretch to it.
Just then another messenger arrived from Chess to find out what had become of Lotus.
172 Whats the matter?
the messenger asked her.
Have you taken root or something?
Why dont you come back?
Lotus flounced off angrily after the messenger.
The report that she gave when she got back was so highly embellished that Chess could hardly fail to be incensed by it.
She was unable to do anything about it for the time being, because she was in the middle of serving Ying-chun her dinner but as soon as Ying-chuns meal was over, she hurried off to the kitchen, taking several of the junior maids with her.
She arrived as the kitchen staff were having - their own dinner.
The women, to whom it was obvious that some kind of mischief was imminent, rose to their feet with nervous smiles on their faces and invited her to sit with them.
Ignoring the women, she issued a brusque command to her minions Right!
Boxes, bins, cupboards - wherever the foods kept - throw it all out!
Better the dogs eat it than these swindlers have it all I The young maids, needing no second bidding, threw themselves with great gusto into the work of ransacking the kitchen, while the women made vain efforts to restrain them and pleaded with Chess to call them off.
You dont want to believe everything those young girls tell you, miss.
Mrs Liu would never dare offend you, she knows its more than her job is worth.
She did say that eggs are hard to come by lately, its true but we told her that it was silly of her to take that line, and that if you say you want something, its up to her to find some means of getting it for you, whatever it is.
Thats what we told her.
Shed already admitted that she was in the wrong and put a basin of eggs in the steamer before you arrived.
Look on the stove, if you dont believe us.
Chesss anger subsided somewhat under these blandishments and the young maids were persuaded, albeit reluctantly, to discontinue their pillage.
Chess continued to grumble for a bit and make unflattering remarks about the cook, but was eventually persuaded to return, while Cook Liu, with much banging of pots and pans and indignant muttering, set about making her a custard.
When this was in due course delivered to her, Chess promptly emptied it on the ground, 173 but the woman who had taken it prudently refrained from reporting this fact on her return for fear of provoking further unpleasantness.
When Fivey returned to the kitchen, her mother gave her some soup and a half a bowlful of congee and told her about the Lycoperdon Snow.
Fivey, resolving to share the latter with her friend and benefactress Parfumee, wrapped half of it up m a separate sheet of paper and, having waited until it was dusk, when there were not many people about, made her way to Green Delights, keeping to the trees as much as possible, so that no one should see her.
She managed to get as far as the gate of the courtyard without being stopped by anyone, but, not daring to go inside, retreated to the cover of some rose bushes and lurked there until someone should come Out.
Fortunately she did not have long to wait.
After about the time it would take to drink a cup of tea Swallow came out of the gate and Fivey stepped out of the bushes and called to her to stop.
Swallow could not at first make out who it was and had to go up close and scrutinize her before asking what she wanted.
Will you tell Parfumee to come out for a minute, please?
said Fivey.
I want to have a word with her.
Swallow laughed softly.
Youre too impatient.
Your business is sure to be settled within the next ten days, whatever you do.
Its silly to keep on asking.
Anyway, shes just gone out to the front, so youll have to wait a bit.
But perhaps it would be better if you gave me a message to pass on to her.
If you wait till she comes back, you might find yourself inside still when they shut the gate.
Fivey handed her the packet.
This stuff is Lycoperdon Snow She went on to explain what its properties were and how it was to be taken.
Ive just been given some and I want to share it with her.
Would you mind giving it to her for me, please?
Leaving the packet in Swallows hands, she turned and began swiftly making her way back again.
She had just got 174 as far as the part of the Garden bordering Flowery Harbour when she saw Lin Zhi-xiaos wife at the head of a party of stewardesses coming towards her from the opposite direction.
Concealment was impossible there was nothing for it but to walk straight up to them and greet them.
What are you doing, running around like this?
said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife.
I thought you were supposed to be ill. Fivey forced herself to smile.
Ive been a bit better this last day or two, so Mother brought me into the Garden with her for a change of air.
Ive just been to Green Delights for her, to deliver something.
That cant be right, said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife.
I saw your mother go out of the Garden just now thats why I shut the gate.
If shed really sent you to Green Delights, why didnt she tell me you were still inside?
Why did she go out and let me lock the gate without saying anything?
You must be lying.
Fivey was momentarily at a loss for a reply.
Actually she told me this morning but I forgot, she stammered.
I only just now remembered.
Probably she didnt say anything about my being in here because she thought Id already gone home.
Observing her confusion and the halting nature of her reply, Lin Zhi-xiaos wife remembered that Silver had lately reported some things missing from Lady Wangs apartment which none of the other maids would admit to having taken and wondered if Fivey might be the thief.
It was unfortunate for Fivey that Ciggy and Lotus, together with a number of older servants, should have arrived on the scene at that moment and helped to confirm her suspicion.
Give her a good grilling, Mrs Lint said one of these new arrivals.
Shes been sneaking to and fro all over the place this last day or two.
I dont know what shes been up to, but shes certainly been up to something.
Yes, said Ciggy, and Silver told me yesterday that when they opened that cupboard in Her Ladyships side room the other day they found a whole lot of things missing.
They noticed there was a bottle short when Mrs Lian sent Patience over for some Essence of Roses, otherwise theyd never have thought of looking.
175 Oh?
said Lotus with a pleased-looking smirk.
I didnt know about that.
As a matter of fact Ive seen a bottle of Essence of Roses somewhere today.
Where?
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife asked eagerly.
Ever since the bottle from Lady Wangs cupboard had been found missing, Xi-feng had been sending Patience round daily to inquire about the progress of her investigations and she was under great pressure to discover the thief.
In her mothers kitchen, said Lotus.
Lanterns were lit and the little party hurried off to investigate, Fivey protesting anxiously as they went But that little bottle came from Master Baos room.
It was given to me by Parfumee.
Parfumy!
said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife contemptuously.
If we find the evidence in the kitchen, I shall have to report it, and thats that.
It will be up to you to explain yourself to the mistresses if you can.
By now they had reached the kitchen and some of them, led by Lotus, went inside to look.
They came out almost immediately with the bottle.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, thinking that there might be other stolen articles in the kitchen, ordered a thorough search, in the course of which the packet of lycoperdon was discovered.
Taking this and the rose essence as evidence, they now led Fivey off to face Li Wan and Tan-chun.
But Li Wan would not see them.
Jia Lan was ill, and she was too busy looking after him to have time for household business.
They should see Miss Tan about it, she said.
Tan-chun was not in the office, having already returned to her own apartment.
Off they all trooped then to Tan-chuns place, where one of their number went inside to announce their business.
The maids were all in the courtyard enjoying the cool evening air.
Tan-chun was inside, washing her hair, they said.
Scribe went indoors to report.
It seemed an age before she re-emerged.
I told Miss Tan.
She said youd better find Patience and ask her to see Mrs Lian about it.
So off they went once more, this time to Wang Xi-fengs place, where they told their business to Patience.
Patience, 176 on going inside to report, found that her mistress had just gone to bed.
Xi-feng heard her through, after which she gave judgement summarily as follows Give the mother forty strokes, turn her out of the Garden, and make sure that she is never employed inside the Inner Gate again.
Give Fivey forty strokes too and pack her off to the grange.
They can either sell her or marry her to one of the hands.
Patience relayed this verdict, word for word, to Lin Zhixiaos wife and the others waiting outside.
Fivey, shocked and weeping, threw herself on her knees at Patiences feet and explained to her how Parfumee had given her the rose essence as a present.
We can clear that up easily enough, said Patience.
All weve got to do is wait until we can ask Pafumee tomorrow to find out whether she gave it to you or not.
But what about this lycoperdon stuff?
That was brought here as a present for Their Ladyships.
No one had the right to touch that before Their Ladyships had seen it.
Fivey explained that the packet of powder came not from Lady Wangs store but from her uncles share of the surplus that had been given as a douceur to the gate-people.
That puts you in the clear then, said Patience, smiling.
Its beginning to look as if you are wearing the hat for someone else.
She turned to Lin Zhi-xiaos wife.
Its too late to do anything about this now.
Mrs Lian has just taken her medicine and gone to bed I cant go pestering her about a little thing like this at this time of night.
Youd better hand her over to the night watch and tell them to look after her until the morning.
Ill explain it all to Mrs Lian tomorrow, and well see what we can do.
Lacking the confidence to dispute this countermanding by Patience of her mistresss orders, Lin Zhi-xiaos wife conducted Fivey outside and handed her into the custody of the watch before continuing about her own business.
Though still unbound, Fivey was unable to move freely and was obliged to stay where she was put and listen to the ill-natured comments of the old women.
Some of them, assuming as a matter of course that she was guilty, rebuked her for 177 -5947 her misconduct others complained of the trouble that she was causing them.
As if we havent got work enough already, they have to give us this thief to mind, they grumbled.
If she does herself an injury or gives us the slip while were not looking, we shall get into trouble!
And those who in the past had got on badly with her mother rejoiced in the daughters discomfiture and lost no opportunity of taunting and abusing her.
Poor Fivey!
Her heart was full of the injustice of it, but there was no one to pour out her troubles to The hardships of that night were doubly distressing to a person of her weak and ailing constitution no one to give her tea or even a cup of water when she was thirsty, no pillow or bedding for her to lie on - even if she had felt like sleeping.
The wretched girl spent the whole night in almost continuous weeping.
The enemies of Fivey and her mother, disappointed that the sentence could not be carried out on them immediately and fearful that the morrow might bring some remission, rose up next morning at crack of dawn and went secretly to Patience, hoping, by means of bribes and flattery, to buy her over.
They extolled her resoluteness and drew her attention to various past misdemeanours of Cook Liu in order to strengthen the evidence against her.
Patience accepted their presents, listened politely to their advice, and as soon as they had gone, slipped quietly over to Green Delights and asked Aroma whether Parfumee had in fact given some Essence of Roses to Fivey.
I certainly gave some to Parfumee, said Aroma, but whether or not she passed it on to someone else, I couldnt say.
She called in Parfumee to ask her.
Pafumee, in some alarm, at once confirmed that she had given the bottle to Fivey and went off to tell Bao-yu what had happened.
Baoyu was as shocked as she was.
The Essence of Roses is no problem, he said but what about the Lycoperdon Snow?
Im sure what she told them about it was the truth, but if it gets known that her uncle took it while on duty, then hes going to get into trouble -which seems a rather poor exchange for his kindness.
178 He thought he had better see Patience himself and point this out to her.
Look, he said, the Essence of Roses can be accounted for easily enough, but that Lycoperdon Snow business still looks a bit fishy.
Why dont you be a nice, kind girl, Patience, and tell them that the Lycoperdon Snow was given to her by Parfumee as well?
Then that disposes of the whole affair.
Thats all very well, said Patience, smiling, but she told everyone last night that her uncle gave it to her.
How can she now make out that she got it from you?
And apart from that, dont forget that the bottle of Essence of Roses from Her Ladyships room has still to be accounted for.
If this isnt it, where are they going to look for it?
Its not very likely that anyone else will own up to having taken it.
Skybright stepped over at this point to join in the discussion.
The Essence of Roses from Her Ladyships place must have been stolen by Sunset to give to young Huan.
Its as plain as the nose on your face.
I dont understand why youre all making such a mystery of it.
I know that as well as you do, said Patience, but its not so simple.
Silver, who was so worried about finding that bottle missing that she was in tears, did go, very quietly and nicely, and ask Sunset if she had taken it, and if Sunset had had the grace to say yes, Silver herself would have done nothing, and Im quite sure that no one else would have made an issue of it.
Whos going to stir up trouble about a little thing like that?
But unfortunately not only would Sunset not admit to having taken it, but she even had the gall to accuse Silver of taking it herself.
The two of them made such a hullabaloo between them that soon everyone in the household had heard about it.
By that stage I couldnt ignore the matter any longer, even if Id wanted to.
I had to investigate it.
And the first thing I found, of course, was that the one doing all the accusing was actually the thief.
But without any evidence, there was nothing much I could do.
I can take responsibility for that too, said Bao-yu.
You can tell them I stole the bottle from Her Ladyships room to give the girls a scare.
Now everything is accounted for.
179 No doubt its an act of merit to clear someone else of suspicion, said Aroma, but Her Ladyship wont be very pleased when she hears.
Shell say youve been up to your old childish tricks again.
Oh, thats of no consequence, said Patience.
We could of course clear this matter up quite easily by looking for the stolen bottle in Mrs Zhaos room.
The only reason I hesitate to do that is because Im afraid it would make things difficult for a certain person whose feelings I do care about very much.
I know she would be distressed, and the last thing I want to do is damage the jade vase while trying to hit the mouse.
She held three fingers up as she said this to indicate that it was Tan-chun she was referring to.
Aroma and the rest nodded in agreement.
Thats true.
Perhaps it would be better if Bao-yu took all the blame.
Yes, said Patience, but at the same time I think we ought to call Sunset and Silver here and get this matter properly sorted out.
We dont want whoever it is to think she can get away with it.
If we do nothing, shes sure to think its because we havent the wit to find out rather than that its for the reason Ive just said, and shell think she can go on stealing things with impunity.
This being agreed on, Patience sent someone to call them over.
Well, you can stop worrying now, you two, she said when they had arrived They think theyve found the thief.
Where is she?
said Silver.
At the moment shes in Mrs Lians room being questioned, said Patience.
Shes admitted taking everything theyve asked her about.
I happen to know myself that she didnt take them and is only confessing because shes frightened.
Master Bao cant bear the idea of an innocent person suffering and has already agreed to take responsibility for some of them.
As regards the rest, I could tell them who the real thief is, but there are certain difficulties.
One is that the real thief is a very good friend of mine.
The other is that the receiver of stolen goods, who is a pretty poor specimen, is closely related to a very nice person who would be very much upset if all of this 180 were to come into the open.
It looks as if I shall have to ask Master Bao to take responsibility for the whole lot, so that everyone is clear of suspicion.
Before I do that, however, theres something I should like to be clear about first.
Can I be sure, if I do ask him to do us this favour, that everyone is going to be a bit more careful in future?
Because if not, then rather than stand by and see an innocent person suffer, I shall have to tell all I know to Mrs Lian.
A blush had overspread Sunsets face while Patience was saying this.
Her natural decency suddenly getting the better of her compelled her now to speak.
Dont worry, Patience.
Theres no need for any innocent person to suffer and theres no need for that other person you mentioned to be upset.
I stole those things.
It was because Mrs Zhao kept on at me to take them.
I stole them to give to Huan.
Even when Her Ladyship was here I often used to steal things for him, so that he could give them away to his friends.
I thought that the fuss made when they found out that things were missing would die down in a day or two.
I cant stand by and let an innocent person take the blame.
Youll have to take me with you to Mrs Lian and let me make a clean breast of it Her courage took all of them by surprise.
Youre a good sort, Sunset, I always knew you were, said Bao-yu admiringly, but theres really no need for you to tell her.
All Ive got to do is say that I stole those things for a lark, to give you all a scare, and that now theres been all this fuss about them, I feel I ought to own up.
Theres only one thing, though.
I really must ask you girls to be more careful in future, for all our sakes.
I did it, said Sunset, its up to me to face the music.
Patience and Aroma disagreed.
Thats not the way to look at it at all.
If you confess, theyre sure to worm something out about Mrs Zhao, and that will upset Miss Tan again when she gets to hear about it.
Youd much better let Master Bao accept responsibility, so that everyone is cleared.
Nobody except the few of us here knows the truth, so its terribly easy for him to do this.
But as Master Bao says, you really will have to be more care- 181 ful in future.
If you must take anything, at least wait until Her Ladyship is here.
When she is back, you can give the whole room away if you like, because then we shant be involved!
Sunset hung her head and pondered for some moments before finally agreeing to go along with this.
When it was settled exactly what they should do, Patience went with Parfumee and the two maids from Lady Wangs apartment to the watch-room, called out Fivey, and quietly instructed her to say that the Lycoperdon Snow as well as the Essence of Roses had been given to her by Parfumee.
Fivey was deeply grateful.
Patience next took Fivey with her to Wang Xi-fengs place, where Lin Zhi-xiaos wife and her helpers had already been waiting for some time with Fiveys mother in their custody.
I brought her here first thing, Lin Zhi-xiaos wife told Patience in reference to her prisoner.
As that left no one to get the lunch ready, I put Qin Xians wife temporarily in charge, so that the young ladies should get their meal on time.
Who is Qin Xians wife?
said Patience.
I dont think I know her.
She does night duty in the south corner of the Garden.
She doesnt do anything in the daytime thats probably why you dont know her.
Very high cheek-bones and big round eyes.
Shes a very clean, lively little body.
Yes, of course you know her, Patience, said Silver.
Shes the auntie of Miss Yings maid, Chess.
Chesss father works for Sir She, but her uncle and auntie work on this side of the mansion with us.
Patience remembered with a laugh.
Oh, thats who youve chosen!
If youd told me that, I should have known who you meant.
She laughed again.
Youve been a bit too quick with your appointment.
Its all cleared up now, this business.
The waters have gone down and we can see the rocks.
We know now who the real thief was who stole that stuff from Her Ladyships room.
It was Bao-yu.
He went round to Her Ladyships apartment some days ago and asked Silver and Sunset for something and just for a tease the silly girls said he couldnt have it, because they couldnt give him anything while Her Ladyship was 182 away.
So he simply slipped in later on when they werent there and helped himself.
When these two found the things missing, they were scared out of their wits.
But as soon as Bao-yu heard that someone else had been accused of taking the things, he told me everything.
He even brought them round to show me, so that I could see they exactly corresponded with what the girls had told me was missing.
As regards the Lycoperdon Snow, that was something that Bao-yu had got from outside.
Hes been giving it away to all kinds of people - not only in the Garden one or two of the old nannies begged some off him to give to their relations outside and they have given it to other people as presents and Aroma gave some of hers to Parfumee and that lot and theyve been passing the stuff to and fro between themselves.
So you see, its all over the place.
The two baskets that were left in the jobs room the other day for Their Ladyships are still untouched.
The seals on them havent been broken.
So as far as thats concerned, there are no grounds for a charge either.
If youll wait here a few moments longer, Im just going in to tell Mrs Lian about this and well see what she says.
Patience then went into the bedroom and repeated almost verbatim to Xi-feng what she had just been telling Lin Zhi-xiaos wife.
Thats as may be, said Xi-feng when she had finished but we all know how ready Bao-yu is to cover up for other people.
Someone only has to go to him with a hard-luck story - especially if theres a bit of flattery thrown in with it - and hell own up to anything in order to get them off.
If we believe him now, how are we going to deal with more serious cases later on?
I think this needs going into more carefully.
I think you ought to get hold of those girls from Her Ladyships apartment and - well, I wouldnt say torture them exactly, but you could get them to kneel in the sun on broken china all day without anything to eat or drink.
If one day doesnt make them confess, just go on day after day until they do.
Theyre sure to give in sooner or later, even if theyre made of iron.
And as for that Liu woman, she went on, you know what 183 they say.
When flies gather on an egg, its generally a sign that theres a crack in it.
She may not have stolen anything in this instance, but I suspect shes no better than she should be for all these people to be complaining about her.
Well let her off the flogging, of course, but I still think we ought to dismiss her.
Even in the Emperors court people get punished for what they call guilt by association, so she cant complain if we sack her merely on suspicion.
Yes, but why bother?
said Patience.
They say that where mercy is possible, mercy should be shown.
What better opportunity than this could you have of showing yourself merciful for once?
Look at all the trouble you give yourself on account of these people, and they arent even your own household its Lady Xings household that you really belong to.
And where does it all get you, at the end of the day?
All you do is build up a lot of resentment against your-self and turn a lot of nasty, spiteful people into your enemies.
A person in your delicate health cant afford to make enemies.
Think of all the time it took you to conceive a man-child - and then to lose it after carrying it inside you for six or seven months!
How do we know that that wasnt brought on by too much worrying about this sort of thing?
I think you ought to start straight away taking things a bit easier.
Close your eyes to things a bit oftener.
What the eye doesnt see the heart doesnt grieve!
Patiences little homily quickly won Xi-feng to a better humour.
All right, she said, laughing.
Do as you wish.
Im not going to get myself worked up about it.
Now youre talking sensibly, said Patience happily, and going out of the bedroom, proceeded to dispose of the business outside in the way she had all along intended to.
But more of that in the next chapter.
CHAPTER 62 A tipsy Xiang-yun sleeps on a peony-petal pillow And a grateful Caltrop unfastens her pomegranate skirt Its the sign of a really thriving household, said Patience, that their big troubles turn into little ones and their little ones into nothing at all.
To make a great song and dance over a trifle like this would be plain ridiculous.
You can take them both back to the kitchen.
The mother is to keep her job.
Qin Xians wife will have to go back where she came from.
There is to be no further mention of this matter.
Let there be no slackening in the daily inspection of the Garden, though.
Thats most important.
As she turned to go, Cook Liu and her daughter stepped quickly forwards and kotowed their thanks.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife then conducted them back to the Garden, after which she reported to Li Wan and Tan-chun on what had been decided.
Both expressed satisfaction that the matter had resolved itself without further trouble.
The victory that had been gained by Chess and her faction was thus an empty one, and Qin Xians wife, that aunt of Chesss whose installation in the kitchen had been the result of long and patient scheming, enjoyed only the briefest moment of triumph in her new position.
Beginning in a great bustle with a general stock-taking of the kitchens equipment and stores, she detected - or claimed to detect - various shortages in the latter.
Two piculs of best rice were missing, she said a months supply of general purpose rice had been overdrawn and the amount of charcoal was not what it was supposed to be.
While so engaged, she was at the same time making discreet arrangements for the conveyance of various presents they included, by a strange coincidence, a pannier of charcoal and a load of rice to Lin Zhi-xiaos quarters out- 185 side and there were to be presents for the clerks who worked in Accounts.
She also prepared several dishes for a little repast to which she invited her new colleagues.
Now that Ive got this job, I rely entirely on your support to run things here, she told them.
So if there are any little matters that I fall down in, I shall look to you all to help me out.
Suddenly, in the midst of this activity, new orders arrived As soon as you have finished serving this lunch, you must leave.
Liu has been cleared.
Theyre putting her back in charge here.
Stunned though she was by this news, the wretched woman had at once to begin packing her things, and soon, with drums muffled and colours furled, beat a hasty retreat from the kitchen.
The things she had given away to others - pointlessly, it now appeared - had to be made good, in some cases by selling her own possessions.
Even Chess, for all her fury, was powerless to help her.
Ever since the fuss made by Silver about the missing objects, Aunt Zhao, the secret recipient of many of the things which Sunset had stolen, had been living in fear of discovery.
Each day, as she made her surreptitious inquiries about the current progress of investigations, she perspired afresh.
When Sunset herself suddenly came in and announced that Bao-yu had owned up and that there was nothing more to fear, she was naturally very much relieved.
The effect on Jia Huan, however, was somewhat different.
He immediately became suspicious, and taking out all the things that Sunset had been at such pains to get for him, he threw them in her face.
Two-faced thing!
he shouted.
You must be thick with Bao-yu or he wouldnt have covered up for you.
If you were prepared to take those things in the first place, you ought to have kept quiet about it and not told anyone.
Now that youve told him, I dont want them any more.
They would only remind me of your treachery.
Sunset swore by the most desperate oaths that she had been faithful to him she even wept but Jia Huan was adamant.
If it werent that we used to be friends, he said, Id go straight along now to Aunt Lian and tell her that you stole 186 those things.
Id tell her that you offered them to me, but I wouldnt take them.
Think about that then, and consider yourself lucky to have got away with it!
With those words he flounced out of the room, to the great indignation of his mother, who shouted after him angrily.
Ungrateful little blackguard!
What do you mean by it?
Sunset meanwhile was weeping as if her heart would break.
Poor child!
said Aunt Zhao, trying to comfort her.
He doesnt appreciate you.
But at least I know you are faithful to him.
Let me look after these things for you.
Hes sure to come round to a more sensible way of thinking in a day or two.
She would have taken them, but Sunset forestalled her, sweeping them angrily into a bundle, which, when no one was looking, she carried into the Garden and emptied out over the lake.
Some of the things sank straight to the bottom, the rest floated about on the surface of the water.
She was still angry when she went to bed, and cried all night long under the bed-clothes.
The day of Bao-yus birthday arrived - the same day, it had been discovered, as that on which Bao-qin had hers.
Because Lady Wang was away, rather less fuss was made of it than in previous years.
There were the customary four kinds of birthday present from Abbot Zhang together with a new amulet to replace the one he had worn during the previous year, and from the monks and nuns of various temples a token share of the days offerings accompanied by such other little gifts as the religious are wont to give on these occasions little figures of Old Longevity, sacred colour-prints, offertory scrolls, talismans inscribed with his personal star guardian, and annually renewable lockets inscribed with the current year-star.
A number of the blind ballad-singers both male and female regularly patronized by the household called in to offer their colourful felicitations.
His uncle Wang Zi-tengs family sent him the usual suit of clothes and two pairs of shoes and socks, together with a hundred little peach-shaped birthday cakes and a hundred little bundles of the finest silver thread vermicelli.
From his Aunt Xue he received exactly the same presents as from his uncle but in appropriately 187 reduced amounts.
The only other presents from senior members of the family were a pair of shoes from You-shi and a heavily-embroidered propitious encounter purse with a tiny gold image of Old Longevity in it and a piece of Persian ware from Xi-feng.
As in previous years, a distribution of alms was made on his behalf to the monks of various temples.
And then of course there were Bao-qins presents but to enumerate them as well would be tedious.
The presents which Bao-yu received from the girls were of a less formal nature and chosen more to mark the occasion than for their intrinsic value a fan from one, a specimen of calligraphy from another, a painting or a poem.
On the morning of his birthday Bao-yu rose at dawn, and after completing his toilet, put on his most formal clothes and went out to the main front courtyard of the mansion, where Li Gui and three other of his grooms were waiting for him by a table they had made ready with an incense burner and candlesticks and offerings as an altar to Heaven and Earth.
Bao-yu lit some sticks of incense and made his prostrations, poured out a libation of tea, and burned the paper offerings and offertory scrolls.
Then he went round to the Ning-guo mansion and kotowed his respects to the ancestors, first in the shrine and then in the hall.
Emerging from the latter, he knelt down on the terrace outside and kotowed upwards to his absent dear ones - Grandmother Jia, Jia Zheng and Lady Wang - rising on his knees after each prostration and lifting his clasped hands up in front of him.
He called in at the main apartment on his way out and made his kotow to You-shi, after which he sat and talked to her for a bit before returning to Rong-guo House.
His first visit there was to Aunt Xue, who made vigorous - though, of course, unsuccessful attempts to prevent his kotowing to her.
After that he called on Xue Ke, who was slightly senior to Bao-yu but not enough to warrant an obeisance and whose efforts to prevent a kotow, therefore, were more successful.
After exchanging a few words with Xue Ke, he went back into the Garden.
There he found Skybright and Musk waiting for him.
They were accompanied by two junior maids holding a red carpet which was intended 188 for kneeling on.
Attended by these four, he now proceeded to visit all those in the Garden beginning with Li Wan who were senior to himself.
Then back to the mansion again and out through the inner gate to call on Nannie Li and three other of his former nannies, with each of whom he was expected to spend some time in conversation.
On his way back the servants inside the Garden gate would have liked to kotow to him, but he would not let them and when he was once more back in his room, Aroma and the other maids offered him only verbal greetings and did not attempt to kneel.
Lady Wang had forbidden the maids to kotow to younger members of the family for fear it might shorten their lives.
Soon after this Jia Huan and Jia Lan arrived.
Aroma prevented them from kneeling and made them sit down for a while.
As soon as they had gone, Bao-yu declared himself tired out by all the walking he had done and put his feet up on the bed.
But not for long.
He had barely had time to drink half a cupful of tea when there was a confused sound of chattering and giggling outside and eight or nine maids burst laughing into the room.
There was Ebony and Periwikkle and Kingfisher and Picture, Xing Xiu-yans maid Signet, the nursemaid carrying Xi-fengs little girl Qiao-jie, and two of the maids from Lady Wangs room, Avis and Avocet.
He noticed that they were carrying a red carpet between them.
Where are the birthday noodles?
they said.
See how your doorway is crowded with people who have come to wish you happy returns!
No sooner were the maids inside than Tan-chun, Xiang-yun, Ba-qin, Xiu-yan and Xi-chun appeared behind them.
Bao-yu hurried Out to greet them.
How kind of you all to come!
he said, and as he ushered them inside, he called out to Aroma to get them all some tea.
A great deal of polite tussling ensued before his guests could finally be persuaded to sit down.
Aroma now brought in tea for them all on a tray but they had taken no more than a sip of it when Patience arrived, dressed to the nines in all her finery, and Bao-yu had to get up once more and hurry out to greet her.
When I went to Fengs place just now, he said, the person who announced me told me that she couldnt see me, so I asked if I might see you instead.
Why wouldnt you let me?
189 The first time you sent in I couldnt come out because I was doing your Cousin Fengs hair, said Patience.
When you sent in the second time and said that you wanted me to receive you in her place, I naturally couldnt let you because it would have been too great an honour.
It is I who should kotow to you -which is what I have come to do now.
But thats too great an honour for me!
said Bao-yu, laughing.
Aroma nevertheless brought a chair over and made Bao-yu sit in it.
Patience made him a curtsey.
Bao-yu, already on his feet again, answered.
it with a bow and pumped his hands.
Patience went down on her knees.
Bao-yu knelt down too.
At once Aroma raised Patience to her feet, whereupon she curtseyed to Bao-yu once more and Bao-yu, who had got up when she did, answered her with another bow and another pumping of the hands.
Now another one, said Aroma smiling and giving him a nudge.
Why?
said Bao-yu.
Weve finished.
Shes finished making her birthday reverence to you, said Aroma but its her birthday today too, so you still have to make yours to her.
Bao-yu bowed again, delightedly.
So its your birthday too, Patience?
Patience returned his bow with another curtsey.
Xiang-yun took hold of Bao-qin with one hand and Xiu-yan with the other.
At this rate the four of you are going to be making reverences to each other all day long!
Oh, of course!
said Tan-chun.
Its Cousin Xings birthday as well.
Id quite forgotten.
She turned to one of the maids Go and tell Mrs Lian about this and get them to send another lot of presents like the ones they did for Miss Qin to Miss Yings apartment.
The maid went off to do her bidding.
Now that the fact that today was her birthday had become public knowledge, Xiu-yan was obliged to make a round of the apartments, bowing and kotowing to everybody, as Bao-yu had had to do before her.
190 Interesting, all these coincidences, said Tan-chun.
You expect a few birthdays every month but its only when you get a lot of people living together like us that you begin getting two or three of them on the same day.
We even have a birthday on New Years Day in this family Yuan-chuns.
She comes first in that as in everything else.
I suppose thats what makes her so lucky.
It was great-grandfathers birthday as well, New Years Day.
The fifteenth of the first month is Aunt Xings birthday and also Cousin Chais - another coincidence.
The first of the third month is Mothers birthday.
The ninth of the third is Cousin Lians.
We havent got anyone with a birthday in the second month.
-1344 Yes you have, said Aroma.
Miss Lins is in the second month, on the twenty-second.
Its true theres no one of your surname, though.
My memory is hopeless I said Tan-chun.
Not at all, said Bao-yu.
He pointed smilingly at Aroma She only remembers it because her own birthday is on that day.
Oh, youre on the same day as her, are you?
I dont recollect your ever having come round and kotowed to me on that day, said Tan-chun teasingly.
And Patience this is the first time Ive heard that your birthday was today.
What sort of great ladles do you think we are to be bothering with birthdays?
said Patience.
Kotows and birthday presents are not for the likes of us.
My birthday is just another day, to be got through with as little fuss as possible.
I dont suppose youd ever have known about it at all if she hadnt let on.
Now that you do know, Ill gladly come round and kotow to you when you get back later to your room.
I dont in the least want you to do that, said Tan-chun.
On the other hand, I should very much like us to celebrate your birthday for once.
In fact, I shant be content unless we do.
Hear, hear I said Bao-yu and Xiang-yun.
Tan-chun gave instructions to one of the maids Go to Mrs Lian and tell her, from us all, that we want to keep Patience with us for the day.
Tell her we are going to pool together and celebrate her birthday.
191 The maid went off, laughing excitedly.
It was some time before she returned with Xi-fengs answer.
Mrs Lian says thank you very much for the honour you are doing her.
She says she doesnt know what you will be giving Patience to eat, but provided you let her have some of it, she will agree to leave her here in peace.
The cousins and maids all laughed when they heard this message.
It so happens that, as the birthday noodles and all the other things needed for todays meals are being seen to by the big kitchen outside, the Garden kitchen has got nothing to do today, said Tan-chun.
So when weve made our collection, we can give it to Cook Liu and get her to prepare this private party for us in the Garden kitchen.
The others having readily agreed that this would be best, Tan-chun sent someone to tell Li Wan, Bao-chai and Dai-yu what had been decided and invite them to contribute.
She also sent for Cook Liu and asked her to prepare a two-table banquet in the Garden kitchen.
Somewhat puzzled by this request, Cook Liu pointed out that on this particular occasion the catering was all being done in the outside kitchen.
Yes, said Tan-chun, but this is only for us.
Today is Patiences birthday and we want to pool together and have a special little party for her.
So do something nice for us, will you?
You can bring the bill to my place afterwards and I will give you the money.
Miss Patiences birthday today?
said Cook Liu.
Well I never!
And she stepped briskly forward and made her a kotow.
Patience bent over in confusion and raised her to her feet.
The cook hurried off to begin preparations.
Tan-chun now invited Bao-yu to accompany her to the jobs room and break his fast there with some noodles.
Having first waited for Li Wan and Bao-chai to arrive, she sent someone to ask if Aunt Xue and Dai-yu would care to loin them.
Now that the weather was warmer, Dai-yus illness was very much better than it had been and she was able to come.
With so many people in party dresses the crowded office was beginning to take on an unusually gay and festive appearance.
192 -1014 Unfortunately a formal present for Bao-yu - a handkerchief, a fan, some sticks of incense and a length of silk - arrived at that moment from Xue Ke, and Bao-yu had to abandon the female company of the office and go to take noodles with Xue Ke.
Since the Xue and Jia families each had a birthday on this same day, each was supposed to entertain the other with birthday wine.
Accordingly, at about noon that day, Bao-qin was brought over by Bao-chai to make a birthday reverence to her elder brother and to wait on him and Bao-yu while they drank the wine.
But Bao-chai was impatient of punctilio.
There is no need for you to send our wine over there, she told Xue Ke.
This year at least we can dispense with those empty formalities.
You can invite our employees from the shop in to help you finish it.
Cousin Bao and I must go back to the Garden now.
Excuse us for leaving you like this, but we have other people there waiting for us to entertain them.
I wont try to detain you then, said Xue Ke politely.
To tell the truth, our people from the shop will feel freer to call here when you are gone.
Having apologized to Xue Ke on his own account, Bao-yu accompanied the two girls back into the Garden.
As they passed into it through the corner gate, Bao-chai made the women there lock it up after them and hand her the key.
Why is it necessary to lock this gate?
Bao-yu asked her.
There are only a few people using it, and now that you and Aunt and Qin are all three living in the Garden, it must be an awful nuisance if you have to lock and unlock it every time you need to go and fetch something from your place outside.
One cant be too careful, said Bao-chai.
Look at all the incidents you people have been having during the past few days yet not once have any of our people been implicated.
I put that down entirely to the fact that this gate is kept constantly locked.
If it were left open, other people besides us would want to use it for the convenience of taking short cuts and as it would be too invidious to begin distinguishing between who might use the gate and who might not, it is better to keep it permanently locked and stop everyone using it, even though it means a certain amount of inconvenience for Mamma 193 and me, because at least it ensures that when there is any trouble none of out people will be under suspicion.
You heard about the missing objects, then?
Bao-yu asked her.
You mean the Essence of Roses and Lycoperdon Snow?
said Bao-chai.
I dont suppose you would have known even about them if your own proteges had not been involved.
No, I was thinking about something rather more serious than that -something which, for all our sakes, I hope will never come to light.
If it does, a great many people will be implicated.
I can tell you this, because you have nothing to do with the management of the household.
I told Patience the other day too.
Patience is an intelligent girl, and as her mistress cannot get about now, I thought she ought to know about it.
As I say, I hope nothing will come of it but if it does blowup, Patience will have been warned and will know how to safeguard herself against being wrongfully accused again.
Bear in mind what I am saying so that you are warned, too, if anything should happen.
But dont let anyone else know that I told you this.
They had been approaching Drenched Blossoms while she was speaking.
In the pavilion at the centre of the bridge a group of ten or so girls - Aroma, Caltrop, Scribe, Skybright, Musk, Paffumee, Etamine, Nenuphar and one or two others they could not identify - were leaning over the railings looking at the fish in the water below.
As Bao-yu and his two cousins approached, they chorused out to them The partys all ready in the Peony Garden.
Hurry up and take your places!
Taking the maids with them, the cousins made their way to the lakeside Peony Garden in the midst of which was the large, open summerhouse where the tables for the party had been laid.
Even You-shi had been invited and was already sitting there waiting for them.
In fact, by now almost everyone had arrived except Patience herself.
Patience had intended to drop in only briefly at Xi-fengs house in order to change into something more suitable for the party but no sooner had she reached it than presents began arriving from the Lin and Lai households.
The bearers of these proved to be only the forerunners of a stream of 194 -1014 callers from every level of the domestic staff, who arrived in twos and threes, bringing her gifts or offering their congratulations.
Patience was kept continuously busy dealing with these callers, rewarding the deliverers of gifts, thanking those who had come in person to felicitate her, and running in and out to show her presents to Xi-feng.
She kept only a few of these for herself the rest she either courteously returned or immediately gave away.
Even when she had finished with her visitors she had to serve Xi-feng her lunch of noodles and wait until she had finished it before she was at last able to get changed and hurry back into the Garden.
A number of maids who had been sent out by the others to look for her took charge of her as she entered it and carried her off to the summerhouse.
It was a dazzling sight there that met her eyes not perhaps the chelonian tables, lotus-cushioned chairs -880 of the poet but no effort had been spared to make it an eye-catching and appetizing spread.
A friendly laugh greeted her arrival.
Now all the birthday folk are here!
They wanted to make her and the other three Bao-yu, Bao-qin and Xiu-yan - sit at the head of the feast, but as Aunt Xue was present, all four of them naturally refused.
A slow old buffer like me is no fit company for you young people, said Aunt Xue.
I should only feel uncomfortable if I stayed.
Let me go and lie down in the jobs room.
I dont feel like eating anything and Im not much of a drinker.
You will be much better able to look after your guests if I am not here.
You-shi and the others loudly insisted that she should stay.
Only Bao-chai dissented.
Whether or not we should get on better without Mamma, she said, Im sure Mamma herself would be happier lying down in the jobs room than sitting here with us.
If there is anything here she fancies, we can have it sent over to her and she will be able to eat it there on her own in comfort.
Besides, there is no one in charge there at the moment.
If Mamma is there, she will be able to keep an eye on things.
195 Oh well, in that case well let her go, said Tan-chun smiling.
Obedience is the best obeisance, as they say.
-1094 She went with the others to escort her aunt to the jobs room and personally supervised the arrangement of various pillows and cushions by the junior maids.
Now, she said to these junior maids when Aunt Xue had been comfortably settled, if you will stay here and massage Mrs Xues legs for her and fetch her tea or anything when she asks you without making up all sorts of wonderful excuses, I shouldnt be surprised if later on, when we send some nice things for her to eat, she doesnt give some of them to you.
So mind you dont go away!
-1094 The girls all promised that they would stay.
When they got back, Tan-chun made Bao-qin and Xiu-yan sit at the head of the top table and Patience and Bao-yu at right-angles to them on the left and right ends.
She and Faithful sat shoulder to shoulder on the fourth side, facing Bao-qin and xiu-yan.
At the table parallel to the west wall Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Xiang-yun, Ying-chun and Xi-chun sat in order of seniority on the two longer sides and Caltrop and Silver on the shorter sides, one at either end.
You-shi and Li Wan sat at the longer sides of the table parallel to the east wall, with Aroma and Sunset to left and right of them on the shorter sides.
The fourth table was occupied by the remaining maids, Nightingale, Oriole, Skybright, Periwinkle and Chess, sitting around it in no particular order.
No sooner were they all seated than Tan-chun rose to her feet again, wine-kettle in hand, intending to drink toasts with each of the four birthday people but the birthday four, realizing that if they allowed one of their hosts to do this, a dozen or more would follow, objected strenuously.
-1094 If you are going to start this nonsense, said Bao-qin, we shall none of us get settled until evening.
The point was taken and Tan-chun sat down again, whereupon the blind ballad-singers, who had tagged along with the others, began tuning their instruments for a birthday ode.
This time everyone objected.
None of us like that old stuff.
Why dont you go to the jobs room and entertain Mrs Xue?
196 While they were about it, they made a selection from the various dishes on the table for the people conducting the blind women to take with them to Aunt Xue.
Just sitting here making polite conversation is not going to be much fun, said Bao-yu when the singers had been disposed of.
We ought to play a drinking game.
Various suggestions were made but none met with everyones approval.
Ill tell you what, said Dai-yu.
Why not write the names of different games down on slips of paper and put it to the draw?
Good ideal said the others, and sent for an inkstone and writing-brush and some slips of fancy paper.
To Caltrop, who in addition to writing poetry had lately been learning some calligraphy, the opportunity of exercising her new skill proved irresistible and she jumped up and insisted on doing the writing.
After thinking for a bit, the company managed to produce some ten or more names of drinking games which Tan-chun dictated one by one to Caltrop to write down on the slips.
The slips were then folded up small, doubled over, and thrown into a jar.
Tan-chun asked Patience to draw.
She did so with a pair of chopsticks, stirring the slips around with them before fishing one out for her inspection.
Tan-chun unrolled it and read it out.
Cover-ups.
Cover-ups?
said Bao-chai, laughing.
Why, thats the grandfather of them all!
They played cover-ups in ancient times.
Admittedly, we dont know exactly how they played it then and our modern cover-ups is a comparatively recent invention but its still very, very difficult.
I should think at least half the people here wouldnt know how to play it.
Wed much better set that one aside and pick something a little less literary that everyone can understand.
We cant set it aside now that its been drawn, said Tanchun.
I suggest that we draw again, and if its the sort of game that everyone can enjoy, those who want to can play that game while the rest of us are playing cover-ups.
This time she got Aroma to draw.
The name on the slip she picked out was guess-fingers.
Xiang-yun greeted it with approval.
197 Now theres a nice, simple, lively game!
Theres a game that suits me down to the ground!
None of your stuffy old cover-ups for me!
The very thought of it gives me a headache!
Im for guess-fingers!
Isnt it just like her to reduce the entire party to anarchy before we have even begun I said Tan-chun.
Cousin Chai, you must sconce her for me.
Bao-chai forthwith obliged by forcing a whole cupful of wine down Xiang-yuns throat.
Now,.
said Tan-chun, herself gulping down a little wine, Im your M.C.
I take it you dont need me to read the rules out.
You just have to do as I tell you.
Well get someone to fetch dice and a cup and each of us will throw in turn, beginning with Cousin Qin.
Anyone who throws the same number as someone else will pair with that person for cover-ups.
Bao-qin threw a three.
The others on the top table each threw a different number.
Caltrop on the second table was the first to throw another three.
Wed better confine ourselves to objects inside this room, dont you think?
Bao-qin suggested.
Otherwise the range of possibilities will be too large.
Certainly, said Tan-chun.
And whoever hasnt given the right answer after three guesses must drink a cup of wine as a penalty.
You begin.
Bao-qin thought for a bit.
Market.
Caltrop, who was new to this game, could see nothing in the room which could combine with market to make a quotation but Xiang-yun, whose eyes had been darting busily around from the moment the clue was announced, happened suddenly to catch sight of the inscription that hung up over the door PEONY GARDEN -827 She guessed at once that Bao-qin must be thinking of the passage in the thirteenth book of the Analects where Confucius tells a person who wanted to study horticulture that he would much better go to some old fellow who kept a market garden and learn about it from him.
As Caltrop could still not guess 198 -214 what the market indicated and the others were beginning to drum her for an answer, Xiang-yun, who had already thought of a matching quotation from a line in one of Wang Weis poems Sometimes I to my herb garden repair -214 leaned over and whispered to Caltrop to give herb as her reply.
But Dai-yu had spotted her and was quick to tell the others.
Youll have to sconce her again.
Shes been telling her how to answer.
Xiang-yun was obliged to down another cupful of wine.
She was so vexed that she rapped Dai-yu on the knuckles with a chopstick.
Caltrop, too had to drink a sconce.
The next pairing occurred when Bao-chai threw the same number as Tan-chun.
Tan-chuns clue was man.
Isnt that a bit wide?
said Bao-chai.
All right, said Tan-chun.
Ill give you another clue.
That should narrow it down a bit.
Shut.
Bao-chai thought for some moments.
There was certainly plenty of chicken-meat on the table.
Tan-chun must be referring to cock-man from Wang Weis The red-capped cock-man has proclaimed the dawn and cock-shut from Luo Yins At cock-shut still upon my book to pore.
-827 She therefore countered with niche, basing herself on a line from the sixty-third poem in the Poetry Classic The cock roosts in his niche.
The two girls smiled at each other and each took a sip of wine in celebration of a successful turn.
-1344 Xiang-yun, unwilling to wait longer, was already in the midst of a game of guess-fingers with Bao-yu.
The two of them were both shouting at the tops of their voices.
At the other side of the room You-shi and Faithful were also shouting at each other Five-a, five-a!
Seven-a, seven-a?
Eight-a, eight-a!from their separate tables, while Patience and Aroma, sitting at adjacent ends of the same two tables, made up another 199 -768 pair and contributed to the noise.
To the racket made by their shouting was added, in the case of the five female players, the clashing of bracelets every time they gestured.
Soon Xiangyun had beaten Bao-yu and Aroma had beaten Patience.
It was agreed that the losers should drink a cup of wine each and do something before and something after drinking it the question was, what?
Xiang-yun had plenty of suggestions for Bac-yu.
Before drinking you must give a well-known quotation in prose, a well-known quotation in verse, a dominoes threesome, a song-title, and the days forecast from an almanac, all five to hang together so that they make continuous sense.
After drinking you must give the name of some food you see here on the table which can be used in more than one sense.
The others laughed.
No one but her could think up such a rigmarole, they said.
Still, it should be interesting.
They began urging Bao-yu to start.
Have a heart?
said Bao-yu.
I need a bit of time to think if Im to get through that lot.
Drink the wine, said Dai-yu.
Ill do the rest for you.
Bao-yu drank his cup obediently and listened.
One.
Scudding clouds race the startled mallard across the water, said Dai-yu.
Two.
A wild goose passes, lamenting, across the wind-swept sky.
Three.
It must be The wild goose with a broken wing.
Four.
So sad a sound makes The Heart Tormented.
Five.
The cry of the wild goose is heard in the land.
The others laughed It certainly makes good sense!
-1344 Dai-yu picked up a hazel-nut.
-1574 This cob I take up from the table Came from a tree, not from a stable.
The other losers, Faithful and Aroma, were let off more lightly, being required to produce only a single well-known saying which had some bearing on birthdays.
In the interest of economy their answers are omitted from this narrative.
A brief interlude of confusion followed while the next round 200 -8832 -534 of pairings was being decided.
It was resolved that Xiang-yun should play Bao-qin now at guess-fingers and Li Wan, who had just thrown the same number as Xiu-yan, should play Xiu-yan at cover-ups.
Li Wan was to begin.
Gourd, said Li Wan.
-534 Green , said Xiu-yan.
Green was evidently correct, since Li Wan appeared to be satisfied and the two young women simultaneously sipped their wine.
Meanwhile Xiang-yun had lost to Bao-qin at guess-fingers and was asking what she should do for a forfeit.
You know what Lai Jun-chen said when he showed Zhou Xing the fiery furnace that Zhou Xing himself had designed, said Bao-qin Please step inside I I think thats what I should say to you now.
Why dont you do the forfeit that you designed for Bao-yu?
The others apart from Xiang-yun appreciated the aptness of the historical allusion.
Xiang-yun began answering without delay.
One.
A swift-rushing swirl and shock.
Two.
The sky rocks and heaves in the rivers swelling waters.
Three.
Better have The lone boat tied with an iron chain.
Four.
And since there is a Storm on the River.
Five.
This will be a bad day for travelling.
By the time she had finished, the rest of the company were all laughing.
That sounded a bit contrived I they said.
She must have thought the forfeit up for the express purpose of getting in her joke.
- Come on!
they said to Xiang-yun.
Lets have the second half.
From the dish in front of her Xiang-yun picked out a ducks head with her chopsticks and pointed it at the maids who were sitting round the fourth table at the other end of the room.
-320 This little duck cant with those little ducks compare This one is quite bald, but they all have a fine head of hair.
There was even more laughter at this, but the maids pretended to take offence and Skybright and Periwinkle came over to her table to protest.
201 Its all very well for Miss Yun to have her joke, but she ought to leave us out of it.
You ought to make her drink another sconce now, as a punishment.
And while shes about it, she might give us a nice bottle of hair-oil each by way of compensation.
I dare say she would be glad to, said Dai-yu drily.
The trouble is that if she starts giving bottles of hair-oil away, she will probably find herself on the carpet for stealing them.
The remark passed unnoticed, with two exceptions.
The exceptions were Bao-yu, who, assuming that it must refer to his supposed theft of the Essence of Roses, held his head down and said nothing, and Sunset, the real thief, whose face turned red with embarrassment.
Bao-chai stared at Dai-yu reprovingly, whereupon Dai-yu, who had intended no more than a mild joke at Bao-yus expense, realized too late that Sunset must inevitably have construed it as a spiteful reminder of her guilt.
She attempted to distract attention from it by applying herself, with somewhat unnatural vigour, to the game of guess-fingers.
The next pairing to be determined by the dice was that of Bao-chai and Bao-yu.
The clue Bao-chai gave Bao-yu for her cover-up was precious.
After puzzling over it for some moments, Bao-yu felt sure that it was a leg-pull.
His own name meant Precious Jade.
No doubt the object she had in mind was the jade he always wore round his neck and she was using his own name for her clue.
Very well, he would answer her in kind.
I take it that you are making free with my name, he said.
I hope that you wont be offended then if I make just as free with yours.
Bao-chai means Precious Hairpin, so I shall borrow your hairpin for my answer.
Jade hairpin comes in a line by some Tang poet The candle burnt out and the jade hairpin broken.
It is jade, isnt it, in your cover-up?
I protest, said Xiang-yun.
Precious jade isnt a quotation.
Youre supposed to use only quotations in this game.
We ought to sconce them both.
Precious jade does come from a quotation, said Caltrop.
202 Surely not?
said Xiang-yun.
Im prepared to admit you might find it on a New Year scroll or something of that sort, but not in any work of literature, surely?
I came across precious jade only the other day in a poem by Cen Shen, said Caltrop -987 Since in that land much precious jade is found.
-768 Im surprised you dont remember it.
And not long afterwards I came across precious hairpin in a poem too - a poem by Li Shang-yin -1680 The precious hairpin gathers dust.
-768 I remember being very much amused at the time to think that Master Baos and Miss Baos names are both to be found in poems of the Tang dynasty.
So much for your objection I said the others to Xiang-yun, laughing.
Its you who must drink the sconce.
It was useless to argue Xiang-yun had to drink another cupful.
The whole company now paired off for guess-fingers.
With Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang away, the girls felt free to make as much noise as they liked.
Coloured sleeves flashed, bracelets jangled, earrings shook, hair ornaments nodded in time to the shrieked-out numbers.
In such a bedlam almost anything would have passed unnoticed and it was only when they had tired of playing and broken off for a rest that they suddenly became aware that Xiang-yun was no longer with them.
At first they assumed that she must have slipped out to answer a call of nature but when, after they had waited for quite some time, she had still not reappeared, they sent some of the maids out to look for her.
The search proved fruitless.
Xiang-yun had vanished without a trace.
At this point Lin Zhi-xiaos wife arrived, accompanied by several of the old women under her command.
She had come partly Out of a genuine desire to be useful but much more because she regarded the maids as young and giddy creatures who would take advantage of Lady Wangs absence to play their young mistresses up by drinking more than was good 203 -768 for them and behaving riotously.
Tan-chun was fully aware of this and let her know that she was.
I see you still dont trust us, Mrs Lin.
I assure you, though, that we havent been drinking very much.
Were only enjoying ourselves the wine has been a very small part of it.
You really have no cause to be worried.
Li Wan and You-shi added their reassurances.
Go and rest, Lin.
We wouldnt let them drink too much, I promise you.
The women laughed.
I know you wouldnt, said Lin zhi-xiaos wife.
Even when Her Old Ladyship encourages them to, the young ladies dont drink very much, so I know theyd be even less inclined to overdo it when Their Ladyships are away.
It wasnt because of that I came it was just that I thought there might be something you needed me for.
Also, as its a long way yet to dinner-time and youve been at it quite a long while now, I thought it was time you had a bite of something.
I know you dont normally go in much for snacks between meals, but when youve been drinking, you really need to get a bit of food inside you so that it does you no harm.
You are quite right, said Tan-chun.
In fact, we were just thinking of having something when you came.
She turned to the maids behind her and told them to fetch some light refreshments from the kitchen.
There was an answering cry from all sides and a few of them went off to do her bidding.
Tan-chun smiled courteously at the women.
Do please go and rest now.
Or perhaps you would like to go and keep Mrs Xue company?
Well send some wine there presently for you to drink.
Oh no, miss, we wouldnt presume!
She and the women stood talking a little longer before finally taking themselves off.
Patience put her hand to her cheek and laughed.
My face is so hot, it must be terribly red.
I wish they hadnt seen me like this.
I think we ought to stop now.
If we give them an excuse for coming back again it will be really embarrassing.
204 Nonsense!
said Tan-chun.
As long.
as we dont do any serious drinking, its perfectly all right.
Come and look, everyone!
- They were interrupted by a giggling young maid - Miss Yun must have been feeling drunk and gone out for some air.
Shes lying on the granite bench behind the rockery, fast asleep.
Lets be quiet and not waken her, the others said amidst laughter, and followed her outside to have a look.
They found Xiang-yun where the maid had said, on a large stone bench in a hidden corner of the rockery, dead to the world.
She was covered all over from head to foot with crimson petals from the peony bushes which grew round about the fan which had slipped from her hand and lay on the ground beside her was half buried in petals and heaped-up peony petals wrapped in a white silk handkerchief made an improvised pillow for her head.
Over and around this petalled monstrosity a convocation of bees and butterflies was hovering distractedly.
It was a sight that the cousins found both touching and comical.
They made haste to rouse her and lifted her up into a half-sitting position on the bench.
But Xiang-yun was still playing drinking games in her sleep and proceeded to recite the words of an imaginary forfeit, though her eyes were tightly closed.
One.
The spring water being sweet, the wine is good.
Two.
Pour me its liquid amber in a jade cup.
Three.
Well drink till we see The moon above the plum-tree bough.
Four.
Then, as were Rolling Home.
Five.
It will be A good time to meet a friend.
They shook her, laughing.
Wake up!
Wake up!
Come and have something to eat.
Lying on the damp stone like this youll make yourself ill. Xiang-yun... -1680 uplifted slowly then those orbs serene -192 and saw the faces of the cousins bending over her.
Then she looked downwards and saw her own body and the place where she had been lying.
She could remember escaping from the noise to rest for a few moments somewhere where it was cool and quiet.
Evidently the wine from all those sconces she 205 -768 had been made to drink must have got the better of her and caused her to drop off.
Ashamed to have been discovered in such a predicament, she struggled hastily to her feet and accompanied the others back to the summerhouse, where she rinsed her mouth out with water and drank two very strong cups of tea.
Tan-chun made one of the girls fetch a piece of hangover rock for her to suck.
By the time she had sucked the rock for a bit and taken a few mouthfuls of hot, sour soup, she was feeling almost herself again.
A selection was now made of the various comestibles on the tables and sent over to Xi-feng, who reciprocated by sending them some delicacies of her own.
Bao-yu and the girls then took some sustenance themselves, after which they broke up into little groups, standing or sitting where they pleased and amusing themselves as the fancy took them.
Some went outside to admire the peonies or to lean on the balustrade at the edge of the lake and look at the fish swimming in the water below.
Tan-chun and Bao-qin stayed indoors to play Go.
Bao-chai and Xiang-yun stayed indoors to watch them.
Dai-yu and Bao-yu went outside and, having found themselves a little flowering arbour that they could stand and talk in, appeared to be completely engrossed in their conversation.
While everyone was thus engaged, Lin Zhi-xiaos wife and her party appeared once more, bringing with them a tearful, woebegone woman, who, as they reached the steps that led up to the summer-house, threw herself down on her knees, not daring to go further, and began knocking her head upon the ground.
Meanwhile Tan-chun continued.
to stare concentratedly at the Go-board, one outstretched hand feeling for the spare pieces in the box while she contemplated her next move.
One of her pieces had been threatened, and though she could see how to get the two eyes easily enough, she could not, however hard she tried, think of a way of doing so which did not break the development she had planned.
It was some minutes before she looked up and, in turning to ask for some tea, caught sight of Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, who had all this time been standing there beside her, and asked her what she had come for.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife pointed to the kneeling woman.
206 This is the mother of Miss Xi-chuns maid, Landscape.
She works in the Garden.
Shes been using some very bad language.
I heard her just now and asked her what she meant by it, but what she said to me, miss - well, I wouldnt like to soil your ears by repeating it.
I think she ought to be dismissed.
Why didnt you see Mrs Zhu about this?
said Tan-chun.
I did, miss.
I ran into her just now on her way to the jobs room to join Mrs Xue.
She said I was to tell you.
Shouldnt you tell Mrs Lian?
No need, said Patience.
I can tell her about it when I get back.
Tan-chun nodded.
All right, dismiss her then.
Well tell Lady Wang about it when she comes back and get her to confirm it.
She turned once more to her game.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife and her party moved off, taking the offender with them.
All of this scene was clearly observed by Bao-yu and Dai-yu from their flowering covert, though they were too far away to hear what was said.
What a curiously detached person your sister is!
said Dai-yu.
She has been actually invited to take charge of things, yet she still wont go a step beyond what is absolutely necessary.
Most people in her position would have been throwing their weight about long ago.
Ah, you dont know whats been going on while you were away, said Bao-yu.
While you were ill in bed, she did in fact do a great deal of managing.
For example, she divided this Garden into sections and put each section under someones supervision.
Nowadays you cant even pick a flower in it without permission.
And she cut down on a lot of things too -mostly things that Feng or I had asked for, as an awful example to the others.
Oh no, Tan has got very strong views on domestic economy.
I certainly wouldnt call her detached.
Im very glad to hear it, said Dai-yu.
We are all much too extravagant.
Although the management of the household is not my business, I have frequently, just out of curiosity, made a few calculations, and I can see that our expenditure is vastly in excess of our income.
If we go on in this way without econo- 207 mizing, the time will surely come when our credit is exhausted.
Even if it does, said Bao-yu gaily, I dont suppose you and I will have to go short.
Dai-yu turned away from him somewhat impatiently and began walking towards the summerhouse, intending to seek Bao-chais company inside.
Bao-yu would have gone too, but just at that moment Aroma came up carrying a little varnished wooden tea for two tray, in each of whose rounds nestled a cup of freshly made tea.
Well, wheres she gone?
said Aroma.
I brought this out specially, because I could see the two of you standing here all this time without anything to drink but now shes not here.
Thats her, over there, said Bao-yu, removing one of the cups for himself.
You can take it to her inside.
Aroma did so, but by the time she had reached her, Dai-yu was already standing talking to Bao-chai.
Here you are, said Aroma, whichever of you is the thirstier had better take this while I go and fetch another.
Im not thirsty, said Bao-chai.
I only want enough to wash out my mouth with.
She lifted the cup to her lips, drank a mouthful of tea from it, and handed the remainder to Dai-yu.
Let me get you another cup, said Aroma.
Oh, you know me, said Dai-yu smilingly.
I cant drink much tea because of my illness.
The doctor says its bad for me.
This half cup will be quite enough for me.
Thank you very much, though.
Its very kind of you.
Having drained the cup, she put it back on the tray, whereupon Aroma went off to collect the other cup from Bao-yu.
Wheres Parfumee?
Bao-yu asked her when she got back to him.
I havent seen her for a long time.
Aroma looked around.
She was here a moment ago.
I saw her playing match-my-flower with some of the others.
Now she seems to have disappeared.
Bao-yu hurried back to his room to look for her.
He found her asleep on the bed with her face turned inwards to the wall.
Come on, you mustnt sleep!
he said.
Come out and get 208 -192 some exercise.
Well be eating soon.
You want to get an appetite for your food.
Why shouldnt I sleep?
said Parfumee.
Theres nothing else for me to do.
I got so bored when you all went off drinking and left me on my own.
Bao-yu laughed.
Well be having a party of our own here in the evening, he said, pulling her to her feet.
Ill ask Aroma to let you sit at table.
with the rest of us, shall I?
Not on my own, said Parfumee.
I shouldnt enjoy it unless Nenuphar and Etamine could be with me as well.
Besides, I dont like noodles.
I didnt have a proper lunch today because I couldnt eat the noodles.
I got so hungry that just now I asked Liu to do a bowl of soup and some rice for me to eat here now so I shant want anything again tonight.
I could just drink, I suppose but if you want me to, youll have to let me drink as much as I like and not let the others fuss over me.
When I was still at home I used to drink two or three catties of rice wine at a sitting, but once I started learning beastly opera, they wouldnt let me drink any more in case it spoiled my voice.
During this last year or two I havent had so much as a smell of it.
Tonight I should like to celebrate the end of all that.
So you shall, said Bao-yu.
At that point a woman arrived from Cook Liu with a food-box containing Parfumees order.
Swallow relieved her of it and brought it inside.
It contained a bowl of shrimp-balls in chicken-skin soup, a bowl of duck steamed in wine, a plate of red salted goose-slices, another plate on which were four cream-cheese rolls stuffed with pine-kernels, and a large bowl of delicious, steaming-hot, fragrant green rice.
Swallow put these all on the table in front of Parfumee and fetched her a spoon, chopsticks and some bowls, one of which she filled for her with the fragrant rice.
Ugh I said Parfumee.
How can I eat this horrible greasy stuff?
She spooned some of the soup onto her rice and picked up a couple of goose-slices with her chopsticks to put on top of it.
The rest she left untouched.
Bao-yu sniffed the rejected dishes.
They smelt delicious - much nicer than the things he 209 -1344 generally had to eat.
He helped himself to one of the pine-kernel rolls and told Swallow to fill him another bowl with some rice and pour on some of the soup.
The combination -soup, rice, and pine-roll - was quite delectable.
Parfumee and Swallow both laughed as they watched him eat.
When he and Parfumee had both finished, Swallow would have sent the remainder back to the kitchen, but Bao-yu told her that she should eat it herself.
If its not enough, well ask them to bring you some more.
No, no, this will be plenty, said Swallow.
Its not long since Musk brought me some cakes and things from the party.
If I eat this now, I shall have had quite enough.
She proceeded to tuck in there and then, standing where she was beside the table.
Soon all had been demolished except for two pine-kernel rolls.
Ill save these for my Ma, she said.
Oh, and if youre drinking this evening, will you let me have a drop too?
Are you another drinker then?
said Bao-yu.
Good!
Well have a real celebration tonight.
Aroma and Skybright are both fond of drinking, but they wont take much as a rule because they feel it isnt quite proper.
Tonight my birthday shall be the excuse for everyone to let themselves go I By the way, theres something Ive been meaning to ask you for some time but keep forgetting.
Would you make yourself responsible for Parfumee in future?
Just keep an eye on her and see that she doesnt get up to mischief.
Aroma would like to if she could, but she has her hands full already.
I can look after Parfumee, dont worry about that, said Swallow.
What I want to know is, what are you going to do about Fivey?
You can tell Mrs Liu that Fivey definitely will be coming to work here.
After Ive had a word with the others, she can move in as soon as she likes.
Now youre talking!
said Swallow.
She called the two little maids in to wait on him while he washed his hands and pour out tea for him while she herself got the dirty things together and handed them to the woman outside.
After that she washed her own hands and went off to tell Cook Liu the good news.
But that is no part of our story.
210 Bao-yu left to rejoin the others as soon as he was ready, and Parfumee, holding a silk handkerchief in one hand and a fan in the other, trailed along behind him.
As he came out of the courtyard gate he saw Aroma and Skybright walking hand in hand towards him and asked them what they had come for.
You!
they said.
Dinners been laid now and the others are waiting for you to begin.
Bao-yu explained that he had just eaten.
Aroma laughed Youre like a cat always eating except when you ought to be.
Youd better come and sit with them all the same, for appearances sake.
Skybright poked Parfumee playfully on the forehead with her finger.
Youre getting to be quite a little man-eater, arent you?
Going back to have some food, indeed!
Youd arranged to meet him -there, more like.
Why didnt you tell anyone else that you were going?
Aroma laughed.
Oh nonsense, Skybright!
Of course she didnt arrange to meet him.
It was a pure accident, their being there at the same time together.
All right, said Skybright, but what does he need us for then?
Why dont we all go away and leave Parfumee to look after him on her own?
He may not need the rest of us, said Aroma, but he certainly couldnt do without you.
On the contrary, said Skybright.
Im the one person he could do without.
Im lazy, Im clumsy, Im bad-tempered -in short, Im just no good for the job.
If he burns another hole in his peacock gold snow-cape, whos going to mend it for him if you arent there?
said Aroma mischievously.
Yes, my girl all the excuses I used to hear from you in the past when I tried to get you to do something for me.
You were no good at sewing, oh no!
You didnt even know how to hold a needle!
And it isnt as if it was my own sewing Ive asked you about its only ever been his things that Ive asked you to help me with.
No, you wouldnt touch them.
Yet I only have to be out of the house for a few days and 211 there you are, sitting up all night sewing for him, even though you are half dead with the flu!
What can the explanation of that be, I wonder?
No, come on I want to hear your answer.
But Skybright only pshaw-ed and went on smiling.
They had been.walking back to the summerhouse throughout these exchanges and were now re-entering it.
Aunt Xue had come back again for the meal, so they reseated themselves in order of seniority with Aunt Xue at the head.
Bao-yu poured a little tea onto some rice and merely pretended to share the meal with them.
When they had finished eating, they sat talking over their tea or playing games.
Outside, meanwhile, Periwinkle, Caltrop, Parfumee, Etamine, Nenuphar and Cardamome, having been all over the Garden collecting flowers, sat down, with their laps full of them, in a little semicircle of lawn enclosed by high banks of flowering shrubbery and began playing match-my-flower.
Ive got some Guanyin willow, said one.
Ive got some Lohan pine, said another.
Ive got gentlemans bamboo.
Ive got ladys plantain.
Ive got green starwort.
Ive got red moon-flower.
Ive got a peony from The Peony Pavilion.
Ive got a lute-flower from The Story of the Lute.
Ive got brothers and sisters, said Cardamome.
Ive got husbands and wives, said Caltrop.
Theres no such flower, said Cardamome.
Yes there is, said Caltrop.
There are two main kinds of orchid, the spring orchid, which has only one flower on each stem, and the summer orchid, which has several but theres more than one kind of summer orchid.
Theres the kind that youve got, which has the flowers growing one above the other on the stem thats called brothers and sisters and theres another kind like mine here, which has two flowers growing side by side at the top thats called a husband and wife orchid.
Cardamome rose to her feet.
Unable to counter with botanical arguments, she resorted to jeering instead.
212 And I suppose its a father and son orchid if one flowers bigger than the other and an enemies orchid if theyre growing back to back!
Its because your own husbands been away so long you cant even look at an orchid now without thinking of him.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, dragging him into it like this!
-320 Caltrop laughed, though her face had turned bright red.
You horrible little creature!
What rubbish you talk!
She had begun getting up, intending to give Cardamomes mouth a good pinch but before she could do so, Cardamome had thrown herself upon her, forcing her backwards and pinning her to the ground, while at the same time she looked round and called to the other girls to help her.
Eamine!
Nenuphar!
Come and pinch her mouth for me!
Caltrop struggled to get free and the two of them rolled over and over on the ground.
The others laughed and clapped their hands.
Careful!
Mind the puddle!
they shouted.
Mind she doesnt spoil her skirt!
Cardamome looked round and saw that they had rolled towards a hollow in which rain-water had collected and that Caltrops skirt was half in it.
Feeling somewhat scared, she let go of Caltrop, jumped up, and ran away.
The others thought Caltrops plight a great joke, but fearing that, with Cardamome gone, she might vent her anger upon them, they ran off also, amidst peals of laughter.
Caltrop got up and inspected her skirt.
It was completely soaked, and the foul, stagnant water was dripping off it in half-a-dozen places.
She was still exclaiming bitterly over it when Bao-yu appeared.
Observing that the girls were playing match-my-flower, he had gone off to collect some flowers himself and had now come back to join them.
Surprised to find the other girls all gone and Caltrop standing on her own there contemplating her skirt, he asked her what had happened to the game.
I had a husbands and wives flower, said Caltrop, but the others had never heard of it and said Id made it up so there was a quarrel and they spoilt my nice new skirt.
Bao-yu seemed pleased.
213 I can match your husbands and wives, he said, taking a purple skullcap from his bunch.
Look, heres a two heads are better than one.
He picked up Caltrops orchid and laid it beside the purple skullcap.
Bother your two heads are better than one!
said Caltrop, and bother my husbands and wives!
Look at my skirt!
Bao-yu bent down and examined it.
Aiya!
How did you manage to do that?
Its grenadine, isnt it, that red material?
They call it that because its the red of pomegranate-flowers.
Im afraid its a material that stains very badly.
What a pity!
It was material that Miss Bao-qin brought with her from Nanking, said Caltrop.
Miss Bao-chai and I each made ourselves a skirt out of it.
This is the first time Ive put mine on.
Bao-yu stamped and sighed sympathetically.
Im sure the Xues could afford to spoil a hundred skirts like this one every day, he said but thats not the point.
In the first place, if this is material that Bao-qin gave you, its going to look rather bad if your skirts worn out before Baochais has even been worn.
And in the second place, Aunt Xue is a bit inclined to nag - Ive often heard her complaining that you are extravagant and a bad manager and dont know how to look after things properly and so forth - and though this may not be your fault, Im afraid if she gets to see it, you are going to have rather a lot of that sort of thing to listen to.
What Bao-yu had just said so exactly accorded with what Caltrop herself had been thinking, that she began, in spite of everything, to feel almost pleased.
I know.
If only Id got another skirt like this one, I could change into it straight away and she wouldnt notice.
But the trouble is, though Ive got several new skirts, they all look quite different.
Stop moving!
said Bao-yu.
If you dont keep still, youll get the dirty water on your trousers and pantaloons and the tops of your shoes.
Ive got an idea.
Last month Aroma made herself a skirt which is practically identical with this one, but she wont be able to wear it for a while yet because shes 214 -214 still in mourning for her mother.
Why dont we get her to send it over for you to change into?
Caltrop smiled gratefully but shook her head.
No, I cant do that.
Im sure they wouldnt like it if they found out.
They wont mind, said Bao-yu.
As soon as her mournings over you can ask her what shed like to have in return and Im sure theyd be only too pleased to let you give it to her.
Come now, its not like you to be so coy!
Its not as if youll be doing anything deceitful.
You can tell Bao-chai about it.
All we shall be doing is making sure that my aunt doesnt get to hear of it, because we know it would only make her angry Caltrop thought for a bit.
What he said seemed reasonable.
She smiled and nodded.
All right - since you are so kind.
Ill wait for you here, then.
Only please, I beg of you, ask her to bring it here herself.
Bao-yu agreed, delighted that she had accepted, and hurried back to find Aroma, head low and eyes to the ground, thinking about Caltrop all the way.
What a pity - nice girl like that - hasnt any parents -doesnt even remember her own name - kidnapped when she was a child - and to be sold to a brute like Pan!
But not all his thoughts about her were so melancholy.
What a delightful surprise, though, to be able to do this for her!
- That time with Patience was a surprise, too.
But this!
- never, never would have expected it!
Still engrossed in these thoughts, he regained his room.
There, going up to Aroma, he took her impulsively by the hand and told her what he had come for.
Everyone loved Caltrop.
There was something endearing about her that one could not help responding to.
Aroma was no exception and was in any case somewhat given to acts of impulsive generosity.
As soon as Bao-yu told her what had happened, she opened her clothes-chest, and getting the scarlet skirt out, folded it up carefully and hurried off after him to look for her.
They found her still standing patiently on the spot where Bao-yu had left her.
Aroma pretended to scold.
Youre too wild, Caltrop.
It always ends in trouble.
215 Caltrop coloured.
Oh, thank you, Aroma.
Its those horrible little beasts I was playing with.
I didnt realize they could be so nasty.
She unfolded the skirt that Aroma had brought her.
It was, as Bao-yu had said, exactly like the one she was wearing.
She made him turn his back and look away while she crossed her arms and inserted her hands under her dress in order to undo the fastenings of the dirty skirt.
Having carefully removed it, she wrapped herself in the clean one and did up the sides.
Let me take that dirty one, said Aroma.
Ill send it back to you later when Ive cleaned it up a bit.
If they were to see you going back with it, theyd be sure to ask questions.
Yes, you take it, said Caltrop.
But my dear Aroma, I dont want it back if Ive got this one of yours to wear.
Give it to one of the younger maids.
I dont mind which one you can decide that for me.
Thats very generous of you, said Aroma.
Caltrop bowed twice to her in formal expression of her thanks.
Aroma then went off, carrying the dirty skirt.
Looking round for Bao-yu, Caltrop found him still with his back towards her, squatting down on the ground and just completing the burial of the husband and wife orchid and the purple skullcap.
He had dug a little grave for them with a piece of stick, lined it with fallen petals, laid the two flowers on the petals, covered them with more petals, and was now smoothing earth over the top.
Caltrop tugged at his arm, laughing.
What on earth do you think youre doing?
Ive heard people talking about the creepy sort of things you get up to, but I only now realize what they mean.
Look at your hands!
Theyre absolutely filthy.
Youd better go and wash them straight away.
Bao-yu got up and began to go.
Caltrop started walking off, too, in the opposite direction.
She had gone no more than a few steps, however, when she turned and called to him to stop.
Bao-yu, supposing that she had something more to say to him, turned smilingly towards her, holding up his muddy bands.
-267 What is it?
216 But Caltrop merely stood there, smiling and saying nothing.
Just then her little maid Advent came up to tell her that Bao-qin wanted to talk to her.
After that, finally, she spoke.
You wont ever tell your Cousin Pan about this, will you?
What, put my head inside the mouth of a tiger?
said Baoyu, laughing.
You must think Im crazy!
He turned once more and went back to Green Delights.
What happened there will be related in the next chapter.
CHAPTER 63 Flower maidens combine for nocturnal birthday revels And a grass widow copes with funeral arrangements single-handed The first thing Bao-yu did when he got back to Green Delights was to wash his hands.
While doing so, he discussed with Aroma the drinking-party that they were planning to have that evening.
I want everyone to enjoy themselves, he said.
I want you to let yourselves go for once.
Lets decide now what we are going to eat, so that they have plenty of time to get it ready.
You dont have to worry about that, said Aroma, smiling.
Ive already made a collection for tonight and given the money to Mrs Liu ten pennyweights of silver each from Skybright, Musk, Ripple and me - thats two taels - and six each from Parfumee, Emerald, Swallow and Number Four I didnt collect anything from the ones who are taking the evening off making three taels four pennyweights altogether.
With that money shes going to do us forty little dishes of different things to eat.
Ive also had a word with Patience about the drink and shes had a two-gallon jar of Shaoxing wine carried over for us.
Its hidden away over there, ready for the evening.
The party will be our birthday present to you from the eight of us.
How did the younger ones manage to give so much?
said Bao-yu, pleased but a little concerned.
I think it would have been better if you hadnt taken contributions from them.
What about us then?
said Skybright.
Were not exactly rich.
This is something they wanted to do for you.
I think you ought to accept it in the spirit in which it was offered and not bother too much about where the money came from.
Suppose they stole it what does that matter to you?
218 Youre right, said Bao-yu, laughing.
If you were to go for one single day without feeling the rough side of her tongue, said Aroma, I think you would feel deprived!
Aroma is getting quite expert in the art of stirring up trouble between other people, said Skybright.
I wonder who she picked it up from.
While the others were still laughing at these exchanges, Bao-yu gave orders for them to close the courtyard gate.
I dont wonder the young ladies call you Busybody, said Aroma.
If we shut the gate now, we shall be simply inviting suspicion.
Much better wait a bit.
Bao-yu nodded.
I have to go outside now for a moment.
Have some water ready when I get back, will you, Number Four?
Swallow, you can come with me.
When they were outside and he had first made sure that no one else was about, he asked Swallow what Cook Liu had said about Fivey.
Mrs Liu was very pleased when I told her, said Swallow, but she said that because of all the worry and the harsh treatment she suffered the other night Fivey has had a relapse so its out of the question for her to begin working with us now.
She said it will just have to wait until shes better.
Judging from the long sigh he gave when he heard this, Bao-yu appeared to be very much distressed.
Tell me, he asked, does Aroma know about this?
I havent told her myself, said Swallow.
I suppose Parfumee might have done.
Anyway, I havent told her yet, he said.
Hmn.
Perhaps Id better.
Going back inside, he was careful to wash his hands to avert suspicion.
It was already lighting-up time.
A party of women could be heard entering the courtyard gate.
The inmates of Green Delights crowded to the windows to peep out.
It was Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, accompanied by a number of the stewardesses.
A woman holding a big lantern in her hand was leading the way.
219 Theyve come to inspect the watch, said Skybright.
When they go out again we shall be able to shut the gate.
Sure enough, the women on night-duty at Green Delights now trooped out into the courtyard to be inspected.
Now, no gambling and no drinking!
said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, when she had ascertained that they were all there.
And no lying down and going to sleep until daylight, or I shall be after you!
None of us is that stupid, said the women, laughing.
We wouldnt dare.
Is Master Bao in bed yet?
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife asked them.
The women said they didnt know.
Aroma gave Bao-yu a prod and he shuffled to the doorway in his slippers and smiled amiably at the assembled matrons outside.
I havent gone to bed yet.
Come inside and sit down.
He turned to Aroma inside.
Aroma, some tea for Mrs Lin!
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife required no pressing.
Not in bed yet?
she exclaimed, stepping nimbly into the room.
Now that the days are so long, you need to go to bed early so that you can get up early in the morning.
If you get up late, people will laugh at you.
Thats no way for an educated, well-brought-up young gentleman to behave, theyll say.
More like an ignorant, uneducated coolie.
The comparison seemed to please her, for she laughed very complacently after making it.
Bao-yu laughed too.
Youre quite right, Mrs Lin.
As a matter of fact, I do go to bed early most nights.
Generally when you make your rounds I dont know youve been here because Im already in bed when you come.
The reason Ive stayed up today is because Ive had such a lot of noodles to eat.
I was afraid that if I went to bed now Id get indigestion.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife transferred her smiling attention to Aroma.
You want to give him some good, strong Pu-er tea to drink.
Aroma and Skybright answered her together.
We made him a big pot of herbal tea - wutong-tips.
Hes already had two cupfuls of it.
Its still quite fresh.
Would you like to try some?
220 Lin Zhi-xiaos wife rose to receive the cup that Skybright poured for her.
I hear that Master Bao has taken to calling you senior girls by your names, she said.
Now thats not very respectful.
Though you work here, you are still Their Ladyships girls, dont forget.
I dont say but what he mightnt sometimes, just once in a while, let one of your names drop out by accident, and no harm done.
But if he makes a habit of it, the other young gentlemen will soon be copying him, and we shall get ourselves laughed at as a family in which the young folk have no respect for their elders.
You are quite right, said Bao-yu.
But in fact it is only once in a while and quite unintentionally.
Aroma and Skybright hastened to corroborate this.
Oh yes, Mrs Lin.
It would be quite unfair to say that he makes a habit of it.
Normally he is most respectful.
Its only once or twice in this apartment when weve been joking together and never in front of other people.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife was all smiles.
Well, thats all right then.
Respectable is what an educated young gentleman ought to be.
The more you respect others, I say, the more others will respect you.
And I dont only mean older people who have served three or four generations of the family, I mean anyone who comes to you from Their Lady-ships.
Even Their Ladyships cat and Their Ladyships dog is to be respected, if you want people to think of you as an educated, well-brought-up young gentleman.
She finished her tea.
Well, good night young master, I must be going.
Wont you stay a little longer?
said Bao-yu.
But Lin Zhi-xiaos wife was already on her way and leading her troops off to inspect another apartment.
Skybright barred the gate after her as soon as she was gone.
She was laughing as she came in afterwards.
I think the old girls had a bit too much to drink.
Thats why we were treated to the lecture.
She means well, said Musk.
We need someone to remind us once in a while, just to keep us on the straight and narrow.
She began laying the table while she said this but Aroma stopped her.
221 Lets not sit up at the big table.
We can put the round pear-wood table on the kang.
It will be much more relaxed and comfortable on the kang.
While other maids lifted the pear-wood table onto the kang, Musk and Number Four went off to collect the dishes that Cook Liu had been preparing for them.
Though each carried the largest tea-tray she could find, it took four or five trips to carry them all over.
Meanwhile two old nannies squatted on the verandah outside, tending the stove on which the wine was heating.
Its so hot, Bao-yu said to the maids.
Lets take our outer clothes off.
You can take yours off if you like, said the girls, but we want to drink a health with you before we start, so we shall have to stay respectable a bit longer.
If youre going to begin that sort of nonsense, we shant get started until morning!
said Bao-yu.
You know how I hate that kind of thing.
Its bad enough at parties outside when I have to do it but to make me do it here in my own room its as though you were deliberately trying to annoy me.
All right, all right!
they said.
Anything you say!
And so, before taking their places on the kang, they went off to remove their hair-ornaments and make themselves more comfortable.
They returned wearing only tunics and trousers, with their unadorned hair loosely knotted or coiled.
Bao-yu himself was wearing a dark-red cotton tunic tied at the waist with a sash, and trousers in a black-and- green -patterned lined silk gauze, unconfined at the ankles.
The girls found him already ensconced on the kang.
He was leaning back, one elbow resting on a newly-made turquoise-coloured pouffe stuffed with rose and peony petals, playing guess-fingers with Parfumee.
Parfumee was shouting excitedly as she played.
She was wearing a very short, close-fitting tunic with a harlequin pattern of turquoise, deep purple and reddish-brown lozenges, a willow- green sash, and flower-sprigged pale red trousers, which, like Bao-yus, were unconfined at the ankles.
Her hair was done up in a number of little plaits which had been drawn back to join one great plait, as thick as a gooses egg at the nape of her neck.
She had a tiny jade stud no bigger than a grain of rice in her right ear from her left ear hung a pendant 222 -640 made of ruby-glass and gold, the size of a ginkgo-fruit.
Never had the moonlike pallor of her face, the limpid brightness of her eyes shown to greater advantage.
Look at that now!
said the maids admiringly.
Wouldnt you take the two of them for a pair of twins?
Wait a bit, said Aroma, who had begun pouring wine.
You can play that later.
Even though you wont let us drink healths with you, at least do us the honour of drinking from our hands.
She held her wine-cup to his lips and he took a sip from it.
After that each of the seven others came up to him in turn, holding their full cups out to him, and he took a sip from each one.
This little ceremony over, they proceeded to arrange themselves round the table.
As there was insufficient room for Swallow and Number Four on the side nearest the edge of the kang, they brought a couple of felt-covered porcelain tabouret stools up and sat at it on the floor below.
The forty dishes, all of white Ding-ware and each no larger than a tea-saucer, contained every conceivable kind of sweet, savoury, fresh, dried, pickled, salted, smoked, baked, fried or sauteed delicacy designed to assist file absorption of rice-wine by the human frame.
Lets play a drinking game, said Bao-yu.
Yes, but let it be a nice, quiet game this time, said Aroma.
We dont want too much shouting, or people will hear us.
Something not too learned, though.
Dont forget that some of us.
here cant read or write.
Get out the dice and lets play Fours then, said Musk.
No, thats a boring game, said Bao-yu.
Lets play Choosing the Flower.
Oh yes, do lets!
said Skybright.
Ive been wanting to play that for ages.
Its a good game, said Aroma, but you really need more people playing it to make it interesting.
If you ask me, I think we should slip over and ask Miss Bao and Miss Yun and Miss Lin to come and join us, said Swallow.
Thered be no harm in their staying here till about ten oclock, surely?
But think of all the opening and closing of gates, said 223 -640 Aroma.
And suppose you ran into the watch and they started asking - Itll be all right, said Bao-yu.
Ask Miss Tan too shes fond of drinking.
And if shes one of the party, they wont be able to say anything even if they do find out.
And what about Miss Qin?
No, not Miss Qin, said the girls.
Shes staying in Mrs Zhus room.
Routing her out from there would be simply asking for trouble.
Itll be all right, said Bao-yu, you see.
Just ask her.
Swallow and Number Four needed no second bidding.
Choosing a few of the junior maids to go with them, they ordered the old women to open the gate for them and set off, one in the direction of Dai-yus place and one in the direction of Bao-chais.
The senior maids, Aroma, Musk and Skybright, doubted whether, particularly in the case of Dai-yu and Bao-chai, such insubstantial deputies would be successful and decided that they had better go themselves and add their own weight to the invitation.
Ordering a couple of the older women with lanterns to accompany them, they went off in.
the wake of the other two to see what they could achieve.
It was as they had suspected.
Bao-chai thought it was rather late Dai-yu didnt feel quite up to it.
It was only when Aroma and Skybright had appealed to them by pointing out that the maids were the hosts and would very much appreciate the honour that they changed their minds and finally consented to come.
Swallow and Number Four had had no such difficulty with Tan-chun.
She had seemed delighted by the invitation, even suggesting that they should invite Li Wan as well since it would be embarrassing if she were not invited and were to find out about the party afterwards - and sending her own maid.
Ebony to help Swallow persuade Li Wan that she and Bao-qin should come.
One by one the new guests started to arrive.
Caltrop came, too, in addition to the ones already mentioned.
Refusing to take no for an answer, Aroma had taken her firmly by the hand and dragged her off forcibly from All-spice Court.
To 224 accommodate the greater numbers, Aroma and the other girls put another table alongside the one already on the kang and a row of chairs facing them on the floor below.
Bao-yu and the other guests arranged themselves on the kang, while the seven maids and Parfumee, as hosts, sat on the row of chairs below, within reach of one or other of the tables.
Cousin Lin can sit there, against the partition, said Bao-yu, while the guests were still arranging themselves on the kang.
Shell be better able to keep warm there.
He made her a little nest of pillows there, into which, though it was somewhat inconveniently distant from the table, she settled herself very comfortably.
From this cosy vantage-point she looked across at Li Wan, Bao-chai and Tan-chun with a teasing smile.
You are always grumbling about the gambling and drinking of the servants, yet here are we proposing to do precisely the same thing ourselves.
How will you have the face to tell them off for this sort of thing in future?
This doesnt count, said Li Wan, smiling back at her.
Theres all the difference in the world between doing this once in a while on a birthday or a holiday and doing it every night of ones life.
Skybright now produced a cylindrical bamboo box containing a set of ivory drinking-cards, each with a different kind of flower painted on it.
After giving it a good shake, she put it down in the middle of one of the tables.
Then she took four dice, put them inside a dice-box, shook it, opened it, and looked inside.
The pips on the faces uppermost made a total of five.
Counting herself as one, the fifth along in an anti-clockwise direction was Bao-chai.
I draw first then, said Bao-chai, smiling.
I wonder what it will be.
She gave the cylinder another shake and pulled out a card.
The others craned over to look.
It had a picture of a peony on it with the caption Empress of the Garden in large red characters.
This was followed by a line of smaller black characters from a poem by the Tang poet Luo Yin Yourself lack passion, yet can others move.
225 On the other side of the picture were directions for the person drawing the card and for the other drinkers All present are to drink a cup in your honour.
Also, because you have preeminence over all the other flowers, you are entitled to ask anyone present to recite a poem or tell a joke or sing a song for your entertainment.
The others laughed delightedly.
The peony suits you perfectly.
What a splendid choice!
When they had all drunk the cupful, Bao-chai drank a little wine herself and said that she would like Parfumee to sing her a song.
Parfumee began The sumptuous birthday feast begins - Stop!
Stop!
said the others.
We dont want birthday odes at this time of night.
Sing us something nice.
Parfumee began again, this time putting all she had into the performance With my little phoenix-feather broom I stand at heavens door To sweep away the fallen flowers That lie on heavens floor And when, by yonder cloud-bank, The wind begins to rise, It stirs the pearly dust up Round and round it flies.
O, sweeping heavens floor Is like any earthly chore!
...
Meanwhile Bao-yu, who had taken temporary possession of the card, continued to turn it this way and that between his fingers, muttering to himself the line of verse that was inscribed on it Yourself lack passion, yet can others move.
When Parfumee had finished, he gazed at her fixedly, saying nothing.
Xiang-yun snatched the card from him rather impatiently and handed it back to Bao-chai.
Bao-chai threw the dice.
Sixteen.
This time the count went right round both tables, ending at Tan-chun, who was sitting next to her.
I wonder what I shall be, said Tan-chun, and reached out 226 -640 to draw a card.
But she blushed when she had looked at it and threw it on the table with an embarrassed laugh.
I dont think we ought to play this game, she said.
Its really a game for men to play, outside.
There are all sorts of objectionable things in the directions.
The others were puzzled, until Aroma picked the card up and held it out for them to see.
The picture was of a spray of almond blossom with the caption Spirit of the Afterglow.
The line of verse which followed it was by Gao Chan -576 Apricot-trees make the suns red-petalled floor.
Then came the part which had made Tan-chun feel embarrassed -640 You are destined to make a noble marriage.
Congratulations!
Those present must offer you a cup of wine and drink a cup in your honour.
-640 The reading of these words was greeted with general laughter.
So thats what upset you?
Well, its true there are a few like this which are amusing at the expense of us girls, but theres no real harm in them.
Anyway, whats wrong with the prognostication?
Weve already got one royal consort in the family, why shouldnt we have another?
Congratulations!
They raised their cups and drank a toast to the marriage.
Tan-chun herself refused to drink, but Xiang-yun, Caltrop and Li Wan seized hold of her and forced the wine down her throat.
Even then she continued to insist that they ought to abandon the game and play something else.
Xiang-yun had to take hold of her hand, clamp her fingers to the dice-box, and force her to throw the dice.
The number thrown in this way was nineteen.
This time the count was more than the number of players and ended, the second time round, at Li Wan.
Li Wan shook the cylinder and drew out a card.
She smiled when she saw what she had got.
Very good!
Look at this, all of you!
This is rather a nice one.
The picture was of a winter-flowering plum with the rubric Beauty of the Snow.
The verse that followed was by Wang Qi 227 -1344 Content by cottage fence to bloom unseen.
The instructions given on this card were You are to drink a cup of wine.
The next player after you is to throw the dice.
-1344 There, isnt that nice!
said Li Wan.
You have to throw the dice for me and I just sit back enjoying myself and let the world go by!
She sipped her wine and passed the dice-box to Dai-yu.
The eighteen which Dai-yu threw brought the count round to Xiang-yun.
Ha ha!
said Xiang-yun, rolling up her sleeves.
She stretched her arm out and drew a card.
The others looked at what she had drawn.
It was a picture of crab-apple blossom with the caption Sweet Drunken Dreamer.
The quotation following was a line from Su Dong-po Fear that the flowers at dead of night should sleep.
-1344 For at dead of night read on a stone bench, said Dai-yu.
The others laughed, remembering Xiang-yuns inebriation earlier in the day but Xiang-yun smiled unconcernedly and pointed to the self-propelling toy boat on Bao-yus shelf.
Just get on that boat and go home, will you?
You have too much to say for yourself, my girl!
Amidst further laughter they looked at the instructions In view of the sweet drunken dreaming you are not to drink anything yourself, but the players sitting to right and left of you are each to drink a cupful.
-1344 Holy Name!
said Xiang-yun, clapping her hands delightedly.
What a kind, thoughtful card!
Xiang-yuns neighbours, it so happened, were Dai-yu and Bao-yu.
Others filled their cups for them in readiness.
Bao-yu drank half of his and gave the rest to Parfumee, who threw her head back and emptied it at a gulp Dai-yu, under cover of talking to someone, emptied the whole of hers into a spittoon.
Xiang-yun picked up the dice.
The total this time was nine, which meant that Musk was to draw.
The card she -1094 228 drew portrayed a rose under the caption Summers Crowning Glory.
The black-letter verse was another line from Wang Qi -768 After sweet Rose there is no more blooming.
-640 And the instructions -576 All present drink three cups to commemorate the passing of the flowers.
What does it say?
Musk asked.
-1014 Bao-yu frowned and quickly hid the card.
We are all to drink something, he said.
As a compromise they drank three sips each instead of the three cupfuls prescribed.
Musk threw nineteen with the dice, which made it Caltrops turn to draw.
The flower she drew was a purple skullcap with the caption Three Springs Harbinger.
The line of verse was by Zhu Shu-zhen -576 Even as the twy-stemmed blossoms break in bloom.
-640 And the comment -384 This flower is a luck-bringer.
Congratulations!
Those present are to offer you three cups of wine and are each to drink a cup of wine to your health.
-384 Caltrop threw six.
Dai-yu to draw.
I wonder if there are any nice ones left, Dai-yu thought as she reached out to draw a card.
I hope I shall pick one of them if there are.
She looked at the card she had taken.
It was a hibiscus flower.
Mourner of the Autumn Mere the caption said, and the line of verse was by Ou-yang Xiu -640 Your own self, not the East Wind, is your undoing.
-640 The instructions said -384 You are to drink a cup of wine yourself, and Peony is to take a cup with you.
-640 The others laughed.
-384 Isnt that good!
Its exactly the right flower for her.
Dai-yu too seemed pleased.
When she and Bao-chai had 229 drunk, she threw the dice.
Twenty.
That meant that Aroma was to draw.
Aroma reached out and took a card.
The picture on it was of a spray of peach-blossom with the caption Fishermans Lost Paradise and the verse, from Xie Fang-de peach-trees in pink and another spring is here.
The instructions said Almond is to drink a cup of wine with you, so is anyone who is the same age as you, anyone whose birthday is on the same day, and anyone who has the same surname.
This one sounds interestion,said the others, laughing, and at once began working out which of them belonged to these categories.
Caltrop, Skybright and Bao-chai were all the same age as Aroma Dai-yus birthday was on the same day but there appeared to be no one present with the same surname until Parfumee pointed out that her surname, like Aromas, was Hua and claimed the right to drink a cup as well.
While the others were pouring out the wine, Dai-yu looked mischievously at Tan-chun As both Almond and someone who is destined to marry royalty, you had better begin.
Whats that?
said Tan-chun.
She turned to Li Wan.
Oblige me by leaning over and giving that girl a back-hander, would you?
Oh, that seems rather hard!
said Li Wan.
Shes not getting a royal husband and now she is to be beaten as well!
Aroma was about to throw the dice when they heard someone calling outside the gate.
One of the old women hurried out to see who it was and came back to tell them that it was some people from Aunt Xues come to collect Dai-yu.
What time is it?
they asked the old woman.
Long past second watch, she said.
It struck eleven some time ago.
Bao-yu, refusing to believe that it could be so late, asked to see his watch.
He found on inspecting it, however, that it was in fact five and twenty minutes past eleven.
Dai-yu rose to her feet.
I cant, in any case, keep going much longer, she said.
And I have to take my medicine when I get back.
-1387 230 Perhaps wed all better break off now, said the others.
Aroma and Bao-yu tried to dissuade them, but Li Wan and Tan-chun were insistent.
Its terribly late.
Weve already broken enough rules for one day.
Very well, said Aroma.
All of you lust drink one mote cup of wine then, and well let you go.
Skybright, assisted by one of the junior maids, was already filling their cups.
The others drank up and called for their lanterns to be lit.
When they were ready, Aroma and the rest of the maids accompanied them all the way to the far side of Drenched Blossoms Bridge before returning to Green Delights.
There, having once more barred the gate, they continued for a while with the game.
Aroma filled some extra large cups with wine and put a selection of the delicacies on the little dishes on to a large plate to give to the old women who had been all this time on duty.
Everyone was by now beginning to be a little drunk.
Soon they were playing guess-fingers and singing solos.
By two oclock the old women, who had been supplementing what the maids, in their kindness, had given them by surreptitiously helping themselves, had made such formidable inroads into the wine-supply that the two-gallon jar was suddenly found to be empty.
On hearing that there was no more wine, the maids began to clear the things away and to wash and prepare themselves for bed.
Parfumee, who had drunk so much that her cheeks were flushed and her eyes glittered with an unnatural brightness, was incapable of moving.
She leaned inertly against Aromas shoulder, murmuring plaintively in her ear.
Oh, Aroma!
My heart is beating so!
Aroma laughed.
-107 You shouldnt have drunk so much!
Swallow and Number Four had long since succumbed and were lying asleep on the kang.
Skybright tried unsuccessfully to wake them but Bao-yu stopped her Leave them alone.
It doesnt matter if we all sleep here for once.
He followed their example by pillowing his head on the 231 petal-stuffed damask cushion, turning over on his side, and promptly dropping off to sleep.
Aroma could see that Parfumee was extremely drunk.
Fearing that any but the slightest movement might make her sick, she lifted her up, very, very gently, and laid her down beside Bao-yu on the kang.
She herself lay down on the couch opposite.
A gentle oblivion then descended upon all of them and they slept like tops until morning.
It was already broad daylight when Aroma opened her eyes.
Oh, its late!
she said.
She raised her head up to look at the kang opposite.
Parfumee was still fast asleep, her head resting on the raised edge of the kang.
Aroma hurriedly got up and went across to wake her.
Her calling aroused Bao-yu, who sat up, looked around him cheerfully, commented Its late!, and gave Parfumee a prod.
Then Parfumee, too, sat up, rubbing her eyes and still only half awake.
Shame on you!
said Aroma, laughing at her.
Look where you spent last night!
You must have been very drunk, not to have chosen your place more carefully!
Parfumee looked around her and saw that she had spent the night at Bao-yus side.
She slipped off the kang hurriedly, with an embarrassed laugh.
How did I ?
I dont know either, said Bao-yu, laughing.
If I had known, I should have rubbed some ink on your face!
Maids now came in carrying the basin and other things for his toilet.
Thank you all very much for last nights party, said Bao-yu.
Well have another one tonight and this time you shall all be my guests.
Oh, no!
said Aroma.
Not again!
If we make another rumpus tonight, people will start complaining.
Thats all right, said Bao-yu.
Its only twice.
Anyway, were all seasoned drinkers.
Just think, we got through a whole two-gallon jar of wine last night!
Just as it was beginning to get interesting, we found that wed run out.
Thats how it should be, said Aroma.
Its much better to 232 end a party when the fun is at its height than to go on until everyone is exhausted.
I must say, everyone was in very good form last night.
Skybright was being quite abandoned.
She even sang a song, if I remember rightly!
But dont you remember?
said Number Four.
You sang one too.
We all did.
A fit of uncontrollable giggles possessed the maids as they remembered, and they hid their blushing faces in their hands.
While they were still giggling, a smiling Patience arrived.
She had come to invite her hosts of the previous day to a return party.
No excuses!
she said.
I shall expect every one of you t6 be there.
They made her sit down and somebody fetched her some tea.
What a pity we didnt have her with us last night!
Skybright commented.
Patience pricked up her ears.
Why, what were you doing last night?
I dont know whether I ought to tell you, said Aroma.
We had a high old time, I can tell you that.
Even the high jinks Her Old Ladyship gets up to with the young ladies and Master Bao are nothing compared to last night.
We got through a whole two-gallon jar of wine.
We drank so much that we forgot our shame, singing songs until after two oclock, then lying around with our clothes on and sleeping where we lay until morning.
Charming!
said Patience with pretended indignation.
You come and ask me for wine, you dont invite me to your party, and now you have the nerve to tell me what a wonderful time you had.
I feel really angry!
-384 Hes giving a return party tonight, said Skybright.
Hes sure to ask you to that.
I expect hell be going over himself shortly to invite you.
He is who?
Who is he?
said Patience.
Oh, sharp-ears!
Skybright coloured and pretended to strike her.
Trust you to pick on a little thing like that!
Well, I cant stay here talking, Ive got something to attend to, said Patience.
Ill be sending someone over later 233 -640 to tell you when its ready.
Mind you all come now, or Ill have the troops out to come and get you!
Bao-yu and the maids tried to detain her, but she was already on her way.
Bao-yu now completed his interrupted toilet and took his early morning tea.
While he sat sipping it, his eye chanced to light on a sheet of paper underneath the inkstone.
I wish you girls wouldnt use my inkstone as a paperweight, he said.
Aroma and Skybright were immediately on the defensive.
Oh dear!
Whos at fault this time?
Bao-yu pointed towards the offending paper.
Look.
Under the inkstone.
Someones pattern, I expect, that she forgot to put away.
Skybright lifted the inkstone and picked up the paper from underneath.
It was not an embroidery-pattern but some kind of writing.
She handed it to Bao-yu.
It was a sheet of pink , patterned letter-paper.
A single column of characters ran down the centre of it From Adamantina, the Dweller Beyond the Threshold Respectful Anniversary Greetings.
Who took delivery of this note?
he asked, jumping up excitedly.
Assuming, from the degree of agitation, that the note must be from a person of some consequence, Aroma and Skybright took up the question.
In response to their shouted inquiry, a smiling Number Four came running into the room.
I did.
From Adamantina.
She didnt bring it herself, she sent one of the old women with it.
I put it down somewhere in here.
I meant to tell you about it, but with all that drinking last night I forgot.
So thats who its from, said the other maids.
What a fuss about nothing!
But Bao-yu evidently did not think so.
Fetch me some paper, he said, still in some agitation, and himself began grinding the ink.
But when the ink was ground and he sat with moistened brush poised in readiness over the virgin paper, he found that he did not know how to begin.
234 -640 What was the correct response to Dweller Beyond the Threshold?
For a long time he sat thinking, but no inspiration was forthcoming.
Its no good asking Bao-chai, he thought.
Shed only say something critical about Adamantina being too fanciful.
Id better ask Dai-yu.
Slipping Adamantinas note into his sleeve, he set off in the direction of the Naiads House.
He was lust stepping off the Drenched Blossoms bridge when he caught sight of Xing Xiu-yan bustling along in a very purposeful manner from the opposite direction.
Where are you going?
he asked her.
I want to have a talk with Adamantina.
Bao-yu was surprised.
Adamantina is such a strange, contrary person.
There are very few people she can get on with.
If she thinks highly of you, it proves that you must be made of finer stuff than the rest of us.
I dont know whether she thinks particularly highly of me, said Xiu-yan, but we were neighbours for ten years.
When she was serving her novitiate at the Coiled Incense Temple, there was only a party wall separating her from the place where my family lived.
My family was too poor to own a house and for ten years lived in rented accommodation in her temple.
Whenever I had nothing else to do, I used to go inside the nuns courtyard and spend my time with Adamantina.
It was she who taught me to read and write.
In fact, everything I know, practically, I owe to her.
So you see, shes not only my hard times friend she is also in a sense my teacher.
When my parents finally came here to throw themselves on the generosity of your family, we learned that Adamantina, too, had found a home here.
She had evidently found this a place where her eccentricities would be tolerated and where she would be safe from molestation by those having the power to persecute her.
It seemed as if our destinies must be linked.
And I was glad to find, when I went to look her up here, that her friendship for me was unaltered.
In fact, I think that if anything she is even nicer to me now than she was before.
235 As if by a flash of lightning, the mystery of Xiu-yans utter alienness from her appalling parents was revealed.
I see!
he said.
That ethereal, crane-in-the-clouds quality one notices in everything you do or say I see now where you get it from.
As a matter of fact its something to do with Adamantina that has brought me out.
Something she wrote has been puzzling me and I was on my way to ask someone elses advice about it when I ran into you.
Its an extraordinary bit of luck that I did, because you are obviously much better qualified to advise me than the person I had been intending to ask.
He took the piece of paper from his sleeve and showed it to her.
Xiu-yan ran her eye over it and laughed.
Shell never change.
The same whimsical, preposterous Adamantina as always I Who but Adamantina would use her nom-de-plume in a birthday greeting?
Talk about a monk no monk and a maid no maid!
What sort of etiquette is that?
I dont agree, said Bao-yu, smiling.
Adamantina is above etiquette.
She doesnt subscribe to the conventions of our mundane world.
Her writing to me in this way shows that she must credit me with some intelligence.
Unfortunately I havent the faintest idea in what terms I ought to reply.
I was on my way to ask Cousin Lins advice when I was fortunate enough to bump into you.
For some moments Xiu-yan ran her eyes up and down Bao-yu appraisingly.
Finally she broke into a laugh.
The sight of it exceedeth the report thereof.
I see now what they mean.
Im not surprised she sent you this.
And Im not surprised she gave you all that plum-blossom last year.
Well, if even Adamantina has succumbed, I suppose I shall have to do my little bit by explaining what this means.
Adamantina is fond of saying that out of all the poems by all the poets of the Han, Jin, North-and-South, Tang and Song dynasties, a couple of lines in Fan Cheng-das Walk in the Cemetery are the only decent verses ever written Though you hide behind a threshold of indestructible iron, -640 The mound shaped like a wheat-cake will claim you for its own.
Thats why she calls herself The Dweller Beyond the 236 -640 Threshold.
Her favourite prose-writer is Zhuang-zi, so sometimes she calls herself The Outsider, after Zhuang-zis outsider ... wandering beyond the realm.
The way to please her is to refer to yourself modestly as someone still trapped in the toils of the wicked world while she is floating freely somewhere above them.
If shed called herself The Outsider in this note shes sent you, the right response would have been to call yourself The Worldling in your reply.
As shes called herself The Dweller Beyond the Threshold, you should refer to yourself in answering as The Dweller Behind the Threshold, to indicate that you have understood the reference to Fan Cheng-da.
The scriptures tell us that the revelation 6f the Buddha-truth comes like ghee poured upon the head.
Bao-yu must have had some such feeling as he listened to Xiu-yan, for he first of all gave a gasp of discovery and then laughed out loud.
I see!
Thats why our family temple is called the Temple of the Iron Threshold I Thank you very much.
Now I can go and write my reply.
Xiu-yan continued on her way to Green Bower Hermitage and Bao-yu went back to write his note.
He wrote From Bao-yu, Dweller Behind the Threshold, Devout and Humble Thanks.
He carried the note to the Hermitage himself and posted it through the crack between the double doors.
By the time he got back to Green Delights, Parfumee had just completed her toilet.
She had gone back to the elaborate feminine coiffure which she normally favoured, complete with kingfisher-feather hair-ornaments but Bao-yu said he would prefer to see her permanently got up like a boy.
He had her fringe and side-pieces cut off and the remaining short bits shaved away from her forehead round to the back of her neck, so that only the long hair growing from the crown of her head remained.
Well get you a big fur cap with ear-flaps to wear in the winter, he said, and big tiger-boots for your feet, or white socks and thick-soled, stitch-patterned padded shoes, to go with loose-bottomed trousers.
And wed better change your 237 -1536 name.
Parfumee wont do for a boy.
What about Honey Boy?
We can call you Honey for short.
Parfumee was delighted.
Now youll be able to take me with you when you go outside, she said.
If anyone asks about me, you can tell them that Im one of your pages, like Tealeaf.
Bao-yu smiled at the idea, but seemed rather doubtful.
I think sooner or later theyd be able to tell that you werent.
You have no imagination!
said Parfumee Tell them Im a foreign page.
Your familys got several foreign pages.
Anyway a pigtail suits me everyone says it does.
What about it?
Dont you think its a brilliant idea?
Bao-yu was quite won over.
-240 Stones Note to Reader Both the Rong and Ning branches of the Jia family did in fact employ a number of foreign captives taken by previous members of the family in their various military campaigns and later graciously bestowed on them as bond-slaves by His Imperial Majesty.
They were invariably employed as grooms, being useless for any other kind of work.
Parfumee transvestism was by no means a novelty in the household.
The tomboyish Shi Xiang-yun had long since shown a passion for dressing up in military uniform and was frequently to be seen wearing a cavalrymans belt and tight-sleeved riding habit.
When Bao-yu put Parfumee into boys clothing, she was quick to follow suit by dressing her own Althee in a pages costume.
As a painted face Althee was already in the habit of shaving off the short hair above her forehead and round her ears to facilitate making-up and had acquired a certain masculinity of movement and gesture from the roles she played, so the transformation was in her case a less drastic one.
Li Wan and Tan-chun were so taken with the result that they decided to dress Bao-qins Cardamome up ass little page as well.
Her hair was done up in two knots like horns, one on each side of her head.
Dressed in trousers and a short smock and with a pair of red shoes on her feet she looked - except for the make-up - exactly like the scholar page, Lute Boy, in the play.
Xiang-yun changed Althees name to Valiant because she thought it suited her.
Cardamome was the youngest, liveliest and most mischievous of the little ex-actresses and the majority of the Gardens inhabitants had already taken to calling her by less flattering sobriquets long before her transformation into a page.
After the transformation had been made, Bao-qin rejected Lute Boy as too obvious and since she liked Cardamome and thought it a pretty name, she resolved to retain at any rate the middle part of it by calling the new page Damon.
Stone 238 Its a very good idea.
Ive often seen officials with little foreign servants - mostly Tartars or Tibetans captured in the wars.
People like to have them as grooms because they are good at handling horses and dont mind waiting about in the cold.
Well have to give you a foreign name then.
What about Yelu Hunni ?
Yelu is an old Kitan Surname and Hunni is what the Xiong-nu used to call themselves.
Parfumee was very satisfied with this, so it was agreed that in future she would always be referred to as Yelu Hunni.
After lunch Patiences messenger arrived to say that, as the summerhouse in the Peony Garden was thought to be too hot, her return party had been laid out in the Shady Elm rooms.
You-shi came over well in advance, bringing two of Cousin Zhens little concubines, Lovey and Dove, with her from Ning-guo House.
They were very young and wild and had seldom been taken to the neighbouring mansion before.
Today, meeting such lively members of the Gardens society as Caltrop, Xiang-yun, Parfumee and Etamine for the first time, they were in their element, quickly proving the truth of the old saying about birds of a feather by chattering nineteen to the dozen with their new-found friends and dashing off with them on an exploratory tour of the Garden.
You-shi was left to the company of her own maids.
Presently, when they were visiting Green Delights, Caltrop, Lovey and Dove were very much amused to hear Bao-yu addressing Parfumee as Yelu Hunni.
Having elicited from her how she came to have acquired so extraordinary a name, they began to try using it themselves but in their unpractised mouths the foreign sounds soon degenerated into Yellow Honey and even this was soon abandoned in favour of Yellow Belly.
The maids, hearing them call her this, were all in stitches.
Bao-yu feared that Parfumee would be wounded by their hilarity and proposed yet another change of name.
There is a land in the West called Fran-see-ya where they make a kind of golden glitter-glass called aventurin.
You are such a bright and glittering person yourself I think the name Aventurin would suit you very well.
Parfumee was delighted with it.
But it was still no good the others found Aventurin too difficult and having estab- 239 lished that it was the name of some kink of foreign glass, soon took to calling her Glassy or Glass-eyes instead.
But we digress.
The party in the Shady Elm rooms had now begun.
Once more wine was made an excuse for much unrestrained hilarity.
The blind ballad-singers were asked to drum for them and Patience broke off a spray of peonies to play passing the branch with.
There must have been near enough twenty people taking part in the game.
Just as the fun was at its height, it was announced that two women had arrived delivering things from the Zhen family in Nanking and Tan-chun, Li Wan and You-shi had to go off to the jobs room to receive them.
The others decided to make a little break in the party while they did so, in which those who wanted to could take some exercise outside.
Lovey and Dove decided to have a swing.
You get up as well, Bao-yu said to Lovey, who was pushing.
Ill push you both.
Oh no you dont!
said Lovey.
I know your kind of pushing!
Yellow -belly can push us.
Please , said Bao-yu exasperatedly, dont call her by that horrible name!
Youll have all the others calling her by it as well.
Dove was giggling helplessly on the swing.
Stop it, you two!
I cant work this thing properly if you make me laugh.
I shall fall off, if youre not careful, and knock all the gravy out of you!
While they were in the midst of their diversions, a group of servants from the Ning-guo mansion came rushing up in a state of great agitation.
Sir Jing is dead!
Dead ?
Everyone gearing them was incredulous.
But he hadnt been ill. How can he have died so suddenly?
He spent all his time looking for the secret of immortality.
Said one of the servants.
Perhaps he found it and went off to heaven.
You-shi heard the news with dismay.
There would be so much to do, and with Cousin Zhen, Jia Rong and Jia Lian all three away, no dependable male around to help her.
The 240 -1536 first thing she did, of course, was to remove all her jewellery and the ornaments from her hair.
Then, having ordered some of the household to go on ahead and put all the Taoists there under lock and key pending her husbands return, she got into her carriage and drove with all speed to the Dark Truth Monastery outside the city, accompanied by the Chief Steward Lai Shengs wife and several of the senior stewardesses.
Meanwhile other servants were dispatched to various members of the faculty requesting their attendance at the monastery.
The physicians duly arrived.
As the patient was already dead, there was little scope for their customary methods of diagnosis but they knew that Sir Jing had gone in for breath-control and various other kinds of Taoist hocus-pocus, some of which, like the worship of the Seven Stars, the keeping of ghost-worm vigils and the swallowing of mercuric elixirs, must have gravely weakened his constitution and may well have hastened his death and when they saw the purple face and cracked and shrivelled lips of the corpse and felt the iron-hard abdomen, they had little difficulty in forming their collective opinion, which their spokesman delivered forthwith to the waiting women That death was due to edema and corrosion following ingestion by the deceased of some toxic metallic substance in pursuance of his Taoist researches.
It wasnt toxic, protested the Taoists, alarmed for their own safety.
It was an infallible secret formula, but it needed to be taken in the right conditions.
We told him he wasnt ready for it, but he wouldnt believe us.
He must have taken it during the vigil last night, when he was meditating on his own and there was nobody around to stop him.
He will have gone straight to heaven, of course such faith is sure to be rewarded.
We must rejoice that he has cast off the corrupt garment of flesh and left this sea of misery behind him.
But You-shi had no intention of getting drawn into an argument.
Her only reply was to give orders that they should all be locked up again and remain so until Cousin Zhen could deal with them when he got back.
Riders were dispatched post-haste to inform him of his fathers death.
You-shi could see at a glance that the monasterys accommodation was far too cramped for the lying-in-state on the 241 -640 other hand there could be no question of her taking the corpse back with her into the city.
She therefore had it wrapped up and carried in a curtained chair to the Temple of the Iron Threshold.
And as she calculated that it would probably be at least half a month before Cousin Zhen got back, by which time, as this was the hottest part of the year, the process of decomposition would already be well advanced, she decided, acting on her own initiative, to consult an astrologer and find out the earliest date on which the body could be encoffined.
The coffin was conveniently to hand, having been deposited in the Temple of the Iron Threshold when it was purchased some years previously.
The formal going into mourning and its attendant ceremonies were scheduled to take place three days later.
Staging was put up in readiness for the Taoists and Buddhists, but their requiems were to be deferred until Cousin Zhen should have returned.
While You-shi and the already depleted staff were attending to these matters outside the city, no one with authority was left in the two mansions able to deal with callers from outside.
On the Rong-guo side Xi-feng was still unable to see people because of her illness, Li Wan was fully occupied in looking after the young people, and Bao-yu was too lacking in savoir-faire to be trusted.
It was necessary to call in a number of obscure junior clansmen who had done occasional odd-jobs for the family in the past Jia Bin, Jia Guang, Jia Heng1, Jia Chang and Jia Ling.
On the Ning-guo side even the internal running of the household was a problem, since You-shi was for the time being unable to get back at all.
She had to call on her step-mother, old Mrs You, to keep an eye on things for her.
As Mrs You had two young unmarried daughters by a previous marriage, the most sensible arrangement seemed to be to bring the girls with her and install herself in temporary residence at Ning-guo House.
At this point our story moves elsewhere.
As soon as the news reached him of his fathers death, Cousin Zhen made an urgent application for leave of absence to the Board of Rites.
He included Jia Rongs name in the petition, since Jia Rong was, nominally at any rate, the holder of a commission.
The officials of the Board of Rites, bearing in mind His 242 Imperial Majestys devotion to the Late Emperor and determination to give fullest expression to it in these obsequies of the Late Emperors favourite Consort, dared not grant leave of absence on their own initiative and referred the matter to the Emperor himself in a memorial.
But the Son of Heaven, with that godlike compassion that is so typical of him, far from making his own bereavement an objection, saw it as all the more reason for sympathizing with the bereavement of a subject - particularly one whose ancestor had performed such great and signal services for the Crown.
His immediate reaction on reading the memorial was to ask for particulars of Jia Jings official rank.
The Board of Rites memorialized back as follows -640 Jia Jing Palace Graduate, Second Class.
His hereditary office and emoluments were passed on during his lifetime to his son Jia Zhen.
Owing to age and ill-health, he had for some years past been living in religious seclusion at the Dark Truth Monastery, where he was resident at the time of his death.
Jia Zhen and his son Jia Rong are in attendance here at the mausoleum for the obsequies of Her Late Highness and are Your Imperial Majestys petitioners for leave to absent themselves in order to attend to the funeral arrangements.
On receipt of this memorial His Imperial Majesty was graciously pleased to issue the following Rescript -640 Although Jia Jings own life appears to have been undistinguished by service to the state, nevertheless in recognition of the distinguished record of loyal service to the Crown of his grandfather the Duke of Ning-guo it is Our pleasure that a Court appointment carrying the honours and entitlements of an officer of the Fifth Rank should be bestowed upon him posthumously, and that his son and grandson should be authorized to convey his remains into the Capital, entering by way of the Lower North Gate, and to display them there in their private residence in the customary manner and thereafter, having duly carried Out all rites and ceremonies that are lawful to be performed, to convey them thence to the deceaseds registered place of origin for interment.
And furthermore it is Our pleasure that Our treasury at the Imperial Victuallers should disburse to the said son and grandson a sum being the equivalent of one portion of funeral offerings of the First 243 Grade towards the defrayment of the said Jia Jings funeral expenses and that it should he lawful and permitted for holders of Court appointments up to and including the rank of Prince and Duke to make offerings and condolences.
When the contents of this Rescript were made known, it was not only the members of the Jia family who expressed their gratitude all the great officers of the Court were loud in their praises of this extraordinary example of Imperial magnanimity.
Cousin Zhen and Jia Rong at once set off on horseback, determined to ride both night and day until they reached their destination.
About half way along their road they came upon a group of horsemen riding hell-for-leather towards them who turned out to be Jia Bin and Jia Guang at the head of a party of Jia family domestics.
They threw themselves from their saddles as soon as they recognized Cousin Zhen and touched knee and hand to the ground in the Manchu salute.
Why have you come?
Cousin Zhen asked them.
Mrs Zhen was worried that when you and Rong left there would be no one to escort Her Old Ladyship, Jia Bin replied, so she sent us to take your place.
Cousin Zhen expressed his approval of his wifes thoughtfulness.
And what about things at home?
he asked.
How have you been managing?
Jia Bin told him how You-shi had had the Taoists put under arrest, how she had had Jia Jings body moved to the family temple, and how, in order that there might be someone at home to keep an eye on things during her absence, she had persuaded her step-mother and two step-sisters to move into temporary residence at Ning-guo House.
At mention of the two step-sisters the face of Jia Rong, who had dismounted when the others did, was observed to break into a grin.
For his part Cousin Zhen merely nodded, observed several times over that these arrangements were very sensible, and, touching the riding-whip to his horses flanks, was on his way once more.
Cousin Zhen and Jia Rong rode on then through daylight 244 and darkness, stopping at post-houses along the way only long enough to obtain a change of mount.
It was night-time when they approached the outskirts of the Capital and well after two in the morning when they reached the Temple of the Iron Threshold.
Those keeping watch had to rouse the others up to meet them.
Cousin Zhen and Jia Rong dismounted and lifted up their voices in loud walling.
Still wailing, they crawled on their knees all the way from the Outer gate of the temple to the lying-in-state room inside.
There, at the foot of the coffin, they knocked their heads repeatedly on the floor and wept with abandon until daylight, by which time they had all but lost their voices.
After a brief intermission during which Cousin Zhen was greeted by You-shi and the rest for he had not, till that moment, had an opportunity of speaking to them he and Jia Rong changed into the appropriate hempen mourning-garments before returning to bow once more at the foot of the coffin.
Cousin Zhen found it impossible to achieve quite that state of self-absorbed grief - oblivious to all around - which books of etiquette require of the bereaved son there were too many things that needed attending to.
For example, friends and relations had to be informed about the Gracious Rescript permitting a lying-in-state at the mansion and the receiving of offerings and condolences there.
Jia Rong was ordered back home to make all preparations necessary for receiving the coffin.
Jia Rong was pleased with his commission.
Hurrying to horse, he rode briskly into the city.
As soon as he got back, he ordered the servants to begin clearing the furniture from the front reception hall at Ning-guo House and making a shrine for the coffin there out of screens and hangings.
He also told them to put up awnings for the funeral bands outside the doorway, and a cloth and cane archway which should later be covered with funerary inscriptions.
When he was satisfied that all this work was well in hand, he hurried into the inner apartments to meet his grandmother and two young aunts.
The Hon.
Mrs You the late Mr You - You-shis father 245 had been a mandarin of the sixth rank was an elderly lady much given to taking naps.
She was in fact recumbent upon the kang and refreshing herself with sleep at the moment when Jia Rong entered.
It was the two daughters, sewing amidst their maids, who welcomed him.
Im glad youve come, Auntie, said Jia Rong, grinning broadly at the elder of them.
Her name was Er-jie.
Father has been longing to see you.
Er-jie turned red.
Now look here, young Rong, she said, you behave yourself!
I suppose you are one of those people who, if they dont get a good telling-off every once in a while, dont feel comfortable.
You are supposed to be a well-bred, educated young gentleman, yet a coolie would have better manners.
She picked up the nearest object to hand, which happened to be a flat-iron, and made as if to aim it at his head.
Jia Rong ducked in alarm, clasping his head in his arms he ducked not away from her, however, but towards her, and ended up on her bosom, laughing and begging for mercy.
At this the younger sister, San-jie, came over and tried to fasten her nails upon his mouth.
Well tell our sister about you when she gets back.
Jia Rong knelt between them on the kang, entreating them not to, whereupon the two sisters collapsed in laughter.
He noticed that Er 1 ie was eating cardamums and made a grab at them intending to take some for himself.
As he did so, Er-jie spat a chewed-up mouthful of them in his face.
Quite unperturbedly, he began licking off the particles that he could reach with his tongue and nibbling them.
This was more than even the maids could stomach.
Look at you, freshly in mourning and your old grannie lying there right under your nose!
they said.
These are your aunts, after all, even though they are so young you ought to have more respect for your mother than to treat her family like this.
Wait till we tell the Master when he gets back hell give you what for!
Temporarily abandoning his aunts, Jia Rong went over to the maids, put his arms around two of them and began kissing them.
246 My darlings, you are so right!
I shant interfere with them any more.
The maids pushed him off indignantly.
Pig!
The maid who said this spoke with feeling.
You have a wife and maids of your own what do you need to come bothering us for?
An understanding person would realize that this was only fun, but what about someone who didnt know?
There are plenty of dirty-minded, gossiping busybodies who would be only too pleased to go tattling about this sort of thing to the other mansion, and before you know where you are the gossips there will be passing round the most terrible stories about us.
Their household is completely separate from ours, said Jia Rong, why should they bother about what we do here?
Anyway, theyve got scandal enough of their own to keep them busy!
Every family history has got a few scandals in it.
Look at the stories they tell about the rulers of the Han and Tang dynasties Filthy Tang and stinking Han they say, dont they?
If even the families of emperors were like that, you can hardly expect ours to be any different.
As for the household next door look how strict Great-uncle She is, yet Uncle Lian still manages to get up to a few tricks with that little chamber-wife and look what a tough nut Aung Feng is, yet that didnt stop Uncle Rui thinking he could settle her business.
Do you imagine I dont know what they get up to over there -?
He seemed to be warming to the subject and would doubtless have treated them to other even less edifying examples of Rong-guo depravity, had not the old lady suddenly woken up at that point, necessitating an abrupt change of manner.
At once he dropped down on his knee and began inquiring solicitously about her health.
It is so good of you to have gone to all this trouble for us, Grandma, he said, and for Auntie Er and Auntie San to put up with so much inconvenience on our behalf.
Father and I dont know how to thank you.
I expect after this business is over we shall all be coming round to your place and making you a kotow.
Bless the boy, what eloquence!
said the old lady, nodding 247 appreciatively.
For our own kin, though its the least we could do.
And how is your father?
she asked him.
When did he hear the news?
When did you get back?
Weve only just got back, said Jia Rong.
Father sent me on to see you immediately.
He was particularly anxious that I should persuade you to stay here until everything is over.
He winked at the two young aunts while he was saying this.
Er-jie pretended to grind her teeth angrily, though she was trying not to laugh.
Glib-tongued little ape!
she said.
Were to be kept around here as second strings for your father, I suppose?
Dont you worry!
said Jia Rong, his eye on the old lady.
My father has your interests very much at heart.
Hes been looking for years now for a couple of well-placed, rich, handsome young husbands for my two aunties.
Now hes found one at last - someone he met the other day on the journey.
He was only joking, but the old lady took it all as gospel truth and asked him what the name was of this prospective son-in-law.
Er-jie, laughing, laid down her sewing and ran across to strike him.
Dont believe a word he says, Ma!
Hes a wicked liar!
Even the maids were outraged.
If the Lord in Heaven can hear you, youd better watch Out for the lightning!
said one of them.
Just then a servant entered Weve finished all the things you told us to do, Master Rong.
Will you go back now and tell the Master its all ready?
Off went Jia Rong then, smiling all over his face.
But what happened after that will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 64 Five fair women make subjects for a chaste maids verse And nine jade dragons make a Love-gift for a flirt As soon as Jia Rong learned that evening was ready, he returned to the temple and reported to his father to that effect.
At once preparations for the procession into the city were put in motion.
Bearers were organized, insignia, funeral banners and all the other paraphernalia got ready overnight, and messengers hurriedly sent out to relations and friends telling them when the procession would set out five oclock on the morning of the fourth.
The procession, needless to say, was of dazzling magnificence, and troops of mourners took part in it.
It provoked varying reactions from the crowd numbering many thousands who lined the road to watch it, all the way from the Temple of the Iron Threshold to the gates of Ning-guo House.
Some took a simple pleasure in the spectacle others admired the wealth which had created it but there were also a few sour-faced Confucian scholars who looked down their noses and muttered something about sumptuousness being no substitute for grief.
A buzz of discussion followed its passing all along the route.
The procession reached the mansion at about three in the afternoon the coffin was deposited in its shrine in the main hall offerings were made the lament was raised.
After that the mourners began gradually to depart.
Only those members of the Jia clan remained who had undertaken to lend the family a hand with the reception.
Among relations not of the Jia surname the only one to stay behind was Lady Xings brother, Xing De-quan.
As long as there were visitors around, convention obliged Cousin Zhen and Jia Rong to remain in appropriately grief- 249 stricken attitudes beside the coffin, conforming, as far as possible, to the scriptural canons on mourning which enjoin the bereaved son, among other things, to lie upon rushes with a sod of earth for his pillow but as soon as the last guest had gone, they were off like a shot to enjoy the society of their young female relations inside.
Throughout this period Bao-yu too was expected to put on mourning and go over every day to Ning-guo House to spend the whole day there beside the coffin.
Xi-feng was not well enough to go over daily, but on days when there were sutra-readings and the callers were numerous, she would drag herself over and lend You-shi a hand in entertaining the wives.
One morning after the early offering, when Cousin Zhen and Jia Rong, worn out by a succession of short nights and long, exhausting days, lay dozing beside the coffin, Bao-yu thought that as there were no visitors he might just as well go back home and see Dai-yu.
Calling at Green Delights on the way, he found the courtyard silent and deserted.
In the coolness of the surrounding gallery a few old women and junior maids were sitting or lying about in various postures of sleep.
He had no wish to disturb them, and would have made his way into the house alone but just as he was approaching the doorway, Number Four caught sight of him and started up, intending to raise the blind for him to enter.
She had not time to do so however, for at that very moment Parfumee came rushing out and very nearly ran into him.
She checked herself just in time.
What are you doing here?
There was an expression of pleased surprise on her face.
Dont let Skybright get me!
Shes trying to hit me.
Inside the room there was a clatter of numerous tiny objects striking the floor and a moment later Skybright burst through the doorway in pursuit.
Where are you, you little wretch?
If youve lost, you have to have a slap.
Its no good running to Bao-yu to protect you he isnt here today.
Bao-yu laughingly intercepted her.
Shes only little.
I dont know how shes offended you, but wont you forgive her for my sake?
250 Bao-yus sudden appearance at that moment was so unexpected that Skybright found it comical.
Parfumee must be a little witch!
I wouldnt have thought even magic spells could bring someone so quickly!
Well, I dont care I she said, having recovered somewhat from her surprise.
Magic or no magic, Im going to get her!
She wrested the arm free that Bao-yu was holding and darted at Partumee but Parfumee dodged behind Bao-yus back and clung to him.
Bao-yu took Skybright by one hand and Parfumee by the other and walked with them into the room.
There, on the kang under the west wall, Musk, Ripple, Emerald and Swallow sat playing dibs melon-seeds for winners and slaps for losers.
Parfumee had lost to Skybright and run out to avoid the slap.
The clattering noise that Bao-yu had heard was the sound of dib-stones falling from Skybrights lap when she got up to chase her.
Bao-yu surveyed the scene approvingly.
I thought youd be a bit quiet here with me away, he said.
And as the days are so long now, I was afraid you might be going to sleep after lunch and making yourselves ill. Im glad youve found a way of keeping yourselves amused - Wheres Aroma?
he asked, suddenly noticing that she was not with them.
Oh, Aroma, said Skybright.
Aromas gone religious.
Shes sitting on her own in the next room like Bodhidharma with her face to the wall.
I havent dared disturb her so I havent the least idea what shes doing.
Whatever it is, shes being very quiet about it.
Youd better go in and have a look perhaps shes attained Enlightenment!
Bao-yu laughed and went into the inner room.
He found Aroma sitting on the couch by the window making knots in a length of grey silk cord.
She rose to her feet as he entered.
What lies has that wretch Skybright been telling about me?
I wanted to get on with this knotting, thats what I came in here for.
I hadnt got time to fool about with the others, so I pretended that I wanted to take advantage of your being away by sitting here quietly on my own and meditating for a bit.
Bodhidharma, indeed!
Ill pinch that girls mouth!
Bao-yu laughed and sat down beside her to watch her knot.
251 The days are so long now, you ought to take a break of some kind.
If you dont fancy playing with the others, why not come with me to see Cousin Lin?
Surely its much too hot for knotting?
I noticed that youre still wearing that old black fan-over we made for you when you went into mourning for Mrs Rong.
As long as you were only wearing it once or twice a year, it didnt seem worth the trouble of replacing it but now that you have to wear summer mourning every day at the other House, I thought it was high time I made you a new one.
As soon as Ive finished this cord for it, you can take the old one off and put it on.
I know you dont care very much about this sort of thing, but if Her Old Ladyship were to see you wearing the old one when she got back, shed be sure to blame me for neglecting you.
Shed say I was too lazy even to notice what you were wearing.
Bao-yu smiled.
Its very nice of you to have thought about it.
But dont drive yourself too hard.
You dont want to give yourself a heat stroke.
At that moment Partumee came in carrying a cup of watercooled tea for him on a tray.
Because as a little boy he had been delicate, Bao-yu was never given ice-cold tea to drink in summer.
To cool his tea they plunged the tea-pot into a basin of water freshly drawn from the well.
The water was changed several times until the tea inside the pot, though not chilled, had reached a pleasant freshness.
He drank half the contents of the cup while Parfumee held it to his lips, then turned his head back again to address Aroma.
I told Tealeaf when I left that if anyone important turns up at Cousin Zhens, he is to let me know immediately otherwise I shant be going back there.
He got up to go.
As he was leaving the house he called back to Emerald and the others in the outer room If Im wanted for anything, youll find me at Miss Lins.
On his way there, just as he was about to cross Drenched Blossoms Bridge, he came upon Snowgoose followed by two old women carrying an assortment of caltrops, melons and lotus-roots.
252 What are they for?
Bao-yu asked her.
I know your mistress never eats that sort of thing.
Is she expecting Mrs Zhu or someone?
If I tell you, you mustnt let on when you see her, said Snowgoose.
Bao-yu nodded.
You can go on ahead and give that stuff to Miss Nightingale, Snowgoose said to the two women.
If she asks you why Im not with you, tell her Im doing something and Ill be back directly.
The women made some reply and continued on their way.
Snowgoose waited until they were out of earshot.
The Mistress has been feeling a bit better this last day or two.
But when Miss Tan looked in after lunch today and wanted her to go with her to call on Mrs Lian, she wouldnt go.
She appeared to be thinking about something and had a little cry.
Then presently she picked up her writing-brush and did a lot of writing - poetry I think.
She told me to send out for some melons and things.
While I did that, she said, Nightingale was to clear the qin -table in the inner room, move it into the outside room, and put the dragon incense-burner on it.
She said shed tell us what to do with the melons when I got back.
If shes planning to entertain someone, I dont see what she wants the incense-burner for - certainly not for burning incense in, because she doesnt like incense as a rule.
She likes to have fresh flowers and fruit and gourds about her but not incense because she doesnt like the smell of it in her clothes.
Anyway, if she does want to burn some, why not in the inner room, where she spends all her time?
Unless its because the old women have made the outer room a bit smelly and shes burning it to get rid of the smell.
The fact is, I really dont know.
Youll have to go and find out for yourself.
While she was speaking, Bao-yu had unconsciously lowered his head.
From what Snowgoose says, he thought, there must be some other reason for this.
She wouldnt have things put out specially if she were merely entertaining one of the girls.
Perhaps today is the anniversary of Aunt Lins death.
No, just a bit it cant be.
When it is, Grandma always sends her 253 the stuff for the offering and shes done that already this year.
Perhaps its for a seasonal offering.
Perhaps shes been reading the Doctrine of the Mean In each season of the year ... offer things seasonable Its possible.
If I go and see her now, when she is feeling upset, I am sure to want to talk her out of it and shall probably only succeed in causing her to suppress her grief.
On the other hand, if I dont go, then with no one there to stop her, she may simply go on getting more and more upset.
Either way will be bad for her.
The best thing will be for me to go and see Cousin Feng first, sit with her for a bit, and look in at Cousin Lins on my way back.
Then, if she is still upset, I shall try to find some means of consoling her.
In that way I shall be able to prevent her grief from getting Out of hand, though at the same time she will have had a chance of giving it expression, so that there will be no danger of its being unhealthily repressed.
Having come to this decision, he let Snowgoose go on to the Naiads House alone and made his way out of the Garden to Xi-fengs place.
He arrived just as a number of womenservants who had been reporting on household matters were leaving.
Xi-feng herself was leaning inside the gateway talking to Patience.
She smiled at Bao-yu as she saw him come.
Youve come back, then?
Ive just this moment been telling Lin Zhi-xiaos wife to send someone over to the other place to tell your pages that if you dont appear to be doing anything they ought to slip in and ask you to come back here for a rest.
I was afraid that in this hot weather with so many people milling around there, you might find the sweaty smells a bit too much for you.
But youve come back anyway, so I neednt have bothered.
Thank you for the kind thought, though, said Bao-yu.
I decided to come back here partly because there was nothing there for me to do, but also because I noticed that you havent been over there for some days and I wanted to see if you were all right.
How are you feeling lately?
Oh, still pretty much the same, said Xi-feng.
Still up one day and down the next.
Now that Grandmother and your 254 -347 mother are away, those senior women are getting quite out of hand, fighting or quarrelling about something or other every day.
Weve even had cases of gambling and thieving recently.
Of course, your sister is a great help but shes a young unmarried girl and there are certain things she cant be told about.
When they crop up, I have to struggle out of bed and deal with them myself.
So I dont really get a lot of rest.
Under the circumstances theres not much prospect yet of getting better all I can hope is that I shant get any worse!
I know.
But youve got to look after yourself, said Bao-yu.
You must try not to worry so much.
He chatted with her a little longer before going back into the Garden.
Arriving at the Naiads House, he could see the remains of incense smoke as he entered the courtyard gate.
In the outer room there was a wet patch on the flagstones where a libation had been poured, and Nightingale was supervising the removal of the qin -table to the inside room and the replacement of various other objects and bits of furniture.
Concluding that the little service if that is what it had been must just be over, he went inside.
Dai-yu was lying down with her face to the wall.
She looked ill and exhausted.
At the sound of Nightingales Master Bao, Miss, she raised herself wearily, though with a smiling face, and invited him to sit by her.
How have you been these last few days, coz?he said.
You look a bit calmer than you did, but something seems to have been upsetting you.
I cant imagine why you should say so, said Dai-yu.
I am perfectly all right.
How can you expect me to believe that?
said Bao-yu.
The tears are still wet on your face.
You should learn to take things a bit easier.
It is bad for a person who has so much illness to be constantly indulging in grief.
If you end up by under-miring your health I- The realization that what he was about to say was probably something that ought not to be said caused the words to stick in his throat.
For although, from the fact that he and Dai-yu had grown up together, there existed a most perfect sympathy between them, although there was nothing in the world that either of them wanted more than to live and die in each others 255 -640 company, the understanding that this was so was a wordless one which had never been expressed.
In the past, because Dai-yu was so sensitive, words had all too often proved a stumbling-block.
And now today, when the whole point of his coming here was to comfort her, here he was again, on the point of saying something that would offend her!
Finding that he could not go on, a sort of panic gripped him.
He feared he was going to make her angry and yet he so desperately wanted to help her.
As he thought about it, the panic gave way to a feeling of helpless sadness and he began to cry.
Dai-yu, sensing that he was about to make one of those extravagant statements that she always found so irritating, had indeed been on the point of getting angry but when she saw his internal struggle and the tears which followed it, she felt not angry with him but moved, and being herself of a tearful disposition, was soon sitting there in silence and weeping with him for company.
To Nightingale, who came in at that moment with some tea, it appeared as if they must have been having a quarrel.
Just when Miss Lin is getting along nicely, she said to Bao-yu with some asperity, what do you mean by coming along here and upsetting her?
-5947 Bao-yu laughed and wiped his eyes.
Ive done no such thing.
-5947 To cover up his embarrassment, he got up and began pacing about the room.
In doing so, he caught sight of a sheet of paper sticking out from underneath Dai-yus inkstone.
The temptation to reach out and pick it up proved irresistible, and before Dai-yu could get up and snatch it from him, he had put it in the bosom of his gown.
Let me read it, Dai!
Whatever you come here about, said Dai-yu, you always seem to end up by nosing through my papers.
Bao-chai came in while she was speaking.
What is it you want to read, cousin?
she asked Bao-yu.
Bao-yu still had no idea what the piece of paper contained, and because he was uncertain what Dai-yus feelings would be about his reading it, he hesitated to answer Bao-chais question for fear of giving Dai-yu offence.
He therefore 256 smiled and said nothing, while all the time his eyes rested on Dai-yu questioningly.
Dai-yu smiled at Bao-chai and invited her to be seated.
Ive been looking at some lives of famous women, said Dai-yu, all of them women who are famous in history for their beauty or intelligence.
There was so much I found moving - heartening and admirable in some cases, tragic and deplorable in others - that after lunch today, having nothing better to do, I decided to make a selection of them and try writing poems about them in which some of those feelings could be expressed.
Then Tan-chun came in and asked me to go with her to see Cousin Feng, but I didnt feel up to it.
After doing only five of the poems I had planned, I suddenly felt too tired to go on and left them lying there on the table, little thinking that Master Bao would come along and discover them.
I wouldnt really mind his seeing them if it werent for the fear that he might go copying them out and showing them to other people.
When did I ever do such a thing?
said Bao-yu indignantly.
If youre referring to the White Crab-flower poems on that fan, I wrote them on it myself in small kai-shu characters merely for the convenience of always having them by me when I wanted to look at them.
I fully realize that poems written in the privacy of the womens quarters are not lightly to be passed around outside.
Ever since you spoke to me about it, I have been careful not to carry that fan with me anywhere but inside the Garden.
Cousin Lin is right to be worried, said Bao-chai.
Now that the poems are written on that fan, there is always the possibility that you might one day forget and carry it with you to your room outside.
Suppose Uncles literary gentlemen were to see it there, they would be sure to ask you who the poems were by.
If as a result of that they were to become public property, it would be extremely unpleasant for us.
A stupid woman is a virtuous one that is what the old proverb says.
A girls first concern is to be virtuous, her second is to be industrious.
She may write poetry if she likes as a diversion, but it is an accomplishment she could just as well do without.
The last thing girls of good family need is a literary reputation.
She 257 -1344 paused and gave Dai-yu a smile.
There would be no harm in letting me see them of course.
The important thing is not to allow Cousin Bao to go off with them.
In the light of what you have just been saying, said Dai-yu drily, Im not at all sure that I ought to let you look at them either.
Anyway, she pointed to Bao-yu, hes already got them.
Bao-yu assumed from her tone that he might read them.
Extracting the paper from the inside pocket of his gown, he drew up close to Bao-chai so that the two of them could peruse it together.
This is what they read.
Xi Shi That kingdom-quelling beauty dissolved like the flower of foam.
In the foreign palace, Xi Shi, did you yearn for your old home?
Who laughs at your ugly neighbour with her frown-and-simper now, Still steeping her yam at the brook-side, and the hair snow-white on her brow?
Yu Ji The very crows ate grieving as they caw in the cold night air.
She faces her beaten Tyrant King with a haggard look of despair -384 Let the others wait for the hangman, to be hacked and quartered and rent Better the taste of ones own steel in the decent dark of a tent.
Lady Bright -384 To a loveliness that dazzled, the palace of Han showed the door For the fair are mostly ill-fated, as has been said often before.
Yet it seems strange that an emperor - even one with such tepid views -Should abandon his eyes own judgement and let a painter choose!
Green Pearl Pebble or pearl - to Shi Chong it was only a rich mans whim Do you really believe your undoubted charms meant so very much to him?
258 -384 It was fate, from some past life preordained, that made him take his rash stand, And the craving to have a companion in deaths dark, silent land.
Red Duster She marked the firm, courteous protest, the well-phrased confident plan, And, under the unsuccessful clerk, saw the essential Man.
The great Yang Su in her eyes was finished from that hour He could not hold a girl like her for all his pomp and power.
After praising the poems enthusiastically, Bao-yu suggested that, as there were five of them, a good collective title would be Songs for Five Fair Women and without waiting for Dai-yus approval, he picked up her writing-brush and wrote it on the left-hand side of the sheet after the poems.
Whatever subject one chooses for a poem, said Bao -chai, it is important that ones treatment of it should be original.
If one merely plods along in the footsteps of earlier poets, it doesnt matter how fine the language is, the lack of originality will prevent it from being a really good poem.
Thus, many poets have taken Lady Bright as their theme, but the best ones have always contrived to give the subject a new turn, one emphasizing the sad fate of Lady Bright herself, another the wickedness of the painter Ma Yan-shou, another the frivolousness of the Han emperor who employed him to paint portraits of court ladies rather than portraits of distinguished statesmen and soldiers, and so on.
Further new twists were given to this theme by Wang An-shi What brush could ever capture a beautys breathing grace?
The painter did not merit death who botched that lovely face.
-5947 and by Ou-yang Xiu A prince so ill able to control what went on under his nose Must hope in vain to impose his rule on remote barbarian foes.
Cousin Lin shows the same originality as these two poets, by presenting each of her subjects in a novel and interesting light - 259 Before she could continue with her disquisition, a servant came in to announce that Jia Lian was back.
His arrival at the Ning mansion had been reported some time ago and he was expected any moment at Rong-guo House.
Bao-yu at once got up and, hurrying out to the front part of the mansion, waited inside the main gate for his cousin to arrive.
He did not have to wait long.
Within moments Jia Lian was dismounting from his horse and stepping through the gateway.
Bao-yu advanced to meet him, touched hand and knee to the ground in greeting, and wished good health, first, as was good manners, to his grandmother and mother, from whom Jia Lian had come, and then to Jia Lian himself.
The cousins then went inside together, hand in hand.
Li Wan, Xi-feng, Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Ying-chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun were already waiting for Jia Lian in the hall.
After each of them had greeted him individually, he gave them his news.
Grandmother will be arriving here early tomorrow.
Shes been keeping very well on the journey.
Today she sent me on ahead to make sure that everything here is all right.
I shall be leaving again tomorrow at four oclock in the morning and going out of the city to meet her.
They asked him a few questions about the journey, but because they knew how tired he must be after so much travel, soon left him so that he could go back to his own room and get some rest.
About the remainder of that day our narrative is silent.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang arrived home round about lunchtime the following day.
When the initial greetings were over, the old lady sat for a while and sipped a cup of tea before taking Lady Wang and the others with her to Ning-guo House.
A great walling rose up as she arrived.
Jia She and Jia Lian had gone there after seeing the old lady home, and as she and her party entered the room in which the coffin stood, the two of them advanced to meet her at the head of a number of weeping clansmen, and supported her one on each side as she approached the coffin.
At the foot of it Cousin Zhen and Jia Rong knelt down, pressing their heads against her skirts and weeping piteously.
To people of advancing years even simulated grief is distressing, and Grandmother Jia, an arm about 260 -1307 each head, wept very bitterly herself, Jia She and Jia Lian did their best to comfort her, and at last, when her grief had somewhat abated, she moved on, to the right of the coffin-screens, where You-shi and her daughter-in-law were waiting for her.
Here there was more clinging and weeping, after which those present came forward one by one to salute Grandmother Jia and welcome her in a more normal fashion.
Cousin Zhen, fearing that Grandmother Jia, who had still not rested properly after her tiring journey, would become distressed if she were to sit much longer in such melancholy surroundings, strongly urged her not to stay.
When at last he had prevailed on her to go and she was back in her own apartment at Rong-guo House, it became evident that the shock of mourning, following so soon upon the discomforts of travel, had indeed had an adverse effect on her ageing constitution.
By nightfall she was showing all the symptoms of incipient illness heaviness in the head, a constricted feeling in the chest, a blocked-up nose and hoarseness of the voice.
The doctor was summoned immediately and half that night and the whole of the following day taken up with consultations, prescriptions and the preparation and administering of medicine.
Fortunately the illness had not yet established itself in her system and responded rapidly to treatment.
There was a slight outbreak of perspiration round about midnight of the second night and after that her pulse and temperature both returned to normal.
Everyone breathed a sigh of relief though to be on the safe side they kept up the dosage for another day.
A few days later it was Jia Jing's 'funeral' - in this case no mote than the re-depositing of his coffin in the family temple.
Grandmother Jia was still not well enough to take part Bao-yu stayed at home to look after his grandmother and Xi-feng was still insufficiently recovered.
Apart from them, all the other members of the Rong-guo family, Jia She, Jia Lian, Lady Xing and Lady Wang, together with all the men- and women-servants of their households, accompanied their Ning-guo cousins to the Temple of the Iron Threshold.
They were back again that evening but Cousin Zhen, You-shi and Jia Rong stayed on at the temple for the Hundred Days, at the 261 -1307 end of which Jia Jing was to be taken to his final resting-place in Nanking.
Old Mrs You and her two daughters remained all this while at the Ning-guo mansion to keep an eye on things.
Jia Lian had heard a good deal in the past about these two step-sisters of You-shi, though, to his great regret, he had never until very recently had an opportunity of meeting them.
The opportunity had presented itself on the occasion of Jia Jing's removal into the city.
Since then they had become fairly well acquainted.
Acquaintanceship in his case Jia Lian being what he was had been accompanied by the first stirrings of lust.
He felt encouraged by an unsavoury rumour he had heard to the effect that his cousins Zhen and Rong, both father and son, had at one time or another enjoyed the sisters' favours.
Whenever he had a chance to, he flirted or made eyes at them -unsuccessfully in San-jie's case, for she met all his advances with indifference, but with a more promising reaction from her sister.
Unfortunately, with so many pairs of eyes watching, he could not follow up his success, apart from which he was a little scared that Cousin Zhen might be jealous.
Between him and Er-jie it could be said that there was a silent understanding but for the time being there could be nothing more.
This all changed after the funeral.
Then, at Ning-guo House, apart from Mrs You and the two sisters and a few maids and older women employed to do the rough work, hardly anyone from the master apartment was left behind.
All the personal maids, parlour maids and concubines stayed with their master and mistress at the temple.
As for the married servants, their activities were confined to keeping watch at night and minding the gates by day and since they had their own quarters outside, they had no reason to go inside the house except when they were on duty.
This seemed to Jia Lian to be an excellent time to act.
A pretended wish to keep Cousin Zhen company at the temple gave him an excuse for absenting himself fr6m his own house, whilst the pretext of attending to household matters on Cousin Zhen's behalf enabled him to make several trips back to Ning-guo House, thus providing him with further opportunities for pursuing his flirtation with Er-jie.
262 One day Yu Lu, a junior steward from Ning-guo House, came out to see Cousin Zhen about some business.
The total cost of the procession, including funeral furnishings and hire of labour, was one thousand one hundred and ten taels.
Of that, five hundred taels have already been paid, leaving six hundred and ten taels outstanding.
Yesterday I had the managers of both agencies round asking me for the rest of the money.
I thought Id better see you about it and ask you what Im to do.
Why didnt you go straight to the counting-house and draw whats wanted?
said Cousin Zhen.
I dont see why you should need to come bothering me about it., I did go to the counting-house, sir, said Yu Lu, but since Sir Jing passed away they have already paid out so much that theyve barely got enough left to pay for the Hundred Days services and the expenses of your stay here in the temple.
They couldnt pay these bills without eating into what has been earmarked for something else.
Thats why Ive come out to see you.
I wondered whether you would want me to pay them out of your personal account, or whether theres some other account you could transfer the money from.
If you will let me know what you want me to do, Ill go ahead and do it.
Cousin Zhen laughed.
The days when we had money lying around unused in private accounts have long since passed.
Youll have to borrow the money where you can.
it was Yu Lus turn to laugh.
If it were one hundred or two hundred taels, sir, I might be able to manage something but five or six hundred?
Where would I get a sum like that at short notice?
After thinking for a bit, Cousin Zhen turned to Jia Rong Go to your mother, Rong, and ask her for that five hundred taels the Zhens of Nanking sent us after the funeral.
It hasnt been handed in to the counting-house yet.
And ask her to have a rake-around and see if she cant raise the whole sum.
Jia Rong hurried off.
In a very short time he was back again with his mothers answer.
263 Mother says two hundred of the five hundred has already been spent.
She sent the remaining three hundred back home for Grandmother You to take care of.
In that case, said Cousin Zhen, youd better go back with Yu Lu to ask her for it and let him have it.
While youre about it, youll be able to see if everything at home is all right.
And of course give my regards to your aunts.
Yu Lu, youll have to raise the rest of the money as best you can by borrowing.
Jia Rong and Yu Lu promised to do his bidding, but just as they were about to withdraw Jia Lian walked into the room.
Yu Lu stepped up to him smartly and dropped him a salute.
Whats happened?
said Jia Lian.
Cousin Zhen proceeded to explain to him why Yu Lu was there.
As he did so, it occurred to Jia Lian that this would be a good opportunity of going to the Ning-guo mansion and looking up Er-jie again.
It seems a pity to go straining ones credit for so trifling a sum, he said.
I had a little windfall the other day that I havent made use of yet.
Why dont I let him have that to add to your three hundred and save him the trouble of borrowing?
That will be splendid, said Cousin Zhen.
Perhaps you will authorize Rong to pick it up then, when he goes to collect the three hundred?
I think it will be necessary to go for it myself, said Jia Lian hurriedly.
In any case I havent been home for some days.
I really ought to drop in and pay my respects to Grandmother and Lady Wang and my parents.
I shall be able to look in at your place too, Then, and make sure that your servants are behaving themselves.
And pay my respects to your motherin4aw, of course.
It means imposing on you once again, said Cousin Then, smiling.
I dont know whether I should let you.
For goodness sake!
said Jia Lian.
Ones own cousin!
Go with your uncle, then, Cousin Then instructed Jia Rong, and when you see Lady Jia and the other ladies and Sir She to make your bow to them, remember to say that your mother and I send them our regards.
And dont forget to 264 ask whether Lady Jia is quite better yet and whether or not she is still taking medicine.
Having yessir-ed each one of these commands, Jia Rong followed his Uncle Lian outside.
The two of them then took horse and, accompanied by Yu Lu and several pages, all on horseback, rode out towards the city.
As Er-lie was very much on his mind, Jia Lian beguiled the journey by talking to his nephew about her as they rode along.
He spoke approvingly of her good looks and gentle character.
He remarked what perfect poise she had and what a soft and pleasing way of speaking.
In fact, be concluded, everything about her excited ones admiration and respect.
Everyone speaks so highly of your Aunt Feng, but to my mind she isnt a patch on her.
Jia Rong understood very well where this conversation was leading them.
If you love her so much, Uncle, he said, why not let me he your matchmaker and arrange for you to have her as your Number Two?
Is that a joke, said Jia Lian, or are you in earnest?
Im being perfectly serious.
Jia Lian laughed Its certainly an attractive proposal.
The only trouble is, I dont think your Aunt Feng would ever stand for it.
And besides, your Grandmother You might not be willing.
And havent I heard somewhere that your Aunt Er is already engaged to someone?
None of these is really a problem, said Jia Rong.
Aunt Er and Aunt San, although they took his surname, were not really my Grandpa Yous daughters.
When Gran married my Grandpa You as his second wife, she brought them with her from a previous marriage.
Ive heard Gran say that when she was carrying Aunt Er, her first husband had an agreement with a friend of his called Zhang, who was a manager on one of the Imperial Farms and whose own wife was also pregnant at the time.
They agreed that if the children their wives were carrying turned out to be a boy and a girl, they should be betrothed to each other.
In that way Aunt Er was engaged to the Zhangs boy from the moment she was born.
Later on the 265 Zhangs lost all their money in a lawsuit, and Gran lost her first husband and married my Grandpa You, and for ten or fifteen years now she hasnt heard a word from them.
She often complains about the betrothal and says she wishes she could get it revoked and Father is anxious to betroth Aunt Er to someone else.
Hes only waiting until he has found the right person, and then he means to find out where the Zhangs are, hand them a small sum of money, and persuade them to sign a deed of revocation.
The Zhangs are so poor, they are hardly likely to refuse.
In fact, when theyve seen the kind of people we are, they probably wont dare.
And whatever Father and Gran might have thought about Aunt Er becoming a Number Two in other circumstances, Im sure they would have no objection in your case.
The only difficulty as I see it is Aunt Feng.
Jia Lian was so enraptured by the main part of what Jia Rong had been saying, that it is doubtful whether he heard those last words at all.
For some moments he rode on in silence, a fatuous grin on his face.
Meanwhile Jia Rong was thinking.
Ill tell you what, Uncle, he said presently if youve got the nerve, theres one way of doing this that would be absolutely fool-proof.
It would involve you in spending a bit of money though.
Never mind that, dear boy I said Jia Lian eagerly.
If you have a plan, just tell me what it is.
Dont say anything about this when we arrive, said Jia Rong, but wait until I have had a chance to explain it all to Father and he can arrange it with my Gran.
When its all settled, buy a little house somewhere in the streets at the back of our mansion, furnish it, install one or two married couples to look after it, and then all you have to do is choose the day you can marry Aunt Er then and nobody be any the wiser.
Of course, youd have to impress on the servants that they are not to let on about it but provided they dont talk, theres no reason why Aunt Feng tucked away in the inner courtyards should ever hear about it.
And by the time youve been living together for a year or two, you ought to be able to ride the storm out even if your secret is blown.
Youd have to face an explosion from Sir She, of course but you can tell him that you did it for the family, because Aunt Feng is unable to have a 266 son.
And as for Aunt Feng herself, when she sees that the rice is cooked and knows that it cant be uncooked, shell have to put up with it.
That only leaves the old lady to square, and you should be able to do that easily enough with a bit of coaxing.
There is an old saying, Desire maketh the wise man a fool.
Jia Lian was so intoxicated by his desire for Er-jie that Jia Rongs idiotic plan struck him as unassailable.
The fact that he was in mourning, the fact that a secret marriage of the kind he was contemplating was bigamous and illegal, the fact that he had an extremely strict father and an exceptionally jealous wife - all those things which ought to have given him pause were lightly brushed aside.
Nor did it occur to him that Jia Rongs counsel was by no means disinterested.
Jia Rong had designs upon Er-jie himself, to which the presence of his father, when they were all together in the same house was an impediment.
If Jia Lian married Er-jie, she would have to live outside, and there would be unlimited opportunities for larks with her whenever Jia Lian was away.
Blind to all this, Jia Lian thanked Jia Rong profusely and promised him a suitable reward.
-5947 If you can really arrange this for me, dear boy, Ill buy you a pair of the prettiest little girls who are to be had and make you a present of them!
They were by now approaching the gates of Ning-guo House.
You go in here and ask my Gran for the money to give to Yu Lu, Uncle.
Im going on to the other House to pay my respects to the old lady.
Jia Lian smiled and nodded.
When you see her, dont let on that I came here with you, will you?
All right, said Jia Rong then, leaning over, he added in a low voice in his uncles ear If you should happen to see Aunt Er today, dont let impatience get the better of you!
A scandal now will make it harder to arrange things later.
Cheeky devil!
said Jia Lian laughing.
Go on, be on your way now!
Ill be waiting for you here.
While Jia Rong went on to the Rong mansion alone, Jia 267 Lian turned into the gateway of Ning-guo House.
The menservants temporarily in charge there were waiting inside the gate to welcome him, with the other servants all lined up behind them.
They clustered round him as he made his way up to the hall.
There, for forms sake, he asked them a few perfunctory questions before dismissing them and continuing on his way to the inner apartments.
As cousins and intimates having no secrets from one another, Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian had always felt free to come and go in each others apartments without formality, and so, when Jia Lian approached the main sitting-room of Cousin Zhens apartment, the old women at the door simply raised the portiere for him and let him go in unannounced.
Looking round him as he entered, Jia Lian saw only Er-jie and a couple of maids sewing together on the kang at the southern end of the room.
The mother and the other sister were not in evidence.
He went up and greeted her.
In response to her smiling invitation to join her, he climbed up and sat with his back resting against the openwork partition along the eastern side of the kang, insisting that Er-jie should take the place of honour.
After a few generalities, he asked her where Mrs You and San-jie were.
Just gone Out the back to see about something, said Er-jie.
Theyll be here again in a moment.
The maids now went outside to fetch tea, leaving the two of them alone together.
Jia Lian ogled Er-jie meaningfully, but she merely smiled, keeping her eyes demurely downwards, and pretended not to notice.
At this stage, he judged a physical advance would be premature.
He noticed that as she sat there her hands were continuously playing with a length of silk handkerchief to which a tiny embroidered bag was attached.
To fill in the embarrassed silence that was developing, he pretended to be feeling for something at his waist.
Oh, Ive come Out without my betel!
Give me some betel, my dear, if youve got any.
I have got some, said Er-jie, but its not for other people.
Jia Lian laughed and made a movement towards her, as if he intended to snatch the handkerchief and its little pouch from her by force, whereupon Er-jie, rather than risk someone 268 -320 coming in and finding them in the midst of an unseemly tussle, threw it across to him with a little laugh.
Jia Lian caught it in mid-air, emptied the contents into the palm of his hand, selected one single half-eaten nut which he popped into his mouth and began chewing, and stuffed all the rest back into the bag.
He was just going to hand it back to her when the two maids came in again with the tea.
Jia Lian took a cup from one of them and began sipping it.
While the maids were not looking, he contrived to unfasten a Han jade girdle pendant in the form of nine tiny interlocking dragons that he wore attached to his belt, tie it onto the handkerchief and toss it back for Er-jie to catch.
But Er-jie pretended not to have noticed.
She allowed the handkerchief with the two small objects attached to it to fail beside her on the kang and went on calmly sipping her tea.
Just then there was a rattle of the portiere and old Mrs You and San-jie came into the room from the back, attended by two little maids.
Jia Lian signalled with his eyes to Er-jie that she should pick the handkerchief up, but Er-jie continued to ignore him.
In somewhat of a panic by now and wondering what Er-jie could be at, he rose to his feet arid advanced to meet San-jie and the old lady.
When, after exchanging courtesies with them, he glanced back behind him, Er-jie was standing unconcernedly in the same place, with the same inscrutable smile on her face but the handkerchief had vanished.
He breathed a sigh of relief.
-5947 When they were all seated and a few pleasantries had been exchanged between them, Jia Lian remembered the business on which he was supposed to have come.
Zhens wife says that she sent a packet of silver to you the other day to look after for her.
Its wanted now to pay some bills with, so Zhen has sent me to ask you for it and also to find out if everything at home is all right.
Mrs You at once told Er-jie to take the key of the chest and fetch the money for her.
Im also glad of the opportunity my errand gives me of offering you my respects, maam, and of seeing the young ladies again, Jia Lian continued after Er-jie had gone.
I must say, you are looking extremely well.
But I am sorry the young 269 ladies should have to put up with the inconvenience of moving into a strange house.
Tut, for ones own kin!
said Mrs You, smiling.
You are too polite, Mr Lian!
Its of no consequence where we stay one bed is as good as another.
To tell you the truth, things have been very difficult for us since Mr You passed away.
If it hadnt been for the help given us by my daughters husband, I really dont know how we should have managed.
To look after the house for him in his time of trouble is the very least we can do in return.
It can certainly not be spoken of as an inconvenience.
-5947 Er-jie had now returned with the silver and handed it to her mother her mother handed it to Jia Lian and Jia Lian ordered one of the maids to call in one of the old women from outside, whom he then instructed to take it to Yu Lu and tell him to wait for him in the front.
While the old woman was going off with the money, Jia Rongs voice could be heard outside in the courtyard and a few moments later he appeared.
He greeted his grandmother and two aunts before turning with a smile to Jia Lian Sir She has been asking about you, Uncle.
He says theres something he wants you to do for him.
He was going to send someone to fetch you from the temple, but I told him you were already on your way into the city.
He told me that if I ran into you on my way back, I was to tell you to hurry.
Jia Lian hastily rose to go, but delayed to hear something that Jia Rong was saying to Mrs You.
You know the other day I was telling you that Father has found a husband for Aunt Er, Gran.
In looks and build he has quite a strong resemblance to Uncle Lian.
Does that please you?
Since he was pointing a finger at Jia Lian and simultaneously making a face at Er-jie while he said this, the question appeared to be meant as much for Er-jie as for her mother.
If so, Er-jie was too embarrassed to answer.
Not so her sister, however.
Little monster!
San-jie shouted, half angrily and half in jest.
Keep your dirty little mouth shut - unless you want me to come over and shut it for you!
Jia Rong retreated, laughing, from the room and Jia 270 -320 Lian, taking a laughing farewell of the old lady and her daughters, went out after him, He stopped in the hall again on his way out to admonish the servants not to gamble, not to drink, and so forth.
Then, after a private aside with Jia Rong in which he urged him to return with all speed to the temple and speak about a certain matter to his father, he went with Yu Lu to the other mansion and gave him the balance of the amount owing.
Having dispatched Yu Lu, he went in to see what his father wanted, and after that to Grandmother Jias apartment to pay his respects.
But these are formalities with which we need not concern ourselves.
We return, then, to the Ning-guo mansion, where Jia Rong, concluding, when he saw Yu Lu go off with Jia Lian, that there was nothing more for him to do, went back to the inner apartments for further badinage with his young aunts before setting off once more for the temple.
It was evening when he arrived there and reported back to his father.
Yu Lu got the money all right.
And Lady Jia is now completely recovered.
She is no longer taking medicine.
He availed himself of the opportunity to tell his father about Jia Lian how, on the journey into town, he had expressed a desire to take Er-jie as his Number Two and how he proposed to set her up in a separate establishment, keeping Xi-feng in ignorance of the marriage.
His sole reason for taking a Number Two, Jia Rong explained, is that he wants a son.
And the reason he particularly wants Aunt Er is because he feels it would be better to keep things in the family and have someone he knows, than risk taking some unknown person from outside.
He was very insistent that I should speak to you about this.
He omitted to mention that he was the author of this plan.
Cousin Zhen, after reflecting on it, seemed well disposed.
Actually, its not a bad idea.
I wonder whether your Aunt Er would be willing, though.
Youd better go in again tomorrow and have a word with your Grandmother You.
Tell her to talk to your Aunt Er about it and see if she accepts.
If she does, we can go ahead and fix it up properly.
After a good deal more advice to Jia Rong on how he was to conduct himself, Cousin Zhen went inside to see You-shi and 271 told her about the plan.
You-shi could see at once that it would not work and did her best to dissuade him but Cousin Zbens mind was made up and in the end, since she was accustomed to giving in to him, and since Er-jie was in any case only a step-sister, for whom therefore she felt only limited responsibility, she allowed the menfolk to go ahead and washed her hands of the whole affair.
Jia Rong went into town next morning and told his grandmother what his father had told him to say.
He also added a good deal of his own.
He told her what a capital person Jia Lian was how Xi-feng was ill and not expected to get better how Jia Lian was planning to buy a house outside and install Er-jie in it temporarily, but how in a year or two, as soon as Xi-feng was dead, he would move her inside and make her his Number One.
He went on to tell her about the gifts Cousin Zhen would give for the betrothal and of the wedding presents that Jia Lian was planning for his bride how Jia Lian was prepared to look after Mrs You in her old age and how in due course he would see San-jie provided with a husband.
The Liang dynasty preacher on whom the heavens rained down flowers could not have spoken with greater eloquence.
Mrs You could hardly fail to agree, particularly in view of the fact that she depended on Cousin Zhen for her livelihood and that it was he who was sponsoring the marriage.
And Jia Lian was such a fine young gentleman - infinitely superior to that Zhang boy.
She would go to Er-jie at once and talk it over with her.
You Er-jie was a highly impressionable young woman.
Already, in the past, she had compromised herself with her sisters husband.
And she had always resented the arbitrary betrothal to Zhang Hua as the Zhangs boy was called which seemed to condemn her to a lifetime of poverty.
If Jia Lian loved her and her brother-in-law was prepared to give her away, what possible objection could she have to the marriage?
Her consent was given with a nod, conveyed at once to Jia Rong by her mother, and in due course reported to Cousin Zhen.
Next day Cousin Zhen invited Jia Lian to the temple to hear from his own lips that Mrs You had consented.
Jia Lian, de- 272 -800 lighted that the matter had been settled with so little trouble, at once began discussing what to do.
Agents had to be engaged to look round for a suitable house, jewellery for Er-jies trousseau had to be ordered, and furnishings had to be purchased for the house.
Within a few days all this had been done.
A twenty-frame house in Little Flower Lane about two thirds of a mile north of Two Dukes Street had been bought, furnished throughout, and two little maids purchased to go with it.
-534 Jia Lian was at first uncertain what to do about older servants.
If he used servants from his own household, their transfer was sure to be detected on the other hand a married couple purchased from outside would be strangers, and therefore of uncertain loyalty and impossible to trust.
Suddenly he remembered Bao Er, whose unfortunate wife had hanged herself after being attacked by Xi-feng in a fit of jealous rage.
At the time Jia Lian had given him some money and promised him a new wife.
The wife he had eventually chosen for him was none other than the Mattress, widowed since the drunken cook Droopy Duo had finally drunk himself to death.
Bao Er had had prior experience of her charms and knew that he was getting a good bargain and the Mattress for her part was glad to be married to someone who thanks to Jia Lians subvention could afford to be free with his money.
This couple, united in their loyalty to Jia Lian and dislike of Xi-feng, seemed an ideal choice for the new establishment and were to their immense satisfaction installed in it, along with the newly-purchased maids, to be at Er-jies disposal when she arrived.
There remained only the matter of Zhang Hua to be dealt with.
It was Zhang Huas grandfather who had originally held the managerial post on one of the Imperial Farms.
His father simply inherited the post when the old man died.
While holding it, he had made the arrangement with Mrs Yous first husband, who was his good friend, as a result of which Zhang Hua and Er-jie were engaged to each other from their earliest infancy.
Some time after that he lost all his possessions in a lawsuit and the family were reduced to penury so dire that even food and clothing were a problem, and taking on a new daughter-in4aw was, for the time being, wholly out of the 273 question.
Then Er-jies mother had remarried, and for fourteen years or more they had been completely out of touch.
Their whereabouts were eventually traced, however, and Zhang Huas father summoned to Ning-guo House and induced to sign a deed of revocation releasing Er-jie from her betrothal.
He did not want to sign it, but was too intimidated by Cousin Zhens air of affluence and authority to object.
After he had signed, Mrs You handed him twenty taels, and that was that.
Everything had now been taken care of.
All that remained was for Jia Lian to name the day.
The calendar was consulted and the third of the sixth month, which was just beginning, was found to be the earliest auspicious day.
On that day, it was decided, Er-jie should be received as a bride in her new home.
But for that event you must await the following chapter.
CHAPTER 65 Jia Lians second marriage is celebrated in secret And the future marriage of San-jie becomes a matter of speculation By the second day of the month, the arrangements jointly agreed on by Jia Lian, Cousin Zhen and Jia Rong had been completed and Mrs You and San-jie moved into the new house.
A brief inspection of it satisfied Mrs You that, if not quite what Jia Rong had led her to expect, it was at least excellently furnished, and it could be said that both she and San-jie were reasonably happy about the move.
Bao Er and his wife could not do enough for them.
It was yes, milady, no, milady whenever they were talking to Mrs You and San-jie, for the first time in her life, found herself being addressed as Miss You, or sometimes even as madam.
In the last watch of that same night, only an hour or two before the dawning of the third, Er-jie, seated in a plain chair without bridal trimmings, was carried to her new home.
The incense and paper-offerings for the ceremony, the wedding-feast and marriage-bed had all been made ready long before she arrived.
Jia Lian, also in a small, plain carrying-chair, arrived shortly afterwards.
The bride and groom made their prostrations to Heaven and Earth, the paper offerings were set fire to, and Mrs You conducted her heavily-veiled daughter into the marriage-chamber, gratified to observe the transformation wrought by a completely new and expensive-looking outfit of clothes and jewellery.
The phoenix-gambollings of the nuptial couch and the mutual delight and cherishing which they engendered are here passed over.
Suffice it to say that the more Jia Lian saw of Er-jie, the more he loved her, until the desire to make some gesture expressive of his feelings became overwhelming.
All he could think of was to behave in every way as if Er-jie was 275 his only wife and Xi-feng did not exist.
He ordered Bao Er and his wife to call her Mrs Lian and always referred to her himself in that way when he was speaking to them.
When he went back to Xi-feng, as from time to time he was obliged to, he would tell her that he had been doing something at the Ning-guo mansion and Xi-feng, knowing how well her husband got on with Cousin Zhen and how frequently he was consulted by him, suspected nothing.
In spite of their numbers, few of the Rong-guo domestics concerned themselves much with Jia Lians activities, and even the few who had the time and curiosity to nose out what he had been up to were more anxious to win favours by playing up to him than to gamble on the uncertain advantages of giving away his secret.
Everything seemed to be working out very smoothly and Jia Lian felt immensely grateful to Cousin Zhen for having made it all possible.
The allowance Jia Lian made to cover the day-to-day expenses of his little household was fifteen taels a month.
On days when he was unable to come, Mrs You and her two daughters dined together.
On days when he was there, he and Er-jie would dine together and Mrs You and San-jie would eat separately in their own room.
Besides paying Er-jie the allowance, Jia Lian handed over all his private savings to her to look alter for him.
He told her everything about Xi-feng, down to the most intimate bedroom particulars, and promised her that as soon as Xi-feng died, she should move into the mansion and live there openly as his wife.
It cannot be said that Er-jie found any of this displeasing.
In the mean-time the little household was managing very comfortably.
Two months passed quickly by.
One evening, as Cousin Zhen was returning from a day of Buddhist ceremonies at the Temple of the Iron Threshold, he bethought him that it was some considerable time since he had enjoyed the company of the two You sisters and decided to pay them a visit.
First, though, he sent a boy to the new house to find out if Jia Lian was there.
Delighted when the boy brought back word that he was not, he ordered most of the servants to return to Ning- 276 guo House without him, keeping only his two most trusted pages to accompany him on foot to the Yous house.
They did this walking one on either side of his horses head and holding on to his bridle.
It was already lighting-up time when they got there, but the courtyard gate was still open.
Their arrival was so quiet and discreet that they managed to get inside it unobserved.
The pages tied the horse up in the stable and took themselves off to the servants quarters to await further orders, while Cousin Zhen entered the living-room alone.
He found San-jie and her mother sitting there.
The lamp had just been lit.
Shortly after he had finished exchanging greetings with them, Er-jie herself appeared and made him welcome.
Tea was served.
Cousin Zhen smiled over his cup at her as he sipped his tea.
Well, do you think Id make a good marriage-broker?
If the husband I picked for you is no good, I doubt I could find you a better!
Your sister will be coming to see you shortly, by the bye, and bringing you a present.
Er-jie had already given orders for food and wine to be brought and for the courtyard gate to be barred.
Since their visitor was a member of the family, it seemed reasonable, that the usual restraints should be relaxed.
Presently Bao Er came in with some things and took the opportunity of offering his respects to Cousin Zhen.
Youre a good fellow, Bao, said Cousin Zhen affably.
Im sure thats why Mr Lian chose you for this job.
No doubt there will be even more important work for you in the future.
So dont go drinking outside and getting yourself into trouble, will you?
If you do as I tell you, I promise to make it worth your while.
And let me know if theres anything you want here.
Mr Lian is a busy man, and not all the people in his household are to be trusted.
Its better to ask me.
He and I are not only cousins, you know we are- also very good friends.
Yes, sir.
I shall do my best to give satisfaction, sir, said Bao Er.
I realize it would be more than my life is worth to get into any trouble.
Cousin Zhen smiled and nodded.
277 Good.
As long as you know.
For some minutes the four of them sat drinking together but Er-jie knew that it was not for a family evening that Cousin Zhen had come and soon found an excuse for getting herself and her mother out of the way.
She told him that she had to go to the other side of the house for something and was afraid to do so on her own.
As soon as she and Mrs You were out of the room, Cousin Zhen drew up closer to San-jie.
His behaviour became so familiar that the two maids in attendance grew embarrassed and slipped off to the kitchen.
They were content that Cousin Zhen and San-jie should enjoy themselves in any way they chose, provided that they did not have to stay and watch.
Cousin Zhens two pages were all this time drinking with Bao Er in the kitchen, while the Mattress stood at the stove with her back to them.
When the two maids burst in and began laughing and joking with the boys and asking to be given some wine, Bao Er was far from pleased.
What are you girls doing here?
You ought to be in the sitting-room.
Suppose they want service in there?
Therell be trouble.
His wife turned round wrathfully from the stove.
Silly old fool!
Why dont you get your nose back into your winecup?
The sooner youre flat on your back snoring and your little winkle tucked up out of harms way, the better itll be for all of us!
Whats it to do with you whether they want service in there or not?
Im here to see to all that.
If theres any rain falling it--wont fall on your head.
So what are you worrying about?
Bao Er was well aware that it was largely to his wife that he owed his favourable position with Jia Lian.
He did little himself these days but draw his pay and drink his wine but so exemplary was the Mattresss service of Er-jie, that although Jia Lian knew of Bao Ers failings, he had so far refrained from taking him to task about them out of consideration for her.
Bao Ers awareness of this kept him in obedient subjection to her.
And so, when he heard himself addressed by her in this way, he merely drank a few more cups in silence and then took himself quietly off to bed.
278 The Mattress had a few drinks herself now with the pages and the two girls, anxious to make herself as agreeable as possible so that the pages would give a good report of her to Cousin Zhen.
But just as this little party in the kitchen was beginning to warm up, it was interrupted by a sudden knocking at the gate.
The Mattress hurried out and opened it as Jia Lian was dismounting from his horse.
In answer to his question whether there was anything to report, she whispered into his ear that Mr Zhen had come and was at this very moment in the guest-room in the west courtyard.
Jia Lian went straight to his own room, where he found Er-jie sitting with her mother.
The two women seemed somewhat flustered by his arrival, but he pretended not to notice.
Bring us some wine, he told the Mattress.
I think I shall have a cup or two and then go to bed.
I feel rather tired tonight.
At once Er-jie was all over him, taking his coat, fetching him tea, asking him about his day - in short, showering on him all those little wifely attentions which so enchanted him.
Presently the Mattress reappeared with their wine.
Old Mrs You said that she did not want any and went off to bed.
The two of them sat down together to drink it.
One of the two maids, who had now been persuaded to resume their duties, came over from the kitchen to wait on them.
Meanwhile Jia Lians trusty servant Rich - the only attendant he had brought with him on this visit - had been tying his masters horse up in the stable.
Finding another horse there already, he was able on closer inspection to identify it and to deduce what the Mattress by her whispering had attempted to conceal from him viz., that Cousin zhen was somewhere on the premises.
Sure enough, on going to the kitchen when he had finished tying up the horse, he found two of Cousin Zhens pages, Happy and Lively, sitting there drinking.
They, too, when they saw him enter, realized that both their masters must be present but neither party was going to admit what each knew the other one must know.
We couldnt keep up with the master, said Happy and Lively, and it was getting too dark to go home, so we came here to beg a nights shelter.
279 Theres plenty of room here for you to sleep, said Rich expansively.
Make yourselves at home.
Actually I came here to bring the mistress her monthly allowance.
Now that Ive given it to her, I think I shall spend the night here as well.
Come and have a drink then, said Happy.
Weve had a lot to drink already.
Rich sat down and poured himself some wine but before he could drink any, there was a sound of neighing and trampling from the stable and he and Lively had to run out and shout at the horses.
The two animals sharing the same manger had taken a dislike to each other and started kicking.
It was only after a great deal of shouting and whoaing that the pages succeeded in quieting them and tying them up on separate sides of the stable.
While they were doing this, Happy was able to drink several more cups of wine, and by the time they got back into the kitchen, he was already glassy-eyed.
The Mattress was evidently waiting for an opportunity to retire.
Well, boys, she said to them as they entered, Ill leave you to it then.
Ive made you a pot of tea, so you can help yourselves.
Im going off to bed.
The boys were reluctant to let her go, and there was a good deal of kissing and fondling and noisy ribaldry before she finally succeeded in extricating herself.
She closed the door behind her as she went, and Rich and Lively proceeded to bar it on the inside, preparatory to going to bed.
When they went back to look at the kang, however, they found Happy sprawled out in the middle of it, already fast asleep.
Come on, theres a good chap, get up and lie down again properly I they said, shaking him.
Dont be so selfish!
Where are we supposed to What about a bit of bum-cake?
mumbled Happy, momentarily returning to consciousness.
Turn and turn about.
Fair shares for all.
The others, seeing that he was too drunk to reason with, blew the lamp out and settled themselves on either side of him as best they could.
The commotion in the stable had caused Er-jies apprehensiveness to return, but by forcing herself to keep up a flow 280 of chatter, she succeeded in distracting Jia Lians attention away from it.
So successful was she that, after a few more drinks, he began to grow amorous and, having first sent the girl off with the dirty things, proposed that they should bar the door for the night and begin undressing.
Er-jie was beautiful at any time, but in only a crimson shift, with her fashionable coiffure shaken out into billowing black clouds and her face all soft and glowing with desire, she possessed an extra dimension of beauty that was not revealed in the daytime.
He hugged her to him with a delighted laugh.
Theyre always telling me how perfect that termagant wife of mine is, he said, but the way you look tonight, shes not fit to carry your shoes!
I may have looks, but Ive got no class, said Et-jie.
Without class, one might just as well not be good-looking.
Why do you say that?
said Jia Lian.
I dont understand.
You all treat me as if I were a fool, said Er-jie tearfully.
You think that I know nothing - No!
-384 - but though weve only been married two months I know youre not a fool!
he insisted.
though weve only been together for so short a time, she continued, I already feel that Im yours completely and for ever, in this life or any life to come.
Because you are my husband, I shall always look up to you and never, never deceive you.
My future is assured.
But what is to become of my sister?
We cant let things go on the way they are at present.
We must think of some permanent solution for her.
Jia Lian laughed reassuringly.
Look, Im not a jealous man.
I know about your past and it doesnt bother me.
You really mustnt worry.
I realize that now we are married you must feel awkward about Cousin Zhen being here, but surely the solution would be for Cousin Zhen and your sister to have a formal union and after that we can forget our inhibitions and make it a foursome.
What do you say to that?
Er-jie wiped her eyes.
Its very nice of you to suggest it, but I dont know what the other two would think of your idea.
For one thing, my 281 -1536 sister is such a funny girl.
And for another, I dont know whether your cousin would like having everything dragged Out into the open.
Itll be all right, said Jia Lian, you see!
Ill go over and have it out with him now.
Theres no time like the present.
Its only a question of breaking the ice.
He strode off, the bolder for being a little drunk, to the courtyard on the western side of the compound.
Light was streaming through the sitting-room window.
He pushed the door open and walked in.
Wheres the big chief, then?
he cried.
Cousin, Ive come to pay you my respects!
Speechless with embarrassment, Cousin Zhen rose to his feet and motioned him dumbly to a seat.
Whats this ?
said Jia Lian, noting his embarrassment.
After weve always been such good friends, and after all youve done for me - because if I cut myself into a million pieces, I still couldnt begin to show you how grateful I am -youre not, surely, going to start feeling uneasy on my account?
My dear coz, from this day on I Want you to carry on exactly as you used to in the past.
Otherwise I shall give up any idea of getting myself an heir and stop coming here altogether!
He tried to kneel down at this point, but Cousin Zhen, who was becoming quite frantic with embarrassment, quickly reached out to stop him.
All right, Lian, he said, all right.
Whatever you say, coz.
Ill be guided by you.
Come on, lets have some more wine!
Jia Lian said to the servant-girl.
Im going to drink with my dear cousin.
He turned to San-jie with a leer.
Why dont you and my dear cousin share a cup?
You and Zhen drink a cup together and Ill drink a cup to your future happiness.
To Zhen and San-jie!
San-jie leaped to her feet and, pointing her finger at Jia Lian from where she stood on the kang, fixed him with a withering look of contempt.
Dont try the talking horse on me, my friend!
If you two want to drink, Ill watch you drink.
But count me out of it.
282 -1536 People who work shadow-puppets should be careful not to break the screen.
You surely cant be so stupid as to imagine that we havent seen by now how things really stand in your household?
If you and your cousin thought that by spending a few taels of your stinking money you could buy my sister and me for your whores, you were very much mistaken.
You see, I know all about your old woman and how scared you are of her.
I know that its because of her that when you married my sister you had to smuggle her out here like a man whos stolen a gong and doesnt dare to play on it.
Well, I should like to meet this Feng lady and find out just how many heads and arms shes got.
If we can reach a satisfactory agreement, well and good but if theres the slightest difficulty, Im perfectly prepared to take her on and fight it out with her single-handed.
But before I do that, I promise to have the liver and lights out of you two, or my names not San-jie!
- You said you wanted a drink, didnt you?
All right, Ill drink with you.
She picked up the wine-kettle and pouted out a cupful of wine then, having drunk half of it herself, she threw an arm round Jia Lians neck and pressed the winecup to his lips.
Jia Lian was shocked by this onslaught into instant soberness and Cousin Zhen, ill-prepared for such strident shrewishness by what had passed earlier in the evening, was almost equally taken aback.
The two of them, for all their boasted experience, found themselves reduced to a condition of tongue-tied helplessness by this single unmarried girl.
But San-jie had not finished with them yet.
Why dont you ask my sister to join us?
she asked.
If were going to have fun, lets all have fun together.
Home is handiest as the proverb says.
There are no outsiders here.
Were all in the family.
Come one, come all!
Cousin Zhen was by now looking for an opportunity to leave, but San-jie was careful to give him none.
He had not suspected that she could be like this and deeply regretted having come but he could not simply walk out without giving offence to Jia Lian.
Out of deliberate disregard for appearances she had taken off her hair-ornaments and outer clothes, and from time to 283 -1536 time as she spoke, the animated gestures with which her words were accompanied caused the imperfectly-fastened crimson shift she was wearing to gape open, revealing glimpses of leek- green breast-binder and snow-white flesh beneath the red shoes that peeped out below her green drawers were all the time tap-tapping or coming together in a manner that was anything but ladylike, and her earrings bobbed to and fro like little swings.
To her brows dusky crown and lips incarnadine -1536 the lamplight lent an added softness and brightness and the wine she had drunk gave her eyes, which were at all times sparkling and vivacious, an even more irresistible allure.
The two men were spellbound, and yet at the same time repelled.
Her looks and gestures were all that inflamed concupiscence could desire but her words and the very frankness of a provocation too brazen to be seductive kept them at bay.
And a poor pair they made of it in a situation where something other than carnal satisfaction was required of them Not only was there none of that lively repartee that might have been expected of men who prided themselves on their gallantry they could not produce so much as a single amusing remark between them and sat there, as the effortless flow of talk continued to pour out of her, fascinated but unresponding.
Sometimes she abused them, called them names, said the most outrageous things to them.
It was as though the roles had been reversed - as though she was the man and they were a pair of poor, simpering playthings whose services she had paid for.
And when she had had enough of playing with them, she dismissed them ignominiously, bolted the door alter them, and went to bed.
From that time onwards, whenever one of the servants did some small thing to displease her, she would launch into loud abuse of Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian and Jia Rong, denouncing all three of them as swindlers, deceivers and oppressors of the widow and the orphan.
Cousin Zhen, when he finally got back after that visit, was chary of exposing himself again.
Sometimes when San-jie felt in the mood, she would send one of the boys round to 284 -1536 summon him and he would visit her then gladly enough, for he still had some small hope of winning her but he was careful to behave himself when he did, and to defer in everything to her wishes.
San-jie was a very peculiar young woman.
She took a perverse pleasure in enhancing her natural beauty by affecting a striking style of dress and by adopting every conceivable kind of outrageously seductive attitude.
The effect was that every male who encountered her was smitten - not only the susceptible ones like Jia Lian and Cousin Zhen, but those made of sterner stuff as well yet all of them, after only a few minutes in her company, felt their ardour extinguished and their advances repelled by the reckless, forthright, almost insolent way in which she received them.
When her mother and sister took her to task for her cavalier treatment of the two cousins, she told Er-jie she was stupid.
Why should that pair of precious rascals be allowed to ruin girls like us that are worth a million of them and get away with it?
she said.
They shant do so if I can help it.
Besides, that wife of Lians is a very dangerous woman.
Were all right for the time being because she hasnt found out yet about your marriage but she will do one of these days, and when that time comes shes not going to sit still and do nothing.
Theres sure to be a most terrible row, and who knows which of us will come out of it alive?
Its only fair that they should be made to jump a bit now.
If were going to end up with a bad name anyway, lets at least get what we can out of them while weve got the chance!
Her mother and sister, seeing that it was useless to argue with her, left her alone.
San-jie certainly put her precept into practice.
Her demands for special kinds of food, for clothing, for jewellery became daily more extravagant and capricious.
Given a silver ornament she would express a desire for a gold one.
If she had something with pearls in it, she would like something with gems in it as well.
While she was eating the fatted goose, her mind was already contemplating the slaughter of the duck.
And woe betide the cook if anything was not quite to her taste!
Over would go dishes, table and all!
Or, if a newly- 285 made garment displeased her, no matter how expensive the material, she would quickly reduce it to ribbons, using a pair of scissors to aid the process and uttering a fresh malediction at every tear.
Cousin Zhen, who, having some time previously exhausted the possibilities with Er-jie and grown somewhat tired of her, had willingly yielded her up to Jia Lian and transferred his attentions to her sister, now found that San-jie, far from proving the complaisant mistress he had hoped for, was actually costing him a great deal of money - money, moreover, on which there seemed little prospect of a return.
Nowadays when Jia Lian came he spent the whole of his time there with Er-jie and scarcely dared venture from her room.
Because of San-jie he too was beginning to regret the situation into which he had got himself.
On the other hand Er-jie was so loving and so devoted to him he found her so sympathetic.
In her gentleness, in the wifely submissiveness with which she insisted on discussing everything with him before she would make any decision, she was ten times better than Xi-feng.
And in respect of looks, voice and deportment she was at least five times better.
True, she was a fallen woman and though she had repented, neither her reform nor any other excellence could bring back her virtue.
But that was what she said.
Was it not Jia Lian himself who repudiated it?
Everybody makes mistakes, he would say.
As long as you know that you were wrong and dont do it again, thats all that matters.
He refused to talk about the unchasteness of her past her present goodness was enough for him.
And so, his doubts forgotten, he would cleave to her more passionately than ever.
They were of one heart, one mind.
He swore they should live and die together.
Xi-feng and Patience were banished totally from his thoughts.
Inevitably these pillow-sessions would end with Er-jie urging Jia Lian to do something about her sister.
Why dont you talk it over with Zhen and think of someone you both know of who can marry her?
she said on the last of these occasions.
She cant stay here like this indefinitely.
Sooner or later there will be trouble.
286 I did talk to Zhen about it the other day, said Jia Lian, but he couldnt give up the idea of keeping her for himself.
I said to him, That piece of meat is too hot for chaps like us, Zhen.
The rose is a very pretty flower, but you can get some nasty jabs from its spines.
Youll never hold a girl like that down.
Much better find a husband for her and get her off your hands.
But he wouldnt say yes and he wouldnt say no he just hummed and hawed for a bit and left it at that.
So what can I do?
Dont worry, said Er-jie.
Well speak to San-jie herself about it tomorrow.
If we can persuade her to agree in principle to a betrothal, it can be left to her to have it out with Cousin Zhen herself.
Once she has convinced him that he has nothing to hope for, he will have to do something about finding her a husband.
Next day Er-jie spent the morning preparing a little party for the four of them, and Jia Lian, instead of going off as he usually did, deliberately stayed indoors.
At about noon Er-jie invited her sister over and, when she arrived, seated her next to their mother in the place of honour.
San-jie knew perfectly well what the subject of this meeting was to be and, as the wine was going round for the third time, before her sister had had a chance to broach it, she burst into tears and proceeded to do so herself.
Im sure the only reason you have invited me here today, sister, is to give me a lecture, but Im not stupid and I dont need to be nagged at as if I were a child.
We all know what happened in the past, and there is no point in dragging it up now.
The important thing is that as you are comfortably settled and Mammas future is now assured, its time to start thinking about how I am to be disposed of.
However, this matrimony business is no childrens game its a girls whole lifetime to the day she dies that is decided by it.
In the past, because we were so vulnerable and one could never be sure what designs men might have on one, I deliberately acted in a shameless manner in order to keep them at bay.
Now I am willing to put all that behind me and turn myself into a good and obedient wife.
On one condition, though the man I marry has got to he somebody I know about and somebody 287 -1094 who is to my liking.
If I leave the choice to you, I am sure you will do your best to find someone rich and well-placed and good-looking, but if it is someone I cannot give my heart to, I shall feel that the whole of my life has been wasted.
-1014 Jia Lian smiled reassuringly.
Thats easy.
We leave the choice entirely to you.
Just name the man and we will take care of the expenses.
Your mother will have nothing to worry about.
I dont need to name him, said San-jie.
Er-jie has known about him all along.
Who is it?
Jia Lian asked, turning to Er-jie but Er-jie could not for the moment think who her sister had in mind.
I know who it is!
Jia Lian clapped his hands delightedly, suddenly convinced that he had thought of the right answer.
And a very good choice tool he added.
Who?
said Er-jie.
No one else could ever be good enough for her.
It has to be Bao-yu.
Er-jie and Mrs You felt sure that he was right, but San-jie herself repudiated the suggestion indignantly.
I suppose you think that if we were ten sisters instead of only three, every one of us would have to marry a Jia.
There are other males in the world besides the ones in your family, you know.
The other three were nonplussed.
If it was not Bao-yu that she had in mind, then who could it be?
Dont just look under your noses, said San-jie.
Try casting your mind back five years, sister.
But at that point Joker arrived, one of Jia Lians most trusted pages and sharer of his secrets.
Sir She has been asking for you, sir, said Joker.
I told him that youd gone off to Sir Wangs and then hurried here as quickly as I could to let you know.
Were they asking about me at home yesterday?
Jia Lian sounded a trifle concerned.
I told the mistress that you were at the family temple discussing arrangements for the Hundred Days with Mr Zhen and thought you might not be able to get back.
288 Jia Lian called for his horse to be led out and set off immediately, with Rich in attendance.
Joker was left behind at the disposal of the women.
Er-jie had two plates of food and a large cup of wine set down on the edge of the kang beside him and invited him to eat and drink standing, while she asked him a few questions.
In fact she asked him a great many.
How old was Xi-feng?
In what way was she so awful?
How old was Grandmother Jia?
How many girls were there?
And so on.
Joker, smiling broadly, proceeded, between large sips of wine, to give the old lady and her two daughters a detailed expose of the Rong mansion and its inhabitants.
Im one of the boys from the inner gate, he told them.
I belong to one of two groups of four.
We work there by shifts.
One group goes on duty as the other one comes off.
Of us eight, some, like me, are in the masters confidence, some are in the mistresss.
Those of us who are in the masters confidence darent say a word to upset the mistresss boys but she can say or do whatever she likes to us.
You want to know what shes like?
A cruel heart and a sharp tongue, that about sums her up.
The masters no softy, but he can do nothing with her.
Theres a Miss Patience working for her though.
Shes very nice.
Though shes so well in with the mistress, shell often do you a kindness behind her back.
When one of us boys is in trouble, the mistress will be down on us like a ton of bricks, but if we can get Patience to put in a word for us, we know we shall be all right.
Everyone hates the mistress.
The only exceptions are Her Old Ladyship and Her Ladyship.
The others pretend to like her, because theyre afraid.
She knows she hasnt got any rivals and she always takes very good care to keep both Their Ladyships happy, so consequently whatever she says goes, nobody else dares stand up to her.
Shes a great one for saving.
She must have saved a mountain of money by now.
Thats why Their Ladyships are always saying what a good manager she is.
They dont realize how much we servants have to suffer so that she can take the credit.
Whenever anything good happens, you can be sure that shell get in with the news first, before anyone else does, so that she can reap the benefit.
But when things go wrong or shes made a slip herself, shell very quickly step 289 aside and fasten the blame for it on someone else.
Shell even fan the flames up and make it hotter for that other person once shes safely out of it herself.
Even her mother-in-law cant stand her.
The magpie looking for a bigger nest who set up house with the crow she calls her.
She says shes no business meddling with the affairs of our household when she ought to be looking after her own.
She says if it werent for Her Old Ladyship, shed have ordered her back long ago and made her stay where she belongs.
Er-jie laughed.
If you say things like this behind her back, what must you say behind Mine?
In my case there are even more things to criticize!
Joker fell on his knees, protesting.
If I ever said a word against you, madam, I should deserve to be struck by lightning!
It would have been a great blessing for all of us if the master had married you first instead of the mistress.
I know there would have been fewer beatings and cursings for us boys and we shouldnt have had to go around the way we do in fear and trembling all the time.
There isnt a boy among us who isnt every day and everywhere singing your praises and saying what a kind and considerate lady you are.
We are planing to ask the master to let us stay here and serve you all the time.
Get up, get up!
said Er-jie, laughing.
Little impertinence!
I was only joking how easily you are scared!
Im sure I dont know what you should want to come here for.
I am thinking of going to see your mistress.
Joker waved his hand in.
vigorous disapproval.
Dont do that, madam, whatever you do!
It would be much better if you never set eyes on her as long as you live.
Shes soft of tongue and hard of heart, two faces and three knives, shell give you a smile and trip you up the while, shes a welcoming fire when you see her, but a stab in the back when its dark - all those things and more.
I dont think even Miss You here could get the better of her in an argument, so Im sure a quiet, gentle lady like you would be no match for her.
Er-jie smiled.
290 'If I behave correctly towards her, I don't see why she should do me any harm.'
'Listen, madam,' said Joker.
'I'm not saying this to you because I've had too much to drink, but when she sees that you are both prettier and more popular than she is, she's not going to let matters rest They call jealous people "vinegar bottles", don't they?
Well, she's not just a bottle-full of vinegar she's a storage-jar - a whole cistern-full of it!
The master's only got to rest his eyes on one of the maids, and she'll find occasion to have that poor girl beaten until she looks like a boiled sheep's head.
Miss Patience is supposed to be his chamber-wife, but I doubt she lets him sleep with her more than once in a year.
And even then she'll go on and on about it afterwards until she's reduced Patience to tears.
"I didn't want to do it," says Patience, "you made me.
When I said I didn't want to, you told me I was wicked and disobedient, but now that I've done it, you keep picking on me."
After that she makes it up with Patience and begs to be forgiven.'
'That can't be true,' said Er-jie.
'If she's really the harpy you say she is, how could she possibly be frightened of a mere chamber-wife?'
'Because Patience has reason on her side,' said Joker.
'It's like the proverb says "Three men with a carrying-pole can't shift Reason from its place."
Patience has been with the mistress since she was a little girl.
There were four maids that carne with the mistress when she married, but only Patience stayed on with her.
The other three either died or got married.
The mistress gave her to the master to be his chamber-wife partly because she wanted to show everyone what a virtuous wife she was and partly because she thought it would be a way of binding him to her.
Miss Patience is a really good sort.
She's not the sort of person to go looking for trouble, and she's always been good and true to the mistress.
That's why the mistress always makes it up with her.'
'I see,' said Er-jie.
'But haven't I heard that there are a young widow and a number of young ladies in the family?
If your mistress is as awful as you say she is, how comes it that these other ones let her get away with it?'
291 Joker clapped his hands together and laughed.
Because the "young widow" you're talking about - that's our Mrs Zhu - is a Saint.
The nickname we servants give her is "Lady Gwanyin".
She doesn't as a rule have anything to do with household matters.
She spends all her time teaching the young ladies writing and broidering and book4earning.
That's her job.
She has done a bit of household managing since the mistress fell ill, but even now she doesn't interfere very much just follows the rules, very quiet and ladylike - no throwing her weight about or showing off h6w clever she is like the other one.
of the young ladies, the eldest one - well, I suppose she must be a good 'un to have been so favoured.
The second one - that's the master's sister - we call her "Miss Doddyblock".
She'd probably forget to say "oh" if you stuck a pin in her.
The third - Master Bao's younger sister -we call "The Rose -'Why do you call her that?'
the You sisters asked simultaneously.
'Sweet and pretty and everyone loves her, but she has a thorn,' said Joker.
'The great pity about her is that she's not Her Ladyship's child.
A phoenix reared in a crow's nest, that's what she is.
The fourth young lady is really Mr Zhen's sister, but Her Ladyship brought her over to our mansion when she was still a baby and brought her up there with the others.
She's a big girl now, but still pays no attention to what goes on around her, no more than the second one.
Then besides our four there are two other young ladies that you probably won't have heard about - both very, very beautiful.
One is Sir Zheng's sister's child.
Her name is Miss Lin.
Though she's so beautiful, she's very thin and weakly.
The other is Her Ladyship's sister's child.
Her name is Miss Xue.'
'Miss Wood and Miss Snow,' said Er-jie, smiling.
'If we ever meet them on their way through the courtyard or getting into their carriages when they go out,' said Joker, 'we none of us dare to breathe.'
'Of course,' said Er-jie.
'A great household like yours is sure to be very strict about such matters.
Though young boys like you would be allowed into the courtyards, you would 292 -1094 naturally be expected to keep your distance when the young ladies are about.
-1014 No, no, no, said Joker, waving his hand energetically.
Thats not the reason were afraid to breathe.
Were afraid that if we breathed out too hard, we might blow Miss Lin over and cause Miss Xue to melt!
The three You ladles, the Mattress and the two maids all burst Out laughing.
But who was it that San-jie wanted to marry?
This will be revealed if you want to know in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 66 Shame drives a warm-hearted young woman to take her life And shock leads a cold-hearted young gentleman to renounce the world Our last chapter concluded with Jokers female audience laughing at the notion of Miss Woods being blown down and Miss Snow melted by the breathing-out of the pages.
The Mattress dealt him a playful box on the ear.
There may be some truth in what you say but your way of telling things turns even good sense into nonsense, she said.
You are more like one of Bao-yus boys than one of the Masters.
Er-jie was about to ask another question, but San-jie got in first.
Yes now, about Bao-yu what does he do - apart from going to school?
Joker laughed.
Dont ask about him, Miss!
Youd never believe half of it if I told you.
To begin with, although hes such a big fellow now, hes never had what you might call a proper schooling.
Everyone in the family since his great-grandfathers time, including the Master, had to do their ten years in the family school but not him.
Bao-yu doesnt like study so because he is Her Old Ladyships darling, thats that.
Sir Zheng used to try and do something with him, but that was soon put a stop to by Her Old Ladyship.
Nowadays he spends the whole of his time just fooling around.
You cant understand what hes talking about half the time, and you cant make any sense of what he does.
He looks bright enough, and people always assume from his looks that he must be clever but underneath it hes stupid.
You can tell he must be stupid from the fact that he never has a word to say for himself when he meets anyone.
Ill give him this, though although he doesnt go to 294 school, he can Write a bit.
Thats about the only thing hes any good at.
He doesnt study, he doesnt care for physical training, and he doesnt like meeting people.
He just spends all his time playing around with a pack of maids.
Hes soft, too.
Sometimes when he sees us, if hes in the mood, hell play with us as if he were an equal.
Other times he ignores us and we ignore him.
If were sitting down or lying down when he comes by, we dont get up for him we just take no notice.
He doesnt care.
Nobodys afraid of him.
We do just what we like when hes around.
He never stops us.
You talk like this about someone who is easy-going with you, said San-jie, yet you complain just as much about someone who is strict.
One can see that you are difficult people to employ!
I always thought Bao-yu looked so nice, said Er-jie.
How disappointing to learn that there is really nothing in him after all!
You surely dont believe the rubbish this boy has been talking, sister?
said San-jie impatiently.
We have, after all, seen Bao-yu several times ourselves.
I suppose you could call him effeminate.
Whether he is eating or talking or moving about, there is certainly something rather girlish about his manner.
That comes from spending nearly all his time in the womens quarters with no other males around.
But stupid?
I hardly think he can be called that.
Dont you remember when we were still in mourning, that time we were standing watching the monks as they went round the coffin and he stood right in front of us?
Everyone said how ill-mannered it was of him and how inconsiderate.
But then afterwards he quietly came up to us and explained I hope you didnt think it very inconsiderate of me to stand in front of you like that, he said but I noticed how dirty some of those monks were and I was afraid that the smell of them might distress you.
Then shortly after that, when he was drinking some tea and you said youd like some too, he stopped one of the old women from emptying the slops out of his cup and filling it up again for you.
No, no, he said, thats dirty!
You must wash it first before you pour her any.
Just on the strength of those two incidents I think you 6ught in fairness to agree that, 295 when he is with girls at any rate, he is perfectly capable.
People fail to find out what he is really like because they are put off by his manner.
To hear you speak, it sounds as if the two of you would get on very well together, said Er-jie.
I think we ought to betroth you to him.
Why not?
San-jie was prevented from answering by Jokers presence.
She merely looked down and occupied herself by cracking a melon-seed between her teeth.
Theyd make a fine pair, said Joker, whether from the point of view of looks or of character.
The only thing is, hes got someone else already.
Although it hasnt been made official yet, its as good as certain that hes going to marry Miss Lin.
The reason they havent been properly engaged yet is because Miss Lin is so often ill and also because they are still a bit on the young side but two or three years from now, as soon as Her Old Ladyship gives the word, they are sure to be.
They were still discussing this when Rich arrived with a message from Jia Lian.
Sir She is sending the Master to Ping-an in a few days time on important secret business.
Hell probably be away for fifteen or sixteen days.
He cant come back here tonight, but he says, Mrs You, will you and the Mistress get that business you know about settled, so that when lie comes tomorrow, hell know what he has to do?
Ilaving delivered this message, he went back again, taking Joker with him.
Er-jie had the gate dosed after them and retired early for the night, a good part of which she spent in extracting the required information from her sister.
Jia Lian did not arrive until after noon next day.
Er-jie expressed concern that he had come at all.
If you have something important to do, you dont need to put yourself in a rush by coming here.
I should hate to be the cause of your starting late.
It isnt anything really important, said Jia Lian, just a job that needs doing which happens to be rather far away.
I shall have to leave by the beginning of next month and it will be about half a month before I get back.
296 Well, while you are away, just concentrate on the job, said Er-jie.
You dont have to worry about anything here.
We shall be perfectly all right.
San-jie isnt the sort of girl to change her mind overnight and she has definitely chosen her man now.
I think you will have to go along with her choice.
Ah yes, said Jia Lian.
Who is it?
Someone who may not be available at present, in which case its anyones guess when he will be back, she smiled.
I must admit, she has a very good eye.
And she says that she is prepared to wait as long as it will take - ten years if necessary.
If by any chance hes dead or for some reason or other cant ever come, she says she will cut her hair off and become a nun.
She would rather spend the rest of her life in prayer and fasting than marry anyone else.
Well, come on!
said Jia Lian.
Who is this person who has made such a powerful impression on her?
Its a long story, said Er-jie.
Five years ago my mother took us both with her to her old home for my grandmothers birthday.
The family had invited a troupe of amateur actors for the occasion, all young men of good family.
The one who played the junior male lead was called Liu Xiang-lian.
He is the only man my sister is prepared to marry.
Last year he got himself into some sort of trouble and had to go into hiding, and we dont know whether hes out of it yet or not.
So thats who it is!
said Jia Lian.
No wonder she is so keen.
Yes, she certainly has a good eye.
Theres something you probably dont know about him, though.
Young Liu is a very handsome young man, but hes an awfully cold fish.
He has very few real friends.
Bao-yu is probably the person he gets on best with.
He took himself off somewhere or other last year after beating up that oaf Xue Pan -I suppose because he wanted to avoid meeting us.
I havent seen him since then.
Someone did tell me that theyd heard he was back, but it may have been only a rumour.
I can easily find out by asking one of Bao-yus pages.
- But suppose it is only a rumour.
Hes such a rolling stone, it may be years before he comes back again.
Wont it be rather a waste for her to put off marrying for so long?
When our San-jie says shes going to do something, she 297 does it, said Er-jie.
I think you will have to go along with her.
They were interrupted at this point by San-jie herself, who had evidently been listening to their conversation and chose this moment to come into the room.
Set your mind at rest, brother-in-law.
I am not one of those people who say one thing and mean another I really do mean what I say.
If Liu turns up, I shall marry him.
From now on and until he does I shall spend all my time praying, fasting and looking after Mamma.
If he has still not turned up when Mamma is no longer here to look after, I shall go into a convent.
She drew a jade hairpin from her hair and deliberately broke it in two.
So be it with me if I do not do exactly as I have sworn!
She went straight back to her room then and from that day onwards her conduct was indeed exemplary.
Jia Lian could see that he had no choice but to fall in with her wishes, and after a brief discussion of domestic matters with Er-jie, went home for further discussions with Xi-feng about the preparations for his journey.
While at home he sent someone to ask Tealeaf about Liu Xiang-lian.
Im afraid I dont know, said Tealeaf.
I should think he probably hasnt come back yet.
If he had, I should almost certainly have got to hear about it.
Inquiries made among Xiang-lians neighbours confirmed that he had not returned.
Jia Lian was obliged to report back to Er-jie that he had drawn a blank.
A little before he was due to begin his journey, Jia Lian took leave of Xi-feng and the family, but only in order to spend his last two nights with Er-jie.
He found San-jie so altered on this visit as to seem almost a different person Er-jie, too, showed herself so careful and competent in her management of the little household that he could see there would be no need to worry about either of them while he was away.
Jia Lian left the city early on the day of his departure and thereafter followed the main road to Ping-an, putting up at some staging-post or hostelry each night and making shorter stops for meals and refreshments during the day.
After two 298 days of uneventful travelling he came, on the third day, upon a little caravan moving towards him along the road ahead consisting of a number of pack-animals and some ten or so horsemen, of whom the leading two appeared to be masters and the rest servants.
As they drew near enough for him to make out their faces, Jia Lian saw with astonishment that the two leading horsemen were Xue Pan and Liu Xiang-lian and urged his horse forwards to meet them.
After greetings and the customary generalities had been exchanged, the three of them went into a near-by inn to sit down together and talk.
Jia Lian asked the question that had been puzzling him.
After your little incident last year, the rest of us were anxious to make it up between you, but young Liu seemed to have disappeared without a trace.
How do you come to be together now?
Its a very strange story, said Xue Pan.
My boys and I finished selling our stuff off in the spring and weve been on our homeward journey ever since.
Everything was going quite smoothly until a couple of days ago.
Then just as we were approaching Ping-an, we ran into a gang of robbers who took away all our things.
But just at that very moment up pops young Xiang-lian out of nowhere, drives off the robbers, gets all our stuff back for us, and saves our lives.
He refused to let me thank him, but in the end he agreed that we should become blood-brothers.
Weve been travelling together ever since.
From now on were going to be just like real brothers to each other.
Hes leaving me at the next crossroads and going off sixty or seventy miles south of here to look up an aunt of his, while I go on ahead to the capital.
When Ive settled my own affairs, Im going to find a new house for him and fix him up with a nice little wife, and were both going to settle down and be family men.
I see, said Jia Lian.
Well, Im glad to hear it.
Its a pity we had all that worry for nothing.
He paused a moment before continuing.
You said something a moment ago about finding young Liu a wife.
I happen to know of someone who would suit him perfectly.
He proceeded to tell the other two about his own marriage 299 -640 to Er-jie and how they were anxious to find a husband for her younger sister, omitting to mention, of course, that San-jie had chosen Liu Xiang-lian herself.
-5947 Dont say anything about this to the others when you get home, he told Xue Pan.
Im waiting until we have a son.
I shall tell them about it then.
Xue Pan seemed delighted.
High time, too I he said.
Cousin Feng is to blame for not giving you one.
There you go again!, said Xiang-lian, laughing.
You mustnt say things like that to people.
Better keep your big mouth shut!
-5947 Xue Pan obediently fell silent, merely observing, before he did so We ought to take Lian up on his suggestion, though.
-5947 Id always set my heart on marrying a stunningly beautiful girl, said Xiang-lian.
However, since you both recommend this one, Im prepared to lower my expectations a bit.
Yes, all right, Mr Jia.
I leave it to you to arrange this, then.
I put myself in your hands.
I dont ask you to believe this now, said Jia Lian, smiling.
Youll be able to judge for yourself when you see her but this sister-in-law of mine is a stunningly beautiful girl.
I should go so far as to say she must be one of the most beautiful women who have ever lived.
Xiang-lian brightened.
All right, then.
Shall we fix it up when I get back to the capital in about a months time, when I have finished seeing my aunt?
If you and I were the only ones involved, I would gladly leave it at that, said Jia Lian, but knowing how unpredictable your movements are, I cant help feeling a little nervous on the girls behalf.
Suppose you failed to turn up?
It could mean a whole lifetime wasted.
I think you ought to give me some sort of pledge.
A gentlemans word ought to be pledge enough, said Xiang-lian.
In any case, Im always hard up Im not in a position to give you a betrothal gift - particularly when I am on the road like this, away from home.
300 Theres all my stuff at your disposal, said Xue Pan.
Help yourself.
Give him a share of that.
It isnt money or jewellery Im after, said Jia Lian.
It doesnt have to be anything valuable.
Just give me something you carry about with you that I can take back with me as a token.
At all events, I cant give you this sword, said Xiang-lian.
I need it for self-defence.
I have got another sword in my luggage I could let you have - well, two swords, really its a pair of swords in one scabbard, what they call a Duck and Drake sword.
Its a family heirloom.
I never use it, but I always carry it around with me.
I could never bear to be parted from it for long, so however much I may wander, if you take that as my pledge, you can be sure of my eventually coming back to get it.
He handed Jia Lian the heirloom when he had got it out of his bundle, and after a few more drinks the three men remounted, took leave of each other, and went their separate ways.
In due course Jia Lian arrived at Ping-an and saw the Military Governor, only to be told that the business he had come about could not be dealt with satisfactorily until some time in the tenth month.
As there was no point in staying, he started back the very next day for the capital, calling in first at Er-jies place on his arrival.
Er-jie had run the little household during his absence with exemplary circumspection.
The courtyard gate had been kept shut and bolted all day and she had received no outside visitors.
San-jie, too - a young woman who never did anything by halves - had continued as good as her word.
When not actually keeping to her own room, she had spent the whole of the time either ministering to the wants of her mother or sitting and sewing with Er-jie.
Jia Lian was gratified to find all these signs of prudent housekeeping on his return and his respect for Er-jies wifely virtues increased.
When the greetings and routine questionings were over, he told the sisters about his encounter with Liu Xiang-lian, and 301 getting the Duck and Drake swords out of his luggage, he handed them to San-jie to take care of.
San-jie first examined the scabbard.
It was embossed with a design of interlacing dragons and sea-monsters and encrusted all over with jewels.
Then she took out the swords, identical except that one had the character Duck and the other the character Drake engraved on its blade.
And what blades!
Cold, cruel glittering with the cold brightness of autumn waters.
San-jie was enraptured by them.
She put them both back into their scabbard and carried them off to her own room, where she hung them up over her bed.
Thereafter she would look up at them from time to time and smile, happy in the knowledge that now her future was assured.
After a couple of nights with Er-jie, Jia Lian went back to Rong-guo House to report to his father and to rejoin the other members of the family.
He found Xi-feng with the rest.
She had by now recovered sufficiently to get about and had resumed her duties as household manager.
As soon as he could, he went to see Cousin Zhen and tell him about San-jie and Liu Xiang-lian.
Cousin Zhen was lately much taken up with a new acquaintance and had lost his former interest in the You sisters.
He therefore received Jia Lians news with equanimity and seemed perfectly content to leave the matter in his hands, merely insisting on himself contributing thirty taels towards the expenses, since he feared that Jia Lians resources might be inadequate.
Jia Lian accepted the money and handed it to Er-jie to spend on San-jies trousseau.
Round about the middle of the eighth month Xiang-lian arrived back in the capital and at once went to pay his respects to Aunt Xue and make the acquaintance of Xue Ke.
He was told that Xue Pan had been ill in bed almost since the day he got back some sickness brought on by change of water or the effects of travel and was still under doctors treatment.
However, on hearing that Xiang-lian had come, Xue Pan insisted on having him brought into his bedroom.
He and his mother, whose earlier resentment against Xiang-lian had been completely banished by her gratitude to him for saving her sons life, spoke eloquently of their indebtedness, and when the conversation turned to the subject of Xiang-lians marri- 302 age, they insisted that all the material things required for it should be supplied by them, so that he should have nothing to do himself except name the day.
It was now Xiang-lians turn to be grateful.
Next day Xiang-lian went to see Bao-yu.
The two of them were always wonderfully at ease in each others company and Xiang-lian felt sufficiently intimate to ask him confidentially about the circumstances of Jia Lians second marriage.
I really dont know - beyond what Tealeaf has told me, said Bao-yu.
I havent been to see them.
I dont really think its my business.
Tealeaf mentioned that Cousin Lian was very anxious to see you about something, but I dont know what it was.
Xiang-lian told him about the various things that had happened to him on his travels, ending up with an account of his encounter with Jia Lian.
Congratulations!
said Bao-yu.
You are a lucky man.
Shes a ravishingly beautiful girl.
The perfect match for a good-looking chap like you!
If she is so beautiful, said Xiang-lian, there can be no shortage of suitors wanting to marry her.
Why should your cousin pick on me?
Ive never been particularly friendly with him in the past - certainly not to that extent - yet when I met him on this journey, he was so pressing, so insistent that I should give him a definite undertaking to marry her.
What am I to make of it?
Its almost as if the girls family was doing the pursuing.
I cant help feeling very dubious about the whole affair.
I wish I hadnt given him those swords.
I thought of you as the person most likely to be able to help me get to the bottom of this business.
For a person so intelligent you have left it a bit late to start feeling dubious now that you have promised to marry the girl and already given them your pledge, said Bao-yu.
You started off by saying that you wanted to marry a beauty.
Now that youve got one, why not leave it at that?
Why these suspicions?
You said just now you didnt even know about her sisters marriage, said Xiang-lian.
How do you know she is so beautiful?
I saw her practically every day for a month at Ning-guo 303 House when she and her sister were brought there by Cousin Zhens mother-in-law, said Bao-yu.
How could I fail to know?
Ravishingly beautiful.
Obviously made for you.
You San-jie, you see even the name makes her yours!
Xiang-lian stamped impatiently.
And everyone elses, no doubt.
Bao-yus execrable pun had not amused him.
It wont do.
This is a thoroughly bad business.
The only clean things about that Ning-guo House are the stone lions that stand outside the gate.
The very cats and dogs there are corrupted!
Bao-yu reddened, and Xiang-lian, realizing that he had gone too far, began pumping his bands apologetically.
Im sorry, I shouldnt have said that.
- But surely you can tell me something about her character?
Since you appear to know already, I dont.
quite see the point, said Bao-yu wryly.
In any case, perhaps Im none too clean myself.
What I said was spoken in the heat of the moment, said Xiang-lian.
You mustnt take it to heart.
Ive already forgotten it, said Bao-yu.
If you go on talking about it, you will make it seem that the one who has taken it to heart is you.
Xiang-lian pumped his hands again and took his leave.
He was still thoroughly unhappy about the whole affair.
At first he thought of going back to Xue Pan and talking it over with him then he changed his mind, partly because Xue Pan was ill but mainly because in any case he had little confidence in his judgement.
In the end he decided that perhaps the best thing would be simply to ask for his pledge back.
Once he had made up his mind, he decided to tackle Jia Lian about it immediately.
He found him at Er-jies place.
Jia Lian, delighted to hear that Xiang-lian had already come to call, came hurrying out to meet him and conducted him to the inside sitting-room to introduce him to his future mother-in-law.
He was somewhat surprised when Xiang-lian merely bowed to the old lady instead of making her a kotow and addressed her formally as Mrs You.
The significance of this became apparent presently when tea was served and Xiang-lian came at once to the point.
I am afraid that when I met you recently on my travels I 304 acted far too hastily.
I didnt know at the time, hut it seems that my aunt had already in the fourth month chosen another girl to be my wife.
When she told me about it, there was obviously nothing I could say.
To hold to my agreement with you would have meant disobeying my aunt, and that of course is out of the question.
Now, if the pledge I gave you had been gold or silk or something of that sort, I should simply have forgotten about it but those swords I gave you were a family heirloom left me by my grandfather, so Im afraid I shall very regretfully have to ask you for them back.
Jia Lian was unable to take this calmly.
Now look here, young Liu, this wont do, you know!
A pledge is a pledge.
The whole idea of it is to guard against people having second thoughts like this.
An engagement to marry isnt something you can just jump into and out of at will.
Im afraid what you are proposing is quite impossible.
Xiang-lian smiled patiently.
No doubt you are in the right, and I am perfectly prepared for you to reproach me but Im afraid I cannot go through with this marriage under any circumstances.
Jia Lian seemed about to argue, but Xiang-lian frustrated him by rising to his feet.
Could we go and discuss this somewhere else, please?
It isnt very convenient, talking about it in here.
You San-jie had been able to hear the whole of this conversation quite clearly from her room.
She had waited so long for Xiang-lian, and now that at last he had come, he was rejecting her.
It must be because of something he had heard about her in the Jia mansion.
He probably thought of her as a shameless wanton, the sort of woman who throws herself at men, unworthy to be his wife.
If she allowed the two men to go off together, there was little likelihood that Jia Lian could do anything to stop him breaking off the engagement and even if he tried arguing with him, the probable outcome would only be further damage to her reputation.
As soon, therefore, as she heard Jia Lian agreeing to go outside with him, she snatched the swords down from the wall, and having first drawn out the Duck and hidden it behind her back, she hurried into the sitting-room to see them.
305 There is no need for you to go out and discuss anything, she said.
Here is your pledge back.
The tears were pouring down her cheeks like rain.
She held out the scabbard with the single sword in it in her left hand.
As Xiang-lian took it, she whipped the other sword out with her right hand and slashed it across her throat.
It was all over in a moment.
Red scatter of broken blossoms, and the jade column fallen, Never to rise again ... -880 The terrified servants made futile attempts to resuscitate her, but she was already dead.
Old Mrs You wept and screamed, breaking off from time to time to inveigh against Xiang-lian as a murderer.
Jia Lian seized hold of Xiang-lian and called for someone to bring a rope, intending to tie him up and take him to the yamen but Er-jie checked her weeping and did her best to dissuade him.
He didnt force her to do it, it was her own decision.
What good will taking him to the yamen do?
We dont want a public scandal on top of everything else.
Much better let him go.
Jia Ian, whose resolution seemed temporarily to have deserted him, let go of Xiang-lian automatically but Xiang lian made no attempt to escape.
I didnt know she was like this, he said, weeping.
She had a noble heart.
It wasnt my luck to have her.
He lifted up his own voice then and wept, as if he had been weeping for his bride.
He stayed with the family until the coffin had been bought and San-jie laid inside it and when the lid was closed over her, he threw himself on it and clung to it for a long time weeping.
Only then did he take leave of them, walking alone Out of the gate, blinded by his tears and scarcely knowing where he was going.
As he walked along in a daze, his thoughts full of San-jies rare combination of beauty and resoluteness which he had so wantonly rejected, one of Xue Pans little pages came looking for him to take him to his new house.
Xiang4ian was too distracted to pay the boy much attention and allowed himself to be led there by the hand.
It was a pleasant, well-appointed 306 little house While he and the page stood waiting in the sitting-room, he heard a little tinkling noise - the sound made by the girdle-gems of a hurrying woman - and San-jie came into it from outside.
She had the Duck cradled in her right attn.
Her left hand was holding some sort of album or ledger.
I loved you for five years, she said.
The tears were still running down her cheeks.
I did not know that your heart was as cold as your face.
It was a foolish love, and I have paid for it with my life.
Now I am ordered to go to the Fairy Disenchantments tribunal in the Land of Illusion to keep the records of the other lovers who are under her jurisdiction.
But I could not bear to leave without seeing you lust once more before I go.
After this I shall never see you again.
She began to go, but Xiang-lian wanted to question her and tried to stop her going.
She spoke again, but this time it sounded more like an incantation.
From love I came from love I now depart.
I wasted my life for love, and now that I have woken up, I am ashamed of my folly.
From now on we are nothing to each other, you and I - nothing.
A little gust of wind with a faint fragrance on it seemed to blow past him as she uttered these last words, and the very next moment she had vanished.
Xiang-lian came to himself with a start, uncertain whether or not he had been dreaming.
He could see no sign of Xue Pans little page when he looked about him, and the new house had turned into a dilapidated temple.
Not far from him a Taoist with a crippled leg sat catching and killing his lice.
Xiang-lian got up and went over to him.
What is this place, holy one?
he asked, having first clasped his hands and knocked them against his forehead in the appropriate salutation.
And may I know whom I have the honour of addressing?
The Taoist chuckled.
I dont know where this place is any more than you do.
Nor who I am.
It is a place where I am resting a little while before going on elsewhere.
It felt to Xiang-lian as if a douche of icy water had penetrated him to the bone with its coldness.
He understood.
307 -640 Without a moments hesitation he drew the companionless Drake out of its scabbard, stretched out his queue, slashed through -1344 the unnumbered strand, -1280 That bind us to the world and its annoys, and as soon as the Taoist was ready, followed him out into the world.
But where the two of them went to, I have no idea.
Other information apart from that will be available in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 67 Frowner sees something that makes her homesick And Xi-feng hears something that rouses her suspicions The grief occasioned in old Mrs You, Er-jie, Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian by San-jies suicide can be imagined.
It long outlasted her burial outside the city walls, which took place shortly after the encoffining.
As for Liu Xiang-lian, the human repinings felt by that somewhat cold young man when he realized the value of what he had lost were brought to an abrupt end as we have shown by the even colder words of the Taoist, which, by breaking through the Barrier of Confusion and opening his eyes to the vanity of human affections, caused him to renounce the world by symbolically severing his hair and following the mad holy man in his wanderings.
The direction these to6k them in is unknown, as we stated in the previous chapter.
Let us leave them and see how others were affected by these events.
Aunt Xue had been delighted by the news of Xiang-lians betrothal to You San-jie.
The wedding would give her an opportunity of demonstrating her gratitude to him for saving her sons life.
She was excitedly planning for this event -discussing the purchase of a house and furniture, selecting a date, making arrangements for the ceremony and so forth -when one of the household boys came in with the appalling news that San-jie had cut her throat and Xiang-lian decided to become a Taoist.
She was still puzzling over the incomprehensible nature of this disaster when Bao-chai came over from the Garden.
Child, have you heard the news?
Aunt Xue asked her.
Mrs Zhens younger sister, San-jie - the one that was engaged to marry Pans new brother Liu Xiang-lian - has cut her throat.
Ive no idea why.
And Xiang-lian has renounced the 309 world and just disappeared.
Isnt it terrible?
I dont know what to make of it.
Bao-chai heard her without emotion.
It is as the proverb says, Mamma The weather and human life are unpredictable.
This was probably preordained because of something they did in their past lives.
The other day you were planning to do everything you could for him because of what he did for Pan.
Now she is dead and he has disappeared.
I think the best thing you can do is just forget about them.
There is no point in upsetting yourself on their account there are other things to worry about.
It is more than a fortnight now since Pan got back from the South and the goods he brought with him must all have been disposed of by now.
Surely you ought to have a word with him about entertaining the people who went with him on the journey?
They had a good deal of hardship to put up with during their months of travel.
It will seem very uncouth of us if we do not find some way of showing our appreciation.
While Bao-chai and her mother were talking, Xue Pan came in from outside.
His eyes were still wet from recent weeping.
Mamma, he said, have you heard about Xiang-lian and San-jie ?
They told me only a few minutes ago, said Aunt Xue.
Your sister and I were talking about it when you came in.
You heard that Xiang-lian had gone off with some Taoist then, said Xue Pan.
Yes, said Aunt Xue.
Thats whats so extraordinary.
Why should an intelligent young man like that suddenly take leave of his senses to go wandering off with a Taoist?
As he had no parents or brothers, I think its up to you as his best friend to find him.
They say the Taoist is both mad and lame, so they cannot have got very far probably no farther than one of the temples or monasteries in this vicinity.
Thats exactly what I thought, Mamma, said Xue Pan.
As soon as I heard the news, I went around looking for him with the boys, but we couldnt find a trace of him anywhere, and none of the people we talked to seemed to have seen him.
Well, if youve already looked for him and he cant be 310 found, youve done as much as a friend could do, said Aunt Xue.
Some good might yet come of it, you never know.
What youve got to do now is start getting your business back into shape.
And for another thing, its time you started thinking about your own marriage and making a few preparations.
Weve got no other man in the family but you and youre not as bright as you might be.
You know what they say about baby birds learning to fly.
The sillier the bird, the sooner it must begin.
If you start getting ready well in advance, there will be less danger of making yourself ridiculous when the time comes by finding that there are all sorts of things you have forgotten.
And theres something else I want to talk to you about.
Your Sister has just been pointing out to me, its more than a fortnight since you came back and the goods you brought hack with you must all have been sold off by now.
You ought to give a little party for those of our employees who went with you on the journey - just a little gesture to show them that you appreciate their services.
After all, it was a long journey.
What would it be?
A thousand miles there and back?
Pretty nearly.
You were four or five months away, at all events.
And dont forget, they underwent some very alarming experiences on your behalf.
Youre absolutely right, Mamma, said Xue Pan.
And sis, she always thinks of everything.
I had thought about it myself, but during these last few days, what with running around everywhere disposing of the stock until my head feels as if it will burst and running around getting things ready for Xianglians wedding fat lot of good that was, now that its all come to nothing!
I somehow didnt get round to it.
Still, its not too late.
We can fix a time for tomorrow or the day after and send the invitations out straight away.
I leave all that to you, said his mother.
The words were scarcely out of her mouth when one of the pages came in from outside to report.
There are some men here from the shop with two cases of stuff for you and a message from Mr Zhang.
He says these are the things you bought for yourself, that arent on the stock-list.
He would have sent them round earlier, but there were a lot of other cases on top of them and he couldnt get them 311 out He says they didnt finish selling the stock off until yesterday, so this is the first time he has been able to get at them.
Two other pages carried the two cases in, one after the other, while he was speaking.
They were large coir trunks, protectively crated between pairs of roped-together boards.
Aiyo!
said Xue Pan.
How stupid of me!
I brought these things back specially for you and sis, Mamma, but I completely forgot to bring them home with me.
Fancy the boys in the shop having to remember them for me!
Its a good thing you brought them back specially, said Bao-chai.
Now were only getting them a fortnight late.
If you hadnt brought them back specially, we should probably have had to wait until the end of the year!
Its the same with everything you do.
You are so thoughtless.
Xue Pan laughed.
I think its because of that scare we had on the journey.
It scared the wits out of me and they havent got back into the right holes yet.
The others laughed He turned to the boy who had come in with the message.
All right.
Tell the men outside weve got the stuff now and they can go back to the shop.
Aunt Xue and Bao-chai were curious.
Well, what is it youve got all crated and corded up so carefully?
Xue Pan told the pages to untie the ropes, remove the protecting boards and undo the fastenings of the trunks.
The first one contained mostly materials - silks, satins, brocades and so forth - and various foreign articles of domestic use.
The other trunk is.
stuff I got specially for you, sis, said Xue Pan.
He undid the fastenings of it himself.
Besides writingbrushes, ink-sticks, inkstones, different sorts of fancy stationery, purses, rosaries, fans, fan-cases, face-powder, rouge and other feminine articles, it contained a whole lot of novelties from Hu-qiu-shan little mercury-filled automata who turned somersaults when you put them down on the floor or a table, automata with sand-filled cylindrical bodies whose arms, legs 312 and heads moved when you set the sand running, and lots and lots of scenes from drama made up of tiny figures moulded in coloured clay in cases of transparent green gauze.
Most fascinating of all was a tiny made-to-order figure of Xue Pan himself, looking exactly like the original in every detail.
Bao- chai had no eyes for anything but this.
Picking the tiny replica up in her hand to examine it, she looked from it to the original and burst out laughing.
She had the other things put back into the trunk and ordered two of the older servants to carry it to All-spice Court for her under Orioles supervision while she herself stayed chatting a little longer with her mother and brother.
Then she too went back into the Garden.
After she had gone, Aunt Xue proceeded to go over the contents of the other trunk with Providence, taking them out, putting them into separate piles, and explaining which pile was to be given to Grandmother Jia, which to Lady Wang, and so forth.
Xue Pan for his part began there and then to make preparations for a party.
The invitations to his employees were dispatched with great urgency, for he was determined that the party should be on the very next day.
As a number of people were invited, it took some time for all of them to assemble and there was much talk about trading, accountancy and the disposal of stock before the last of the guests had arrived.
When they were all present, Xue Pan invited them to take their places at table and went round himself with the wine-kettle to fill their cups.
Aunt Xue sent someone in to thank them on the familys behalf for their loyal service.
Thereupon drinking began and conversation of a more general kind among the guests.
Presently one of them observed that a good friend was missing from their company whose presence might have been expected.
Oh?
said the others.
Whos that?
Mr Liu, the man said, that saved all our lives and became a blood-brother to the master.
This started a good deal of speculation among the guests and finally one of them asked Xue Pan outright why he had not invited him.
Xue Pan frowned and sighed.
Dont ask me about him, he said.
Its a very funny busi- 313 -384 ness.
It isnt Mr Liu now any longer.
Its Father Liu.
The The others expressed surprise.
How can that be?
Xue Pan related the whole story to them.
They were even more surprised when they heard.
Now I understand what they were shouting about yesterday outside the shop, said one of them.
It was something about a man having been converted by only two or three words spoken to him by a Taoist.
Someone else said the two of them had vanished into thin air.
They didnt say who the man was.
We were all busy selling stock at the time, so we couldnt go outside to find out and weve been wondering ever since whether to believe the story or not.
We never imagined it was Mr Liu they were talking about.
If wed known, wed have gone after him and tried to reason with him.
Im sure wed have found some way of stopping him.
Ive got a different theory about what happened, said one of them.
Oh?
Whats that?
the others asked him.
Well, said the man with the theory, it doesnt seem very likely that a clever young chap like Mr Liu would suddenly go off to become the disciple of an old Taoist We know how strong he is and how good at martial arts.
Perhaps hed found out that this Taoist was really a wicked magician and just pretended to become his disciple so that when hed got him to some quiet, out-of-the-way place he could do him in.
If thats what it is, thats very good, said Xue Pan.
There are too many of these fellows going around leading people astray with their silly nonsense.
It needs a person like Xianglian to put a few of them down.
But didnt you look for Mr Liu yourself when you heard about this?
his guests asked him.
Of course I did, said Xue Pan.
Inside and outside the city.
And I dont mind telling you - you can laugh at me if you like - I had a good old cry when I couldnt find him.
He sighed several times and looked very despondent.
His customary cheerfulness seemed to have deserted him altogether since this loss.
Seeing him so downcast, his employees did not venture to stay long, but drank the wine up, finished 314 up the food, and dispersed.
We, too, shall leave him at this point and continue our interrupted narrative of the previous day.
When Bao-chai got back from her mothers to her own room in All-spice Court, she went over the toys that Xue Pan had given her, deciding which of her cousins each one of them should go to and retaining only a very few of them for herself.
When she had finished doing that, she proceeded to portion out the other things as well.
For some of the cousins there were writing-brushes, paper, inkstones and ink for others, purses, fans and rosaries some were to have hair-oil, powder and rouge for some there were to be only toys.
She made the little piles as equal as possible, except in the case of Dai-yu, for whom she selected twice as much as for anyone else.
Having explained very carefully to Oriole who each of the piles was for, she sent her off, with an old woman acting as portress, to go round to all the apartments and deliver them.
With one exception, the cousins, on receiving their presents, tipped the bearers and said that they would thank Bao-chai in person when they next saw her.
Dai-yu alone reacted somewhat differently.
The sight of the Hu-qiu toys, manufactured only a few miles from her native Soochow, brought on a severe attack of nostalgia.
Once more she was reminded of her position an orphan and an outsider, with no kind brother in her case to bring back things for her from the South.
Already she was beginning to be upset.
Nightingale knew at once what was the matter, but judged it more politic to remonstrate than to let her mistress know that she understood.
Look at all the illness youve had, miss.
You hardly ever stop taking medicine.
Its only just recently that youve begun to look a bit better.
Though even now I think its more a case of being in better spirits than being properly cured.
You can see from the fact that Miss Bao has sent you all these things that she must think a lot of you.
That ought to make you happy, not upset you.
Whatever is Miss Bao going to think if she gets to hear that the things she has sent you have made 315 you feel miserable?
Thats not going to he very nice for her, is it?
And theres another thing.
Look how concerned Her Old Ladyship and Her Ladyship always are about your health, how they get the best doctors and the best medicines to try and cure you.
And now, just as you are beginning to be a little bit better, here you go, crying and making yourself miserable.
Its as if you wanted to get ill again, just to give them something more to worry about!
It was too much fretting that brought on your illness in the first place.
You ought to have a bit more consideration for yourself.
While Nightingale was admonishing her mistress, a voice from the courtyard was heard announcing Master Bao.
Nightingale called to him to come inside.
Sit down, said Dai-yu.. -384 Bao-yu noticed that she had been crying.
Hullo, whats the matter?
he asked.
Whos been upsetting you?
Dai-yu forced a smile.
-384 Im not upset.
Nightingale shot her lips out and gestured towards the table behind Dai-yus bed.
His eyes followed her gesture to the pile of presents on the table.
He realized she could only just have received them from Bao-chai.
Why, what a lot of things youve got there!
he said.
Are you planning to set up a shop?
Dai-yu made no reply.
Dont talk about them!
said Nightingale.
Theyre from Miss Bao.
As soon as Miss Lin set eyes on them, she burst into tears.
I was just trying to talk some sense into her when you came in.
Perhaps, now youre here, youll be able to do it for me.
Bao-yu knew what Dai-yus trouble was as well as Nightingale, but was no more willing than Nightingale to show her that he knew.
He merely laughed, therefore, and answered Nightingale with a jest.
Oh, I know whats upset your mistress.
Shes cross because Miss Bao didnt send her more.
Never mind, coz, he said turning to Dai-yu, one of these days Ill he visiting Kiangnan myself, and when I do, I promise to bring you back two whole 316 -384 boatloads of these things.
That should dry your eyes for you!
Dai-yu, aware that she was being cheered up, could not rebuff the clumsy attempt too impatiently nor, on the other hand, did she feel inclined to let it pass unreproved.
I may be very stupid and ill-bred, but not quite to the extent of getting into a passion because I have not been given enough toys.
I am not a three-year-old.
You make me out to be even more petty-minded than I am.
I have my own reasons for what I feel.
What do you know about them?
As she said this, the tears began once more to flow.
Bao-yu moved over from his seat and sat down beside her on the bed.
He began picking the articles on the table up one by one, turning them this way and that to examine them, and asking her all sorts of questions about them.
What was this?
What did you call it?
Wasnt this one clever?
What was it made of?
And this one, what was it for?
He also made various suggestions as to where she should put them.
This one he thought would be nice to keep by her on her desk that one would look well with the vases and other ornaments on the wall-table and so on and so on until Dai-yu felt that, however well-intentioned this might be, she could stand no more.
Come on, youre being a nuisance, she said.
Lets go and see Bao-chai.
This was precisely what Bao-yu had been hoping for.
If he could get her to go.
out, the distraction of doing something else might cause her to forget her sadness.
Good!
he said.
We ought to go, anyway, to thank her for the things.
I wasnt thinking of that, said Dai-yu.
Between cousins there is no need for such formality.
I was thinking that, having just got back from the South, Cousin Pan must have told her a lot about the places there he visited, and hearing about them from Chai would be the next best thing to taking a trip back there myself.
Her eyes began to redden, and for a moment it seemed in doubt if she would go out after all but as Bao-yu was already on his feet waiting for her, she was more or less obliged to follow him.
After all the trouble Cousin Pan went to in getting them 317 to you, Bao-yu told Bao-chai when they were in her room, you ought to have kept those things for yourself, not given them all away t9 other people.
Theres nothing very special about them, said Bao-chai.
They are all inexpensive objects made by local craftsmen which just happen to have come from a long way away.
I thought the rest of you might find them amusing.
When I was little, these things were so familiar, to me that I thought nothing of them, said Dai-yu.
Now, after all these years, they have become novelties again.
The farther from home, the more precious the object as the saying goes, said Bao-chai.
Not that these are precious, of course.
Bao-yu feared that Bao-chai was moving onto dangerous ground and intervened to change the subject.
Be sure to make Pan go again next year, Chai, and bring us hack a lot more.
Dai-yu stared.
If you want to make such a request, thats your business, but kindly leave others out of it!
She turned to Bao-chai.
He has not come here to thank you, you observe, but to put in an order for next year.
Bao-chai and Bao-yu both laughed.
As the three of them chattered on, the conversation presently turned to the subject of Dai-yus illness.
When you are out of sorts, Bao-chai suggested, you want to force yourself to go out of doors walk around, visit people, look at things - anything td take your mind off yourself.
Youll find it is much better for you than sitting cooped up indoors feeling miserable.
I wasnt feeling very well recently.
I felt exhausted all day long and hot all over and wanted to do nothing but lie down.
This is a bad time of the year for me, and I was afraid of becoming seriously ill.
So I started deliberately looking for things to do and forcing myself to do them and do you know, during the last day or two I really have begun to feel better.
I am sure you are right, said Dai-yu.
I have in fact come to the same conclusion myself.
318 -1094 The person most gratified by Bao-chais presents was Aunt Zhao.
Im not surprised they all say what a nice girl that Bao-chai is she said to herself when the consignment of toys arrived for Jia Huan.
You can see from this how kind and generous she is.
Her brother cant have brought all that much back for her from his travels, yet every single person has been remembered.
No ones been left out because they arent important, even the unlucky ones like us that no one else ever bothers about.
Now if it had been that Lin girl, it would have been a very different story.
She can scarcely even bring herself to look you straight in the face.
You wouldnt catch her sending us things like this!
As these thoughts passed through her mind, she was turning the things over and over in her hands and arranging them this way and that upon the kang.
Presently the thought occurred to her that Bao-chai was close kin to Lady Wang.
Why should she not take advantage of that fact to ingratiate herself with Lady Wang?
Gathering the articles up in her arms, she went off, full of fuss and self-importance, to Lady Wangs room and took up a position at her elbow.
Look!
she said, putting on a very affected smile.
Look what Bao-chai has just sent our Huan!
Such thoughtfulness in one so young!
Shes a real little lady, Bao-chai.
She has class.
And so generous.
You cant help admiring her.
I dont wonder you and Her Old Ladyship are so fond of her and always speaking so highly of her.
I didnt like to keep these things without your permission, thats why Ive brought them.
And I thought it might amuse you to look at them.
Lady Wang had guessed what the motive for her visit must be long before she had finished.
The clumsy attempt to ingratiate was by no means pleasing to her, but she could not ignore it altogether.
Certainly you should keep them, she said.
Let Huan have them to play with.
She had merely glanced at the toys in saying this and then turned away again.
So Aunt Zhao, who had been so cock-a-hoop when she came, had got nothing for her pains but a smutty nose.
Angry, but 319 -1094 not daring to show it, she returned crestfallen to her room and threw the things into a corner, muttering crossly to herself as she did so.
Hfn!
What do you make of that then?
And she sat on her own there on the kang, continuing to mutter to herself as she brooded angrily on her wrongs.
Oriole and the old woman had by this time finished delivering presents and went hack to give their mistress an account of the messages of thanks sent back by the recipients and the various tips they had received.
As soon as the old woman had gone out, Oriole moved closer to where Bao-chai was sitting and spoke softly into her ear.
When we were delivering at Mrs Lians just now, Mrs Lian looked absolutely furious about something.
I had a word with Crimson on my way out and she said that when Mrs Lian came back from Her Old Ladyships a little before we arrived she was looking very grim - not at all her usual smiling self.
She called for Patience as soon as she got back and they were talking earnestly together about something, but she couldnt hear what they were saying.
It looks as though something really serious must have happened.
Did you hear about anything while you were at Her Old Ladyships today, miss?
Bao-chai wondered what could have made Xi-feng so angry, but could think of nothing.
Every household has its own troubles, she told Oriole.
It isnt our business to inquire.
Go and pour me some tea.
So Oriole went out to pour tea and nothing more on that subject was said.
After seeing Dai-yu to her gate, Bao-yu continued on his way to Green Delights.
While he did so, he was thinking how hard it must be to be an orphan and feeling more and more sorry for her.
He resolved to have a word with Aroma about it when he got back, but when he got back, only Musk and Ripple were in his room.
Wheres Aroma?
he asked them.
320 Must he in one or other of the courtyards hereabouts, said Musk.
She cant be lost.
Why the sudden urge to see her?
Bao-yu smiled.
I didnt imagine she was lost.
The reason I asked is because Ive just got back from seeing Miss Lin.
She seemed to be rather upset about something, and when I asked her what it was, she said the things that Miss Bao sent her were made quite near her old home and the sight of them had upset her.
I was going to ask Aroma if shed mind going over and having a word with her.
Oh dear I Whos in for it this time?
It was Skybright who said this.
She had come in at that moment and overheard only the last few words he had spoken.
He repeated for her benefit the whole of what he had just been saying to Musk.
Aroma went out a few minutes ago, said Skybright.
I think she was going to call on Mrs Lian.
Its quite possible that she may drop in at Miss Lins place on her way back.
Bao-yu made no reply.
Ripple poured him a cup of tea.
He took it from her absent-mindedly, rinsed his mouth with some of it, handed the rest to one of the junior maids, and stretched himself out on his bed, looking thoroughly miserable.
After Bao-yu went off to visit Dai-yu, Aroma had at first occupied herself with some sewing.
While she was doing this, it suddenly occurred to her that it was some time since she had been to call on Xi-feng and ask about her illness.
Now seemed as good a time as any to visit her, because she knew that Jia Lian was not there so that she would be able to converse with her more freely.
When she had changed her clothes and, with the aid of a hand-mirror, made a few adjustments to her appearance, she went in again to tell Skybright of her decision.
Im off to Mrs Lians now.
Stay in the room while Im gone, will you?
We dont want Master Bao calling out and finding nobody there.
Aiyo!
said Skybright sarcastically.
You are the only one 321 -880 who ever thinks about him, of course.
The rest of us just sit around all day doing nothing.
Aroma merely laughed and went off without replying.
As she came within sight of the water near Drenched Blossoms Bridge, she saw that the lotuses were all dead and ragged-looking but the hibiscus-bushes along the banks were just coming into flower, the pink budding clusters making a brilliant contrast with the bright green of the leaves.
She lingered on her way along the embankment so that she could get a better view of them.
Looking up suddenly from her contemplation of the hibiscus bushes, she became aware that on the other side of the path a little ahead of her someone was standing under the grape-vine waving a feather-duster about, apparently dusting something.
When she got a little nearer, she could see that it was that indefatigable gardener, Mamma Zhu.
Recognizing Aroma, the old woman beamed and came up to greet her.
Its not often you find time to go out walking, miss?
No, indeed, said Aroma.
Im on my way to see Mrs Lian.
What are you doing?
Im trying to keep these wasps off the grapes, said the old woman.
There was very little rain in the dog-days this year, consequently its brought the pests out onto all the fruit.
It gets riddled all over with bites and a lot of it is dropping before its ripe.
These wasps are terrible things.
Youd never credit it.
Theyll go for just two or three grapes in a bunch, but the juice drips from them onto the rest, and then the whole bunch is spoiled.
Look at that, miss!
A whole lot more of them have settled just in the time we have been talking.
Even if you keep at it non-stop with that duster of yours, youre not going to keep off more than a few of them, said Aroma.
Why dont you ask one of the buyers to get a lot of muslin bags made for you, to tie over the bunches?
They will keep off the birds and wasps while still allowing the air to get at them.
I certainly will, said the old woman.
What a clever idea!
Ive never heard of that one before - but then this is the first year Ive had the job, you see.
She smiled.
Look, miss, 322 although so many of the grapes are spoiled, they still taste good.
Let me pick you some to try.
Aroma looked serious.
No, no.1 dont think theyre ripe enough to eat yet, in any case but even if they were, I couldnt possibly eat any before the first-fruits have been offered to the ancestors.
Surely a person who has worked as many years for the family as you have must know that rule?
Of course, miss.
You are quite right, said the old woman hurriedly.
It was being so pleased that put it for the moment from my mind.
I am a foolish old woman.
It doesnt really matter, said Aroma.
But you older servants ought not to set us younger ones a bad example.
She continued on her way then, out of the Garden and round to Xi-fengs place.
As she entered the courtyard, she could hear the sound of Xi-fengs raised voice coming from inside the house.
Its monstrous!
Treating me like a criminal, after all Ive had to put up with in this place!
Whatever the background of this remark might be, it was obvious to Aroma that this would be an extremely inopportune moment to go in and yet it was already too late for her to turn back.
The best she could do was to advertise her presence.
She deliberately made a heavier noise with her feet and called out to Patience through the window.
Patience came hurrying out to welcome her.
Is Mrs Lian in?
Aroma asked her.
Is she quite better yet?
By now she was inside the house but Xi-feng had already had time to get up on the couch and pretend that she had been lying down.
She rose to her feet as Aroma entered.
Yes, I am a little better, thank you.
It is kind of you to remember me.
It seems quite a time since you last came round here.
Knowing you werent well, I ought by tights to have been coming every day, said Aroma On the other hand, when you arc poorly, you need lots of peace and quiet for resting, and I was afraid that if I came too often it might disturb you.
Oh I dont mind the disturbance said Xi-feng smiling.
323 -1094 But I realize that it isnt easy for you to get away from Master Bao.
Although he has so many girls to wait on him, you are the one he really relies on.
Patience tells me you are always asking her how I am so you see, even though you cant get over here, I know that you are concerned about me.
She asked Patience to bring a stool over and put it down beside the couch she was reclining on for Aroma to sit on.
Felicity came in with some tea.
Aroma inclined herself politely as she accepted it and murmured something about Felicity troubling herself.
While she was talking to Xi-feng, she noticed a junior maid go up to Patience in the outer room and quietly announce that Brightie had arrived and was waiting at the inner gate.
She heard Patience answer the girl in the same guarded undertone Good.
Tell him to go away for a few minutes and come back later.
Tell him not to hang about outside this courtyard.
Aroma knew from this that Xi-feng must have business of some kind, so after sitting for a minute or two longer, she got up to go.
Xi-feng made no attempt to stop her.
Come again when you can, she said.
It does me good to talk to you.
She summoned Patience to see Aroma out.
As Aroma followed Patience through the outer room, she saw two or three junior maids waiting there, obviously scared out of their wits and looking as if they scarcely dared to breathe.
Aroma passed through the courtyard gate and continued on her way back alone, wondering what could be the matter.
As soon as she had finished seeing off Aroma, Patience went in again to report to Xi-feng.
Brightie came, but because Aroma was here, I said he was to go and wait in the front.
Shall I have him called in now straight away, or shall I let him wait a bit?
What do you want me to do?
Call him in, said Xi-feng.
Tell me, said Xi-feng in the interval while they were waiting for him to arrive, what exactly was it you heard?
It was that girl I sent out lust now who actually heard it said Patience.
She said that while she was waiting at the inner 324 gate, she heard two of the pages talking to each other on the other side of it.
One of them said, The new mistress is even prettier than the old one and ever so much better-tempered.
Then she heard someone else - she thought it might have been Brightie - telling the other two off.
Whats this new mistress old mistress youre talking about?
Youd better keep your voices down.
If anyone inside gets to hear about this, youll have your tongues cut Out!
At this point one of the junior maids came in.
-267 Brighties waiting outside, maam.
A chilling little laugh from Xi-feng.
Tell him to come in.
The little maid went outside again.
The mistress says you are to come in.
Hei!
Brightie stepped smartly inside, dropped his knee to the ground, and ended up standing stiffly to attention in the doorway leading to the inner room.
Come here, said Xi-feng.
I want to talk to you.
Brightie came into the room and stood in front of his mistress, a little to one side.
Your masters got himself a woman outside, said Xi-feng.
Did you know?
Brightie dropped his knee to the ground once more.
I spend all my time on call at the inner gate, madam.
Ive no means of knowing what the master does outside.
Xi-fengs smile was full of malice.
Of course you wouldnt know.
You wouldnt stop other people talking about if you did, would you?
Brightie realized from this that the words he had recently been saying to the other pages must have been overheard and that it would be impossible now to deceive her.
He fell on his knees to reply.
I really dont know, madam.
I just happened to hear Joker and Happy talking a lot of nonsense, so I shouted to them to be quiet but I really couldnt tell you the exact circumstances they were talking about I should only be making it up if I tried.
You want to ask Joker, madam.
When the masters here, he spends most of his time with him outside.
325 -1094 Xi-feng spat with great force.
Black-hearted, worthless scum the lot of you!
You are all in league against me, do you think I dont know?
Go out and find that little pimp Joker and bring him here.
And dont go away when youve done that, either.
Wait here.
Ill have a few questions to ask you when Ive finished with him.
Wonderful!
she commented to herself.
This is my trusted servant whom I employ on all my most confidential business!
Yes, madam.
Very good, madam.
Brightie knocked his head upon the floor, then scrambled to his feet and went off to look for Joker.
Joker was in the counting-house fooling about with some of the other pages when word came to him that he was wanted by Mrs Lian.
Startled, but never for a moment imagining that his masters secret had been blown, he hurried off after Brightie to Xi-fengs apartment to find out why he was wanted.
When they got there, Brightie went in first.
Joker is here, madam.
-880 Bring him in!
Even before he had seen her, the mere sound of that strident summons was enough to throw Jokers thoughts into confusion.
But there was nothing for it he had to screw up his courage and follow Brightie into the inner room.
Well, my little man, said Xi-feng as he entered, this is a fine thing you and your master have been up to!
I think you had better tell me all about it.
Joker heard the words, he saw the anger in Xi-fengs face and the terrified looks of the maids who stood motionless to left and right of her, and his legs became so weak that he sank involuntarily to his knees and began kotowing.
Ive been told that this business has really nothing to do with you, she said.
Your only fault is in not having come to me and reported it.
I am willing to overlook that if you tell me the truth.
But woe betide you if you tell me a single word that is false!
If you had a dozen heads, I should have each one of them!
Joker rose up, trembling, to his knees What is it the master and I have done wrong that you want to know about, madam?
326 It was as though the fire that smouldered in Xi-feng had suddenly burst into flame.
Strike the mouth that said that!
she shouted, beside herself.
Brightie advanced, with hand upraised, to do her bidding.
Not you, idiot!
Xi-feng shouted.
I am asking him to strike himself.
Dont worry, I shall have you striking your own mouth too before we are finished!
Joker, still kneeling, began opening his arms to left and right of him and bringing them forcibly together, so as to slap his hands simultaneously upon his face.
Xi-feng allowed him to do this a dozen or more times before shouting to him to stop.
Now, she said whats all this about the new mistress your master has married?
I suppose you are going to tell me you know nothing about it?
Joker, gathering from this that the whole story was out, became quite desperate.
Plucking his hat off he began bumping his head on the floor in a frenzy of self-abasement Only spare my life, madam!
I swear that every word I tell you shall be the truth.
Get on with it, then!
Joker knelt stiffly upright in order to do so.
I didnt know about this business at the beginning, madam.
I think it started during the time when Sir Jings body was still lying at the temple.
Yu Lu went out there one day to ask Mr Zhen for some money and when Master Rong came back into the city to see about it, the master came with him.
On their way they got talking about Mrs Zhens two sisters, and the master said how much he admired the new mistress - er, the other Mrs Lian, and Master Rong, be said, jolting-like -, Xi-feng spat.
Turtles egg!
What other Mrs Lian?
Beg pardon, maam!
said Joker hurriedly, and kotowed again.
When he had risen once more on his knees, he fixed his eyes miserably on the ceiling, unable to go on.
Well?
said Xi-feng.
Is that all?
Why dont you go on?
Youll have to bear with me, madam, said the wretched Joker, otherwise I darent.
327 Bear with you?
said Xi-feng.
Bear with your mothers arsehole!
I advise you to get on with your story it will be very much better for you if you do!
Master Rong said he could arrange for the master to marry her.
The master was very pleased.
Then - well, I dont know how exactly, but he did.
The very faintest of smiles hovered briefly over Xi-fengs face.
I dont suppose you do know.
No doubt if you did, it would make a very complicated story.
All right, go on.
What happened after that?
After that Master Rong found the master a house.
Oh?
said Xi-feng sharply.
Where is it?
A few streets behind our place, said Joker.
Not very far.
So!
Xi-feng turned and looked bard at Patience.
You heard that?
You and I are both dead, Patience.
We dont exist any more!
Patience dared not reply.
Joker continued his story.
Mr Zhen gave a lot of money to the Zhangs so that they wouldnt object to the wedding.
Now we have a Zhang family in the story, said Xi-feng.
This is getting rather complicated.
Ah yes, you see, madam, the other Mrs Lian - Joker suddenly realized what he had said and dealt himself a slap across the mouth.
Xi-feng laughed in spite of herself and the maids to right and left of her puckered up their faces and giggled.
Joker thought for a bit.
The elder of Mrs Zhens two sisters Yes, yes, said Xi-feng.
Get on with it!
What about her?
The elder of Mrs Zhens two sisters was engaged when she was little to someone called Zhang.
I think his name is Zhang Hua.
Nowadays he and his family are very poor beggars, almost.
Mr Zhen promised them some money in return for breaking off the engagement.
Xi-feng nodded, then turned to look at the maids You hear this, all of you?
This is the little monster who was telling us a few minutes ago that he didnt know anything!
Joker continued 328 After that Mr Lian had the new house redecorated and she came there for the wedding.
Where from?
said Xi-feng.
From her mothers place, said Joker.
Hm, I see.
Was she escorted by anyone?
Only Master Rong and a few maids and nannies.
No one else.
What about Mrs Zhen?
She came along a couple of days later with some presents.
Xi-feng laughed and turned to address Patience behind her.
There you are!
Dont you remember there were a couple of days when he hardly stopped praising Mrs Zhen and telling us what a wonderful person she was ?
The smile on her face quickly vanished as she turned back again.
And who waits on them there?
- You, of course.
Joker hurriedly kotowed but did not attempt to reply.
Come to think of it, said Xi-feng, I suppose all those times he told me he had to be away because he had business to do for our Ning-guo cousins, it was really this that he was up to.
Sometimes he really was doing things for them, sometimes he was at the new house, said Joker.
Whos living with her there?
said Xi-feng.
Her mother and her younger sister - leastways, the younger sister was living with her, but the day before yesterday she cut her throat.
Why did she do that?
said Xi-feng.
Joker told her the whole story of San-jie and Liu Xiang-lian.
He was a lucky man, said Xi-feng when he had finished telling it.
Ive no doubt that if hed married her she would have made him a most notorious cuckold.
- Have you anything else to tell me?
Ive told you all I know, madam, and every word Ive told you is true.
You can ask other people.
If you find a word of a lie in what Ive told you, you can beat me to death and I shant complain.
Xi-feng bowed her head for some moments, reflecting.
Eventually she looked up again and pointed her finger at him.
329 You are a wicked little wretch and I ought by rights to kill you for imagining that you could deceive me.
I suppose you thought that by deceiving me you would do that stupid master of yours a favour and your new mistress would love you for it.
If it werent that I thought you were too frightened just now to have lied to me, I should have broken both your legs.
Her voice rose to a shout.
Get up!
Joker kotowed several times, scrambled to his feet, and retreated as far as the threshold of the outer room, not daring to leave altogether.
Come back!
said Xi-feng.
I havent finished with you yet.
Joker turned and advanced some steps and stood with his arms held stiffly at his sides and his body inclined forwards in a respectful attitude of attention.
Whats the hurry?
said Xi-feng.
Is your new mistress waiting to give you something?
Joker dared not look up.
From now on you are not to go there any more, said Xi-feng.
From now on, if I call for you at any time of any day, I shall expect you to be there straight away - and I warn you, youd better see to it that Im not kept waiting!
All right.
Be off!
Again he withdrew.
This time he got as far as the steps outside the door.
Joker!
Madam?
He turned back once more.
Off to tell the master all about it, arent you?
Oh no, madam!
I wouldnt dare.
All right, go then but if you breathe a word of this outside, Ill have you flayed!
Yes, madam.
Very good, madam.
Joker now made his final exit.
Brightie!
Xi-feng called.
Yesm!
Brightie came bounding forward.
Xi-feng opened her eyes very wide and stared at him for the length of time it would take to say two or three sentences then finally she spoke.
So, Brightie.
Very good.
Excellent.
Now go.
And if any- 330 -214 one outside breathes a word about this, I shall hold you responsible.
Yesm.
Brightie withdrew very slowly from her presence but in his case there was no recall.
Pour the tea, said Xi-feng.
This was taken by the junior maids as a signal for them to withdraw, which they did immediately, leaving Xi-feng alone with Patience.
You heard all that?
said Xi-feng.
Thats good.
Patience smiled, but dared not say anything.
Xi-feng appeared to be thinking, and to be growing angrier and angrier the more she thought.
She lay back with her head on the pillow and gave herself up wholly to her thoughts.
Presently she frowned as if an idea had just occurred to her.
Patience, come here.
Madam?
Ive thought what to do, said Xi-feng.
And she proceeded to tell Patience what she had planned.
But in order to know what that was, you must wait for the following chapter.
CHAPTER 68 Er-jie takes up residence in Prospect Garden And Xi-feng makes a disturbance in Ning-guo House When Jia Lian made his second expedition to Ping-an in the tenth month, he found that the Military Governor was away on a tour of inspection and since no one seemed willing to predict when he would be back, there was obviously nothing he could do but sit in his lodgings and wait for that elusive official to turn up.
It was in fact several weeks before he did, so that by the time Jia Lian had finished transacting his business and made the journey back home again, almost two months had elapsed since he set out.
But we anticipate.
Let us return to the point at which we left off in the last chapter.
After hearing Jokers revelations, Xi-feng deliberately concealed her knowledge from Jia Lian for several weeks.
It was not until he had started out on his journey to Ping-an that she began putting her plan into execution.
The first thing she did was to call in the workmen - carpenters, decorators, paperers and so forth - and have the three-frame building on the east side of her and Jia Lians courtyard converted into a smaller replica of the main apartment.
On the fourteenth of the tenth month, when the decorating and furnishing of this apartment had been completed, she went to see Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang and announced her intention of going out first thing next morning to burn incense in a certain convent-temple in the vicinity.
She would take only four companions with her, she said Patience, Felicity, Zhou Ruis wife and Brighties wife.
She waited until they were about to get into their carriages on the morning of the fifteenth before revealing to her companions what their actual destination was to be.
They were going to 332 Er-jies house.
Xi-feng had previously given instructions to the manservants who were to accompany them that they were to be dressed in mourning and that the carriage she rode in was to have mourning trappings.
This was because Er-jie, she had discovered, had not long since suffered a second and greater bereavement old Mrs You, who had never quite recovered from the shock caused by her third daughters suicide, had, only two or three weeks previous to this date, taken a nap which turned out to be her last.
Joker was told to lead the way, and it was he who, arriving at the house a little before the rest of the party, knocked on the gate to give the occupants warning of its coming.
The Mattress came to the door.
Joker had by this time resolved the problem of nomenclature to his own satisfaction -320 Tell Mrs Er, he said blandly, that Mrs Lian is here.
The immortal parts of the late Droopys relict leaped through her cranium and described several somersaults in the air.
She rushed inside to inform her mistress.
Er-jie was no less startled than her servant when she heard the message, but even in such an extremity she could do no less than receive her visitor with the expected courtesies.
Adjusting her dress, therefore, she went into the front courtyard to meet her.
By this time Xi-fengs carriage had arrived outside the gate and its occupants were in process of descending from it.
Er-jie watched her visitor curiously as she entered the outer gate, supported by Zhou Ruis wife and Brighties wife, one on either side.
She was dressed in half-mourning, with hair-ornaments of silver and white and a spencer of some black material with a silver thread in it over the palest of pale blue gowns.
Underneath the gown she was wearing a plain white satin skirt.
Er-jie was particularly struck by her eyes -614 Brows a branched twig with two high-pendant leaves, And trigon phoenix-eyes, slant, hard and bright.
And she was very beautiful Pretty as a peach-tree in the spring, Even in austere autumns dress.
-640 Er-jie advanced to meet her as she entered the courtyard and dropped her a low curtsey, adopting, in the first words 333 -320 she uttered, the form of address that an inferior wife uses in speaking to her chief.
Forgive me, sister, I had no idea that you were planning to favour me with an inspection or I should have gone outside to meet you.
This was followed by another low curtsey, which Xi-feng, smiling graciously, returned.
After curtseying had continued for some moments on either side, Xi-feng took Er-jie impulsively by the hand and the two young women walked hand in hand into the house.
Inside, Er-jie made Xi-feng sit down in the place of honour and ordered one of the maids to bring a cushion and put it down in front of her on the floor.
I am still very young, she explained to Xi-feng.
Since I first came here, everything has been decided for me by others, either my mother, when she was still with us, or my elder sister.
Now that you have come, I hope - if you do not think me too unworthy - that you will allow me to take all my instructions from you.
I promise to serve you with all the devotion of which I am capable.
Having concluded her little speech, she knelt down on the cushion and kotowed.
Xi-feng rose from the chair and bowed.
I am as young and inexperienced as you are, sister, she said.
What I have done for Mr Lian has always been for his own good, as far as a silly, inexperienced woman like me could tell what that was.
I begged him, as I am sure you would have done in my position, not to go sleeping out under the willows you know what I mean both for his healths sake and because I knew it would worry his parents but Mr Lian completely misunderstood the spirit in which that advice was offered.
It wouldnt have mattered so much if hed deceived me about taking a mistress but marrying a second wife is a very serious business.
He really ought to have told me.
It isnt as if I hadnt begged him to take a second wife.
If he were to have a son, no matter by whom, I should stand to benefit as much as he would.
It would be a support for me in my old age.
But no.
Mr Lian has got it firmly fixed in his mind that I am the sort of jealous woman who cannot tolerate a rival.
And so he has to go off and do this without telling me.
Its so unfair.
Who am I to explain myself to?
Only Heaven 334 above knows what a great injustice he has done me.
When I first got wind of your marriage about ten days ago, I realized at once that it was this mistaken notion he has about my being so jealous that had prevented him from telling me.
I have waited until he is away before visiting you because I wanted this opportunity of getting to know you properly.
But that is not the only purpose of my visit.
I want to ask you - to entreat you - to show your understanding of my position by leaving this place and coming back with me to the mansion.
Let us live together, side by side, like sisters.
Let us join forces in looking after him seeing that he performs his duties properly and takes good care of his health.
Surely that is how it ought to be?
Just imagine what it will be like for me if you continue living here outside.
Quite apart from my feelings, think of the effect it will have on my reputation - and on yours, too, for that matter.
And even if you think our reputations are unimportant, as no doubt they are, consider what the effect will be on Mr Lians reputation, which is a far more serious matter.
I expect the servants say all sorts of nasty things about me behind my back.
It is their way of having their revenge on me for being strict.
I suppose it is only natural.
You know the proverb.
The woman who runs a household is like a water butt all the dirt washes off on her.
In our household I have three lots of seniors above me and cousins and sisters-in-law both single and married in my own generation.
If I were really hard to get on with, how do you think all those people would have managed to put up with me for so long?
Would I have come to you today if I were such a terrible person?
Many wives hearing that their husband had married another woman and was living outside with her in secret would be unwilling even to set eyes on her.
Heaven knows Ive tried to accommodate Mr Lian.
Ive even offered him my Patience as a chamber-wife.
I think Heaven and Earth and the Lord Buddha must have taken pity on me in letting me know about this marriage.
They didnt want me to be destroyed by a pack of scandal-mongering servants.
Thats why I am asking you to come and live with me.
I promise that your treatment will be exactly the same as mine in every respect accommodation, service, clothing-allowance, every- 335 -1094 thing.
There is so much that an intelligent person like you could do to help me if you had a mind to.
Working side by side together, we shall not only give the lie to this malicious tittle-tattle of the servants which I find so wounding we shall also be able to show Mr Lian when he gets back how wrong he has been in making me out to be jealous.
The three of us will live in perfect harmony together.
And all this I shall owe to you!
But if you wont come with me, I am perfectly prepared to move in here with you.
Provided that you put in an occasional good word for me with Mr Lian so that I am still left some ground to stand on, I should even be willing to hold your basin and comb your hair for you and wait on you like a servant.
She concluded this discourse by breaking into noisy weeping.
Indeed, so pitiful a spectacle did she present that Er-jie herself could not help weeping with her.
After further bowings and curtseyings the two women sat down together as first and second wife and Patience came forward to make Er-jie her kotow.
From the superior quality of her dress and general air of refinement Er-jie could guess who she was and hurriedly rose to prevent her.
No, no, you mustnt do that!
You and I are equals.
Xi-feng stood up, too.
Nonsense!
Let her kotow to you, she said, laughing.
She is only a maid.
She is your maid as much as mine now and in future you must treat her as such.
She ordered Zhou Ruis wife to take the First Meeting presents out of the bag she was carrying four lengths of best quality dress material and four pairs of pearl and gold earrings with hair ornaments to match.
There was more bowing and curtseying as Er-jie received them.
The two wives sat down once more.
Tea was served, and they began to talk things over as they sipped their tea.
Xi-feng insisted that what had happened had chiefly come about through her own fault.
I blame no one else, she said.
All I am asking for is a little sympathy.
Er-jie was so lacking in guile herself that she had no difficulty in believing that Xi-feng was a good woman who had been slandered.
336 After all, she told herself when she recollected the alarming things that Joker bad said about Xi-fengs character, servants do often revenge themselves by saying nasty things about their employers.
And so, abandoning all caution, she began pouring her heart out unreservedly, confident that in Xi-feng she had found a friend.
Confirmation of this favourable view in the form of tributes to the excellence of Xi-fengs household governance were not wanting from Mesdames Zhou and Brightie in the background.
She puts herself out too much for other people, thats her trouble.
She gets no thanks for it, though.
People only complain about her the mote.
They told Er-jie about the apartment that Xi-feng had made ready for her.
Beautiful, Mrs Er!
You wait till youve seen it!
Er-jie longed to live with Jia Lian inside the mansion like a respectable married woman and was therefore only too willing to comply with Xi-fengs request.
I ought to go back with you, sister it is no less than my duty.
But what about this place?
Oh, thats no problem!
said Xi-feng.
Just get the boys to move out your boxes and bags for you.
You wont be needing the furniture, you can leave that here.
All you need to do is name whoever of your people is most reliable and we will get whoever it is to stay here and look after it for you.
Now that Ive met you, I should like to leave all those sort of decisions to you, said Er-jie hurriedly.
I havent been here very long and have no experience of running a household.
Im not able to decide things like this for myself.
Why dont you take charge of these chests and boxes, sister?
I have got hardly any things of my own.
Almost everything in this place belongs to Mr Lian.
Xi-feng told Zhou Ruis wife to make a mental note of all the movables and have them carried over later to Er-jies new apartment.
She then urged Er-jie to dress herself as quickly as possible for going out, and as soon as she was ready, walked hand in hand with her to the waiting carriage.
Inside the carriage she insisted that Er-jie should sit beside her on the same seat.
337 This is rather a strait-laced household we are going into, Xi-feng confided to Er-jie when they were alone in the carriage together.
Neither the old lady nor Lady Wang knows a word yet about your marriage.
They would probably kill Mr Lian if they found out that he had married you while he was still in mourning.
There is a very large garden at the mansion which all the young people live in and which other people very seldom go into.
I think when we get back it would be better if you didnt meet Their Ladyships straight away but stayed in there for a few days while I think of some way of explaining about you to them.
I leave all that to you, sister, said Er-jie.
I will do whatever you think best.
The boys accompanying the carriage had received advance instructions not to enter the mansion by the main gate on their return journey but to go straight in at the back.
Descending from the carriage on her arrival, Xi-feng, having first shooed away a knot of curious bystanders, led Er-jie through the rear entrance of Prospect Garden and took her to meet Li Wan and the girls in Sweet-rice Village.
By this time nine out of ten of the Gardens inhabitants.had heard about Jia Lians second marriage, and when the news spread that Xi-feng was bringing the new wife into the Garden, curiosity drew numbers of them to Li Wans place to meet her.
All were impressed by her beauty and by her gentle, pleasing manner.
After introducing them, Xi-feng warned each of them individually that she would kill anyone who mentioned Er-jies presence to an outsider.
The nannies and maids who worked in the Garden were all terrified of Xi-feng and knew in any case that Jia Lians marrying a new wife in a period of family and national mourning was a very serious offence.
They needed no persuading, therefore, to have as little to do with the matter as possible.
Xi-feng had a private word with Li Wan requesting her to look after Er-jie for a few days while she herself thought of some way of explaining about her to Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang.
Li Wan knew that Xi-feng already had an apartment ready for Er-jie to move into at her own place and could well understand that a certain amount of secrecy had to be 338 maintained about a marriage contracted when in mourning she could not therefore refuse to give Er-jie temporary lodging.
Xi-feng took Er-jies own maids away from her and substituted a servant of her own.
She also gave secret instructions to the older women to keep an eye on Er-jie, threatening them with the direst penalties if they allowed her to stray outside or deliberately run away.
Having thus disposed of Er-jie for the time being, she went off to attend to the next stage of her plans.
But of that, for the moment, we will say nothing.
Everyone who knew about this affair was mystified by the strange forbearance that Xi-feng had so far shown towards her rival and could not help wondering what had come over her.
Er-jie for her part, observing how well all the young people in the Garden got on together, felt thoroughly reassured about her future in the bosom of so delightful a family.
But then, after a few days had gone by, there was an unpleasant incident with Mercy, the new maid whom Xi-feng had given her in place of her own.
Er-jie had run out of hair-oil and told Mercy to run over to Xi-fengs and ask her for some.
I think you might be a bit more considerate, Mrs Er, the maid said insolently.
Every day of her life Mrs Lian has to dance attendance on Their Ladyships and Lady Xing, she has two or three hundred servants waiting from daybreak every morning for a word from her to tell them what to do, she has at least a dozen important matters and thirty or forty little ones to deal with every day, all the familys social contacts to attend to, from Her Grace at the Palace and princes and dukes and other high-ups down to other families like our own, thousands of taels of silver to approve the spending of - and you want to go bothering her for some hair-oil!
My advice to you, madam, is to be a bit more patient.
After all, your marriage to Mr Lian was rather a hole-and-corner affair, wasnt it?
Its only because of Mrs Lians unheard of generosity that you have been treated so well.
A less tolerant person might have turned you out into the gutter - and not much you could have done to stop them!
339 At the end of this verbal drubbing Er-jie could only hang her head in silence.
If that was what other people thought about her, minor inconveniences like the lack of hair-oil would have to be endured.
But that was not the end of it.
Following this outburst, Mercy began to grow more and more careless about serving Er-jies meals.
Either they came much too early or much too late, and the food she brought consisted invariably of stale old left-overs.
Er-jie once or twice tried speaking to her about it, but Mercy only glared at her and lifted her voice up in noisy self-justification.
Fearing that if the others heard the shouting they would think of her as one of those vulgar, shrewish women who are always quarrelling with their servants, Er-jie felt obliged to drop the matter and put up with the hardship as best she could.
After a week or so Xi-feng came to visit her.
She was all smiles and loving sympathy, my dear this and my dear that.
If the servants are not giving you satisfaction, my dear, or are being insubordinate, do let me know and I shall have them beaten.
She turned and spoke harshly to the maids and older women who were present.
I know you lot.
I know how you bully the gentle ones.
Its only the hard ones like me that you are afraid of.
Once out of my sight you think you can get away with murder.
But take care!
If I hear one word of complaint from Mrs Er, I shall have you slaughtered!
Er-jie was impressed by the concern that Xi-feng showed for her.
With her to stick up for me, she thought, there is really no need for me to do anything myself.
Servants often are insolent.
If I speak up about this girl and get her into trouble, people will say that I lack the forbearance that a wife - especially one in my position - is always supposed to show.
And so, far from complaining, she covered up for Mercy and the other servants and insisted that the service they gave her was satisfactory.
340 -1307 All this time Brightie was making inquiries on Xi-feng's behalf into Er-jie's background.
He quickly established that Er-jie had indeed been previously betrothed.
Her affianced, now a young man of nineteen, was a gambler and a wastrel.
After gambling his way through all his family's possessions, he had been turned out of doors by his father and now made the gambling-dens his home.
The fact that his father had been to see Mrs You and received twenty taels from her in return for breaking off the engagement was still unknown to him.
The name of this unpromising youth was, as Joker had said, Zhang Hua.
When Brightie passed this information on to Xi-feng, she promptly wrapped twenty taels up in a packet and told him to go back and promise them to Zhang Hua if he would bring a written indictment against Jia Lian before the court.
It should say that Jia Lian had, in a period of both national and private mourning and without the knowledge or consent of his parents, brought unlawful pressure to bear on the plaintiff's parents, causing them to break off an existing engagement between the plaintiff and his betrothed, and had then, setting his own wife aside in an unlawful manner, taken to wife the plaintiff's betrothed in her stead.
A strong instinct of self-preservation at first prompted Zhang Hua to refuse.
When Brightie told Xi-feng this she was furious.
A young idiot, she called him a lame dog who wouldn't allow one to help him over the stile.
'You will have to explain it to him very carefully.
Tell him he can charge this family with high treason for all I care all I want is a pretext for making it hot for them.
But tell him that if things show any sign of getting too hot, I am perfectly well able to cool them down again.'
Another idea occurred to her as Brightie was on the point of leaving.
'He could put y our name on the indictment,' she said.
'Then you could go along to the court and answer it yourself.'
She gave him careful instructions as to what in that event he should say and do, assuring him that she would be able to handle the consequences herself.
Confident of her support, Brightie persuaded Zhang Hua to write out an indictment in which he himself would be named.
341 Lai" is the surname,' he said.
Put "Brightie Lai was principal agent of the accused."
You can say that everything Mr Lian did he was put up to doing by me.'
What Brightie was now proposing seemed to Zhang Hua much less risky than what he had suggested previously, and after some preliminary discussion about the exact form that the indictment should take, he wrote it out and went along with it next morning to the Court of Censors to 'cry injury' on the steps outside.
An usher came out to relieve him of it and take it inside to their lordships, and in due course the court came into session and the presiding Censor found him-self reading a bill of indictment in which a certain 'Brightie Lai, servant of the above 'appeared as chief accomplice of the accused.
Under the circumstances it seemed most expedient to have 'Brightie Lai, servant of the above' summoned before the court.
Somewhat overawed by the prospect of making an arrest in Rong-guo House, the blackcoats sent one of their number ahead of them with a message but Brightie, who was expecting the summons, intercepted the messenger and was outside in the street waiting for them when they arrived.
He stepped forward and offered himself to them with a disarming smile.
'I'm afraid you have been troubled on my account, gentle-men, for I think I must be the person you have come for.
Here you are slip your chain on!'
-320 He stretched his neck out in readiness but the blackcoats declined.
'That's all right, brother.
You just come along quietly.
Nobody's going to put any chains on you!'
When Brightie arrived in the court he knelt down facing the tribunal, side by side with Zhang Hua but at a little distance away from him.
The Censor ordered him to be shown the indictment, and Brightie, although he had virtually dictated it himself, affected to study it very carefully.
When he had finished doing so, he handed it back again and kotowed.
-320 'I know all about this, my lord.
It's true what it says there about my master, but it wasn't really anything to do with me.
Zhang Hua has only dragged me into it because he has a personal grudge against me.
The person who put my master 342 up to all this was someone else.
Your Lordship ought to ask him about this other person.
It was Zhang Huas turn now to kotow.
There is another person involved, my lord, but I didnt dare to accuse him, so I put one of the servants names instead.
Brightie pretended to be indignant.
Tell his lordship who it is, you fool!
This is a court of law we are in and one of the Emperors judges you are speaking to.
Youve got to tell him the name of the person, no matter who it is.
Zhang Hua admitted that Jia Rong was the person in question, whereupon the Censor, very much against his inclination, had to issue a summons for Jia Rong.
Xi-feng had secretly sent her page Cheerful to the court to see if the case was going forward.
When he came back to her with this news, she hastily sent for a member of her fathers household called Wang Xin, explained to him what had been happening, and told him to see the Censor on her behalf.
He was to persuade the Censor to give Jia Rong a good scare, but not to proceed to any damaging judgement against him.
She also gave him three hundred taels with which to strengthen his persuasion.
That night Wang Xin saw the Censor in his private chambers and obligingly supplied him with a little background information to the case.
The Censor had a pretty good idea of what was expected of him.
He took the proffered bribe with out demur and agreed that at the next hearing it would almost certainly be discovered that Zhang Hua was a thoroughly worthless character who had brought these trumped-up charges against the Jias because he owed them money and could not pay it back.
Wang Xin also obtained a brief interview with the President of the Court of Censors at his private residence.
The President was an old friend of Xi-fengs uncle, Wang Zi-teng.
He had observed that the defendants in this case were all members of the Jia family and was most anxious that it should be disposed of as expeditiously and with as little fuss as possible.
He had made no recommendation for special action against the defen- 343 dants as holders of commissions under the Crown, but merely confirmed what the Censor of the day had already decided that Jia Rong should be summoned and should be required to answer the indictment.
By this time Xi-fengs discovery and Er-jies removal into Prospect Garden were already known about in Ning-guo House, and Jia Rong and his father were anxiously discussing this latest development in Jia Lians affairs when someone arrived to give warning of the impending summons and urge them to think quickly what they would do.
Jia Rong, who had gone into the front part of the mansion to receive the messenger, came rushing back in a panic to tell his father.
The man has an infernal nerve!
said Cousin Zhen.
I thought Id taken sufficient precautions against anything like this happening.
He sealed two hundred taels up in a packet and sent it as a sweetener to the Censor.
At the same time he ordered one of his senior domestics to go and answer the summons.
He and Jia Rong were still discussing this new crisis when a cry went up that Mrs Lian of Rong-guo House had arrived.
This was a most unpleasant surprise.
Father and son both attempted to make a getaway, but Xi-feng was already inside the courtyard before they could disappear.
Ah, the head of the family!
she called after the elder of the two retreating backs.
Youve been putting your cousin up to some nice tricks lately, havent you?
Jia Rong, as a junior, was obliged to go back and greet her.
She seized him by the hand and marched on, with him in tow, towards the interior of the mansion.
Take good care of your aunt, Rong, Cousin Zhen called out after them.
Tell them to slaughter some fresh meat for her dinner.
He called for his horse and went off to hide himself elsewhere.
Xi-feng walked through into the main sitting-room inside.
You-shi came out of the inner room to greet her.
What is it, Feng?
she asked, observing Xi-fengs ugly expression.
Something has upset you.
Xi-feng spat in her face.
344 -1307 'Nobody else wanted that precious sister of yours, so you had to foist her onto our family.
Anyone would think all the other men in the world had died and only our Jia ones were left!
But even if you'd set your heart on marrying her to a Jia, at least you might have done it properly, with go-betweens and witnesses and everything open and above-board.
At least we should all have known where we were then and been able to keep up some sort of appearances.
I can't think what could have come over you.
Was it some phlegm that got into your heart?
Was it rouge you'd swallowed, clogging up your thinking-tubes?
Just what was it that made you think you could marry her to him at a time like that - a time when he was in double mourning state mourning and family mourning?
Now, thanks to you, we've got someone suing us so even the people in the law-courts know what a jealous shrew I am and I have to sit by as helpless as a crab with no legs while total strangers discuss my character and wonder why my husband doesn't divorce me.
What have I done wrong since I came to this place that you should want to treat me like this?
Is it something that Grandma or Aunt Wang said that has made you set this trap for me, to get me out of the way?
Let's go to court together, the two of us, and state our cases and after that, let's come back here and ask for a family council so that we can have it all out into the open, face to face.
You can give me a bill of divorce then if you want to, and I shall go back to my own people.'
She began to cry noisily, tugging at You-shi's arm and insisting that she should go with her to court.
Jia Rong, in a desperate attempt to dissuade her, threw himself down on his knees and knocked his head repeatedly on the floor, entreating his aunt to 'control her rage'.
Xi-feng let go of You-shi and rounded savagely on Jia Rong.
'Black-hearted villain!
May God's lightning strike you and the devils tear your carcase!
You're as stupid as mud, and yet you are forever meddling and interfering in what doesn't concern you, forever busybodying away at your dirty, scoundrelly little plots that in the end will ruin your family and destroy the lot of us.
Nobody wants you - even the ghosts won't want you when you die, your own mother's ghost or 345 the ghosts of your ancestors.
Don't you dare tell me what I ought to do!'
-1307 And she began beating him.
Jia Rong redoubled the frequency of his kotows.
'Please, auntie, please!
Don't give way to anger.
Don't think only of what has just happened try to remember the good things as well as the bad.
I may be very wicked, but surely in a thousand days there must have been one day when I was good!
I know you have every reason to be angry with me, but there is no need for you to punish me yourself.
I will gladly do it for you if it will help you to overcome your anger.'
He spread his arms out to left and right of him and began to deal himself hefty slaps upon both cheeks, prefacing each blow with an interrogation, thus 'Are you going to go on doing these stupid, meddlesome things in future?'
slap!
'Are you going to go on listening to Uncle instead of doing what Auntie tells you?'
slap!
'How can you bear to be so cruel and unnatural to Auntie, when Auntie has always been so good and kind to you?'
slap!
The others felt like telling him to stop playing the fool.
They also felt like laughing, but did not dare to.
Xi-feng threw herself upon You-shi's bosom, weeping and wailing in a fine display of histrionic grief.
'I don't mind your finding him another wife, but why was it necessary to make him break the law?
Why did you let him do it without his father knowing?
And why did you have to destroy my reputation while you were about it?
You and I must go to the court together before the blackcoats come here and arrest us.
After that we can go next door and have it all out in front of Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang and all the rest of the clan.
If its ound that I am an undutiful wife who refuses to let her husband take a concubine, you can give me a bill of divorce and I shall leave without a murmur.
As a matter of fact I have invited your sister here myself.
I haven't dared tell Grandmother and Lady Wang about her yet because I was afraid they would be angry.
At the moment she is living in the Garden, like a princess, with nothing but the best to eat and servants to wait on her hand and foot every minute 346 -1307 of the day.
Meanwhile I've been getting an apartment ready for her at home which will be exactly the same as my own.
I'd been meaning to move her in there as soon as Grandmother had been told about her.
I was prepared to live in peace and harmony with her and Lian and to let bygones be bygones.
But now it turns out that all the time she was betrothed to somebody else!
What a mess you've made of things!
Of course, I knew nothing about this before.
When they told me yesterday that I was being sued, I was panic-stricken.
I knew that even if I appeared in court to answer the charge myself, it was the Jia family that would be disgraced.
So I'm afraid I took five hundred taels of Lady Wang's money without telling her, to bribe the Censor with.
And even after that, he still has my servant there in custody.'
All this was spoken not as continuous discourse but punctuated by fits of weeping.
In her final outburst the weeping turned almost into a scream as she began invoking her parents and her ancestors and threatening to hang or drown herself or batter her brains out against a wall.
You-shi, whom all this time she had not let go of, was so mauled and crumpled that she was beginning to take on some of the aspects of a piece of well-kneaded dough and various parts of her clothing had become damp and discoloured with the moisture from Xi-feng's eyes and nose.
As there was nothing much she could say in answer to Xi-feng, she shouted at Jia Rong instead.
'Stupid little fool!
A fine mess you and your rather have made of things between y9ul I said at the time that no good would come of this.
Xi-feng took You-shi's head in both her hands and, drawing her face close to her own, pretended to inspect the inside of her mouth.
'Who's stupid?
There isn't an aubergine in here.
I see no sign of a gag.
Why couldn't you have come and told me?
If you had told me about it at the time, none of this would ever have happened.
But no, you have to wait until it has got into the law-courts and the whole household is in an uproar, and now you start blaming them!
There's a very old saying "A good lining gives.
a garment strength and a husband with a 347 -1307 good wife has few calamities."
If you'd been a good wife to Zhen, he and the others would never have got up to this mischief.
You haven't the wit to k anything useful and as for saying - for all the good sense that ever comes out of your mouth you might as well be a bottle!
You seem to think that you have only got to sit tight and do nothing and people will praise you for your virtue!'
She spat two or three times in quick succession.
'I did try" said You-shi tearfully.
'The others here will tell you, if you don't believe me.
I tried very hard to dissuade them.
It's not my fault that they wouldn't listen.
What was I supposed to do?
But I don't blame you for being angry.
It's just one more thing that I shall have to bear.'
All the Ning-guo concubines, maids and womenservants were by now silently entreating for their mistress, so that the room seemed suddenly to have filled with row upon row of kneeling figures.
The most senior of the servants now smilingly addressed Xi-feng on her mistress's behalf.
'You're generally such a wise, understanding person, Mrs Lian even though our mistress is at fault, you ought not to be too hard.
on her - leastways, not in front of us servants.
You and our mistress have always been such good friends.
Leave her a bit of face now, please!'
She handed her a cup of tea, but Xi-feng dashed it to the floor.
After a bit she did, however, stop crying and rolled up her hair, which had come undone.
But the tone in which she addressed Jia Rong was still an angry one.
'Go and fetch your father.
There's something I want to ask him to his face.
I want to ask him about this new rule which says that a man may marry when he is in mourning, barely thirty-five days after his uncle's death.
It's something Ive never heard of before.
I should like him to tell me about it so that I shall be able to teach it to the younger generation.'
Jia Rong kotowed and remained upon his knees.
'This business had nothing to do with either of my parents,' he said, 'I was the one who put Uncle up to it.
I don't know what came over me I must have been out of my mind.
My rather knows nothing about it.
If you insist on having it out with him, he will undoubtedly kill me.
Id rather you punished 348 -107 me yourself - in fact, I should welcome it.
As for the lawsuit, Im quite incapable of handling a big thing like that myself.
One bides a broken arm inside ones sleeve surely you, of all people, know that, Auntie?
Youve got a very silly nephew, Im afraid, and he has done a very silly thing.
Theres nothing for it, you will just have to deal with the matter for us, as you would if your cat or your dog had done something naughty and you had to clear up after it.
Imagine you had a good-for-nothing son like me who had got himself into terrible trouble wouldnt you still go on caring for him, in spite of all the suffering he had caused you?
He concluded by kotowing again and looked as if he might go on doing so indefinitely.
His pathetic abjectness soon melted Xi-feng but she could not change her tune too abruptly when there were so many pairs of eyes watching her.
She did not answer him, therefore, but merely raised him up with a sigh and, wiping her eyes, addressed herself once more to You-shi.
You must forgive me, kinswoman.
Its because I am so young and inexperienced.
When I heard that there was someone suing us, I simply lost my head.
Thats why I have been behaving so badly.
As Rong says, One hides a broken arm inside ones sleeve I must ask you to forget all those nasty things I was saying just now and have a word with Zhen on my behalf to see if he cant get this lawsuit settled out of court.
Certainly.
Of course.
In their eagerness to reassure her, You-shi and Jia Rong answered her simultaneously.
Whatever happens, Auntie, said Jia Rong, I promise you that Uncle Lian wont be involved.
You mentioned just now that you had already had to spend five hundred taels on this case.
Mother and I will certainly find some way of making that good.
We cant possibly allow you to be out of pocket because of this.
That would be unthinkable.
We must ask one thing of you, though.
Do, please, cover up for us at the other house.
Please dont let Grandma and Lady Wang get to know about this!
Xi-feng answered him scornfully.
349 You were willing enough to go over my head when you planned this thing in the first place.
Now that its gone wrong and you need someone to cover up for you, youve decided that you need me after all.
I may be stupid, but Im not that stupid I Again she ignored him and addressed herself to Youshi.
Your Cousin Lian is my husband, dont forget.
You all say that you acted as you did out of your concern that he should have an heir.
Well, dont you think I share in that concern myself?
I look on your sister as if she were my own.
I was so happy when I first heard about her and Lian that I couldnt sleep all night.
I wanted the servants to start decorating a room for her immediately, so that I could have her to come and live with us.
But you know what servants are.
They told me I was too hasty and that I ought to tell Grandmother and Lady Wang first.
I certainly wasnt going to take that advice, and I threatened them with all sorts of pains and penalties if they said anything about it to anyone themselves.
Unfortunately my threatening was of no avail.
Just as I thought Id succeeded in hushing the matter up, the very worst thing happened a person called Zhang Hua suddenly popped up out of nowhere and brought a lawsuit against us.
I was so scared that for two nights I didnt sleep a wink.
I didnt dare tell anyone else about it.
All I could do was to get the servants to try to find out who this Zhang Hua was and what it was that had made him so bold.
After two days investigating they came back and told me.
It seems that he is a thoroughly worthless character - a down-and-out.
Mrs Er is this mans betrothed, they said.
At the present moment he is so hard up that sooner than die of hunger and cold, he is prepared to do almost anything.
This lawsuit is simply a last desperate attempt to make some money.
He reckons that even if he dies in the attempt it will be a better death than starving.
Anyway, they said, you can hardly blame him for trying.
The master really has been a bit hasty marrying during a period of national mourning is one offence marrying in a period of family mourning is another marrying without parental consent is a third and marrying bigamously is a fourth.
They say that the man sentenced to death by a thousand cuts will dare to pull the Emperor off his horse.
A man like this Zhang 350 -560 Hua who is crazed by poverty will do anything.
With such good arguments in his favour, hed be a fool not to sue!
Well now, I ask you!
Even if Id been a forensic genius, which Im not, hearing them say that would have been enough to shut me up.
What could I do?
Lian was away.
There was no one at hand to advise me.
All I could think of was to try and buy him off.
But the trouble is, the more you give to people like that, the more they twist the knife in you and think up more and more pretexts for getting money out of you.
And I am like a boil on a mouses tail theres a limit to what can be squeezed out of me.
It was because I was feeling so desperate that I- Dont worry about the money, You-shi and Jia Rong both chimed in, not waiting for her to finish.
Thats something we can certainly take care of for you.
If Zhang Hua is only suing because he wants money, said Jia Rong, I think I can now see what to do.
We must promise him money on condition that he will admit that the charges he brought against us were false ones.
Of course, we shall have to spend a bit of money to see that he isnt too heavily proceeded against but once the case has been dismissed and he has been released, all we have to do is give him the money we promised, and that should be the end of it.
Xi-feng tutted and looked amused.
Brilliant!
No wonder you made such a mess of your match-making if this is the way you go about things!
I always thought that you were intelligent, but I see now that I was wrong.
If we do as you suggest, he will pretend to agree, the case will be called off, and that will appear to be the end of it.
But dont you see, if you put money into the hand of a fellow like that, he will get through it in about four or five days and then think up some other villainy as a means of getting more?
Even though we have nothing to fear from him, he will still be a constant source of worry.
What you propose in any case plays straight into his hands, because it enables him to say that we must have something to be ashamed of or we wouldnt be offering him money.
Jia Rong was a sharp young man and quickly saw what his aunt was driving at.
351 Ive got another idea, he said, Perhaps I should be the one to dear this mess up alter all, since I am the one who got us into it I shall ask Zhang Hua straight out what his intentions are.
Is it definitely Aunt Er he wants, or is he willing to make do with someone else if we will give him the money?
If it is definitely Aunt Er and no one else will do, I shall simply have to break it to her that she must go and join him.
Thats all very well, but I dont want to part with your Aunt Er, said Xi-feng hurriedly.
In fact, I refuse to hear of it.
Even suppose she were willing, what would people think of us if we allowed her to go?
No, I think we must keep her, even if it means giving him more money.
Jia Rong knew perfectly well that although Xi-feng said this, she was secretly longing to get rid of Er-jie and was merely anxious that if she did so it should be with her reputation for womanly virtue untarnished.
He deemed it safest not to dispute with her, however, but merely to agree with everything she said.
This outside part of the business should not be too hard to settle, said Xi-feng.
In the long run its here at home that we are going to have the difficulty.
Hadnt you better come with me to explain all about this to Grandmother and Lady Wang?
This threw You-shi into another panic.
She seized Xi-feng by the hand and earnestly entreated-her to think of some lie which would obviate this necessity.
If you are not capable of dealing with the consequences, you ought not to do these things in the first place, said Xi-feng coldly.
Really!
It quite disgusts me to hear you bleat like this!
Oh well.
I wasnt going to help you out of this fix, but I am such a weak, soft-hearted creature.
I suppose I shall have to.
Youd better stay out of this, then.
Ill take your sister on my own to make her kotow to Grandmother and the ladies.
I shall say that this is your sister and that I have taken a great fancy to her.
I shall tell them that because I havent so far managed to give Lian a son, I had been thinking of buying two girls to serve him as chamber-wives, but that since seeing your sister I had thought how much nicer it would be to have her instead as his Number Two and keep it all inside the 352 family.
Then I shall say that since her mother and sister died she has been living in very reduced circumstances and would have found it impossible to hold out on her own until the end of the hundred days mourning, so I have taken it upon myself to invite her here to live with us.
I shall tell them that Ive already had a room made ready for her and would like her to move in there as a temporary measure until the mourning period is over and she is allowed to sleep with Lian.
All lies, of course, but I am sufficiently brazen to get away with them.
Even if there is any trouble, I promise that it shant come near you.
Well, what about it?
Do you think that will do?
You-shi and Jia Rong were all smiles.
Very handsome of you, and very resourceful, too.
But then you always were both of those things.
When this affair is safely out of the way, we shall come round and make you a kotow.
Fiddlestick!
I dont want your kotows, said Xi-feng.
She pointed her finger at Jia Rong.
I know you now for what you are.
Her face reddened as she said this, and for a moment she seemed on the point of tears.
Jia Rong put on his most winning smile.
Come on now, forgive and forget, wont you, just this once?
He knelt once more, but she turned her head away and ignored him.
He got to his feet again, still smiling.
You-shi made the servants bring a basin of water and a vanity-box, so that.
Xi-feng could wash her face and hands and comb her hair, and gave orders to hurry on the dinner.
Xi-feng insisted that she must go back, but You-shi was equally insistent that she should stay and eat with them.
If you go off now like this, how shall we ever have the face to visit you at your place in the future?
Jia Rong added his own smiling persuasion.
Come on, Auntie!
I promise that in future I shall serve you as a truly devoted nephew, strike me dead if I dont!
Xi-feng gave him a look.
Pshaw!
Who believes -?
But she did not finish.
353 The maids and old women had been busy meanwhile laying the table.
You-shi made a selection from the dishes with her own chopsticks to put on Xi-fengs plate and Jia Rong knelt down beside her and offered her a cupful of wine.
When Xi-feng and You-shi had eaten, a maid served them with tea to rinse their mouths with and then with a better tea to drink.
After a couple of sips of the latter, Xi-feng rose to go.
Jia Rong saw her all the way back to her own place.
As soon as she was back, Xi-feng went into the Garden to tell Er-jie about these latest developments.
She told her how worried she had been when she heard about the lawsuit, and what she had found out as a result of her inquiries.
Then she explained what had to be done now in order to ensure that none of the others got into trouble.
But if you want to know how Xi-fengs plan turned out in the event, you will have to read the following chapter.
CHAPTER 69 A scheming woman kills with a borrowed knife And one who has ceased to hope swallows gold and dies Er-jie was full of gratitude when she heard what Xi-feng was planning to do for her and gladly accompanied her to the inner mansion.
You-shi, feeling that - in spite of what had been agreed - she could hardly stay away when her own step-sister was being formally presented to the family, went along with them, on the express understanding that she herself would say nothing and that, in the event of there being any opposition, Xi-feng would take sole responsibility.
When the three of them arrived in Grandmother Jias apartment, the old lady was talking to Bao-yu and the girls -such conversations, enlivened by much joking and laughter, being nowadays her principal source of amusement.
Seeing.
Xi-feng come in accompanied by a beautiful young woman, she screwed up her eyes and peered at the latter with curiosity.
Well now, who is this charming young person?
Have a good look, Grandma, said Xi-feng, taking Er-jie by the hand and drawing her forwards.
Tell me what you think of her.
- Quick, make your kotow!
she whispered to Er-jie.
This is Lians grandmother.
When Er-jie had completed her obeisance, Xi-feng pointed to each of the cousins in turn and told her their names.
You can make your curtseys to them later, after you have been to see Their Ladyships, she said.
Er-lie had to greet each of the cousins by name, as if she were meeting them for the first time.
After that she stood, with head demurely lowered, to one side.
Having studied her face for some moments, Grandmother Jia raised her head to think, but presently gave up with a laugh.
355 Its no good, she said.
I cant think who it is.
But Im sure Ive seen her somewhere else before.
Never mind about that, Grandma, said Xi-feng laughing.
Just tell me what you think of her.
Is she prettier than me?
Grandmother Jia put on a pair of spectacles.
Bring the child a little closer, she told Faithful and Amber.
Let me have a look at her skin.
Amid suppressed titters from the others present, Er-jie was hustled forward.
Grandmother Jia looked her up and down very carefully.
Hold her hand out, she said to Amber.
Let me look at her hand.
When the hand had been inspected, Grandmother Jia took off her spectacles and laughed.
Flawless.
Yes, shes prettier than you.
Xi-feng laughed too, then, kneeling down, proceeded to repeat, more or less word for word, what she had told You-shi she would say.
Will you be very kind and let her stay here, Grandma?
She wouldnt begin living with Lian until next year, when she is out of mourning.
Yes, thats perfectly all right, said Grandmother Jia.
Very good of you to have suggested it.
Im very glad.
Provided, as you say, that she and Lian dont start sleeping together until next year.
Xi-feng kotowed.
Then she asked Grandmother Jia if she would mind deputing two of her women to take Er-jie round to see Lady Xing and Lady Wang, and whether it would be all right for them to say that Er-jie was being installed on Grandmother Jias initiative.
The old lady consented and Er-jie was led off to see the other ladies.
Xi-fengs failure to take adequate steps for procuring her husband an heir had for some time now been a source of anxiety to Lady Wang, for she knew that her nieces reputation must be suffering as a consequence.
She was therefore delighted, when Er-jie was presented to her as Jia Lians new concubine, to learn that it was Xi-feng herself who was responsible for the arrangements.
Now that Er-jies union with Jia Lian had been brought into the open, it was possible to move her from the Garden into the 356 -192 apartment in Xi-feng's courtyard that had been prepared for her.
Meanwhile Xi-feng's agents were secretly inciting Zhang Hua to claim his affianced wife, promising that she would come to him with a generous trousseau and that they would give him a substantial sum of money to set up house with.
It was no easy task persuading him, since from the very start he had had little stomach for this case.
His apprehensions seemed justified when, in answer to the summons, Jia Rong's representative eventually appeared in court and made the following statement 'Zhang Hua had already broken off his engagement with the young lady before she entered our house.
She did so, in any case, merely as a kinswoman, already related to the family by her sister's marriage.
There was never any talk of forcing her into matrimony.
Zhang Hua trumped up this case against my master because my master was attempting to recover some money owing to him which Zhang Hua was unable to pay.'
The Censor, whose past connections with both the Jia and Wang families, not to mention the substantial bribe he had pocketed only the night before, inclined him to accept this as a reliable version of the facts, ruled that Zhang Hua was a person of untrustworthy character, driven by destitution to make a number of malicious and defamatory accusations against the defendants, none of which could be substantiated.
The charges in the indictment were dismissed and Zhang Hua was sentenced to be flogged and driven from the court.
By distributing money in the right quarters, Cheerful was able to ensure that the flogging administered was a light one and got to work again on Zhang Hua as soon as it was over.
'There's no question you were betrothed to this girl.
If you go back and tell them that it's the girl you want and nothing else, they're sure to give judgement in your favour.'
Zhang Hua was induced to do this and the court, after further persuasions from Wang Xin, did in fact give judgement in his favour.
'Zhang Hua is to repay the full amount owed by him to the Jia family within the period specified.
But provided that he does so, his affianced wife is to be restored to him as soon as he is in a position to receive her.'
This judgement was confirmed in the presence of Zhang 357 Hua's father, who was specially summoned to the Court of Censors to hear it.
When Cheerful explained to the old man that this meant that he and his son were to get not only the promised money but also Er-jie and her trousseau as well, he was naturally delighted and at once went along to the Jia mansion to claim the bride.
Xi-feng went in feigned alarm to report this latest development to Grandm6ther Jia.
'It's all the fault of Cousin Zhen's wife,' she said.
'It seems that the Zhang family had never agreed to break off this earlier engagement, and now they have sued us and the court has given judgement against us.'
Grandmother Jia summoned You-shi from the other mansion and rebuked her for her carelessness.
'It seems that your sister's betrothal before she was born to this Zhang person was never properly broken off, and now his family are suing us.
I can't imagine what you thought you were at when you made this arrangement!'
'But it was broken off,' You-shi protested.
'They even took our money.'
'When Zhang Hua was giving evidence, he said he'd never seen any money,' Xi-feng chipped in.
'He said no one had ever approached him about breaking off the engagement.
His father said your step-mother mentioned something about breaking it off but there was nothing final.
He said that when your step-mother died, you moved your sister in regardless and married her to Lian as his Number Two.
No one present at the time was able to refute those statements, so they were able to get away with them.
It's a good job Lian hasn't slept with the girl yet.
As far as that goes, there is nothing to stop her going back to Zhang.
The only thing is, it would be a frightful loss of face for us to let her go again having once moved her in.'
'Yes, but as you say, Lian hasn't touched her yet,' said Grandmother Jia.
'It would be even worse for our reputation to hold on to someone who by rights is somebody else's wife.
Much better hand her over to him.
We can easily find someone else for Lian.'
'The engagement really was broken off,' said Er-jie, and named the date on which it had occurred.
'My mother gave the Zhangs twenty taels for doing it.
It must be because they 358 -1536 are so hard up that they have brought this case against you.
The things they have been saying are quite untrue.
My sister made no mistake.
It only goes to show how dangerous people like this are to prov6ke, said Grandmother Jia.
Well, in that case, Feng, you had better go and see what you can do about it.
Whatever reluctance she may have felt, Xi-feng was obliged to say that she would.
She had Jia Rong summoned to her room to talk to him about it.
Jia Rong knew her feelings well enough - but after all, how could a family like the Jias really contemplate handing over one of their women to a beggar?
The idea was preposterous.
When he reported the conversation to his father, Cousin Zhen sent someone to have a word privately with Zhang Hua.
Look here, youve had a lot of money out of them, the man said.
Why do you have to have the woman as well?
If you insist too hard, my master is likely to start getting angry with you, and frankly I wouldnt give much for your chances if he does.
Why dont you and your father go back to where you came from?
With the money youve already got youd have no difficulty in finding yourself a very nice little wife, and if you decide to go away, I can promise you some more money towards your travel expenses.
This sounded to Zhang Hua like good advice, and after talking it over with his father, he agreed that if the money he had already received were to be made up to a total of one hundred taels, he and his father would undertake to make themselves scarce.
The money was handed over, and father and son rose at four oclock next morning to begin the journey back to their native village.
As soon as he had made sure of their departure, Jia Rong went round to tell Grandmother Jia and Xi-feng.
Zhang Hua and his father have run away.
The charges in the indictment were all fabricated and they lost their nerve because they thought they were going to be found out.
The court knows all the facts now but has decided not to prosecute.
So that is the end of the affair.
Xi-feng was not as put out by this as might have been expected.
359 After all, she told herself, even if I had insisted on Zhang Hua taking her away, there was always the possibility that Lian might get back in time to reclaim her.
He would only have had to give Zhang a little money and Zhang would surely not have refused to give her back.
Perhaps its just as well that shes staying here.
I have her here safely under my thumb while I think of some other way of dealing with her.
But I dont like this idea of Zhang going off nobody knows where.
Suppose he talks?
Or suppose one day he finds some means of reopening the case?
Everything I have done up to now will turn out to have been simply working towards my own downfall.
Oh, I should never have put a weapon like this into somebody elses hand!
She began to grow more and more worried and eventually thought of a plan.
Calling Brightie to her she told him to find out where Zhang Hua was and procure his death, either by laying a false accusation of robbery against him and leaving it to the magistrates and yamen runners to finish him off judicially, or else by employing an assassin.
Only by such root-and-branch methods, she felt, could her fears be allayed and the threat to her reputation be removed.
Brightie went off agreeing to do what she had asked, but when he got home and had time to think about it, he began to feel misgivings.
The fellows already gone away, he thought.
Surely thats the end of the matter?
Why does she need to make such a great issue of it?
Taking a mans life is no childrens game its a serious business.
Ill just have to humour her for the time being and think of some way out of this later.
Having so resolved, he went into hiding for a few days before coming back and reporting to Xi-feng.
Three days after Zhang Hua and his father ran away, somewhere near Jing-kou in the early hours of the morning Zhang Hua was knocked down and killed by a highwayman for the sake of the money he was carrying.
The old man died of a heart-attack shortly afterwards in a near-by inn.
There was an inquest on the bodies and both of them were buried there, where it happened.
Xi-feng did not believe him.
360 Ill probably be sending someone to make inquiries shortly, she said.
If I find out that youve been lying, Ill have every tooth in your head broken.
But in the event she did nothing and let the matter drop.
From that time onwards her demeanour towards Er-jie was affable in the extreme.
No sister could have shown a greater interest in her well-being.
-134 A day came when Jia Lians business was at last transacted and he was able to start on his much-delayed journey back home.
On his arrival in the city he called in first at the new house in order to see Er-jie, but he found the place locked and empty with only an aged caretaker in occupation.
When, in answer to his questions, the old man told him what had happened, he stamped in his stirrups with vexation but there was no time for indulging his feelings, for he had shortly to present himself before his parents and report to them on the successful conclusion of his mission.
Jia She was for once very pleased with him and praised him for his capability.
He gave him a hundred taels as a reward and a seventeen-year-old girl from his own room called Autumn as a concubine.
Jia Lian kotowed to receive his presents.
He felt enormously pleased with himself but there was a slightly hang-dog expression on his face when, after he had seen Grandmother Jia and the rest, he appeared once more before his wife.
To his surprise there were none of the expected recriminations.
Xi-feng seemed, indeed, to have become a different person.
She came out to meet him with Er-jie at her side, confined herself to questions about his health, his stay in Ping-an and the journey back home, and made not a single reference to his deception.
When the time came for him to tell her about Autumn, he was unable to prevent a certain pleased smugness from stealing over his face.
At once Xi-feng ordered two of the married servants to go round in a carriage to collect her.
Here was another thorn in her bosom, even before the first one had been extracted!
Yet not a trace of what she felt was allowed to show itself in her expression.
With the same unchanging 361 -134 smile she ordered a welcome home dinner for her husband and took Autumn to make her kotows to Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang.
Jia Lian privately marvelled at the extraordinary change that had come over her.
It need hardly be said that Xi-feng harboured feelings about Er-jie very different from the ones her outward show of friendliness might have suggested.
Once or twice when they were alone together she confided to her in a sisterly manner, of course that her reputation in the family was a very unsavoury one.
There is a nasty little story going around, my dear, that you werent all you should have been before you were married.
They say you were much too thick with Cousin Zhen.
Im afraid even Lady Jia and Lady Wang seem to have got hold of it.
They are beginning to ask me why I picked someone whom no one else would have, and why I dont put you away and choose somebody more suitable.
Needless to say, when I first heard this story I was flabbergasted.
Ive tried to find out who started it, but Ive had no success.
Oh, these servants!
Just as I thought Id done something to feel proud of, I find that Ive got a fishs head like this on my plate to contend with!
Xi-fengs sympathy for Er-jie was so great that, after telling her all this a couple of times, her indignation against these anonymous traducers caused her to become quite ill she refused all food and drink and began to spend the greater part of her time lying down in her room.
The servants, with the sole exception of Patience, speculated freely about the cause of their mistresss illness, and Er-jie, though seldom named, came in for frequent criticism.
Because Autumn had been presented to Jia Lian by his father, she had a very high opinion of her own importance, showing scant respect for Patience or even for Xi-feng, let alone for a poor, unwanted creature like Er-jie, who was commonly known to have been a fallen woman before she married.
When Xi-feng noticed this she was secretly pleased.
Since Xi-fengs pretended illness, she had ceased to eat with Er-jie, whose meals, on Xi-fengs Instructions, were now served to her in her own room.
Invariably the food that was given her was inedible.
Patience was so disgusted that she 362 took to buying her things to eat with her own money, or, on the pretext of going for a walk with her in the Garden, taking her to the Garden kitchen where she could be given nourishing soups to eat under her supervision.
Because it was Patience who did this, none of the other servants dared to inform against her.
Unfortunately Autumn once came upon them there and, feeling no such compunction, went straight off to denounce her to Xi-feng.
Patience is going out of her way to give you a bad name, Mrs Lian.
That Er woman wastes the good food you give her and goes into the Garden with Patience every day to sneak food from the kitchen.
Xi-feng abused Patience angrily.
Most people keep a cat to keep down the mice for them.
My cat seems to eat the chickens!
Patience dared not answer back, and from then on kept away from Er-jie but she secretly hated Autumn because of this.
Bao-yu and the girls were privately concerned about Er-jie.
Though none of them would venture to speak out openly on her behalf, they all of them felt sorry for her.
Sometimes, when no one else was about, one or other of them would get into conversation with her.
Invariably she would be crying and wiping her eyes all the time they were talking to her but she never uttered a word of complaint against Xi-feng - indeed, since Xi-feng was careful never to reveal herself in her true colours, it is hard to see what she could have complained of.
Jia Lian for his part failed to notice that anything was wrong.
Since his return he had been completely taken in by Xi-fengs show of magnanimity towards her rival and in any case he was at present somewhat preoccupied.
The sight of his fathers many maids and concubines had often in the past aroused libidinous feelings in him which he had perforce repressed while on her side Autumn had often in the past, by flutterings of the eyelids and various other signals, expressed a marked interest in her masters handsome son.
It may be imagined what sort of blaze was kindled in the brush-wood when two such eager bedfellows were brought together 363 with full parental approval of their union.
Day after day he spent in Autumns company aye sporting with his new-won bride in the words of the poet.
He seemed, indeed, scarcely able to prise himself away from her.
Gradually, as Autumn became more and more the only centre of his concern, his former feelings towards Er-jie began to cool.
Xi-feng detested Autumn but was glad to have her as a means of ridding herself of Er-jie.
She would kill with a borrowed knife - or rather she would watch the killing from a safe distance, like a traveller reclining on a mountainside who watches two tigers tearing each other to pieces in the valley below.
And when Autumn had disposed of Er-jie, Xi-feng herself would take care of Autumn.
Once she had settled on this strategy, she lost no opportunity, whenever she found herself alone with Autumn, of stirring her up against her rival.
You are so young and headstrong.
You ought to be more careful, she told her.
She is his second wife, after all.
He is very, very fond of her.
Even I have to give way to her a bit.
Its suicide to go constantly provoking her in the way you do.
This had the desired effect of releasing a stream of abuse against Er-jie, uttered in a voice that could be heard from one end of the courtyard to the other.
Youre too soft with people, Mrs Lian.
I wouldnt behave so meekly if I was in your place.
Wheres all your old authority gone to?
You can be forgiving if you like, but if Ive got a smut in my eye, I like to get it out.
You just let me get at that bitch, Ill give her a piece of my mind!
Xi-feng pretended to be too scared of Autumn to rebuke her but Er-jie, listening in her room, spent the whole day crying and was too upset to eat.
She did not dare to tell Jia Lian what the matter was when he called in to see her, and next morning, when Grandmother Jia noticed that her eyes were red and swollen with weeping and asked her what the matter was, she would not say.
This was just the sort of opportunity that Autumn was waiting for.
Shes very good at putting on this dying duck 364 -134 act, she confided to Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang when Er-jie had gone.
We get this from her all the time.
Its because she hates sharing.
She wishes that Mrs Lian and I were dead so that she could have Mr Lian all to herself.
Its possible to be too attractive, said Grandmother Jia.
They say that a jealous nature often goes with it.
How contemptible to be like that, though - especially when Feng has gone out of her way to be nice to her!
One can see that she has no breeding.
From that time onwards she appeared to have taken rather a dislike to Er-jie and the servants, when they sensed that Grandmother Jia did not like her, were only too ready to press forwards and trample on her themselves.
Now indeed life for the poor young woman became a burden, only occasionally alleviated when Patience, acting behind her mistresss back and against her wishes, took up the cudgels on her behalf.
How could so gentle a soul, one of those whom Nature, in the words of the poet, did out of snow and rose-petals compound, stand up to the barbarities to which she was now daily subjected?
After suffering in silence for a month, she began to show the symptoms of an illness there was a weakness and lassitude in her limbs which made moving them an effort she could keep nothing down, either food or drink, and seemed to grow thinner and paler ail the time and she could not sleep at night.
One night, when she was trying to get to sleep, San-jie appeared to her, carrying the sword that she had cut her throat with.
-880 Sister, she said, you always were a silly, weak-willed creature.
I knew you would suffer for it in the end.
Dont trust the honied words of that jealous woman!
Outwardly she seems kind and virtuous, but she is treacherous and cunning underneath.
She hates you and will never rest until she has brought about your death.
If I had been alive, I would never have allowed you to move inside here or if I had, I would never have allowed her to treat you like this.
But I was fated to kill myself and you were fated to suffer here alone.
That is our punishment, because in our past lives our wantonness led 365 -134 other folk astray.
Sister, you must do as J tell you.
Take this sword, cut off that jealous womans head, and come with me to the tribunal of Disenchantment to await her judgement.
You will die in any case, but if you do not do as I say, you will have died for nothing and no one will feel sorry for you.
Sister, said Er-jie, weeping, my whole life has been sinful.
You yourself say that my present sufferings are a punishment.
Why should I add the crime of murder to my other sins?
San-jie left her sorrowfully, and Er-jie, waking up with a start, realized that she had been dreaming.
Next time Jia Lian came to see her she had a tearful disclosure to make.
This illness I am suffering from will not get better.
It is half a year now since I came to you and already I am with child.
It might be the son you want, though of course we cannot know that until it comes.
If Heaven is merciful, I hope I may live long enough to bear it but I fear I may die before, and the child with me.
You mustnt worry, said Jia Lian, weeping himself.
Ill get a first-rate doctor to cure this illness.
He lost no time in sending for one.
Unfortunately the Dr Wang of the Imperial College who had attended Grandmother Jia and other members of the family in the past was at present with the Imperial Army in the field he had some hopes of a baronetcy on his return and the pages sent out to summon him ended up by calling in a colleague of his called Hu Jun-rong -that same doctor, in fact, who had been called in to attend Skybright a year or two previously.
After taking Er-jies pulses he informed Jia Lian that her trouble was irregularity of the menses caused by anaemia.
But are you sure she isnt pregnant?
said Jia Lian.
Its three months now since she had a period, and she is suffering all the time from morning-sickness.
When he heard that, Hu Jun-rong asked the old women in attendance if he might have Er-jies arm again.
It was thrust out through the curtain and he spent a long time feeling the pulses in it a second time.
Its true that in a case of pregnancy the pulse from the 366 liver would be a strong one,' he said finally.
'On the other hand wood in the ascendant generates fire, which can by itself cause the drying up of the menstrual fluid so a strong liver pulse may be indicative only of an irregularity in the menses and not of pregnancy.
I wonder if I might have a look at the lady's face?
Before I finally decide on the right treatment, I should like to see what sort of colour she has.'
The request was an unusual one, but Jia Lian felt he had no choice but to grant it.
The bed-curtains were drawn back a few inches and Er-jie thrust her head out through the slit.
The vision thus presented to him seemed to deprive the doctor temporarily of his senses, so that it is doubtful whether he was able to make any observations of diagnostic value while he was goggling at it.
After a moment or two the curtains were drawn to again and Jia Lian accompanied the doctor outside and once more asked him for his opinion.
'It isn't pregnancy,' said the doctor.
'There is some clotted blood which is holding back the natural discharge.
The important thing is to disperse the clot and get her menstruating again.'
He wrote a prescription out and took his leave.
Jia Lian sent someone to pay him and also to purchase the drugs named in his prescription.
The medicine was made up, infused and taken.
From about midnight Er-jie began to suffer from continuous abdominal pain, and alter what seemed hours of agony, produced a foetus already sufficiently developed to be recognizable as a male child.
This was followed by continuous bleeding in the course of which she fainted away.
Jia Lian cursed Hu Jun-rong bitterly when they told him.
He sent someone immediately to call another doctor.
He also sent someone to look for Hu Jun-rong but Hu Jun-rong, having got wind of what had happened, had already packed his bags and disappeared.
The new doctor was not encouraging.
'Obviously your lady's constitution was not very robust to start with.
It looks to me as if in the course of her pregnancy she must have been subjected to some sort of emotional distress resulting in a congestion of the pneuma.
By mistakenly attacking this with a far too drastic dispersant, I am afraid the 367 previous consultant has done a lot of damage.
The vital essence has been eighty or ninety per cent impaired.
As things look at present, I am afraid I really cannot guarantee a cure.
I propose a treatment using both liquid and solid medicines simultaneously.
If you can make quite sure that she neither sees nor hears anything likely to upset her during the treatment, there might be some hope of improvement.'
Having given his diagnosis he departed, but not before writing out two prescriptions, one for an infusion and one for some pills.
Jia Lian was beside himself.
He insisted that the culprit responsible for calling in Hu Jun-rong should be discovered, and had him beaten within an inch of his life.
But Jia Lian's distress was as nothing compared with the transports of grief displayed by Xi-feng.
'It is beginning to look as if we are fated not to have a son,' she lamented.
'To think that a doctor's incompetence should ruin everything, just as we were so near to having one!'
She had a little 'altar to Heaven and Earth' set up on which she burned incense and in front of which she knelt down and prayed with the utmost fervency for Er-jie's recovery.
'Let me be ill instead of her,' she prayed.
'Only let You-shi's sister get well again and bear us a man-child, and I vow to spend all my remaining days in prayer and fasting.'
Jia Lian and all the others who saw her and heard her pray were filled with admiration.
While Jia Lian and Autumn were alone together, Xi-feng had all sorts of soups and invalid slops made specially for Er-jie.
She even sent the characters of Er-jie's nativity to a fortune-teller to have her fortune told.
The fortune-teller sent word back that Er-jie's stars were temporarily in collision with those of some other female born under the sign of the Rabbit.
A rapid investigation revealed that Autumn was the only person in the household born under that sign.
It was her astral influence that was harming Er-jie.
The sight of Jia Lian rushing agitatedly about, calling for doctors, ordering medicines, dispensing curses and floggings among the servants, and in general showing a most singular devotedness to Er-jie, had already caused Autumn's system to 368 -1014 secrete several gallons of vinegar.
Her jealous fury when she was informed that Er-jies illness was due to her influence and when she was urged by Xi-feng to move elsewhere for a few days in Er-jies interest can be imagined.
Who pays any attention to what those beggarly swindlers tell you?
she said.
Its all rubbish anyway.
How can I have any influence on her?
I have nothing to do with her.
-2107 The water in the well And the water in the sea -2107 Ive naught to do with you Or you to do with me.
-827 Precious little darling!
She saw plenty of all sorts when she was living outside.
She didnt suffer from any influences then, why should she start suffering from them now, I wonder?
Anyway, theres something Id like to ask her.
Id like to ask her where she got that child from.
She may fool that cottoneared master of ours.
As long as she gave him a child, it would be all one to him whether it was a Zhang or a Wang.
But do you really care about that whores brat, Mrs Lian?
Im damned if I do!
Whats so special about having a baby?
Give me a year or ten months and Ill have one myself- and it wont have half the city for its father, either!
The servants hearing her were at some pains not to laugh.
It happened that Lady Xing had come over that day to pay her respects to Grandmother Jia.
Autumn took the opportunity of complaining to her.
Mr and Mrs Lian are trying to drive me out of here.
I dont know which way to turn.
Put in a good word for me, Your Ladyship, I beg of you!
This led Lady Xing to give Xi-feng a severe telling-off, after which she proceeded to give a piece of her mind to Jia Lian.
Ungrateful wretch!
Whatever the girls like, she was given to you by Sir She.
Fancy trying to turn her out for the sake of an outsider!
Have you no respect for your father at all?
She walked off in a huff, giving him no opportunity to explain.
Autumn, now thoroughly cock-a-hoop, stood outside Er-jies window and favoured the world at large with an expanded and even more abusive version of what she had said 369 -827 earlier to Xi-feng.
Er-jie, lying inside, heard every word of it, as she was meant to, and was deeply distressed.
That night, when Jia Lian and Autumn were in bed together and Xi-feng was asleep in her own room, Patience went to see Er-jie and tried to comfort her.
You must try to get well, she said.
Dont take any notice of that animal.
Er-jie clutched her hand.
She was crying weakly as she replied.
Sister, you have been so good to me, ever since I came to this place.
I dont know how much unpleasantness you havent had to put up with on my account.
If I come out of this alive, I promise I shall do my best to repay your kindness.
I fear I shant, though.
I shall have to try and repay you in another life.
Patience could not help crying too.
All these things that have happened to you - its all my fault.
I was so stupid.
I always told myself that Id never deceive my mistress, and so when I heard about you and Mr Lian living together outside, I thought I had to tell her.
I never thought it would all turn out like this.
Youre wrong to blame yourself, said Er-jie.
She would have found out sooner or later, even if you hadnt told her.
It was only a question of time.
And anyway, I wanted to come here.
I wanted so much to be respectable.
It really had nothing to do with you.
The two young women wept a while in silence.
Once more Patience tried to comfort her and urged her to get better then, because it was long past midnight, she left her to go and get some sleep.
After Patience had gone, Er-jie lay thinking.
This illness seems to have got its grip on me.
Im losing rather than gaining all the time.
It doesnt look as if I shall ever get better.
And now that Ive lost the baby, theres nothing much left for me to live for.
I dont have to put up with all this hatred and malice.
Why dont I just die and get it over with?
They say you can die by swallowing gold.
It would be a better way of dying than hanging oneself or cutting ones throat.
370 She struggled out of bed, opened one of her boxes, and hunted out a nugget of raw gold.
Then she wept a little.
It was four oclock in the morning.
Summoning up all the will-power she could muster, she forced herself to swallow it.
She had to hold her head back and swallow many times before it would go down but in the end it did.
Then she dressed herself hurriedly in her best clothes, put on her jewellery and ornaments, laid herself down upon the kang, and sank at once into unconsciousness.
Hearing no call from her next morning, the maids Xi-feng and Autumn having gone off to Grandmother Jias place for their morning duty - were only too pleased to get on with their toilets undisturbed.
Patience was disgusted by their callousness and reproached them bitterly.
What you girls need is a really hard-hearted mistress - one who would curse you and beat you every day.
Theres a sick woman in there cant you feel any sympathy for her at all?
Even though shes so easily put upon, Im surprised you dont show her a little consideration, if only for appearances sake.
Everyone helps to push over a falling wall they say but dont you think you carry it a bit too far?
Shamed by her reproaches, the maids pushed open Er-jies door and went inside to look.
They found her dressed up in all her finery and stretched out dead upon the kang.
Their frightened screams brought Patience running in as well.
She could not help weeping out loud when she saw the cause.
The other servants, too, when they remembered how sweet and gentle Er-jie had been and how unfailingly kind to her inferiors, were moved to tears by her death, but they were all so scared of Xi-feng that they dared not let her see their tears.
Soon everyone in the household had heard the news.
When Jia Lian arrived he clung to the corpse and wept uncontrollably.
Xi-feng made a show of weeping too and hypocritically reproached Er-jie for her cruelty.
Hard-hearted sister!
she wailed.
How could you bear to leave me like this when you knew how much I cared for you?
You-shi and Jia Rong also came and wept a while, after which they urged Jia Lian to cease his lamentations and begin to perform his duties.
The first of these was to report Er-jies 371 death formally to Lady Wang and ask if he might lay out the body in Pear-tree Court for five days and after that move it to the Temple of the Iron Threshold.
Lady Wang gave her permission, whereupon he at once sent servants to open up Pear-tree Court and make the principal room in it ready to receive the corpse.
Jia Lian did not like the idea of Er-jies leaving the mansion for the last time by way of the rear gate and into the back streets beyond.
He therefore opened up the gate in the outer wall of Pear-tree Court giving on to the passage-way between the two mansions which led into Two Dukes Street.
Awnings were put up on either side of this gate to accommodate sutra-chanting monks.
A beautifully-embroidered satin pall was draped over a camp-bed and Er-jies body laid on it and covered over with a sheet.
On this it was carried by eight pages, followed by a number of married womenservants, along the foot of the inside walls and all the way to the room in Pear-tree Court which had been made ready for it.
The official geomancer had been summoned and was waiting there in readiness.
He lifted the coverlet back to look at Er-jies face.
She looked almost alive - if anything even more beautiful than in life.
The sight provoked a fresh outburst of grief from Jia Lian.
Once more he clung to her and wept.
My poor wife!
he sobbed.
You should never have died.
I blame myself for allowing this to happen.
Jia Rong nervously urged restraint.
There, there, Uncle!
Take it easy!
She was unlucky, poor Auntie.
Thats all you can say about it.
He pointed in the direction of the wall separating Pear-tree Court from the mansion.
Jia Lian, understanding his meaning, lowered his voice, though he continued to reproach himself.
I was too careless.
I should have noticed what was going on.
He addressed himself to the dead woman.
One of these days I shall get to the bottom of this and you shall be revenged.
At last the coverlet was replaced and the geomancer made his pronouncement.
I am assuming that she died at the end of the fifth watch.
In 372 -134 that case you wont be able to take her out of here on the fifth day, Im afraid.
It will have to be either the third or the seventh.
For the encoffining, the best time would be four oclock tomorrow morning.
The third day is much too soon, said Jia Lian.
It will have to be the seventh.
I couldnt keep her here much longer than that, because my uncle and my cousin are both away and I should need to have their permission but I am planning to do much more for her when we get her to the temple outside.
Id like to keep her there for the full thirty-five days and give her a really decent funeral with a requiem and so forth at the end of it.
We can take her south to Nanking and bury her in the family graveyard next year.
The geomancer agreed to all this, wrote out the burial licence, and took his leave.
Various male kinsmen - Bao-yu was the first - came over to help Jia Lian mourn.
When they had gone, he went back to his own apartment to look for Xi-feng and ask her for some money to buy timber for a coffin with and pay for the funeral.
Now Xi-feng had used her illness as a pretext for not accompanying the others to Pear-tree Court.
She claimed that she had received strict instructions from Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang that until she had fully recovered she was to avoid all places connected in any way with birth, sickness or death.
She refused to go into mourning for the same reason.
The bar did not however prevent her from slipping out into the Garden when everyone else had gone, making her way round it between the rocks and the perimeter wall to the foot of the wall that separated it from Pear-tree Court, and eavesdropping on what was going on inside.
She could not hear very much, but enough to send her scurrying back to Grandmother Jia to report on what Jia Lian was up to.
Grandmother Jia was indignant.
I never heard such nonsense!
When a consumptive child dies, one just burns it and scatters the ashes.
Burying her in Nanking indeed!
What can the man.
be thinking of?
If he feels he has to do something special for her because she was his wife, let him observe the Thirty-Five Days.
But after that he 373 -800 should either have her carried out and burned or else buried in the common graveyard.
Nanking, indeed!
-534 Xi-feng laughed.
Thats what I thought, but it wasnt for me to say.
Just then a maid arrived from Jia Lian, looking for her.
Mr Lians back, madam.
Hes waiting for you to give him some money.
-294 Xi-feng went back to see him.
Whats this about wanting money?
she asked him.
Dont you know how difficult things are lately?
Every month now our allowance falls short of our expenditure.
I managed to raise three hundred taels yesterday to pay some of the bills with by pawning two of my gold necklaces.
Theres still twenty or thirty taels of that left that you can have if you like.
-534 She told Patience to get it out and give it to him then, muttering something about Grandmother Jia having something more to say, she went away again, leaving Jia Lian speechless with resentment.
He was obliged to go through Er-jies drawers and cupboards looking for the savings he had entrusted to her.
But someone seemed to have been through them before him, for all he could find were a few bits of broken jewellery and a few far from new silk dresses.
The sight of these clothes which she had worn brought on another outburst of anguished weeping.
He felt sure there was something suspicious about her death but dared not utter what he thought.
He made the things up into a bundle and was apparently intending to take them outside and sell them, for he had called no servant, and when Patience saw him was carrying the bundle himself.
She found the sight of him carrying it both pathetic but also a trifle ludicrous.
Hurriedly abstracting a packet containing two hundred taels of miscellaneous bits and pieces of silver from one of Xi-fengs chests, she drew him into one of the side rooms where no one could see them and gave it to him.
Psst!
Not a word!
And by the way, if you want to cry, you can cry as much as you like outside, but for goodness sake dont make an exhibition of yourself here, where everyone can see you!
-534 You are right, said Jia Lian, taking the money.
He handed 374 -107 her a skirt out of the bundle.
Here, take this.
Its something she often used to wear.
Keep it to remember her by.
As he was insistent, she took it from him and put it away with her things.
Now that Jia Lian had some money, he sent someone to buy timber for the coffin.
Unfortunately the best planks turned out to be too expensive and the more modestly priced ones did not meet with his approval.
In the end he got on his horse and insisted on going to see for himself.
The outcome was that a set of planks costing five hundred taels and obtained by him on credit were delivered from the timber-merchants that evening.
The carpenters were set to work on them immediately and ordered to go on working through the night so that the coffin should be ready in time.
He ordered some of the servants to dress in mourning and keep vigil at Er-jies side.
He himself did not return to his own apartment that evening, but spent that and every other night of the seven at Pear-tree Court.
Towards the end of this sojourn he was somewhat surprised to receive a summons from Grandmother Jia.
The reason for the summons will be revealed in the chapter.
which follows.
CHAPTER 70 Lin Dai-yu resuscitates the Poetry Club And Shi Xiang-yun tries her hand at a song lyric Each of the seven nights following Er-jies death were spent by Jia Lian on his own in Pear-tree Court.
Throughout the whole of the seven-day period he had Buddhist monks and Taoist priests chanting arid praying outside for her souls repose.
At the conclusion of the last chapter we mentioned the unexpected summons which he received towards the end of this period from Grandmother Jia.
It turned out to be for the sole purpose of refusing him permission to convey Er-jies body to the family temple outside the city.
This was a heavy blow, but one to which he could not but submit.
He had to talk to the proprietor of the ground in which San-jie was buried and have another grave opened for Er-jie above her sisters.
Apart from a few Jia males and You-shi and her daughter-in-law, the only other mourners on the day they buried her were Xi-fengs kinsman Wang Xin and his wife.
Xi-feng herself would have nothing to do with the funeral and left Jia Lian to manage everything by himself.
The New Year was now approaching.
Among the multitudinous duties that had now to be attended to was the necessity of finding suitable wives from among the maidservants for those of the menservants who had reached the marriageable age of twenty-five.
Xi-feng consulted Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang on this subject and a lengthy discussion of it ensued.
Several maids were of an age to marry, but for one reason or another had to be exempted.
The first of these was Faithful, who had taken a vow to remain single all her life.
Ever since the day on which she took this vow she had refused even to speak to Bao-yu and had taken to using make-up 376 only sparingly, dispensing altogether with jewellery, and wearing only the very soberest clothes.
The others respected her determination and did not press her to abandon it.
Amber had to be exempted because she was ill. Sunset, too, since her break-up with Jia Huan, had developed an illness that seemed incurable and had to be exempted for the same reason.
There remained only a few of the older maids-of-all-work from Xifengs and Li Wans apartments.
The other maids were all too young.
It was decided to allow the young menservants to seek their brides outside.
Xi-fengs illness, necessitating their standing in for her as household managers, had for many months deprived Li Wan and Tan-chun of their leisure.
That, and the multifarious duties attendant on the New Year festival, had resulted in the in-definite postponement of the Poetry Club.
Now spring had come and at last there was time for a meeting.
But now it was Bao-yus condition that prevented them.
Liu Xiang-lians conversion and subsequent disappearance, San-jies suicide, Er-jies hounding to death by Xi-feng, the grave deterioration in Fiveys health caused by the hardships of her nights imprisonment - all these shocks and distresses following hard upon one another had eventually reduced him to a state of mental collapse.
He was beginning to look and act like a half- wit and his speech was frequently disordered and nonsensical.
Aroma and the other maids were frightened out of their wits.
They dared not tell Grandmother Jia about it instead they did what they could to distract him by amusing him and making him laugh.
Early one morning he woke up to the sound of laughter, peals upon peals of k from the neighbouring room.
Aroma smiled at him when she saw that he was awake.
Its Aventurin, she said, giving Parfumee the name that Bao-yu had insisted on.
Youd better go and rescue her.
Shes got Skybright and Musk holding her down and tickling her.
Bao-yu slipped on his squirrel4ined gown and went into the outer room to look.
The three girls were on the kang, their bedding still not folded and none of them yet dressed.
Sky- 377 bright, wearing only a tunic of leek- green Hangchow silk and a pair of red silk drawers and with her hair hanging loose over her shoulders, knelt above Parfumees body, straddling her as if riding a horse Musk, wearing little but a red breast-binder and an old gown that she had wrapped round herself like a cloak, was tickling Parfumee under the armpits Parfumee herself, in flower-patterned shirt, red trousers and green stockings, lay on her back drumming her heels on the kang and laughing so much that she seemed in some danger of asphyxiation.
Two big ones against one little one, said Bao-yu, laughing.
I shall have to see about that!
He got on the kang and began tickling Skybright.
Skybright, being very ticklish, at once began shrieking and let go of Parfumee in order to tickle him back, which gave Parfumee the opportunity of getting on top of her and holding her down.
Aroma stood watching these antics with amusement.
Why dont you get dressed, all of you?
she said.
It wont be so funny if you catch cold.
At that moment Casta came in.
Mrs Zhu thinks she left a handkerchief here last night.
Have any of you seen it, please?
Yes, said Swallow.
I picked it up off the floor, but I didnt know whose it was.
Ive only just washed it and hung it out to dry.
Im afraid it wont be dry yet.
Casta was greatly amused by the four figures struggling on the kang.
Youre certainly a lively lot here, larking about like this so early in the morning!
Bao-yu disengaged himself to talk.
Dont you lot ever play, then?
There are enough of you.
Mrs Zhu isnt much of a one for playing, said Casta, and she keeps a pretty tight rein on the others Miss Qin and the two Miss Lis.
Its very quiet there now that Miss Qin is sleeping over at Her Old Ladyships again.
It will be quieter still next winter when the two Miss Lis go back to their own home.
Look how quiet its become at Miss Baos place since Caltrop went back to Mr Pan.
Its as though several people had left.
Poor Miss Shi is quite lost without her!
378 By coincidence it was Xiang-yuns maid Kingfisher who walked in just at that moment.
She had a message for Bao-yu.
Miss Shi says come quickly, Master Bao.
Theyve got a very good poem for you to look at.
Who have?
said Bao-yu.
What sort of poem?
The young ladies.
Theyre all together in the Drenched Blossoms Pavilion.
Youll see when you get there.
Bao-yu rushed through his toilet and hurried outside to join them.
He found Dai-yu, Bao-chai, Xiang-yun, Bao-qin and Tan-chun clustered round the sheet of paper on which the poem was written.
Have you only just got up?
the girls jeered when they saw him coming.
Weve all been up for hours!
Its more than a year now since our Poetry Club met, said one of them, yet in all that time no one seems to have felt the urge to get it going again.
Springtime, when everything in nature is renewing itself, seems an appropriate time for reestablishing it.
Yes, said Xiang-yun.
We founded it in the autumn, which is a time of decay.
Perhaps thats why it didnt thrive.
If we re-establish it now, when everything is burgeoning, it is bound to flourish!
And this Flower of the Peach is such a splendid poem I think we ought to rename our club The Peach-flower Club.
What do the rest of you think?
I think its an excellent idea, said Bao-yu.
May I see the poem?
Lets all go and see Farmer Sweetrice and discuss this business of reviving the Poetry Club with her, said the others.
They got up in a body and began to go, Bao-yu reading the poem as he went.
The Flower of the Peach Peach pink the tender flowers outside the window blow Peach pink on sleepy face the morning colours glow.
Tree-flowers outside the room and lady-flower inside Only a few short steps the flowery forms divide.
Slyly the conspiring wind tugs at the blind below Tree-flowers would peep inside if they could do so.
379 -384 Outside the window tree-flowers are blooming still Inside the window lady-flower looks ill.
If the flowers could understand, surely they would grieve?
The anxious wind flaps the blind against the window-sill.
-384 The anxious wind flaps the blind spring crowns the courtyard trees Spring sights fill the ladys eyes, but bring her heart no ease.
In her closed, untrodden court the moss grows green on the stones She leans there at the sunset hour, in the soft evening breeze.
-384 In the soft breeze the ladys face is wet with many a tear.
Her silken peach-skirt billows out, the peach-trees to be near.
The peach-flowers and the peach-leaves nod in a rich array The leaves, against the peach- pink , dark emerald appear.
A thousand trees, ten thousand trees, crowding close together, Walls and buildings everywhere in a red mist smother.
-384 Heavens new bed-spread is burning on the dawn loom of the skies Its time now for sleeping lady-flower from dreams of spring to rise.
-5947 Her maid comes in with a golden bowl as she leaves her coral bed, And the peach- pink stain from her sleepy face the chilly water dyes.
-5947 If with the waters rosy hue comparison be made, Carmine tears and dewy flowers seem of the self-same shade.
Yet ladys tears and flowers in this unalike I find, That the flowers are still and smiling, but the tears flow unallayed.
As she gazes on the smiling flowers, her tears at last grow dry But as they dry, the springtime ends and the flowers fade.
-5947 The flowers fade, and an equal blight the ladys fair cheek palls.
The petals drift she is weary and soon the darkness falls.
A nightingale is singing a dirge for the death of spring, -384 And moonlight steals through the casement and dapples the silent walls.
Bao-yu uttered no word of praise when he had finished reading it, he simply went on staring stupidly at the paper, He 380 wanted to cry, but was ashamed that the girls should see his tears and brushed them away with a hurried movement of his hand.
How did you get hold of this poem?
he asked them.
First guess who wrote it, said Bao-qin mischievously.
River Queen, said Bao-yu.
Who else?
-294 Really?
said Bao-qin.
Well, as a matter of fact, I did.
I dont believe you, said Bao-yu, smiling back at her.
The tone of voice is entirely different from yours.
That just shows how little you know about poetry, said Bao-qin.
Not all of Du Fus poems have the complexity of Autumn Thoughts.
He is equally capable of lines like Rain-fattened plum-buds crimson splashed, Or The winds green duckweed-trails on the water bright.
Thats as may be, said Bao-yu, but I dont believe Cousin Chai would allow you to write such melancholy verses.
And in any case, though I am sure you have the talent to write verses like this if you wanted to, I dont believe you would want to.
Cousin Lin writes like this because she has had actual experience of grief.
The girls all laughed.
They had now reached Sweet-rice Village.
Li Wan was shown the poem and - it goes without saying - was full of praise.
After some discussion it was decided unanimously that the first meeting of the revived Poetry Club should be held the very next day, which as it happened, would be the second of the third month.
The dub was to be renamed The Peach-flower Club and Dai-yu was to be its president.
Next day, as soon as lunch was over, everyone met in the Naiads House and began discussing the question of a subject.
Dai-yu proposed that each of them should compose a hundred couplets on Peach-blossom.
Dont be ridiculous!
said Bao-chai.
Even if we succeeded in writing so many, there have been such a lot of poems written on this subject in the past that we should be sure to find our- 381 selves repeating what has been said before and we couldnt in any case do anything to equal your Flower of the Peach.
Think of something else.
But just at that moment a servant came in from outside and summoned them away.
The elder Lady Wang is here.
Will you all come over to pay her your respects, please.
So off they trooped to talk to Wang Zi-tengs wife.
They had to stay and have dinner with her and after that show her over the garden.
It was lighting-up time before she went.
Next day was Tan-chuns birthday.
Yuan-chun had sent two little eunuchs well in advance of the date with her presents various ornaments for Tan-chuns room.
There were presents from all the other members of the family as well, of course, but we will spare the reader a list.
After lunch Tan-chun had to change into her most formal clothes and go around all the apartments making her kotows.
My poetry dub seems to have got off to rather a bad start, said Dai-yu ruefully.
Id forgotten about her birthday.
Today and tomorrow will be completely taken up with it.
Even though there will be no formal birthday with players and so forth, we are sure to have to spend all day in the front with Grandmother and Aunt Wang.
Theres sure not to be any time left for a meeting.
She postponed the meeting until the fifth.
on the morning of the fifth, after lunch, while the girls stood talking with Grandmother Jia, letters from Jia Zheng arrived.
Bao-yu brought them with him when he came to make his regular morning call.
He opened the one addressed to his grandmother and read it out to her.
Most of it was taken up with greetings and inquiries about her health, but there was also something about returning .to the capital some time in the sixth month.
There were other, letters in the same packet dealing with personal or domestic matters which were opened and read by Jia Lian and Lady Wang.
Everyone was of course delighted to hear that he was coming back so soon.
But once again the Poetry Club was fated to be unlucky.
Not long before this date the betrothal had been announced of Wang Zi-tengs daughter to the Marquis of Bao-nings son 382 the wedding to be in the fifth month and Xi-feng had lately taken to spending three or four days in a row at the Wang residence, helping her aunt with the entertaining occasioned by this important event.
As ill luck would have it, when Wang Zi-tengs lady called to collect Xi-feng on the fifth, she insisted that all her other nephews and nieces should come too and spend the day enjoying themselves at her place.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang decreed that Bao-yu, Tan-chun, Dai-yu and Bao-chai should go as a representative selection.
It was out of the question to object that they had better things to do the four of the m had to go back to their own rooms and change into their most formal clothes before accompanying Wang Xi-feng and their aunt to the Wang family residence.
It was lighting-up time before they returned.
As soon as he got back to Green Delights, Bao-yu threw himself down to rest.
Aroma seized the opportunity to offer him a little serious advice.
He really must try and pull himself together, she said, and apply himself whenever possible to his books, so as to be ready for his fathers return.
Bao-yu did some rapid calculations on his fingers.
Its a bit early for that yet, he said.
It isnt only the books, said Aroma.
Your calligraphy is even more important.
Even if you can get by on the books, what are you going to show him when he asks to see your calligraphy?
Bao-yu smiled unconcernedly.
Im always doing calligraphy.
There must be masses of it.
Surely you keep it for me, dont you?
Certainly we keep it for you, said Aroma.
I got it out to have a look at only yesterday, while you were away.
Five hundred and sixty sheets for all the years since you first started, thats all youve got to show.
If you ask me, I think that from tomorrow onwards you ought to concentrate all your energies on copying.
If you could copy two or three sheets of calligraphy a day, then by the time he gets back, even though you wont be able to show him a sheet for every day, you should have enough to get by with.
Bao-yu heard her with some alarm.
He had a look at the collected sheets himself.
It was true.
There simply wasnt 383 enough there to convince anyone that he had been practising calligraphy every day.
All right, he said.
Beginning from tomorrow, Ill write a hundred characters every morning.
He was still discussing this when they went to bed.
Next morning, as soon as he had washed and combed his hair, he sat down at the window and began painstakingly copying kai-shu, characters out of a sample-book.
Grandmother Jia thought he must be ill when he did not appear with the others for his duty-call, and sent someone over to inquire.
Bao-yu returned with the messenger to wish her good morning and explain.
Ive been practising calligraphy, he told her.
Thats whats made me late.
Grandmother Jia was delighted.
Keep it up, my boy!
When you are studying or practising your calligraphy, it doesnt matter if you dont come here at all.
You may tell your mother I said so.
Bao-yu went round to Lady Wangs apartment to do so.
His mother was unimpressed.
Its too late to begin sharpening your weapons on the field of battle, she said.
Getting in a panic now will do you no good.
Even if you work all day and all night, you wont be able to make up for all the time you have wasted.
More likely all you will succeed in doing is making yourself ill. Ill be all right, said Bao-yu.
Bao-chai and Tan-chun, who happened to be present, reassured her.
We cant memorize his texts for him, they said, but we could at least help him out with his calligraphy.
If each of us copied a sheet of characters for him every day to add to what he has done himself, he ought to have enough calligraphy to get by with.
Thats one hurdle at least hed be over.
It would save Sir Zheng from getting angry and Bao-yu from making himself ill. Lady Wang smiled and nodded.
When Dai-yu heard that Jia Zheng was coming home, she knew that he would be sure to ask Bao-yu about his lessons and that anything which distracted him from them would be 384 merely adding to his troubles.
Because of this she deliberately made no more mention of the Poetry Club, and in order that he should not suspect her real reason for dropping it, pretended that she was beginning to find the whole thing rather a bore.
Tan-chun and Bao-chai each produced a sheet of characters a day to add to his collection, and Bao-yu himself, by doubling the time he spent on calligraphy, managed to produce two hundred or sometimes as much as three hundred characters a day.
By the end of the third month he had already added considerably to his stock of sheets.
One day towards the end of the month he was going over this stock and had just estimated that fifty or sixty more sheets would probably be enough, when Nightingale arrived with a roll of something from Dai-yu.
on opening it out he found it to consist of several sheets all of the same dark- yellow bamboo paper, covered with tiny flys-head kai-shu characters which she had copied, in a hand very similar to his own, from sample-books of Zhong Yus and Wang Xi-zhis calligraphy.
Bao-ya was so pleased that he clasped his hands and made Nightingale a bow before hurrying over to thank her mistress in person.
Shortly after that he received some more sheets of calligraphy that Xiang-yun and Bao-qin had been copying for him.
Now, when he put the whole lot together, he found that, though there was nothing like a sheet a day for every day since he first started, there was already a sufficient quantity to get by with.
This was a great relief.
He could now forget about calligraphy for the time being and concentrate on revision.
His aim was to go three or four times over each of the texts.
While he was still busily engaged in this revision, a tidal wave hit a certain part of the coast, causing damage and loss of life in a number of neighbouring communities.
After reading the reports sent in by the local authorities, the Emperor issued a Rescript commanding Jia Zheng to visit the area on his way back in order to supervise relief.
It now seemed unlikely that he would be able to reach home before the end of the seventh month.
When he heard this, Bao-yu threw aside his books and reverted to the drifting, aimless way of life that was customary with him.
385 Spring was now almost over Xiang-yun, feeling rather bored, had been watching the drifting willow-floss and amusing herself by composing a little poem about it.
It was a song-lyric, in the form of a Ru-meng-ling -800 Not chewed-off ends of the skys embroidery?
What are they?
- Raise the blind a bit and see.
A white hand snatches some and draws it in, Pursued by the swallows chiding din.
Oh stay, oh stay!
The lovely spring drifts after you away.
Xiang-yun was rather pleased with her little poem and wrote it out on a slip of paper to show Bao-chai.
After that she went to look for Dai-yu and showed it to her.
Dai-yu read it and smiled.
Its good.
Both charming and original.
Weve never done song-lyrics at any of our poetry meetings, said Xiang-yun.
Why dont you call a meeting for tomorrow and well all do some?
It would make a nice change.
Dai-yu was becoming infected by Xiang-yuns enthusiasm.
Its a good idea, she said.
I will.
Its a lovely day today, said Xiang-yun.
Why not have the meeting today?
I dont see why not, said Dai-yu.
She told the servants to prepare some suitably dainty things to eat, while a couple of them went off to summon the other cousins to the meeting.
Meanwhile Dai-yu and Xiang-yun agreed that Willow Floss should be the subject of the poems and decided on the stanza-patterns that they should conform to.
All this was written down on a sheet of paper which was pasted up on the wall.
When the cousins arrived, they first of all read the notice on the wall and then read Xiang-yuns poem.
Some little time after that was devoted to praising it.
Im not much good at song-lyrics, said Bao-yu, but I suppose I had better do what I can.
Everyone drew lots then to see which stanza-forms they were to use.
Bao-chai lit a stick of Sweet Dreams incense, and then everyone settled down to think.
Dai-yu was the first to have something ready and write it down.
Just as she had finished, Bao-qin began hurriedly writing hers.
386 Ive thought of mine, said Bao-chai, but Id like to look at yours first before I show it to you.
Tan-chun laughed.
Why does the incense seem to be burning so quickly today?
Ive only done the first half of mine.
She turned to Bao-yu.
How about you?
Have you done yours yet?
Bao-yu had in fact written a few lines of one, but, feeling dissatisfied with what he had written, had crossed it all out and begun again, by which time the incense had almost burned itself out.
Bao-yus failed to make the grade as usual, said Li Wan, laughing.
But what about Miss Plantain?
Tan-chun promptly began to write down what she had composed.
The others read the words as she wrote them.
It was the first half of a Nan-ge-zi lyric.
-640 Once in the air you start, The creatures of the wind, the breezes sport, Not to be bound or held back by any art, To north and south and east and west You drift apart.
Very good, said Li Wan.
But why dont you finish it?
Bao-yu had been willing to concede defeat.
When he saw that the incense was running out, he could see no point in writing an indifferent conclusion just for the sake of finishing, and so he had laid down his brush and occupied himself instead in reading what Tan-chun had written.
As he did so, he had a sudden inspiration, and picking up his brush again, quickly scribbled out a second half for it -640 Your drifting fate not fear I understand the message that you bear.
Though orioles mourn and the flowers end seems near, Spring will return, but I must wait Another year.
The girls were amused.
Youre a funny fellow.
You cant do your own, yet you can do someone elses without any trouble.
Its very good, but unfortunately it doesnt count.
387 They had a look at Dai-yus poem then.
It was a Tang-duo-ling.
-800 The pollen is spent in the Island of Flowers From the House of the Swallow the perfume has fled.
-827 The fluff-balls dance, Pursue, embrace, Their floating lives, as our lives, quickly sped -1894 That, craving Beauty, Find it dead.
The creatures of nature, they too know our sorrow, Their beauty, like ours, must soon end in decay.
-1894 Our fate, like theirs, Uncertain hangs, -1920 Wed to the wind, our bridegroom of a day, Who cares not if we -1894 Go or stay.
The others admired it, but with reservation.
Pity its so gloomy, they said.
Still, theres no denying, it is very good.
Then they had a look at Bao-qins.
She had written a Xi-jiang-yue In the Han palace gardens a scatter thin and slight, But along the Sui embankment in legions falling Springs three-month handiwork before the wind in flight, A day-dream of pear-blossom on a moonlit night.
In many a courtyard petals fall through the air, And the floss collects like fragrant snow on the casements In North and South the same sight is seen now everywhere But for the sad exile most hard to bear.
A more virile type of melancholy, said the others, laughing.
Very typical!
That In many a courtyard... couplet is good.
I dont agree, said Bao-chai.
I think it suffers from the same pessimism as Cousin Dais.
Willow floss is a light and airy thing.
It seems to me that the best way to avoid the cliches that this subject invites is to give it a light and airy 388 treatment.
That is the principle on which I have tried to compose my poem but you may not think I have succeeded.
Dont be so modest!
said the others.
Its sure to be good.
Come on, hand it over!
Permit us to admire!
It was a Lin-jiang-xian that she had written.
-640 In mazy dances over the marble forecourt, -384 Wind-whorled, into trim fluff-balls forming Bravo!
said Xiang-yun.
Wind-whorled, into trim fluff-balls forming that line is better than anything the rest of us have written.
They read on.
-640 Like fluttering moths or silent white bees swarming Not for us a tomb in the running waters, Or the earths embalming.
-640 The filaments whence we are formed remain unchanging, No matter what separates or unifies.
Do not, earth-child, our rootlessness despise When the strong wind comes he will whirl us upwards Into the skies.
They thumped the table enthusiastically.
-587 Undoubtedly this poem is the best.
There is a mote haunting melancholy perhaps in River Queens poem and more liveliness and charm in Cloud Maidens but all in all this is far and away the best poem.
This time Little Xue and Plantain Lover fail to make the grade.
We shall have to think of a penalty.
Thats fair enough, said Bao-qin, laughing, but what about someone who failed to submit anything at all?
What should his penalty be?
Dont worry about him, said Li Wan.
He will be punished too exemplarily!
-587 Just at that moment there was a crashing noise outside the window which made them lump.
It sounded as if an outer casement had somehow come unfastened and fallen into the bamboos.
The maids ran outside to look.
Other maids, who had been waiting outside there all the time, told them what it 389 was a large kite shaped like a butterfly which had fallen down and got caught in the tops of the bamboo.
What a beauty!
said the maids from inside.
I wonder whose it is.
They must have cut the string.
Lets try and get it down.
I recognize that kite, said Bao-yu.
It belongs to Uncle Shes new girl, Carmine.
Lets take it down and give it back to her.
There must be other kites like that besides hers, said Nightingale.
I think its silly to say that it must be hers.
Anyway, I dont care.
Im going to get it down for us.
How mean you are, Nightingale!
said Tan-chun.
Youve got a kite of your own already.
And if you keep someone elses, arent you afraid of catching their bad luck?
-587 Youre right, said Dai-yu.
We dont know whose bad luck it mightnt be bringing us.
Take it away!
Lets take out our kite and get rid of our bad luck.
Nightingale told the maids, who had by this rime succeeded in getting the kite down, to take it to the women at the gate and hand it into their keeping.
If anyone came looking for it, they were to give it back to them.
The other maids rushed off excitedly to fetch Dai-yus kite.
It was the kind called a pretty lady.
While two of them carried out the kite, one of them brought out a stool to stand on, another fastened the cross-piece to the raising-stick, and another paid the string out from the winder.
Bao-chai stood with the other cousins at the gate of the courtyard, directing operations.
She told the girls to fly the kite in the open ground outside the courtyard.
This kite of yours isnt nearly as pretty as Cousin Tans, Bao-qin told Dai-yu.
She has one shaped like a phoenix, with wings that move.
Why dont you get yours and fly it then?
Bao-chai said, turning to Tan-chuns maid Ebony.
-587 Ebony hurried off excitedly to do so.
Bao-yu, catching the enthusiasm, sent a maid off to fetch one of his own.
Bring the big fish one that Lai Das wife sent me yesterday, he told the girl.
After a long time gone, the girl came back empty-handed.
Skybright flew it yesterday and let it go.
390 Really!
said Bao-yu.
And I hadnt even flown it once myself.
Tan-chun laughed.
Never mid!
At least shes got rid of your bad luck for you!
All right, said Bao-yu to the girl.
Go and fetch the big crab one.
The girl went off and returned accompanied by two or three other maids carrying a large pretty lady kite and a winder.
Miss Aroma says she gave the crab one to Master Huan yesterday.
She says why dont you fly this one instead?
It was sent to you yesterday by Mrs Lin.
Bao-yu inspected it.
The pretty lady was certainly a beautifully constructed creature.
He was secretly pleased and told the girls to fly it.
Tan-chuns kite had also arrived by now and Ebony was already standing on a little hill getting it up with the assistance of a few helpers.
Bao-qin had sent for her kite, a large red bat, and Bao-chai, beginning to share the excitement herself, had had hers fetched too it was a line of seven large geese flying one behind the other.
Soon all the kites but one were up in the air being flown successfully.
Bao-yus pretty lady was the exception.
He said it was because the maids didnt know how to do it properly and insisted on flying it himself but after a good deal of manoeuvring he could get her no higher than the roof, and even then it was only to flop down weakly again upon the ground.
Bao-yu was getting into quite a state and the perspiration stood out in beads upon his brow.
The cousins all laughed.
At this he became so exasperated that he picked the kite up, threw it down on the ground again, and pointed his finger at it in anger.
If you werent a lady, Id stamp on you and smash you into pieces I Dai-yu laughed.
The string isnt fastened on right.
If you could get someone to refasten it for you properly, it would fly just as well as any other.
Dao-yu sent someone to take the kite back for restringing 391 and fetch him another pretty lady that he could fly in the mean tune.
-107 All the cousins were now standing with their faces turned upwards, watching the kites as they soared higher and higher into the sky.
A maid came round offering them all sweets.
Presently there was a cry from Nightingale The winds getting stronger, Miss.
Do you want to release it now?
Dai-yu made her handkerchief into a pad for her hand and tested the tension on the string.
The wind was certainly pulling it with some force.
She took over the winder from Nightingale and let it run free, so that the kite could pull itself away in the wind.
There was a whirring noise as the last of the string ran out.
Dai-yu asked the others if any of them would like to cut it for her.
No, weve all got our own, they said.
You do yours first.
-587 Its fun to see them fly away, said Dai-yu, and yet it seems rather a pity.
But thats the main reason for flying kites, said Li Wan, the pleasure of seeing them fly away.
Not to mention the fact that it is supposed to get rid of your bad luck You of all people ought to let yours go, so as to get rid of your illness.
Come on, Miss, youve sent plenty of kites off in your time!
said Nightingale.
Why be so stingy all of a sudden?
If you wont cut it, Ill cut it for you.
-107 She snatched a little pair of West Ocean silver scissors out of Snowgooses hand and snipped through the kite-string, an inch or so from the winder.
Go away, kite!
she cried merrily.
And take my mistresss illness with you!
The kite began to swoop and soar.
Soon it appeared no bigger than an egg.
A few moments later and it was only a dot in the sky.
Another moment and it had disappeared from sight altogether.
Hurrah!
Hurrah!
cried the cousins, as they watched it disappear.
What a pity we dont know where she will land I said Bao-yu.
It would be nice if she landed somewhere where there are people and some little child were to find her.
But suppose she 392 lands in some uninhabited wilderness how lonely she will be!
I think I shall send my lady after her, to keep her company!
He asked for the scissors and cut the string himself, and a second pretty lady went hurrying after the first one until it, too, disappeared.
Tan-chun was just about to cut the string of her phoenix when another phoenix appeared in the sky, not far from hers.
I wonder whose that is?
said Tan-chun.
Dont cut yours yet, the others cried.
It looks as if that one is going to get caught up in it.
And that is just what happened.
The other phoenix drew nearer and nearer until the two strings crossed and tangled.
The maids were all for winding Tan-chuns kite in and capturing the other kite with it, but the owner of the other kite was not prepared to yield, and after a good deal of tugging and heaving on both sides, the strings finally snapped and the two phoenixes flew off companionably together.
The cousins clapped their hands delightedly.
Well, Ive released my kite and now Im tired.
I think I shall go in and rest, said Dai-yu.
Just wait until weve released ours, said Bao-chai, and then we can all go.
So she and Xiang-yun and Bao-qin each cut their kite-strings and watched their kites fly away, after which all of cousins went back to their own apartments.
-2 In spite of the reprieve, Bao-yu dared not abandon his lessons altogether and continued to do a little revision or calligraphy from time to time.
When he was feeling bored, he would go out to seek the company of the girls, or go round to the Naiads House for a chat.
The girls, for their part, knowing how much he was behind with his work, no longer sent anyone to invite him when they met together for poetry-reading or other diversions and Dai-yu, in her anxiety lest he should once more incur his fathers wrath, frequently feigned sleep when he went round to see her, so as not to be the cause of keeping him from his studies.
Bao-yu was re- 393 duced to spending more and more time in his own room, where work itself now often took the place of a diversion.
In this manner the summer gradually wore away.
Autumn was just beginning when one day two of his grandmothers maids came round in a very agitated state to summon him.
-1152 The purpose of the summons and the reason for their agitation will be explained in the chapter which follows.
CHAPTER 71 Lady Xing deliberately humiliates her Daughter-in-law And Faithful inadvertently interrupts a pair of love-birds It was the news of Jia Zhengs imminent homecoming that had caused the maidservants agitation.
As an Education Officer, Jia Zheng was supposed to report on his commission as soon as he arrived and, being a very conscientious man, he would have thought it improper even to look in on his family before doing so.
When, therefore, at the news of his coming, Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian and Bao-yu went out to the first poststage beyond the walls to welcome him, he merely inquired after his mothers health, bowing respectfully in her direction as he did so, and told them to go back and wait for him at home.
After his interview next day with the All-highest, his mission was formally completed and he could return with a good conscience to his family.
The All-highest had been graciously pleased to grant him a whole months leave of absence in which to rest and recuperate at home.
Jia Zheng was beginning to age now, and the worries and responsibilities of office had taken their toll of his health.
It was good to be back after so long an absence from those nearest and dearest to him he was determined to relax and enjoy himself to the utmost, refused even to think about money matters or domestic responsibilities, and spent all his time reading, or, when he felt in need of company, drinking and playing Go with his literary gentlemen, or enjoying the delights of family life with his wife and mother in the womens apartments inside.
This year the third day of the eighth month was Grandmother Jias eightieth birthday.
A formidable number of people would have to be invited and there was even some doubt whether they would be able to accommodate them all.
395 After discussion by the menfolk of both mansions, it was decided that there should be eight days of entertaining, beginning on the twenty-eighth of the seventh month and ending on the fifth day of the eighth on each of these days banquets would be given in both mansions in the Ning-guo mansion for male guests and in the Rong-guo mansion for female ones.
The Painted Chamber, Prospect Hall and one or two other of the larger buildings in Prospect Garden would be used as restrooms for the ladies.
The programme of entertaining would be as follows the twenty-eighth would be for Imperial kinsmen, Princes and Princesses of the Blood and their consorts, Royal Highnesses, Serene Highnesses and members of the high nobility the twenty-ninth would be for Ministers of State and Civil and Military Governors and their wives the thirtieth for official colleagues and their wives and members of other clans related to the Jia family by marriage on the first of the eighth month a family party would be given by Jia She, on the second one by Jia Zheng and on the third one by Cousin Zhen and Jia Lian on the fourth a joint entertainment would be given by all members of the Jia clan irrespective of age and seniority and on the fifth there would be another joint entertainment organized by Lai Da, Lin Zhi-xiao and the other senior domestics.
Ever since the beginning of the seventh month presents had been coming in almost continuously.
From the highest source of all an order was received by the Board of Rites authorizing the bestowal of the following a ru-yi sceptre of gold and jade four lengths of tribute satin four gold and jade cups five hundred taels of silver from the Imperial Treasury Yuan-chuns gifts, which were delivered to the mansion by eunuchs, were a golden figurine of Old Longevity a staff of aloeswood a rosary of putchuk beads a box of Fu Shou incense a pair of golden medallions 396 -320 396 -320 four pairs of silver ingots twelve lengths of tribute satin four jade cups And there were presents too numerous to mention from princes and princesses and from the families of a host of civil and military officials both great and small who were on visiting terms with the Jias.
Several long tables were carried into the main reception hail and covered with red baize and the choicest presents set out on them every day for Grandmother Jias inspection.
She went along for the first day or two and took some pleasure in examining her gifts, but soon grew tired of this and told Xi-feng to look after them for her she would look at them herself some other day, when she had nothing better to do.
By the twenty-eighth both mansions had been hung with lanterns and festooned all over with garlands.
Painted phoenixes gambolled on folding screens, embroidered lotuses blossomed on drapes and covers, and the sound of fluting and piping could be heard several streets away.
The only guests that day at the Ning-guo mansion were the Prince of Bei-jing, the Prince of Nan-an, Princess Yang-changs Consort, the Prince of Luo-shan and a number of noblemen whose families had long been on friendly terms with the Jias.
At the Rong-guo mansion the guests were the Dowager Princess of Nan-an, the Prince of Bei-jings Consort, and the ladies of the various aforementioned noblemen.
Grandmother Jia and the others were dressed in full court rig to receive them.
After the initial salutations were over, the visitors were conducted to Prospect Hall inside the Garden, where they took tea and changed their clothes.
From there they were conducted to the Hall of Exalted Felicity, where they offered formal congratulations to Grandmother Jia before finally, after much polite bowing and deferring, taking their places at the banquet.
The Dowager Princess of Nan-an and the Prince of Beijings Consort sat at the two central tables at the back of the hall the two rows of tables arranged at right-angles to left and right of theirs were occupied in order of precedence, the Marchioness of Jin-xiang and the Countess of Lin-an heading the row upon the left, while Grandmother Jia, as hostess, 397 occupied the first of the right-hand ones.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang stood in attendance behind Grandmother Jias chair, with You-shi, Xi-feng and a number of other Jia ladies fanning out to left and right behind them.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife and Lai Das wife stood by the bamboo curtain on one side of the hail supervising the transportation of dishes and wine-kettles by a small army of serving-women, while Zhou-Ruis wife directed the waitresses from the other side of the folding screens.
Meanwhile the attendants brought with them by the lady visitors were being entertained elsewhere.
Outside, on the temporary stage that had been erected in the courtyard, the players were due to begin their performance.
In honour of the occasion they began by kneeling in a row at the front of it and offering their birthday congratulations to the old lady, while twelve little maids, dressed up as page-boys in identical costumes, stood solemnly to attention below the stage.
When the players had finished, one of these little girl-pages advanced to the foot of the steps leading up to the hail with a playbill in her hands.
She was relieved of it by a serving-woman who had been stationed there for the sole purpose of receiving and carrying messages.
This woman handed it to Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, who put it on a salver, edged herself through the bamboo curtain, and carried it to Cousin Zhens concubine, Lovey.
Lovey handed it to You-shi, and You-shi walked up and offered it to the Dowager Princess of Nan-an.
The Dowager Princess, after first, for politeness sake, declining, chose one of those congratulatory pieces which are customarily performed on these occasions.
The Prince of Bei-jings Consort, whose turn it was next, did exactly the same.
The rest of the ladies insisted that the players themselves should put on whatever they thought best, for it was sure to be good.
After four courses of various dishes and one of soup, the visitors attendants gave their mistresses largesse to the players, and the ladies returned to the Garden to change their clothes and sample a very special tea.
The Dowager Princess of Nan-an asked Grandmother Jia about Bao-yu.
Several temples are reading the Immaculate Diamond for me today, said Grandmother Jia.
He has gone to kneel a while in each one of them while they do the reading.
398 And what about your granddaughters?
said the Princess.
Oh, this one is ill and that one is weakly and the other is too shy to see anyone.
They are looking after my room for me today.
We have more players than we need, so I thought we might as well let them have a troupe to themselves.
I expect they are at this moment sitting with their cousins and watching a play in my courtyard.
Do send for them I said the old princess coaxingly.
Grandmother turned to where Xi-feng was standing behind her.
Go and fetch your Cousin Shi and the two Xue girls and your Cousin Lin, will you?
Oh, and you can bring your Cousin Tan with you as well.
Xi-feng went to Grandmother Jias place.
All the girls were there, nibbling sweets and watching a play, as Grandmother Jia had said they would be.
Bao-yu had just got back from his kneeling.
In obedience to her message, Bao-chai, Bao-qin, Dai-yu, Tan-chun and Xiang-yun followed her back into the Garden and made their curtseys to the assembled ladies.
Some of the guests had seen them before, some had not but all alike exclaimed admiringly at their beauty.
Of the five girls Xiangyun was the most familiar to those present.
Naughty girl!
said the Dowager Princess waggishly You should have come yourself to see me when you heard that I was here, not waited to be called!
I shall have a bone to pick with your uncle now, next time I see him!
She took Tan-chun by one hand and Bao-chai by the other and drew them towards her.
And how old are you girls?
she asked.
She released them, after several times commenting what fine girls they were, and then subjected Dai-yu and Bao-qin to the same treatment, taking them by the hand, scrutinizing each of them in turn, and extravagantly praising their good looks.
Dear me, they are all such lovely girls!
she said laughing.
I really dont know which of them I prefer.
Suitable presents had now been made ready by an attendant five gold rings, five jade rings and five wristlets of aromatic beads.
399 Rather trifling presents I am afraid, my dears, said the Dowager Princess.
Perhaps you could give them to your maids.
The five girls kotowed their thanks.
There were more presents from the Prince of Bei-jings Consort and from the other ladies present - but there is no need to enumerate them.
When they had finished their tea, the ladies walked for a while in the Garden, after which Grandmother Jia invited them to return to the banquet but the Dowager Princess of Nan-an took her leave.
To tell you the truth, I am not feeling very well today, she said.
I would not have stayed away for the world, but I am sure you will understand if I leave a little early.
Under the circumstances, Grandmother Jia could not very well press her to stay, and after some polite skirmishing when the Princess protested that she could perfectly well find her way off the premises alone, the entire company saw her to the gate of the Garden, where she climbed into her palanquin and was carried away.
The Prince of Bei-jings Consort returned with the rest of them to the Hall of Exalted Felicity and sat with them there for some minutes, but then she too took her leave.
Of the other ladies some stayed on to the end, others left when a decent interval had elapsed after the departure of the two princesses.
The days entertaining left Grandmother Jia exhausted and next day she was unable to see anyone and stayed in her own room.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang had to receive the female guests on her behalf.
As for the male ones, those of them who wanted to offer their birthday congratulations had to do so in the outer reception hall.
Their salutations were returned, obeisance for obeisance and bow for bow, by Jia She, Jia Zheng and Cousin Zhen, who then conducted them to the banquet prepared for them in Ning-guo House.
But that is enough of banquets.
As long as the birthday celebrations continued, You-shi did not go back to the Ning-guo mansion to sleep.
During the daytime she helped the others to entertain the guests.
In the 400 evenings, after some time spent in Grandmother Jias apartment chatting with the old lady, she would help Xi-feng supervise the getting out and putting away of the porcelain, gold and silver ware and other things that had been used that day or would be on the next, and the going over and setting out on display of the most recently-arrived batch of presents.
After that she would go to Li Wans place to spend the night.
On one of these evenings she had just finished waiting on Grandmother Jia while she took her evening meal, when the old lady exempted her from further services.
You must be tired, she said.
I know lam.
Why dont you go and have a bite to eat yourself now and then go to bed?
You will have to be up early again tomorrow.
You-shi thanked her and went off to Xi-fengs room hoping for some supper.
Xi-feng was in the upstairs storage-room, however, supervising the putting away of some screens that had just arrived.
Only Patience was at home, folding up some of Xi-fengs clothes.
Remembering Patiences many kindnesses to Er-jie while she was still alive, You-shi nodded her head sympathetically.
You are a good-hearted girl, Patience.
I am afraid you have a great deal to put up with.
Patiences eyes reddened, but she forbore to say anything.
You-shi asked her if Xi-feng had eaten yet.
Patience smiled.
She wouldnt eat without first asking you, she said.
In that case Ill go and look for a bite elsewhere, said You-shi.
I dont know why, but Im absolutely ravenous.
Dont go!
said Patience.
Weve got some mince rolls.
Why not make do with one or two of those now and have supper with Mrs Lian when she gets back?
No, I can see youre busy, said You-shi.
I think I shall go into the Garden to see the girls.
Since she obviously wanted to go, Patience made no further effort to detain her.
When You-shi came to the Garden she found the main gate and all the side gates still open and blazing with lights.
Turning to the maid who accompanied her, she told her to go and fetch one of the women who were supposed to be on duty.
The maid went into the duty room in the gatehouse, but not a 401 soul was anywhere to be seen.
She came back and told You-shi.
Very well, said You-shi, then she should go and fetch one of the stewardesses from the mansion.
The maid went back into the mansion to the corner-house inside the inner gate which was used by the stewardesses as a meeting-place, but its only occupants on this occasion were two women busily engaged in sharing out some left-overs for their supper.
-5947 Where are the stewardesses, then?
the girl asked them.
My mistress from the Ning-guo is waiting for someone to give an order to.
The women continued with their sharing-out.
They felt little inclined to put themselves out for a visitor from the other mansion.
The stewardesses have all gone home, said one of them.
In that case youd better go and get one from her lodgings, said the maid.
Our job is to look after the rooms here, not to run errands, said the woman.
If you want someone fetched, youd better go and find someone whose job it is to fetch them.
But this is rank mutiny!
said the maid.
Not your job to run errands?
You might fool a newcomer with such talk, but you dont fool me!
If Id asked you to go to one of the stewardesses with a private message or tell her to come and collect a tip, youd be trotting off like a little puppy-dog to its master.
Thered be no talk then about it not being your job to do errands.
Id like to hear you give Mrs Lian such an answe!
Partly because they had had a drop to drink and partly because what the girl said was uncomfortably close to the truth, the womens resentment quickly flared into anger.
Impertinent little baggage!
We know very well what our job is we dont need you to tell us.
And before you start criticizing us, you might take a look at your own parents.
The way they suck up to the stewards and stewardesses at your place is downright disgusting.
You keep to your mansion and well keep to ours.
Go and make trouble for your own people if you have a mind to, but keep away from us!
The maid had become white-faced with anger.
Good!
she said Very good!
and turning about, walked straight back into the Garden to report all this to her mistress.
402 On entering the Garden some minutes previously, You-shi had come upon Aroma, Bao-qin and Xiang-yun laughing at a story that two nuns from the Convent of the Saviour King were telling them.
When You-shi told them how hungry she was, they invited her to sit with them in the courtyard of Green Delights while Aroma went indoors to get her something to eat.
Aroma found some rolls with meat and some with vegetable stuffing in them and put them in a food-box to carry out to her.
She also brought out some tea for Bao-qin and Xiang-yun to sip while You-shi was eating the rolls.
The nuns continued with their story.
At that moment the maid arrived, still bursting with indignation, and proceeded to tell You-shi about her encounter and what the two women had said.
You-shi was silent for some moments before she made any comment.
What extraordinary behaviour!
she said finally.
One of the nuns gave the maidservant a prod.
You are too quick-tempered, my child I You dont want to go repeating what those silly old women said to you.
Your mistress is quite worn out from all her exertions during these past few days.
What she needs is a little pick-me-up, something to cheer her up a bit.
Thats what were trying to do, cheer her up.
This is no time to come troubling her with that sort of talk!
Aroma took the girl by the hand.
Go off and calm down a bit, theres a good girl!
Ill get someone to fetch one of the stewardesses.
It isnt necessary, said You-shi.
She addressed herself to the maid.
Go and fetch those two women, and when youve done that, you can find out where Mrs Lian is and tell her I want to see her.
Ill go, said Aroma.
Id rather you didnt, said You-shi.
The two nuns rose to their feet with propitiatory smiles.
Come, Mrs Zhen!
You are such a kind, forgiving person as a rule.
Surely you are not going to lose your temper on Her Old Ladyships birthday?
Whatever would people say?
-5947 Bao-qin and Xiang-yun added their own smiling entreaties.
All right, said You-shi, Ill let them off- but only because it is Lady Jias birthday.
403 Unfortunately Aroma had in the meantime already sent a junior maid outside the Garden to look for someone, and this girl was already pouring an account of what had happened into the receptive ear of Zhou Ruis wife, who, as it happened, was the first person she ran into.
Although Zhou Ruis wife was not actually a stewardess, she regarded herself as being of equal dignity with one on account of her special relationship with Lady Wang, who had brought her from the Wang household when she was married moreover she was a somewhat insinuating woman, whose eagerness to please made her a popular servant with the younger mistresses.
What the maid told her brought her flying over at once to Green Delights, brimming over with sympathy and concern.
How shocking!
Poor Mrs Zhen!
No wonder she is so angry!
I wish I had been there.
I should have boxed their ears for them on the spot and settled accounts with them later!
These worthy sentiments were uttered by her on the way.
You-shi was pleased to see her when she arrived.
Ah, my dear Zhou!
Perhaps you will tell me whether or not I was right to feel concerned.
When I came into the Garden just now, all the gates were wide open and candles were still burning in all the lanterns.
Anyone would have been free to go in or come out as they pleased.
I thought how awful it would be if anything were to happen, but when I gave orders for the duty-women to close the gates and put the lights out, not a single one was to be found.
Good gracious!
said Zhou Ruis wife.
Mrs Lian gave special orders about this only a few days ago and already theyre disobeying them!
Shell have to flog a few of them when this is over thats the only way to cure this sort of thing.
You-shi then told her what the two women had said to her maid.
Well, dont let it upset you, Mrs zhen, said Zhou Ruis wife.
Just wait until these celebrations are over Ill have a word with the stewardesses and well take that precious pair and flog the daylights out of them.
You keep to your mansion and well keep to ours indeed!
Theyll be singing a different tune from that by the time weve finished with them!
404 In the midst of this excitement someone arrived from Xifengs, inviting You-shi to come back for some supper.
Im not hungry, said You-shi.
Ive just been eating some rolls.
Tell your mistress to have her supper without me.
Zhou Ruis wife went round herself to Xi-fengs place shortly afterwards to repeat all this story to Xi-feng.
All you need do is make a note of the womens names, Xi-feng told her.
When these celebrations are over, you can have them tied up and sent over to Mrs Zhen to punish or pardon as she sees fit.
It isnt a very serious matter.
Now as it happened, Zhou Ruis wife was on very bad terms with these two women, and in her impatience to proceed against them, she put a somewhat loose construction on the warrant given her by Xi-feng, for she first of all sent a boy round to Lin Zhi-xiaos house to say that Lin Zhi-xiaos wife was wanted by You-shi immediately, and then sent some other servants to apprehend the two women, tie them up, and hand them over to the grooms to be shut up in the stables and kept under guard there until further notice.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, when she got the message, at once got into her carriage, wondering what on earth could be the matter, and hurried over to Xi-fengs place to inquire but when, on reaching the inner gate, she sent someone inside to announce her, a maid came out and told her that Xi-feng had already gone to bed.
Its Mrs Zhen that wants to see you, said the girl.
Shes in the Garden now.
Youd better look for her there.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife went into the Garden and hurried through it to Sweet-rice Village.
You-shi was quite put out when the maids announced her arrival.
She had her invited in immediately and smiled at her apologetically as she entered.
I only asked for you because I wanted to give an order and nobody could be found.
It wasnt anything serious.
It certainly wasnt serious enough to call you out for specially.
It is all over and done with now, in any case.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife smiled, a trifle grimly.
But madam, Mrs Lian sent someone round to my place to say that you were asking for me.
If I was, it was under the impression that you were still 405 here, said You-shi.
I suppose it must be Zhous wife who told Mrs Lian about this.
She need not have done so.
It was really nothing of any consequence.
Please go back home to bed.
Li Wan was on the point of telling Lin Zhi-xiaos wife what the trouble was, but You-shi would not let her.
Since evidently neither lady was going to tell her, Lin Zhi-xiaos wife took her leave.
Just as she was coming out of the Garden gate, she ran into Aunt Zhao.
Good gracious me!
Still on your feet at this hour, Mrs Lin?
said Aunt Zhao.
Id have thought youd be at home and tucked up in bed by now!
I was at home, said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, and proceeded to tell Aunt Zhao why she had been called out for she had privately found out the reason for the summons before going into the Garden.
Well, fancy calling you out for a piddling little thing like that!
said Aunt Zhao indignantly.
She should either have ignored it altogether, if she was feeling generous, or if she was in an unforgiving mood, had the women given a few whacks and that would have been the end of the matter.
There was no need to drag you out specially.
I wont ask you in for a cup of tea now, youll probably be wanting to get back to bed.
Lin Zhi-xiaos wife continued on her way to the side gate where her carriage was waiting.
The young daughters of the two imprisoned women were lying in wait for her there and, when they saw her coming, tearfully entreated her to intercede for their mothers.
Iiin Zhi-xiaos wife merely laughed at them.
Silly children!
Those mothers of yours ought not to drink so much or be so free with their tongues - thats the cause of all this trouble.
I dont know what makes them do it.
Its Mrs Lian who had them tied up and Im in trouble myself now, so I dont know what I can do to help them.
The two daughters, being only little girls and of very limited understanding, continued to blubber and entreat and clung so obstinately to Lin Zhi-xiaos wife that she was unable to get into her carriage.
She rounded on one of the two girls exasperatedly.
406 Stupid creature!
she said.
What do you want to come hanging around me for when you could find help elsewhere?
Wasnt your elder sister married to Mrs Feis boy recently?
Mrs Fei came here with Lady Xing when she was married.
If you were to tell your sister about this and get her to have a word with Mrs Fei and Mrs Fei spoke about it to Lady Xing, that would be the end of the matter.
Glad to be reminded, the girl went scampering off immediately but the other girl continued to entreat.
Lin Zhixiaos wife shoved her off impatiently.
You really are a stupid child!
Didnt I just say that if she has a word with her sister that will be the end of the matter?
That means theyll both be let off.
You surely d9nt think theyd let her mother off and give yours a beating?
She got into her carriage then and drove back home.
The first little girl went and told her sister, as Lin Zhi-xiaos wife had told her to, and the sister at once repeated the story to her mother-in-law, Goody Fei.
This Goody Fei was a notorious trouble-maker, whose first reaction to the story was a stream of invective, fully audible to the occupants of all the neighbouring courtyards, after which she went to solicit help from Lady Xing.
Its my boys mother-in-law, my lady she only had a few words with a maid of Mrs Zhens, but that Zhou woman told such a pack of lies about her to Mrs Lian that she had my boys mother-in-law and the woman that was with her tied up and shut in the stables and in a few days time shes going to have them both beaten.
Do, please, my lady, put in a good word with Mrs Lian and ask her to let them off.
Ever since the Faithful fiasco Grandmother Jias attitude towards Lady Xing seemed to have hardened, whilst Xi-fengs stature seemed to have grown at her mother-in-laws expense.
The jealousy and resentment that Lady Xing felt as a consequence of this had recently been exacerbated by an imagined slight the passing over of Ying-chun when the Dowager Princess of Nan-an asked to see the Jia girls and Tan-chun was the only one of the three to be called.
Mischief-makers were not wanting to play upon her resentment, in this case representing Xi-fengs action as a deliberate attack on her authority.
407 Her hatred of Xi-feng had now reached a degree of intensity that went beyond all reason.
Early next morning she went to pay her respects to Grandmother Jia.
This was the junior clansmens day.
When Lady Xing got there, the junior clansmen had already arrived and the players were waiting to begin.
Grandmother Jia always enjoyed meeting young people, and so today she was appearing in person to receive their congratulations, dressed in her ordinary clothes, since this was a family party and the guests were all her juniors.
She was reclining in the middle of the rear part of the hall on a large wooden couch furnished with a back-rest and bolsters and a footstool in front of it in case she should wish to sit upright.
Around her couch were ranged a number of identical stools on which Bao-chai, Bao-qin, Dai-Yu, Xiang-yun, Ying-chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun were sitting.
Of the twenty or so girls of their generation whose mothers had brought them there on this occasion two, Jia Bins sister Xi-luan and Jia Qiongs sister Si-jie, had, on account of their good looks, well-spokenness and charming manners, found particular favour with Grandmother Jia and been invited to sit on stools with the other seven.
Bao-yu sat up on the couch with his grandmother and massaged her legs for her.
Aunt Xue had been given the place of honour in the ordering of the feast and the two lines of tables which rayed out on either side were occupied by the other ladies according to their husbands seniority in the clan.
The men sat on the verandah at either side of the hall, also in order of seniority.
Presently the birthday ceremony began.
The female members of the clan were the first to make their kotows.
The males would have come next, but Grandmother Jia lay back on the couch and sent someone outside to excuse them.
Then Lai Da arrived with the male domestics.
They knelt down, row upon row of them, from the ornamental gate all the way up to the steps at the foot of the hall, to make their kotows.
After them it was the turn of the married women, and after them of the maids.
Something like the time it would take to eat two or three meals must have elapsed before all the kotowing was over.
Next a number of bird-cages were set down in the middle of the courtyard and the birds released from them.
Then Jia She 408 and the other seniors supervised the burning of paper offerings to Heaven-and-Earth and Old Longevity.
Only then did the drinking and the play-acting begin.
Grandmother Jia remained until the players mid-day interval before retiring to rest in her own room.
She insisted that those of them who had escorted her there should go back and enjoy themselves, and asked Xi-feng to arrange for Xi-luan and Si-jie to stay on for a couple of nights after the party.
Xi-feng went off to speak to the girls mothers.
Both had received favours from her in the past and were only too happy to comply with anything she asked them, and the girls themselves were of course delighted at the prospect of playing in the Garden all day and not having to go home for the night.
Lady Xing bided her time until the evening then, just as everyone was getting ready to go, she went up to Xi-feng in front of all the others and made her a request.
I understand that you became angry with two old women last night and sent Zhou Ruis wife to have them tied up.
I dont know what crime they had committed and it isnt of course my business to interfere, but it does seem to me that Lady Jias birthday is an occasion when we should all be doing our utmost to help those less fortunate than ourselves -giving money and free rice to the old and needy and that sort of thing - hardly a time for maltreating aged domestics.
Could you not see your way to releasing them, for Lady Jias sake, if not for mine?
Having said that, she got into her carriage and drove away.
The humiliation of being addressed like this in front of so many people filled Xi-feng with anger and confusion.
Her face turned a dusky red colour and for some moments she was so taken aback that she was unable to speak then, turning to Lai Das wife, she said, with a forced laugh But this is ridiculous I Last night I heard that some of our people had been rude to Mrs Zhen, and as I was afraid that she might be feeling vexed about it, I naturally had them tied up so that they could be placed at her disposal.
It wasnt me they had offended.
I wonder what tale-bearing busybody is responsible for carrying this story next door?
409 What exactly happened last night?
asked Lady Wang.
Xi-feng explained.
I didnt even know about this myself, said You-shi, laughing.
Really, Feng, I think you were a trifle officious.
I was concerned about you, said Xi-feng.
You had been insulted.
It was a natural courtesy to place them at your disposal.
Suppose I was at your place and some of your people insulted me?
Wouldnt you send them over to me for me to deal with?
I thought that was a general principle which all of us observed, even if the servant in question was a highly valued one.
Some meddlesome person has blown this incident up out of all proportion for the sake of stirring things up next door.
I shouldnt have thought myself that it was worth mentioning even.
Your mother-in-law was quite right, said Lady Wang.
Cousin Zhens wife is one of us.
There was no need for such empty courtesies in her case.
Grandmothers birthday is much more important.
The women ought to be released.
Xi-fengs humiliation was now complete.
A feeling of such wretchedness came over her that she could no longer hold back the tears of anger that had been collecting in her eyes.
Not wishing them to be seen, she rushed back to her own apartment to weep alone.
She had hardly got back, though, when Grandmother Jia sent Amber round to summon her.
Amber noticed with surprise that she had been crying.
Hullo, whats all this about?
Shes waiting to ask you about something.
Xi-feng wiped away her tears, washed and dried her face, and put on a fresh lot of make-up before accompanying Amber back to Grandmother Jias apartment.
How many of the people who sent presents gave me screens ?
the old lady asked Xi-feng when she arrived.
Sixteen, said Xi-feng.
There were twelve big screens and four little kang screens.
The biggest screen was from the Zhens of Nanking a twelve panel folding screen with a scene in silk tapestry on crimson satin from A Heap of Honours on one side and Symbols of Longevity in powder-gold on the 410 other.
Theres also quite a good enamelled screen from Admiral Wus lady.
Yes, well dont do anything with those two, then, said Grandmother Jia.
Just put them by somewhere where they will be safe.
I want to give them to someone as a present.
Faithful went over to Xi-feng and peered into her face.
What are you staring at her like that for?
said Grandmother Jia.
Havent you seen her before?
I was wondering why her eyes are so swollen, said Faithful.
Come over here, Grandmother Jia commanded, and scrutinized Xi-feng herself.
Its because my eyes were itching and Ive been rubbing them, said Xi-feng.
Are you sure someone hasnt been upsetting you?
said Faithful, laughing.
Who would dare?
said Xi-feng.
And even if they had, I wouldnt dare to cry on Her Old Ladyships birthday.
I should think not indeed, said Grandmother Jia.
Im just going to have dinner now.
You can stay with me and watch me eat it, and then you and Zhens wife can share whats left over.
The two of you can help these sisters here to pick up Buddha beans.
She indicated the pair of nuns whose presence Xi-feng had been vaguely aware of on entering.
It will add some years to your life.
I let Bao-yu and the girls do it the other day.
Now you two must have a go as well, so that no one can accuse me of favouritism.
While she was speaking, the table had been laid and a meatless meal served for the two nuns.
Then, when they had eaten, a meal with meat in it was served for Grandmother Jia.
When she in turn had finished, the remains of her meal were carried into the outer room for Xi-feng and You-shi to eat.
They had already started when Grandmother Jia had Xi-luan and Si-jie sent for to join them.
After they had finished and washed their hands, some incense was lit and a pint of beans brought in, over which the two nuns chanted some prayers.
The two young women, each armed with a pair of chopsticks, then had to pick the beans up one by one and drop them into a basket, to be boiled next day and given away to passers-by in the street.
411 While they were thus engaged, Grandmother Jia reclined on her couch and listened to edifying stories told her by the two nuns.
Faithful had heard from Amber about Xi-fengs crying and had been over to Xi-fengs apartment herself to find out the reason for it from Patience.
Late that evening, when everyone else had left, she spoke about it to Grandmother Jia.
Mrs Lian is still crying.
Its because she was shamed in front of everyone by Lady Xing.
Oh?
said Grandmother Jia.
Why was that?
Faithful told her.
I think Feng acted quite correctly, said Grandmother Jia.
Surely were not going to allow our slaves to insult everyone with impunity just because its my birthday?
I expect this was Lady Xings way of getting her own back for some grudge or other that she hadnt had the courage to tackle her about at the time.
Its hard to see what other motive she could have had for humiliating her in public.
Just at that moment Bao-qin came in and the subject had to be dropped.
Bao-qins presence reminded Grandmother Jia of her two young visitors.
She called one of her women to her and gave her a message about them which she was to convey to the principal womenservants in the Garden.
Tell them they must treat them just as they do our own young ladies.
Anyone I hear of behaving disrespectfully to either of them will be punished mercilessly.
Better let me go, said Faithful, before the woman had had time to get away.
Theyll never listen to her.
She went off at once into the Garden.
Her first call was at Sweet-rice Village but neither Li Wan nor You-shi was there.
The maids there told her that they were in Tan-chuns apartment with the others, so she retraced her footsteps and called in at Autumn Studio.
She found Li Wan and You-shi in the Paulownia Room engaged in a conversation, punctuated by frequent bursts of laughter, with the rest of the Gardens little society.
They welcomed Faithful with smiles and urged her to be seated.
What are you doing here at this late hour?, they asked her.
I suppose Im allowed to walk in the Garden if I want to, 412 said Faithful, and passed on Grandmother Jias message about Xi-luan and Si-jie.
Li Wan rose respectfully to receive it and at once sent someone to transmit it to the heads of all the apartments and instruct them to pass it on to their subordinates.
Lady Jia has wonderful foresight, You-shi commented drily.
We energetic younger ones may tie up a dozen servants, but we are still not so effective as her.
I dont know, said Li Wan.
Cousin Feng may not quite come up to Lady Jias standard, but she doesnt do too badly.
Personally I find her foresight quite uncanny.
Certainly I could never hope to match it.
You should have said poor Cousin Feng, said Faithful.
Shes in a bad way at the moment.
During all the years she has been managing things she may not have put a foot wrong as far as Their Ladyships are concerned, but she has given a great deal of offence elsewhere.
A daughter-in-laws life must be pretty impossible.
If she is too meek and mild her in-laws will complain that she is stupid and the servants wont respect her, yet if she shows any initiative, there is always another set of problems rising up behind her back for every one that she deals with.
In our household, where there are a certain number of mistresses who used once themselves to be maids, its particularly difficult.
Such people are so full of their own importance that they are always taking offence, and if they are the slightest bit crossed in anything they begin spreading stories about you or finding other ways of stirring up trouble.
I havent so far liked to say anything to Her Old Ladyship about this for fear of making her angry.
If I ever do, people had better watch out, because then the sparks will begin to fly, I can tell you!
Perhaps I shouldnt say this in front of you, Miss Tan, but you know how certain people are always carrying on about the way Her Old Ladyship makes a favourite of Bao-yu.
Well now apparently that doesnt matter any more.
Thats just a natural preference.
Now it seems theyre angry because Her Old Ladyship has been favouring you Did you ever hear of anything so ridiculous?
There are a lot of very silly people about, said Tan-chun.
One really cant be bothered with what they say.
I often think 413 how nice it would be to live in a smaller household, even if it meant being poorer.
Think how delightful it would be to have just oneself and ones parents and one or two brothers and sisters living together as one happy little family!
People look at our great household and all its wealth and think how happy we must be they dont realize that the vexations far outweigh the advantages.
Youre much too thin-skinned, Tan, said Bao-yu.
Im always telling you you should pay no attention to what vulgar people say or do but concentrate on enjoying the luxuries and opportunities that wealth and position make available to us.
Others who lack these things have some reason to complain.
Why make yourself miserable when you have got them?
We cant all be as happy-go-lucky as you are, said You-shi.
All you think about is amusing yourself with the girls, eating when you are hungry and sleeping when you are tired.
Each year to you is like the last.
You havent a thought in your head about the future.
Its the time I spend with the girls here that really matters, said Bao-yu.
If I die, I die.
What do I care about the future?
Li Wan and the others laughed.
Thats a silly way to talk.
Even if you dont do anything with your life and spend all the rest of it in here, you surely dont think that the girls will be staying with you as well?
Theyll all be going off to get married.
I can understand why people say your growth has all gone into good looks, said You-shi.
You really are a silly fellow.
Mans life is uncertain, said Bao-yu.
Which of us knows when his time will come?
Even if I die today or tomorrow or this year or next year, at least I shall have lived my life as I wanted to.
The others would hardly let him finish what he was saying.
Worse and worse!
Best not encourage him.
What he was saying just now was simpletons talk, but this is raging lunacy!
Dont talk about dying, Cousin Bao, said little Xi-luan.
Lady Jia and Lady Wang are sure to feel lonely when all the girls have gone.
I will come here and help you keep them company.
414 Li Wan and You-shi both laughed.
Now you are talking like a simpleton, young lady.
Dont you think you will be getting married then as well?
Xi-luan was overcome with bashfulness and hung her head.
The first watch was just sounding.
They got up then and returned to their various apartments for the night.
On her way back to Grandmother Jias, Faithful observed that one of the side gates of the Garden was shut but not yet barred.
There was no one about.
A faint light burned in the duty-room and a sliver of moon half-way up the sky shed a feeble radiance from above.
As she had no companion to talk to, carried no lantern, and was walking softly, the women in the duty-room seemed not to have noticed her.
She had for some time been wanting to empty her bladder, and this seemed as good an opportunity as any for doing so.
She left the path and began looking for a place where the grass was not too high to squat down in.
She had found what looked like a good spot under a large osmanthus tree behind a Tai-hu rock and was just making her way round the side of the rock to reach it when a rustle of clothing caused her to jump almost out of her skin.
By straining her eyes she could make out two human shapes.
They melted into the bushes at her arrival, but Faithful had very sharp eyes, and before they disappeared, the faint moonlight had enabled her to identify one of them by the red top, bouffant hair-style, and tall, somewhat heavy build, as Ying-chuns head maid, Chess.
She assumed that Chess and some other girl had been using the place as a convenience and had hidden themselves in the bushes when they saw her coming, intending to jump out at her presently and give her a scare.
Chess, come out of there!
she called.
If you frighten me I shall scream, and then you will be taken for a thief.
This is no time to be playing monkey-tricks, a big girl like you!
These words were spoken in jest with no other motive than to prevent Chess jumping out and scaring her, but to Chesss guilty conscience they seemed to imply that the secret she was hiding had been discovered.
She was terrified that 415 Faithful might cry out and others get to know about it as well, which would be even more frightful and as Faithful had always been kind to her in the past, she resolved to throw herself on her mercy.
Running out of the bushes, she knelt down and dung to her imploringly.
Faithful, I beg of you, for Gods sake dont cry out!
Not knowing what to make of this exaggerated reaction to her words, Faithful hastily pulled her to her feet.
Well, well, whats all this about?
Chess seemed unable to reply, but her body was trembling all over.
Faithful was more mystified than ever.
She looked again in the direction from which Chess had just come and saw a figure lurking there.
It looked like a boys.
She began to guess the reason for Chesss terror.
A sickening embarrassment made her own heart beat faster and she could feel her face burning to the very tips of her ears.
She was afraid, too.
After a brief silence in which she managed to recover some of her composure, she asked Chess, in a tremulous whisper, who that other person was.
Chess sank once more to her knees.
Hes my cousin, Faithful, she said faintly, my fathers sisters son.
Faithful made a scornful sound, as if she did not believe her but she was still too embarrassed to say anything.
Theres no need to hide, Chess called out softly to the boy.
My friend here had already seen you.
Come out quickly and kotow.
The boy darted out from the cover of the tree, threw himself on his knees in front of Faithful, and began knocking his head on the ground as if he were pounding garlic in a mortar.
Faithful wanted to turn away, but Chess clung to her tearfully and beseechingly.
Our lives are in your hands, Faithful.
Be merciful!
Of course I shall you dont need to ask, said Faithful.
Tell him to go away.
Whatever happens, I shant tell anyone.
Theres no need for all this drama.
Before she had finished speaking, a voice could be heard from the direction of the corner gate.
Miss Faithfuls already gone out.
We can bar the gate now.
416 Chess was still clinging to her so hard that Faithful could not get away.
She had to call out to the woman from where she stood.
No, Im still here.
Ive been doing something.
Just a second Ill be out directly.
Chess, when she heard her say that, was obliged to let her go.
The rest will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 72 Wang Xi-feng refuses to see a doctor And Brighties wife seeks help with a betrothal As Faithful went out of the corner gate, her cheeks were still burning and her heart was beating wildly.
What an extraordinary encounter - and how unexpected!
She began to consider what the consequences would be if she were to tell anyone.
A crime involving both sexual delinquency and illicit entry could cost the offenders their lives - and other persons might well be implicated.
She resolved to keep her discovery to herself.
After all, she reflected, it is really no business of mine.
And so, when she got back to Grandmother Jias apartment, she gave only a routine account of her mission and went to bed without telling anyone about her experience.
But what of Chess?
She and her fathers sisters son - the boy whom Faithful had discovered with her in the Garden -had often played together as little children.
In those days they were childhood sweethearts, innocently vowing, before they even knew the full meaning of the vow, that they would be husband and wife when they grew up or else would never marry.
The years passed by and each grew up into a good-looking adolescent.
Significant looks would pass between them when they saw each other during Chesss occasional visits home, and they knew, without needing to tell each other, that the childhood bond between them was as strong as ever.
As they were both dreadfully afraid that their parents would oppose their meeting, they contrived - he working on his side and she on hers - to buy the support of the Garden women, so that gates might be left conveniently unbarred and notice obligingly be given when the coast was dear and now, today, taking advantage of the confusion caused by the birthday celebrations, they had met for the first time inside 418 the Garden.
They had not yet reached the point of physical union when Faithful surprised them, but they had exchanged vows and keepsakes and passionate endearments and were not far off it.
Shortly after their discovery by Faithful, the boy managed to dodge away through the bushes and slip out of the corner gate unseen.
Chess did not sleep that night.
She lay awake until dawn, bitterly regretting that she had ever agreed to the assignation.
Meeting Faithful next day caused her to go hot and cold by turns, and all day long she felt as wretched and uncomfortable as if she were carrying a devils child inside her.
She had lost all her appetite for food and drink, and whether sitting or standing felt equally jumpy and ill at ease.
This continued for two days.
When two days had gone by and still nothing had happened, she began to feel a little easier.
But then one morning one of the old women from the Garden gate came round and whispered some news to her.
Your cousins run away.
He hasnt been home now for three or four days.
Theyre out everywhere looking for him.
A wave of mingled alarm, anger and grief swept over her.
Even if shed told, he ought to have stayed, she thought, and we could have died together.
How can he love me, running away like that, without even waiting to find out?
As a result of this latest shock she woke up next morning with a feeling of weakness inside her, and after trying unsuccessfully for a while to drag herself around, was forced to go back and lie down.
This time she was ill in earnest.
When Faithful heard that one of the boys had unaccountably run away and that Chess was so ill that there was already talk of moving her out of the Garden, she was sure that in either case it was fear that she might betray them that had been the cause.
So concerned did she feel about this that, on the pretext of paying a sick visit, she went to see Chess and reassure her.
As soon as she could get the others out of the room, she swore a most solemn oath that she would never give her away.
So just stop worrying and get better.
she told her.
You are too young to throw your life away because of a thing like this.
Chess clung to her hand and wept.
419 Dear Faithful!
Weve known each other now since we were little girls.
You have always been nice to me, and I have always respected you.
If you really dont tell anyone about this stupid mistake of mine, I promise to honour you as if you were my mother.
From now on, each day I live will be a day I owe to you.
If I get better, I shall set up a tablet with your name on it and kotow and burn incense to it every day and pray that you may have a long and happy life.
But if I die, then I hope I may be reborn as a dog or an ass, if only I can have the chance to repay you.
She went on to say much more in this vein, the tears all the while streaming down her cheeks, so that Faithful herself became affected and began to cry as well.
Its your own imagination that is making you so ill, she said, shaking her head sadly.
Why should I want to go out of my way to destroy your reputation?
To win someones approval?
Surely you know me better than that?
In any case, I am much too shy to talk about such things.
Please stop worrying.
From now on you must start getting better.
And when you are better, try to live a little more sensibly in future.
Dont go getting yourself into scrapes like this again.
Chess nodded her head vigorously upon the pillow.
After speaking a few more words to comfort her, Faithful took her leave.
Faithful had noticed that Xi-feng had been somewhat off colour during these past few days.
She happened to know that Jia Lian was out and thought she might as well drop in on Xi-feng on her way back and ask how she was.
The servants on the inner gate stood up as she approached and remained standing until she disappeared into Xi-fengs courtyard.
As she entered the reception room, Patience was just emerging from inside.
She smiled when she saw Faithful and hurried up to her.
Shes just eaten and now shes having an afternoon nap, she said in a low voice.
Come into the other room and well have a chat.
At her insistence Faithful accompanied her into the room on the east side of the reception room and sat down with her.
A junior maid poured them both some tea.
420 Tell me, whats been the matter with your mistress during these past few days?
said Faithful.
She seems so lethargic.
Patience sighed.
Its not just these last few days, she said, having first looked round to make sure that no one else was within hearing.
It goes back a month at least.
Its just that all the work of the last few days and that upset with Lady Xing coming on top of it have made her worse.
so that people are beginning to notice.
In that case why doesnt she call a doctor?
My dear Faithful, said Patience, surely you know our Mrs Lian better than that?
Its not just calling a doctor or taking medicine that she objects to.
Sometimes, because I cant bear to see her looking so ill, Ill ask her, quite casually, How do you feel today?
but even that will be enough to make her angry.
She says theres nothing wrong with her and that Im trying to make her ill by talking about it.
In spite of feeling so poorly, she still insists on keeping up with everything that goes on in the household.
It worries me.
How can she ever get better if she herself wont face up to the fact that she is ill?
She really ought to call a doctor, said Faithful.
Surely it would be a relief just to know what she is suffering from?
Patience sighed.
Whatever it is, if you ask me, its something pretty serious.
Oh?
said Faithful.
What kind of trouble is it then?
Patience leaned forwards and spoke very softly into her ear.
During this past month, ever since she had her last period its been drip-drip, drip-drip all the time.
Surely thats serious, isnt it?
Aiyo!
said Faithful.
It sounds as if the blood-gate has burst.
Patience gave a little laugh.
Oh Faithful, you are a baby!
What a thing to say!
Poor Mrs Lian!
Faithful coloured, and she laughed as well, a trifle sheepishly.
Well I dont know what it means myself.
Its just that I 421 heard them saying it about my elder sister.
Youve probably forgotten she died of something rather like this.
I was too young at the time to know what was the matter with her, but I remember hearing my mother talking about it to my sisters mother-in4aw and one of them saying The blood-gates burst and wondering at the time what it could mean.
Later on, when I heard more about her illness, I thought I understood, but I dont suppose I did really.
While they were talking, a little maid came in with a message.
Old Mrs Zhu has been again.
We told her the mistress had just laid down for her afternoon nap so she went off to Lady Wangs room.
Patience nodded.
Which Mrs Zhu is that?
said Faithful.
Shes an official marriage-broker working for one of the yamens, said Patience.
Shes come on behalf of Sir Sun Somebody-or-other who wants one of our young Jia ladies for his son.
Old nuisance I Shes been around here every day during the past few days, flashing her card at everyone.
At that moment another little maid came hurrying into the room.
Mr Lians back!
Patience hurried out to meet him as he stepped into the reception room outside.
He began walking into the side room, since it was the room that Patience had just come out of, but halted on the threshold when he caught sight of Faithful sitting inside on the kang.
Ah, my dear Faithful!
he said, smiling broadly.
What favourable wind has blown you to our humble abode?
Faithful smiled back at him.
She made no effort to get up.
I came here to pay my respects to you and Mrs Lian, but one of you was out and the other one was having a nap.
Youre so busy all the year round waiting on Her Old Ladyship, said Jia Lian, still smiling, its we who should come to see you, not the other way round.
He paused.
As a matter of fact its rather a stroke of luck that you have come here today.
I was on my way to see you just now.
The only reason I dropped in here was because this gown I am wearing 422 is too hot and I wanted to change into something cooler before going on to see you.
But God is good to me, it seems your being here means that I am saved the trouble of going out again.
He sat himself down in a chair.
What was it you wanted to see me about?
said Faithful.
Jia Lian gave a preliminary laugh.
Something Ive forgotten about that you may perhaps remember.
On Her Old Ladyships birthday last year some travelling monk made her a present of a Buddhas hand modelled in coloured wax.
She was so taken with it that she immediately had it put on display somewhere where she could admire it.
When I was going through the inventory of her ornaments the other day in preparation for these birthday celebrations, I found an entry for the thing but couldnt discover where it had got to and as I wasnt able to tick it off on the inventory, the steward of the ornaments room has been on to me a couple of times since then asking me to find out where it is.
Do you know?
Has Her Old Ladyship still got the thing on display somewhere in her own apartment, or has she handed it over to someone else?
After shed had it on display for a couple of days, she grew tired of it and gave it to Mrs Lian, said Faithful.
I dont know why you should be asking me about it!
I can even remember the day, and the person I sent round with it.
It was Old Wangs wife.
You should ask Mrs Lian or Patience about it.
They will tell you.
Patience, who had just been seeing to some clothes, came hurrying in again.
Certainly she gave it to us.
Its upstairs here in the loft.
Mrs Lian long ago sent someone to tell the steward that wed got it.
I suppose he was too lazy to make a note of it at the time.
Its too bad that he should be making a fuss about it now.
If she gave it to your mistress, said Jia Lian, how is it that I dont know anything about it?
I think you must have been hiding it from me.
The mistress did tell you about it, said Patience.
You wanted to give it to someone as a present, but the mistress wouldnt let you.
She had a terrible job persuading you to let 423 her keep it.
Fancy your forgetting - and then having the nerve to accuse us of hiding it from you!
If we were going to start hiding things from you, we could do a bit better than that!
We have been given things ten times more valuable, but invariably you have been told.
Jia Lian looked down smilingly and reflected, then clapped his hands suddenly as he remembered.
Why yes, of course.
How stupid of me!
Im forgetting everything these days no wonder people get so cross with me.
Im not the man I was!
Its hardly surprising, said Faithful.
You have so much to do and so many people to deal with.
By the time youve had a couple of drinks, you cant be expected to remember very much!
She got up to go.
Jia Lian too rose to his feet.
Do stay a little longer.
I want to ask you a favour.
He turned rather crossly to one of the junior maids.
Cant we have some better tea than this?
Get some clean cover-cups and use some of that tea we were given yesterday.
He turned back to Faithful.
During these past few days, because of Her Old Ladyships birthday celebrations, weve got through the last few thousand taels we had.
Our house-rents and land-rents arent due in until the ninth month.
Until then we have nothing.
Yet soon we shall be having to buy presents for the Princess of Nan-ans birthday, and there are the presents we shall have to send to Her Grace on the Double Ninth and various weddings and funerals to provide for.
We need at least two or three thousand taels to pay for these things.
It would be difficult to borrow that much outside at present and as they say self-help is the best help, I am turning to you to ask if you would be prepared, for all our sakes, to commit a very tiny little crime.
Could you possibly look out a few gold and silver things that Her Old Ladyship would not be likely to miss and smuggle a boxful of them out to me enough for me to raise about a thousand taels on - just to tide us over the next week or two?
As soon as our money comes in I shall redeem them and give them back to you.
I promise you shant get into any trouble.
424 Faithful smiled.
Nobody can say you arent ingenious.
Whatever will you think of next?
Look, Im not just saying this to flatter you, said Jia Lian, but though I know plenty of other people who have a thousand taels worth of stuff in their keeping, they none of them have your courage or intelligence.
If I made a proposal like this to one of them, Id frighten the wits out of them.
Thats why I turn to you.
Better one stroke of the big bell than a thousand tinkles on the little cymbal!
At that moment one of the junior maids from Grandmother Jias apartment came in.
She seemed somewhat Out of breath.
Her Old Ladyship wants you.
Ive been ages looking for you.
I never thought you would be here.
Faithful hurried out after her.
Jia Lian went inside to see Xi-feng.
Xi-feng had, as a matter of fact, been awake for some time.
She had heard Jia Lian make his request but, not liking to intervene, had remained lying where she was.
She knew that Faithful had left.
Well?
she asked as Jia Lian entered.
Is it settled?
Not quite, said Jia Lian, smiling.
As good as.
I think if you were to go over and have a word with her, it would tip the balance.
Its nothing to do with me, what you get up to, said Xi-feng.
Suppose she does agree.
Once youve got your hands on the money, youll like as not forget all your fine promises and just hang on to her stuff.
And what can she do then?
Nothing.
Then suppose Grandmother finds out?
Her confidence in me, that it has taken me all these years to build up, will be completely shattered.
Come on, be an angel!
Jia Lian pleaded.
I promise you wont regret it.
Why, what will you give me?
said Xi-feng.
Just say, said Jia Lian.
Anything you like.
I know what to ask him for, said Patience, who had been near at hand listening.
You know you said earlier there was something you were planning to do that you would need one or two hundred taels for ask him to let you have two hundred 425 -5947 taels of the money he raises on pawn.
That ought to suit both of you.
Thank you for reminding me, said Xi-feng.
Yes, I will.
You are a terrible woman!
said Jia Lian.
Never mind things to pawn, if you had a mind to, you could probably let me have four or five thousand taels cash.
All Im asking you to do is say a few words for me - and even for that you want to charge I No wonder you and I - Xi-feng leaped to her feet angrily, breaking in before he could finish.
Well, what of it?
The four or five thousand taels is my own money, isnt it?
I havent cheated you Jias out of it.
Just about everyone in this establishment nowadays seem to spend their time discussing my shortcomings.
It only needed you.
Well, they say that when a house is haunted its ones own ghost that invites the others in.
Why do you always assume that any money I have must be Jia money?
I havent noticed that your family is so staggeringly rich.
Youre not exactly millionaires, are you?
We Wangs could probably keep you going for the rest of your lives just with the sweepings from our floor!
I dont want to boast, but just take a look at the dowries that Aunt Wang and I brought with us when we came here and try matching them, item for item, with things of your own.
Jia Lian laughed.
How you do fly off the handle!
I was only joking.
You can have a hundred or two hundred taels now if you need them.
I couldnt give you much more than that, but that much at least I can manage.
Take it now and speak to her when youve spent it.
Hows that for an offer?
Im not in that much of a hurry, said Xi-feng.
It isnt pennies for a laying-out Im after.
Bless my soul, what a passion youre in!
said Jia Lian.
Xi-feng laughed.
No, Im not really.
But I found what you said just now very wounding.
The day after tomorrow is the anniversary of Er-jies death.
Since we were sisters for a little while, I thought the least I could do was visit her grave and make her a few offerings.
She didnt give us a son, its true, but we 426 -5947 mustnt let the dust of those who have gone before get into the eyes of those who follow.
Thats what I wanted the money for.
Jia Lian said nothing for some moments.
Xi-feng had effectively shut him up.
You are very thoughtful, he said eventually.
Then, after another pause, Since you wont need the money till the day after tomorrow, we may as well wait and see whether or not Faithful will let us have the things.
If she does, you will be able to take what you want after I have pawned them.
At that moment Brighties wife came hurrying in.
Well?
Xi-feng asked her.
Is it settled?
No, said Brighties wife.
Nothing doing.
Its as I said unless we have your backing for it, we shant get anywhere.
Whats this?
said Jia Lian.
Oh, nothing serious, said Xi-feng.
Brightie and his wife have a son who is seventeen this year and not yet married and they wanted to get Lady Wangs Sunset for him.
They havent done anything about it previously, because they didnt know what Lady Wang might have in mind for her.
Now it seems that because Sunset has had so much illness during the past year, Lady Wang has sent her back to her parents and said they can choose a husband for her themselves.
Brighties wife asked me if I would speak to the parents on her behalf but I thought that as the families were so obviously suited, her parents couldnt possibly have any objection to the match and that Brightie and his wife would be able to arrange it themselves.
But it seems that I was wrong.
It doesnt matter, does it?
said Jia Lian.
Surely there are plenty of others as good as Sunset they could get for him, or even better?
Thats as may be, sir, said Brighties wife with a somewhat artificial smile, but if people see that we are not even good enough for the likes of them, it doesnt do much for our prestige.
I took a lot of trouble choosing that girl for him and I hoped that you and Mrs Lian would be so very kind as to settle the matter for us, for I know you could do so if you wished.
But Mrs Lian she said no, there was no need, theyd be sure to agree.
Well, I got a woman to speak to the parents 427 -1344 for me, and now shes just come back from them with a flea in her ear.
I dont think theres any objection as far as the girl is concerned.
Ive sounded her out once or twice in the past and as far as I could make out she would be quite willing.
Its that stupid old couple with their high and mighty ideas that are the stumbling-block.
These words were intended to put Jia Lian and Xi-feng on their mettle but Xi-feng could hardly take the initiative in her husbands presence and watched Jia Lian in silence to see what he would do, whilst Jia Lian for his part had too much on his mind to be bothered with anything so trifling.
He would probably have ignored it altogether were it not for the fact that Brightie and his wife were rather special servants.
Xi-feng had brought them from her fathers house when she was married and they had served her devotedly ever since.
Jia Lian realized that to be refused help now that they had openly requested it would be regarded by them as a very great loss of face.
Well, its hardly a matter calling for so much palaver, he said impatiently.
Be on your way now and stop worrying about it!
Ill send a couple of senior people tomorrow with the betrothal presents to have a talk with her father and tell him that I am sponsoring the match.
If he still holds out against it, Ill have him over and talk to him myself.
Brighties wife looked questioningly at Xi-feng.
In answer to her look Xi-feng made a barely perceptible movement with her lips, whereupon Brighties wife got down on her knees and made Jia Lian a kotow.
Its your mistress you should be kotowing to, said Jia Lian hurriedly.
Although I shall be talking to her father, youll still have to persuade your mistress to send for the mother and have a word with her, otherwise it will seem too much like coercion.
After all, youll want to be on speaking terms with your sons in4aws after the boy is married.
If you are prepared to take so much trouble on their behalf, you surely dont think that I am going to stand idly by?
said Xi-feng.
All right, Brighties wife, youve heard what we are going to do for you now I want you to do something for me.
I want you to ask your husband to chase after all the people 428 -1344 I have lent money to and see to it that all the loan accounts are cleared by the end of this year.
Tell him I must have every penny back, or hell be in trouble!
My reputation is quite bad enough already.
If I go on lending money at interest for another year, people will be wanting to eat me up alive.
It isnt like you to be so timid, Mrs Lian, said Brighties wife, smiling.
Who would dare to criticize you?
It seems such a shame, after the work weve put into this, to call all the money in again.
I dont want it for myself in any case, said Xi-feng it was a means of supplementing the housekeeping, because without it our expenditure was so much greater than our income.
Mr Lians and my allowance for the month, including the allowances for four maids, is less than twenty taels barely enough to keep us going for four or five days.
If I hadnt scraped together a bit of extra on the side, I dont know what sort of hovel we should have been living in by now.
And so now Ive got myself a bad name.
Im a usurer.
Very well, Ill call it all in again and stop lending money altogether.
I can spend money as fast as anyone else - though how we are supposed to manage if we just all sit back and spend without a thought in our heads for the future I fail to understand.
Lady Wang spent two months worrying about how she was going to manage for Her Old Ladyships birthday.
In the end I reminded her about four or five boxes of big, useless bronze things in the rear upstairs store-room and suggested that we should try pawning them.
We did, and raised three hundred taels, which was barely enough to tide her over the celebrations.
And you know of course about my chiming dock.
I sold that for three hundred and sixty taels, but in less than half a month every penny of it had gone into paying bills.
Now it seems the menfolk are running short and someone has had the bright idea of trying to get something Out of Her Old Ladyship.
Another year like this and we shall be pawning our jewellery and our clothes!
Brighties wife laughed.
Well, I dare say every one of you ladles has enough jewellery to keep you all for the rest of your lives, if she had a mind to pawn it.
429 No doubt its silly of me, said Xi-feng, but personally I could never bring myself to live like that.
- Oh, I must tell you, she said changing the subject, I had rather a funny dream last night.
Someone - I didnt know who he was, though he looked familiar - came and told me that Her Grace had sent him to ask me for a hundred lengths of brocade.
I said Which Her Grace?.
He told me a name, but it was the wrong one, so I refused.
Then he came forward and tried to take the stuff from me by force.
That was when I woke up.
Thats because your obligations to Her Grace are so much on your mind during the daytime, said Brighties wife, laughing.
The words were barely out of her mouth when a messenger from the Palace was announced - a little eunuch sent by Xia Bing-zhong, the eunuch Master of the Bedchamber.
Jia Lian frowned when he heard the announcement.
I wonder what it is this time?
Youd have thought hed had enough out of us already this year.
Make yourself scarce and let me speak to him, said Xi-feng.
If its only a little thing he wants, we neednt worry but if its something big hes after, I think I know how to handle this.
Jia Lian slipped into one of the side rooms at the back, while Xi-feng gave orders for the little eunuch to be brought in.
She made him sit down and accept a cup of tea before inquiring about the purpose of his visit.
Daddy Xia saw a house today that he would very much like to buy, but hes two hundred taels short of the price they are asking.
He sent me to ask you if you happen to have one or two hundred taels on you you could let him have just for the time being.
He will pay you back in a day or two.
Why talk of paying back?
said Xi-feng genially.
Weve got plenty of money, just help yourselves.
Why dont we just say that if we are ever short of money, well come and borrow some from you .
Oh, Daddy Xia also told me to tell you that he still hasnt paid back the twelve hundred taels he owes you from the last two times, but he says he will definitely pay it all back to you by the New Year.
Xi-feng laughed.
430 Your Daddy Xia is an old fuss-pot, tell him.
He really shouldnt worry his head over such trifles.
I hope he wont think I am complaining, but if everyone were as scrupulous as he is about paying back the money they owe us, we should be millionaires.
About this money he wants now, though I wonder if I have got that much ready cash to give him.
Hes certainly very welcome to it if I have.
She called Brighties wife to her.
Pop out and see if you can get two hundred taels for me, will you?
It doesnt matter where from.
Brighties wife at once caught on to the little game her mistress was playing.
Ive just been trying to get hold of some, she said brightly.
Thats why Im here.
I couldnt get any outside, so I thought you might have some.
You people arent very resourceful, said Xi-feng crossly.
Why is it that when you want money you always have to fall back on me?
She called Patience in.
Patience, get out my two gold necklaces and see if you can pawn them for four hundred taels.
Patience left the room and came back presently with an embroidered box in which were two magnificent collars of jewellery, every bit as fine as any that could be found in the Palace, each carefully wrapped up in a piece of silk brocade.
One of them was made of gold wire and pearls the size of lotus-seeds the other was of kingfisher-feathers and gold, studded with precious stones.
She went off with these and returned some time later with the four hundred taels, half of which Xi-feng wrapped up for the little eunuch, while the other half she handed over to Brighties wife to buy presents for the Mid-Autumn festival with.
The little eunuch now took his leave.
Xi-feng sent someone to carry the money for him as far as the main gate.
These people really are a pest!
said Jia Lian emerging from his hiding-place.
There seems to be no end to their borrowing.
Just as Id been telling you about my dream, said Xi-feng.
Talk of the devil!
Yesterday it was Chamberlain Zhou, said Jia Lian.
The 431 -1344 first thing he said when he opened his mouth was could I lend him a thousand taels.
Because I hesitated a bit before saying yes, he started looking huffy.
I can see us making any number of enemies this way.
What we need right now is a windfall of forty or fifty thousand taels!
Patience came in to help Xi-feng wash and change preparatory to going over to wait on Grandmother Jia at dinner.
Jia Lian went off to his outside study.
He had barely got there when Lin Zhi-xiao came hurrying in, evidently bursting with some news.
When Jia Lian asked him what it was, he said that Jia Yu-cun bad been demoted.
I dont know what it was for, he said.
It may not be true, in any case.
Even if its not, said Jia Lian, hes sure to get thrown out of that job sooner or later.
Wed be well advised to have as little to do with him as possible.
Im sure youre right, sir, said Lin Zhi-xiao.
But thats easier said than done.
Sir She is on very good terms with him, and Sir Zheng likes him.
Everyone knows that he is a regular visitor here.
Well, I suppose as long as we dont get involved in any of his schemes it shouldnt matter, said Jia Lian.
Youd better go and make some more inquiries.
Find out if he really has been demoted, and if so, what for.
Lin Zhi-xiao said he would do so, but showed no inclination to leave.
Instead he sat down in a chair and began talking to Jia Lian about this and that.
Presently they got on to the subject of the households financial difficulties.
Lin Zhi-xiao took the opportunity of airing his own idea of a solution.
Weve got too big a staff, he said.
We ought to pick a day when theres no other business on hand and ask Her Old Ladyship and Sir Zheng if we cant give some of those older servants who are a bit past it now an honourable discharge.
It would be a kindness to them, because theyve all got little jobs of their own to fall back on, and it would mean a big saving for us in the amount we have to spend every year on wages and keep.
And theres another thing there are far too many maids.
As the proverb says, The times get worse but never better.
Its no good trying to live in the style we used 432 -1344 to keep up twenty or thirty years ago.
If every apartment which in the past used to employ eight girls were now to employ six and those which used to employ four girls were to make do with two, the saving in wages and keep would be enormous.
Most of those girls are in any case old enough now to be married.
If we pair them off now with our boys, before we know where we are they will be breeding new servants for us.
Im entirely in agreement with you, said Jia Lian.
The trouble is that as Sir Zheng has only just got back, he doesnt want to be bothered with anything yet.
At the moment even quite important matters are having to be shelved.
Wed never get him to discuss a small domestic matter like this.
A couple of days ago an official marriage-broker came round here with all her credentials, wanting to arrange a match between her clients son and one of our young ladies, but Lady Wang said that Sir Zheng was so happy to be home again with his family all around him - she says hes hardly stopped talking about family togetherness since the day he got back - that she felt sure it would upset him to have to talk about the girls getting married and leaving home, and she forbade anyone to mention it to him.
Why, Im sure thats as it should be, said Lin Zhi-xiao.
Her Ladyship is a very thoughtful lady.
Talking of marriage-brokers, that reminds me, said Jia Lian.
Our Brighties boy wants to marry Sunset from Her Ladyships room and Brighties wife has been asking me if I would arrange it for them.
It seems to me that its hardly important enough for that.
Could one of you go round and see the girls father for me?
You could tell him that it has my approval.
Lin Zhi-xiao agreed to do so, but without much enthusiasm.
After a longish pause he added, I think if I was you, sir, I wouldnt get myself involved.
That boy of Brighties is only a lad, but already hes drinking too much and gambling and getting up to all sorts of capers.
I know theyre only slaves, but marriage is for a lifetime, after all.
I havent seen Sunset myself for some years, but by all accounts shes grown up into a very presentable young woman.
It would seem a pity to throw her away on the likes of him.
433 Oh, so Brighties boy has been misbehaving, has he?
said Jia Lian.
It seems to me that its not a wife he needs but a thundering good hiding.
I think youd better give him one to get on with and then lock him up and ask his parents what they propose to do about him.
Lin Zhi-xiao laughed.
We dont have to do that now, surely?
Next time he gives trouble, well let you know and you can deal with him then.
It doesnt seem quite the time to tackle him about it now.
Jia Lian made no reply and Lin Zhi-xiao shortly afterwards got up and left.
That evening Xi-feng summoned Sunsets mother to her in order to propose the marriage with Brighties son.
Sunsets mother had all along been opposed to it, but it was so flattering to have Xi-feng talking to her like this, woman to woman, that she found herself agreeing to everything in spite of herself.
When, some time after she had left, Jia Lian returned, Xi-feng asked whether he had spoken yet to the father.
No, I havent, said Jia Lian.
I was going to talk to him about it, but then I heard that that boy of Brighties is turning out a thoroughly bad lot, so I put it off.
If what they told me about him is true, I think we ought to give him a good, sharp lesson or two before we set about getting a wife for him.
None of us Wangs seem to find much favour with you people nowadays, said Xi-feng frostily.
I suppose since I dont meet with your approval, its hardly surprising that you should be dissatisfied with my servants.
Ive already spoken to her mother about it and she was overjoyed.
What am I supposed to do now?
Call her in again and tell her its all off?
No, no, said Jia Lian.
If youve already arranged it with her mother, it will have to stand.
But youll have to have a word with Brightie tomorrow and tell him to do something about that boy.
Our narrative moves at this point to the unfortunate object of these manoeuvrings.
-934 When, some days previous to this, Lady Wang sent Sunset back home to her parents, it was on the express understanding 434 that they might choose for her whatever son-in-law they wished.
Brighties visits to her parents filled Sunset with foreboding.
Her union with Jia Huan had not yet been approved, but she had long since given her heart to him and knew that she could never be happy with Brighties son.
When, shortly after that, she learned that Brighties son was a drunkard and a gambler and hideously ugly into the bargain, she became even more alarmed.
The fear that Brightie and his wife might use their influence with Xi-feng to force her parents to accept the match finally made her so frantic that, on the evening of the day on which these other events took place, she told her younger sister, Moonrise, to go in secret to Aunt Zhao and try to find out exactly what was happening.
Now Aunt Zhao had always got on well with Sunset and had been longing for the day when Sunset could become Jia Huans concubine, thus providing her at the same time with an ally.
It was an unexpected blow to her when Sunset was sent back home to her parents, and she was constantly urging Jia Huan to go and ask Lady Wang if he might have her for himself but partly because Jia Huan was too bashful to open his mouth about it, and partly because he did not in any case care about her very much after all, he thought, she was only a maid there would be plenty even better than her in the future he hung back, hoping that the matter would eventually be dropped.
But Aunt Zhao did not give up so easily, and the night that Sunset sent her younger sister to see her she tried to enlist Jia Zhengs support.
Jia Zheng was unenthusiastic.
Whats the hurry?
he said.
Wait until the boys have spent another year or two at their studies, it will be soon enough then.
Ive already got my eye on a couple of girls, one for Bao-yu and one for Huan, but I think they are too young yet.
I am afraid that if they had the girls now, it would get in the way of their studies.
You can speak to me about this again in a year or twos time.
Aunt Zhao would have gone on trying, but just at that moment there was a loud crash outside which made them both jump.
You will have to look at the next chapter, however, in order to find out what caused it.
