Chapter 25 Five Devils Invoked by Sorcery Take Possession of Baoyu and Xifeng Two Sages See the jade of Spiritual Understanding in the Dream of Red Mansions Xiaohong fell into a doze, her thoughts running on love.
When Jia Yun tried to seize her she turned and fled, but stumbling over the threshold woke with a start to the realization that it was only a dream.
She tossed and turned sleeplessly until day dawned, when some other maids called her to help them sweep and fetch water Without washing her face or putting on any make-up, she casually smoothed her hair in front of the mirror and hastily rinsed her hands, after which she lied a sash round her waist and set about her work.
Now Baoyu had been so struck by Xiaohong the previous day that he would have liked to have her wait on him, but he feared this might upset Xiren and the others besides, there was no saying how the girl would turn out.
If she proved satisfactory, well and good if not, sending her away again would be awkward.
So he got up moodily and sat there brooding, not even troubling to comb his hair or wash.
Presently the shutters were taken down and through the gauze window he had a clear view of the maids sweeping the courtyard.
All of them were powdered and rouged, with flowers or willow shoots in their hair, but he saw no sign of Xiaohong.
He slipped on his shoes and strolled out, ostensibly to look at the flowers, gazing this way and that until he glimpsed, half-hidden by a crab-apple tree, a figure leaning over the balustrade in the southwest corner of the covered walk.
He strolled round the tree and looked more closely.
Yes, it was the girl of the day before, apparently lost in thought.
He was wondering whether to accost her when Bihen fetched him in again to wash.
He had no choice but to go back.
And now Xiaohong was aroused from her abstraction by the sight of Xiren beckoning.
She went to see what was wanted.
"Our watering-can's broken and hasn't been mended yet," said Xiren.
"I want you to go and borrow one of Miss Lins. "
The girl set off on this errand to Bamboo Lodge.
As she crossed Green Mist Bridge the sight of the artificial hills screened oil reminded her that this was the day for tree-planting.
Some distance away a band of men could be seen digging under the supervision of Jia Yun, seated on a nearby boulder.
Not having the courage to approach him, she proceeded quietly to Bamboo Lodge, borrowed a watering-can and took it back, then lay down in her room in low spirits.
The others, assuming that she was feeling unwell, paid no attention.
And the day dragged by, uneventful.
The day after that was the birthday of Wang Ziteng's wife, and the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang had been invited to the celebrations.
Since her mother-in-law did not go, neither did Lady Wang but Aunt Xue, Xifeng, the three Jia girls, Baochai and Baoyu went along, not returning till the evening.
It so happened that when Jia Huan came back from school Lady Wang had told him to copy out for her some incantations invoking the Buddhist guardian deities, the dvarapalas.
The boy took a seat on the kang in her room, ordered candles to be lighted, and set about writing with a great show of importance.
Now he called Caiyun to pour him tea, now told Yuchuan to trim the wicks of his candies, now complained that Jinchuan was standing in his light.
As all the maids disliked him they took no notice -- all except Caixia who still kept in with him.
She poured him some tea and, noticing that Lady Wang was chatting with some other people, she whispered "Be quiet.
Don't be such a nuisance.
You're only making yourself unpopular."
"Don't try to fool me," he retorted.
"I can see what's happening.
Now you're friendly with Baoyu, you mean to ignore me."
Caixia bit her lips and with one finger rapped him on the forehead.
"You ungrateful thing!
Like the dog that bit L Dongbin---you bite the hand that feeds you Just then Xifeng came in to pay her respects, and Lady Wang wanted a detailed account of the party---the other guests, the operas and the feast.
Before long Baoyu, too, arrived.
Having greeted his mother and made some polite conversation, he told the maids to help him off with his chaplet, gown and boots, then nestled up to his mother As she stroked and caressed him he put his arms round her neck and chattered.
"You've had too much to drink again, my son," scolded Lady Wang.
"Row hot your face is!
If you go on tossing about like this, the wine may go up to your head.
Why not lie down and rest a while."
She called for a pillow and Baoyu, lying down behind her, asked Caixia to come and massage him.
But when he joked with her she cold-shouldered him and kept her eyes on Jia Huan.
Baoyu took her hand.
"Do be nice to me, sister!"
he begged.
Caixia snatched her hand away.
"If you do that again, I'll shout," she warned him.
This was overheard by Jia Huan, who had always hated Baoyu.
At the sight of him teasing Caixia, he felt ready to explode with jealousy.
He dared not protest outright, but he had mulled over a plan and now that they were so close he saw his chance to put it into action.
Re would blind Baoyu with burning candle-wax'.
Deliberately knocking over the candlestick, he splashed the hot melted wax on his half-brother's face.
Baoyu's cry of pain made everyone jump for fright.
They hastily brought over the standard lamp as well as several lamps from other rooms, and saw with consternation that Baoyu's face was covered with wax.
Frantic and furious, Lady Wang ordered the servants to wipe it off, and then rounded on Jia Ruan.
"What a dunderhead!"
scolded Xifeng with a smile on her face, as she scrambled on to the kang to attend to Baoyu.
"Huan's not fit to mix in decent company.
His mother really ought to bring him up better."
This remark was the cue for Lady Wang to stop abusing Jia Huan and to send for the concubine Zhao.
"Why don't you teach that spiteful brat of yours to behave himself?"
she fumed.
"Time and again I've overlooked this sort of thing, but it only makes you worse.
Conceited creature!"
Although the concubine was eaten up by jealousy of Xifeng and Baoyu, she dared not show it either Now that Jia Ruan had made such trouble, she had no alternative but to accept these taunts meekly and show concern for Baoyu.
His left cheek was badly blistered, but luckily no damage had been done to his eyes.
Lady Wang's heart ached for him even as she wondered how she was to answer for this to her mother-in-law tomorrow.
She vented her anger again on the concubine, then went on soothing Baoyu and dabbing his cheeks with a disinfectant ointment.
"It stings a bit but it's nothing serious," Baoyu assured her.
"Tomorrow if grandmother asks, I'll say I scalded myself."
"She'll scold us all the same for our negligence," retorted Xifeng smiling.
"There'll be a row anyway, no matter what you say."
Lady Wang then had Baoyu escorted back to his rooms, where Xiren and the others were horrified by his appearance.
Daiyu had been lonely all day in Baoyu's absence, and sent several times that evening to ask whether he was back.
When she learned of his accident she hurried over to find him in front of the mirror, his left cheek daubed with ointment.
Imagining that the burn was serious, she approached to have a look but Baoyu, knowing how fastidious she was, covered his cheek with one hand and waved her away.
Daiyu knew her own weakness she also knew that Baoyu was afraid of disgusting her "I just wanted to see where the burn is," she said gently.
"Why do you have to hide it?"
She then came closer and turned his head to have a look.
"Does it hurt much?"
she asked.
"Not really.
I'll be all right in a couple of days. "
After keeping him company for a while she left, feeling rather depressed.
The next day when Baoyu saw the Lady Dowager, although he took the blame for the burn on himself, sure enough she reprimanded all his attendants.
Another day went by and they had a visit from Priestess Ma, Baoyu's Buddhist godmother.
The sight of him gave her a shock and she asked with concern what had happened.
Learning that he had been scalded she nodded and sighed, then passed her fingers over his face with some muttered incantations.
"He'll be all right now," she declared.
"This was just a chance misfortune.
You don't know, Old Ancestress, all the solemn warnings there are in the Buddhist sutras about the sons born into noble families, who are always dogged by evil spirits who pinch them, nip them, knock their rice-bowls out of their hands, or trip them up on the road.
That's why so many sons of great houses die young.
"Is there no way to prevent it?"
asked the Lady Dowager anxiously.
"Of course there is.
Just do more good deeds on his behalf.
The sutras tell us of a great Bodhjsattva in the west whose glory illumines all around and whose special charge it is to bring to light the evil spirits in dark places.
If faithful believers worship him devoutly, their descendants are assured of peace and health and no evil spirits can get possession of them."
"What offerings does this Bodhisattva require?"
"Nothing of any great value.
Apart from incense and candles, a few catties of oil every day for the Big Lamp.
For that lamp is a manifestation of the Bodhisattva.
It has to be kept burning day and night."
"Row much oil does it take to keep it burning for one whole day and night?
If you tell me the exact amount, I should like to donate it."
"There's no fixed amount, it's up to the donor.
Several of the royal consorts have presented offerings of this kind in our convent.
The mother of the Prince of Nanan has made a generous donation, forty-eight catties of oil a day and another catty of lampwicks, so her lamp is almost as large as a water vat.
The lady of the Marquis of Jintian comes next with twenty-four catties.
Other families give anything from five to three or one---it doesn't matter Some poor families who can't afford so much may just donate a quarter or half a catty, but we keep a lamp burning for them just the same. "
The Lady Dowager nodded thoughtfully.
"Of course, more can be given for parents or elders," continued the priestess.
"But if our Old Ancestress gives too much for Baoyu, it won't be good for the boy and may even spoil his luck.
Five catties or seven at the most would be ample."
"Make it five catties a day then," said the Lady Dowager.
"You can collect a month's donation at a time."
"May Amida Buddha the Merciful Great Bodhisattva preserve you!"
cried the grateful priestess.
The old lady ordered the servants, "In future when Baoyu goes out give his pages a few strings of cash to distribute as alms to bonzes, Taoists and the poor. "
The priestess sat with them there a little longer, then made the rounds of different apartments, coming presently to that of the concubine Zhao who, after exchanging greetings, ordered tea.
It was clear from a heap of satin remnants on the kang that she had been making slippers.
"I could do with some silk for uppers myself," remarked Ma.
"Can you spare me a few odd pieces?
I don't mind what colour."
"You won't find anything good in that lot," said the concubine with a sigh.
"Good things don't come my way.
That's all there is.
But if you don't think them too bad you're welcome to choose a couple."
The priestess picked out several pieces and tucked them in her sleeves.
"The other day," the concubine went on, "I sent over five hundred cash.
Did you sacrifice to the God of Medicine for me?"
"Yes, days ago.
"Amida Buddha!"
She sighed again.
"If I'd only more in hand I'd be giving oftener.
I just haven't the means.
"Don't worry.
Just hold out till Master Huan grows up and gets an official post.
Then you can do all the good works you want."
"Well, well, don't talk about that!"
The concubine snorted.
"You can see how things are.
My son and I are the least and lowest in this household.
Of course Baoyu is the precious dragon of the house.
Mind you, he's still just a child with winning ways, so I've nothing to say if his elders dote on him.
But I refuse to crawl to her" She held up two fingers.
"You mean the second young mistress, Madam Lian?"
The concubine hastily signed to her to be quiet.
Raving raised the portire to make sure that no one was there, she came back and whispered "She's a terror, a real terror!
If she doesn't end by shifting all the property here to her mother's house, I'm not a human being!"
The priestess, hearing this, decided to sound her out further.
"You don't have to tell me, it's plain enough," she said.
"It's kind of you to put up with it and let her have her own way.
That's fine."
"What else can we do, for goodness' sake?
Who would have the nerve to say a word against her?"
The priestess gave a short laugh.
After a moment's pause she said "I don't want to talk like a trouble-maker, but I do think if you don't stick up for yourselves you can't very well blame others.
Even if you dare not tackle her openly you could have done something in secret, instead of letting things drag on like this."
Sensing something behind this, the concubine brightened up.
"In secret?
Do explain how," she cried.
"I've thought of that, but there's no one capable of doing it.
If you'll show me some way, I'll make it well worth your while."
"Amida Buddha, don't ask me that," protested the priestess, although well aware that they both had the same thing in mind.
"What do I know about such matters?
No, that would be a sin, a wicked sin."
"Come on, you're always good to those in trouble.
Are you going to stand by and watch that woman trample us, mother and child, to death?
Or are you afraid I shan't be able to pay you?"
Ma smiled.
"It's right to say that I'm sorry to see you and your son bullied, but it's wrong of you to talk about paying me.
Why, even if I hoped for some reward, what have you got that could tempt me?"
The concubine felt that Ma was yielding.
"Row can a smart woman like you be so dense?"
she asked.
"If you know some good magic to get rid of those two, the family property's bound to come to my son.
When that happens you can have anything you want."
The priestess lowered her head for a while.
"When that happens," she said at last, "and everything's in the bag, unless I've something in writing you'll just ignore me. "
"That's no problem," said the concubine.
"Though I haven't got much at the moment, I've saved a few taels of silver and I have some clothes and trinkets too.
You can take some of them to be going on with.
And I can write you a promissory note and, if you like, find a witness too, so that you can be sure I'll pay you in full later on."
"Do you really mean that?"
"How could lie to you on such a matter?"
The concubine then called in a trusted old servant to whom she whispered certain instructions.
The woman went out, returning after a while with a promissory note for five hundred taels.
Concubine Zhao pressed her fingerprints on this, then opened her chest and took out some loose silver.
This she showed to the priestess.
"Take this first to spend on offerings.
How's that?"
At the sight of this gleaming pile of silver and the promissory note, the priestess did not scruple to assent with alacrity.
First she put away the silver and then the note.
Next she rummaged in her waistband for a while and fished out twelve paper figures -- two of human beings and ten of devil with white hair and blue faces -- which she gave to the concubine.
"Write the eight characters of their horoscopes on these two figures, she whispered.
"Then put them, with five devils each, in their beds.
That" all you have to do.
I shall do my magic at home.
It's sure to work.
Mind you're very careful, and don't look alarmed."
They were interrupted by the arrival of a maid from Lady Wang.
"So here you are," she said to the concubine.
"Her Ladyship's waiting for you."
Then the two women parted company.
But let us return to Daiyu.
Now that Baoyu's burn kept him indoors she often dropped in for a chat.
Today after lunch she did some reading but soon became bored with the book then she did a little needlework with Zijuan and Xueyan, but found this even more tedious.
So she stood for a while leaning against the doorway in a brown study, before stepping out to look at the bamboo shoots sprouting below the steps.
And then hardly knowing what she did, she stepped out of the courtyard.
There was no one in sight in the Garden, nothing to be seen but the brightness flowers and the shadows of willows, nothing to be heard but birdsong and gurgling streams.
And so she made her way to Happy Red Court.
Son maids on the terrace there, having just fetched water, were watching the thrushes have their bath.
Inside there was laughter and going in she found Li Wan, Xifeng and Baochai assembled there.
At sight of her they smiled.
"Here comes another!"
"Were invitations sent out that you're here in force?"
asked Daiyu jokingly.
"I sent you two canisters of tea the other day," interposed Xifeng.
"Where were you?"
"Oh, it had slipped my mind.
Thank you very much."
"How did you like it?
Xifeng asked.
"It's all right but I didn't care for it much," put in Baoyu.
"I don't know how the rest of you found it."
"The flavour was quite delicate, but the colour wasn't too good," remarked Baochai.
"That was tribute tea from Siam," Xifeng told them.
"Personally, I didn't find it as good as the kind we drink every day."
"I liked it," retorted Daiyu.
"Different people have different tastes."
"In that case you can have mine," offered Baoyu.
"If you really like it I've plenty more," said Xifeng.
"Fine.
I'll send a maid to fetch it," Daiyu promised.
"No need," rejoined Xifeng.
"I'll have it sent round.
I was going to send over to you tomorrow anyway to ask a favour."
"Listen to her!"
cried Daiyu.
"Just take a little tea from her and she starts ordering you about."
Xifeng chuckled.
"Asked a favour, you make such a fuss!
Over drinking tea too.
'Drink our family's tea, a daughter-in-law to be'!"
As the whole party burst out laughing, Daiyu blushed and turned her head away, saying nothing.
Li Wan observed with a smile to Baochai, "Our second sister-in-law will have her joke."
"Joke?"
Daiyu spat.
"I call it disgustingly vulgar."
"Are you dreaming?
What's wrong with being our daughter-in-law?"
teased Xifeng, then pointed at Baoyu.
"Look, isn't he handsome enough for you?
Isn't his status good enough for you?
Isn't his family rich enough for you'?
Who could think it a bad match in any respect?"
Daiyu rose at once to go.
"You're offended," cried Baochai.
"Come back, Daiyu!
It'll spoil the fun if you go."
She ran after Daiyu to stop her.
But at the doorway they were intercepted by the concubines Zhao and Zhou, who had come to inquire after Baoyu.
Li Wan, Baochai and Baoyu invited them to sit down.
Xifeng, however, went on talking with Daiyu and ignored them.
Baochai was just about to speak when a maid sent by Lady Wang announced that Wang Ziteng's wife had called and would like to see the young ladies.
Li Wan at once urged Xifeng and the girls to go over, and the two concubines also took a hasty leave of Baoyu.
"I can't go out," said Baoyu.
"Whatever happens, don't let my aunt come over here!
Do wait a bit, Cousin Lin.
I've something to tell you."
Xifeng, hearing this, turned to Daiyu with a smile.
"You'd better stay.
You're wanted."
She pushed the girl back into the room and went off with Li Wan.
Baoyu, left alone with Daiyu, clasped her sleeve and smiled but could not get a word out.
She could not help blushing and tried to break away.
"Aiya!"
he cried suddenly.
"Row my head aches!"
"Serves you right.
Buddha be praised."
The next moment he let out a piercing cry.
"I'm dying!"
He leapt several feet into the air, babbling and raving.
Daiyu and the maids rushed in panic to tell the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang and as Wang Ziteng's wife was with them, the whole party hurried over.
By now Baoyu had turned the whole place upside down in search of a sword or stick to kill himself with.
His grandmother and mother shook with terror, bursting into loud lamentations for their darling.
At once the whole household was thrown into confusion as everyone flocked to the Garden---from Jia She, Lady Xing, Jia Zheng, Jia Lian, Jia Huan, Jia Rong, Jia Yun, Jia Ping, Aunt Xue and Xue Pan down to Zhou Rui's wife and all the other female servants.
They were all in a great commotion and wondering what to do when in rushed Xifeng, brandishing a bright steel sword, with which she was trying to cut down all the chickens, dogs and people in her way.
This was even more staggering!
Zhou Rui's wife, aided by some of the stronger and braver maids, managed to overpower her and disarm her.
They then carried her back to her room where Pinger and Fenger gave way to a storm of weeping.
Even Jia Zheng was quite distracted, trying to attend to both Baoyu and Xifeng at once.
The others, it goes without saying, were still more distraught.
But of them all Xue Pan was the most frantic, being afraid that in the crush his mother might be knocked over, Baochai stared at, or Xiangling exposed to indignities -- for he knew what libertines Jia Zhen and the rest were.
Then, his eye suddenly falling on Daiyu, he was so enraptured by her charms that he almost melted on the spot.
By now proposals of all kinds were being made.
Some suggested calling in exorcists to drive out evil spirits some, getting a witch to lure them out by dancing others recommended the Taoist Zhang from the Jade Emperor's Temple....
Pandemonium reigned as they tried all conceivable remedies together with incantations, divination and prayers.
But all to no avail.
And at sunset Wang Ziteng's wife took her leave.
Next day Wang Ziteng came in person to make inquiries.
This was followed by visits from young Marquis Shi's wife, the brothers and relations of Lady Xing, and the wives of other family connections.
Some brought charm water.
Others sent round bonzes and Taoists.
Still nothing proved of any use.
Baoyu and Xifeng had fallen into a coma.
They lay on their beds burning with fever and babbling deliriously.
As the night wore on, because none of the maids or nannies dared go near them, they were carried to Lady Wang's quarters where some pages in the charge of Jia Yun kept watch in turn.
The Lady Dowager, Lady Wang, Lady Xing and Aunt Xue, racked by sobs, refused to stir from their side.
Afraid that their mother might fall ill of grief, Jia She and Jia Zheng bestirred themselves so frantically day and night that no one, high or low, had any rest or could offer any advice.
Jia She kept summoning more bonzes and Taoists, but because these could do no good Jia Zheng lost patience and tried to dissuade him.
"Their fate rests with Heaven," he said.
"Human beings are powerless.
Since their disorder is quite unforeseen and no drugs can cure it, it must be the will of Heaven.
We shall just have to leave them to their fate."
His counsel fell on deaf ears.
Jia She would not relax his exertions.
But still there was no improvement.
By the third day the patients were lying at death's door and the whole household despaired.
Then, as all hope was relinquished, preparations were started for the funeral.
The Lady Dowager, Lady Wang, Jia Lian, Pinger and Xiren wept even more bitterly than the rest, unable to take food or sleep.
Only the concubine Zhao and Jia Ruan were secretly exulting.
On the morning of the fourth day Baoyu opened his eyes.
"I am going to leave you now, he told his weeping grandmother "You must make haste and get me ready to go.
These words made her feel as if he had wrenched out her heart.
"Don't take it too hard, madam," urged the concubine.
"The boy's as good as gone.
Better lay him out and let him make an end of his misery.
If you insist on holding him back, he'll not be able to breathe his last and will only suffer for it in the next world.... Before she could finish the old lady spat in her face.
"May your tongue rot, you bitch!"
she swore.
"Who asked for your opinion?
How do you know he'll suffer in the next world?
Why say he's as good as gone?
What good will it do you if he dies?
You're dreaming!
If he does die, I'll make you pay for it.
You're the ones to blame for this, forcing the child to study and breaking his spirit so that the sight of his father made him as scared as a mouse chased by a cat.
It's you bitches who have hounded him to his death.
But don't gloat too soon -- youve still me to reckon with."
Quite beside himself to hear her curses and sobs, Jia Zheng hastily ordered his concubine away and tried to calm his mother.
But just then a servant came in to announce that the two coffins were ready for his inspection.
This added fuel to the fire of the old lady's anger.
"Who ordered coffins?"
she screamed.
"Fetch the coffin-makers here!
Have them beaten to death!"
She was storming fit to convulse heaven and earth when the faint sound of a monk's wooden clapper reached their ears.
"Put your trust in Buddha who absolves sins," the monk chanted.
"All those afflicted, distressed, imperilled or possessed by evil spirits, we can cure.
At once the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang asked to have the monk brought in.
Though Jia Zheng disapproved, he could not disregard his mother's wishes.
He was marveling, too, that the voice carried so clearly right into the house.
So he gave the order to the servants.
Then in came a scabby-headed bonze and a lame Taoist.
What was he like, this bonze?
His nose was bulbous and his eyebrows long, His two eyes glittered with a starry light Ragged, in shoes of straw, with scabby head, This vagrant monk was an obnoxious sight.
As for the Taoist With one leg short and one leg long, All soaked with rain and caked with mud was he If asked from whence he came he would reply "West of the Penglai Isles in Weightless Sea."
Jia Zheng asked this pair which monastery they were from.
"There is no need to inquire into that, sir," replied the bonze with a smile.
"We hear there is illness in your house and have come to cure it."
"Yes, two members of the family are bewitched.
Have you perhaps some miraculous remedy?"
"Why ask us for a remedy?"
retorted the Taoist.
"You already have in your house a rare treasure capable of curing them."
With a start Jia Zheng grasped the significance of this remark.
"It is true that my son was born with a piece of jade in his mouth," he replied.
"And the inscription on it claims that it can ward off evil.
But it has proved ineffective."
"You do not understand the miraculous powers of that precious jade, sin It has not proved efficacious because it is confused by music, beauty, riches and lust for gain.
Just bring it to me and I think we can restore its powers by incantation."
Jia Zheng took the jade from Baoyu's neck and passed it to them.
The monk laid it reverently on the palm of one hand.
"Thirteen years have passed in a twinkling since we left you at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak," he said with a sigh.
"How quickly time flies in this human world!
Yet already you are full of worldly desires.
Alas, how much better off you were before!
Untrammelled by heaven and earth, From joy and grief alike your heart was free Then smelting gave you spiritual perception, And you came to this world in search of misery.
What a deplorable state you are in now!
Powder and rouge have dulled your precious lustre Days and nights within silk chambers entrap your heart But you must wake at last from your sweet dream Poor lovers, when all debts are paid, must part."
Having chanted this he rubbed the jade again and muttered some gibberish over it, then handed it back to Jia Zheng.
"Its power has now been restored," he said.
"But it must not be profaned.
Keep the two patients in one room hang it over the door of that room, and let no women apart from your wife and mother go inside.
In thirty-three days' time, I guarantee they will have recovered completely.
With that he and the Taoist turned and left.
Jia Zheng hurried after them, urging them to sit down and have some tea, for he wanted to offer them some remuneration but the two men had gone.
And when the Lady Dowager sent servants to overtake them, no trace of them could be found.
Then, following the monk's instructions, the jade was hung over the doorway of Lady Wang's bedroom where the two patients were lying and she herself kept watch there to prevent anyone else from entering.
By evening both patients had slowly regained consciousness and said they were hungry.
The Lady Dowager and Lady Wang were overjoyed.
Some rice gruel was prepared and after eating it they felt better, the evil spirits which had possessed them retreating.
At last everyone was able to breathe again.
Li Wan, the Jia girls, Baochai and Daiyu were waiting with Pinger and Xiren in the outer room when they heard that the patients had come to and eaten some gruel.
Before the rest could say anything, Daiyu exclaimed "Buddha be praised!"
Baochai turned to look at her and gave a laugh.
This passed unnoticed by all but Xichun.
"What are you laughing at, Cousin Baochai?"
she asked.
"I was thinking how much busier Buddha must be than men are.
Apart from expounding the truth and saving all living creatures, he has to preserve the sick and restore them to health, as he has done with Baoyu and Xifeng who are on the mend today.
And he'll have to take care of Miss Lin's marriage as well.
Just think how busy he must be!
Don't you find it amusing?"
Daiyu flushed and spat in disgust.
"How horrid you all are!
I can't think what end you'll come to.
Instead of following the example of good people, you're learning from Xifeng to make vulgar jokes."
She swept aside the portire and went out.
To learn what followed, turn to the next chapter.
Chapter 26 On Wasp-Waist Bridge, Xiaohong Hints at Her Feelings In Bamboo Lodge, Drowsy in Spring, Daiyu Bares Her Heart After thirty-three days' convalescence, when Baoyu had completely recovered his strength and the bums on his face had healed, he moved back into the Garden.
During his illness, Jia Yun had taken in pages to watch day and night beside him and had seen so much of Xiaohong and the other maids there that they were now on a familiar footing.
Xiaohong noticed that Jia Yun had a handkerchief very like the one she had lost.
She nearly asked him about it, but was too shy.
After the visit of the monk and the Taoist, however, there was no further need for male attendants and Jia Yun resumed his tree-planting.
Though Xiaohong did not want to drop the matter, neither did she want to arouse the suspicions of others by questioning the young man.
She was wondering what to do when a voice called through her window "Are you there, sister?"
Peeping out she saw that it was Jiahui, another maid who belonged to the same court.
She asked her in.
Jiahui promptly entered and took a seat on the bed.
"I'm in luck."
she crowed.
"I was washing clothes in the court just now when Baoyu decided to send some tea to Miss Lin, and Xiren gave me the errand.
As it happened, the old lady had just sent Miss Lin some money which she was sharing out among the maids.
When she saw me she gave me two handfuls of cash -- how much it is I don't know.
Will you took after it for me?"
She unwrapped her handkerchief and poured out the coins, which Xiaohong counted for her "Five, ten, fifteen..." and then put away.
"How have you been feeling recently?"
continued Jiahui.
"Take my advice and go home for a couple of days.
Get a doctor to see you and prescribe some medicine, and that should set you right."
"What an idea!"
countered Xiaohong.
"I'm perfectly all right.
Why should I go home?"
"I know what, then.
Miss Lin's so delicate, she's always taking medicine.
Ask her for some.
That would do just as welt."
"Nonsense.
You don't take medicine at random like that."
"Well, you can't go on like this.
All your appetite's gone -- what's to become of you?"
"What does it matter?
The sooner I die the better" "How can you say such things?"
"You don't understand how I feel."
Jiahui nodded thoughtfully.
"Well, I don't blame you," she said.
"Things are difficult here.
Just take yesterday, for example.
The old lady said everyone worked so hard while Baoyu was ill that, now he's better and all the vows have been paid, each one would be rewarded according to grade.
I don't mind if the young ones like myself are left out, but why should you be left out?
It isn't fair I wouldn't have begrudged Xiren ten times as much either--she deserves it.
After all, to be honest, which of us can compare with her?
Look how careful and conscientious she always is.
And even if she weren't, she couldn't be passed over.
What annoys me is having people like Qingwen and Yixian counted as top grade and boosted up just because their parents are senior servants here.
Don't you call it maddening?"
"It's hardly worth being angry with them," retorted Xiaohong.
"The proverb says 'Even the longest feast must break up at last.'
Who's going to stay here for life?
A few more years and we'll all go our different ways.
When that time comes who will worry about anyone else?"
These words brought tears to Jiahui's eyes, but not wanting to cry for no reason she forced a smile.
"That's true, of course," she agreed.
"Yet only yesterday Baoyu was talking about how he's going to rearrange the rooms and the clothes he means to have made, as if we had hundreds of years to put up with here."
Xiaohong laughed sarcastically.
Before she could say any more in came a little maid who had not yet let her hair grow, to deliver two sheets of paper and some patterns.
"Here are two patterns for you to trace," she said, tossing them at Xiaohong.
"Who are they from?"
called Xiaohong as the child scampered off.
"Can't you finish what you have to say before running away?
Have you steamed wheatcakes waiting which may get cold?"
"They're from Yixian," cried the little girl through the window, then quickly galloped away.
Xiaohong crossly threw the patterns aside and rummaged in her drawer for a brush, but could not find any with a pointed tip.
"Where did I put that new brush the other day?"
she muttered.
"I can t remember.... Oh, of course, Yixian borrowed it the evening before last."
She turned to Jiahui.
"Do you mind fetching it for me?"
"Fetch it yourself.
Xiren is waiting for me to lift some cases for her" "If she were, could you stay here chatting?
You only say she's waiting because I asked you a favour, you little beast!"
Xiaohong set out from Happy Red Court to Baochai's apartments, but stopped at Seeping Fragrance Pavilion when she caught sight of Baoyu's old nurse, Nanny Li.
"Where are you off to, Mrs.
Li?"
she greeted her with a smile.
"What brings you here?"
The old woman halted and clapped her hands.
"Tell me, why has he taken such a fancy to this tree-planter Yun or Yu, whatever his name is?
Nothing would serve but that I go and fetch the fellow.
When word of this gets to the Master, there'll be trouble."
"But do you have to give in to all his whims, nanny?"
"What else can I do?"
Xiaohong smiled.
"If that young man has any sense, he won't come. "
"He's not crazy.
Why shouldn't he?"
"Well, if he does come, you ought to bring him in with you.
Not leave him to go blundering round on his own. "
"Rave I time to wait for him?
I just gave him the message.
I'll send one of the girls of matrons to show him the way."
She hobbled off on her stick.
Instead of fetching the brush, Xiaohong stood there lost in thought till a maid came up and asked what she was doing.
It was Zhuier and Xiaohong inquired where she was going.
"To fetch Master Yun," cried Zhuier, running off.
Xiaohong had just reached the gate of Wasp-Waist Bridge by the time Zhuier returned, leading Jia Yun.
He cast a sidelong glance at Xiaohong, who stole a glance at him too under cover of talking to Zhuier When their eyes met she blushed and turned abruptly away, going on to Alpinia Park.
Jia Yun followed Zhuier by winding paths to Happy Red Court.
She went in first to announce him, then ushered him in.
The young man had time to scrutinize the courtyard.
There were a few scattered artificial rocks with plantains growing between, and two storks were preening their feathers under a pine.
In the gallery surrounding the courtyard hung cages of every description containing all manner of rare exotic birds.
The five-frame apartment before him had lattice-work carved with ingenious designs, while above its door hung a tablet inscribed with the words Happy Red and Delightful Green.
"So that's why it's called Happy Red Court," he thought.
"The name comes from that inscription."
He heard a laugh from behind one gauze-covered window and someone cried, "Come on in.
Imagine my forgetting you for two or three months!"
Recognizing Baoyu's voice Jia Yun hurried in.
He was dazzled by the glittering gold and emerald and the elegance of all the furnishings, but could see no sign of Baoyu.
Turning to the left he noticed a large mirror from behind which emerged two girls in their mid-teens, of about the same build and height, who invited him into the inner room.
Assenting without venturing to look at them, he stepped into a chamber screened with green gauze.
On a small inlaid lacquer bed there with red curtains embroidered in gold lay Baoyu, informally dressed, in his slippers.
At sight of the visitor he threw down the book in his hand and stood up, smiling.
Jia Yun advanced to fall upon one knee, and was offered a chair opposite his host.
"After I saw you that month and invited you to my study," remarked Baoyu, "a whole lot of things happened to make it slip my mind."
"That was my misfortune," replied Jia Yun with a smile.
"And then you fell ill, uncle.
Have you recovered completely?"
"Yes , thank you.
I heard you were quite worn out after all those days' hard work."
"That's just as it should be.
Your recovery, uncle, is a blessing to our whole family."
A maid had come in to offer him tea, and while talking with Baoyu he glanced surreptitiously at her.
Slim with an oval face, she was dressed in a silver-red jacket, black satin sleeveless jacket and pleated white silk damask skirt.
Raving been in the mansion all through Baoyu's illness, Jia Yun remembered most of the people of any importance there and knew that this was no other than Xiren, who enjoyed a special status in Happy Red Court.
As Baoyu was sitting there while she served tea, Jia Yun rose to his feet with a smile.
"How can I trouble you to pour the tea for me, sister?"
he protested.
"Don't treat me as a guest in my uncle's rooms.
Let me pour tea myself."
"Sit down, sit down," said Baoyu.
"Why stand on ceremony with the maids?"
"I mustn't forget my manners before the sisters in your apartments, uncle."
He sat down to sip tea while Baoyu chatted idly with him, telling him which families had the best actors, the finest gardens, the prettiest maids, the most sumptuous feasts, and the best collections of curios.
Jia Yun did his best to respond in the same vein.
But when he noticed that his host looked tired, he rose to take his leave and was not pressed to stay.
"Drop in any time you're free," said Baoyu, before telling Zhuier to see the visitor out.
As no one else was about outside Happy Red Court, Jia Yun slowed down to chat with the maid, asking her age, her name and her father's trade.
How long had she been working for Baoyu?
How much did she earn a month?
How many other girls worked there?
She answered each question in turn readily enough.
"That girl who spoke to you on our way in," he said, "isn't she called Xiaohong?"
Zhuier laughed.
"That's right.
Why do you ask?"
"She said something to you about a handkerchief.
As it happens, I've picked one up."
At this Zhuier smiled.
"She's asked me several times whether I've seen her handkerchief.
As if I had time to bother about such things!
She asked me again today and promised to give me something if I found it.
I'm not making this up you heard her for yourself in front of Alpinia Park.
If you've found it, sir, do give it to me and we'll see what thanks I get."
The fact is that the month before when supervising the planting of trees, Jia Yun had picked up a silk handkerchief in the Garden.
Re knew it must have been dropped by one of the girls there, but not knowing which had not ventured to take any action.
When Xiaohong questioned Zhuier about it, he was delighted to learn that it was Xiaohong's.
And now that Zhuier gave him this opening, he had his plan ready worked out.
He took a handkerchief of his own from his sleeve, and handed it her with a smile.
"All right, here you are," he told her "But mind you let me know what reward you get.
No cheating!"
Zhuier readily took the handkerchief on these conditions and, having seen Jia Yun out, went off to look for Xiaohong.
But let us return to Baoyu, who felt so lackadaisical after Jia Yun left that he curled up as if for a nap.
Xiren seated herself on the edge of his bed and nudged him.
"You mustn't fall asleep again," she said.
"If you're feeling bored, why not go out for a stroll?"
"I would."
Baoyu took her hand.
"But I can't bear to leave you.
"Get up, quick!"
she answered laughingly, pulling him up.
"Hut where shall I go?
I'm thoroughly fed up."
"You'll feel better once you're out.
If you just stay moping here, you'll only get more fed up."
Baoyu listlessly took her advice and pottered out.
After playing for a while with the birds in the gallery, he strolled beside the River of Seeping Fragrance to have a look at the goldfish.
As he did so, two fawns came bolting from the hillside opposite, and he was wondering what could have frightened them when he saw Jia Lan give chase, a small bow in his hand.
Seeing Baoyu ahead of him, the boy stopped short.
"So you're at home, uncle," he said cheerfully.
"I thought you'd gone out."
"What mischief are you up to now?"
asked Baoyu.
"Why shoot at those harmless creatures?"
"I've finished my lessons and I've nothing to do.
I thought I'd practise archery."
"I suppose you won't stop," said Baoyu, "till you've knocked out your teeth."
His feet carried him on then to the gate of a courtyard.
Bamboos dense as phoenix plumage there made a rustling music.
And the board above the gate bore the inscription Bamboo Lodge.
Strolling in he found the bamboo portiere down.
Not a voice could be heard.
As he approached the window a subtle fragrance drifted through the green gauze.
He pressed his face against the gauze and heard a long faint sigh, followed by the words -747 Day after day a drowsy dream of love.
1 Baoyu felt his heart strangely stirred.
And looking more closely, he could make out Daiyu, who was stretching herself on her bed.
He laughed.
"Why 'Day after day a drowsy dream of love'?"
he called, then raising the portire walked in.
Blushing to think she had given herself away, Daiyu hid her face with her sleeve and turned towards the wall, pretending to be asleep.
As Baoyu went up to her to turn her over, her nurse and two other old women followed him in.
-400 "Your cousin's asleep, sir.
We shall ask you in when she wakes up.
Daiyu promptly turned over and sat up with a laugh.
"Who's asleep?"
The three old women smiled.
"Our mistake, miss."
They left after calling Zijuan to attend to her young mistress.
"What do you mean by coming in when people are asleep?"
Daiyu challenged Baoyu with a smile as, sitting on the bed, she smoothed her hair.
The sight of her soft flushed cheeks, and her starry eyes now faintly misted over, enraptured Baoyu.
He sank smiling into a chair.
"What was that you were saying just now?"
"I didn't say anything."
"Yes, you did.
I heard you.
Zijuan appeared at this point.
Zijuan," said Baoyu, "Pour a cup of that good tea of yours for me, will you?"
"What good tea have we got?"
she retorted.
"If you want good tea, better wait till Xiren comes."
"Pay no attention to him," said Daiyu.
"First go and get me some water."
Zijuan laughed.
"He's a guest, so of course I must get him tea before I fetch you water."
As she left to do this Baoyu exclaimed, "Good girl!
-747 Should I share the bridal curtains with your sweet mistress, Row could I give you the task of preparing the bed?"
At once Daiyu's face clouded over.
"What's that you said?"
she demanded.
"I didn't say anything, did I?"
Baoyu chuckled.
Daiyu began to cry.
"So this is your latest diversion," she sobbed.
"All the dirty talk you hear outside, you repeat to me and any disgusting books you read, you quote to make fun of me.
A laughing-stock for you gentlemen, that's what I've become!"
Scrambling off the bed she walked away in tears.
Baoyu followed her in alarm.
"Dear cousin, it was very wrong of me, but please don't tell!"
he begged.
"May it blister my mouth and rot my tongue if I dare say such things again."
Just then Xiren came in.
"Quick," she said.
"Come hack and change.
The master wants you.
This summons fell on his ears like a clap of thunder.
Forgetting all else he rushed back to change, and hurried out of the Garden.
Beiming was waiting for him at the inner gate.
"Do you know why my father wants me?"
asked Baoyu.
"Hurry up, sir," said the page.
"At any rate you'll have to go.
You'll find out why when you get there."
He hustled his master off.
They passed the main hall, Baoyu with a sinking heart, when a bellow of laughter sounded just round the corner.
Out sprang Xue Pan, clapping his hands.
"If I hadn't said your father wanted you, you'd never have come so quickly," he declared.
Beiming, laughing too, fell on his knees.
It took some moments for Baoyu to realize he had been tricked.
Xue Pan bowed in apology, raising clasped hands.
"Don't blame this young rascal," he said.
"I put him up to it."
Baoyu had no alternative but to smile.
"I don't mind your fooling me," he said, "but why pretend to he my father?
Shall I go and ask your mother what she thinks of your conduct?"
"My dear cousin, I was in such a hurry to see you that I forgot that taboo.
Another day you can get even with me by pretending that my father wants to see me.
"You wretch!"
exclaimed Baoyu.
"You deserve to drop dead."
He rounded on Beiming.
"What are you still kneeling there for, you treacherous dog?"
-400 The page promptly kowtowed and got up.
"I wouldn't have disturbed you," Xue Pan explained, "but the third of the fifth month will be my birthday.
And Cheng Rixing the curio dealer managed -- goodness only knows where -- to get hold of a fresh, crisp lotus root this thick and this long, a huge melon this size, a fresh sturgeon this long and a whopping great Siamese pig smoked with fragrant cedar which came as tribute from Siam.
They must have been hard to come by, such presents, eh?
The fish and the pig are just expensive rarities, but heaven knows how they managed to grow a lotus root and melon of that size.
I gave some at once to my mother, then sent portions to your old lady and your parents but I've still quite a bit left.
To hog it all myself might bring me bad luck and after thinking it over I decided you were the only one fit to share it.
So I came over specially to invite you.
Luckily a singing-boy has just turned up too.
Why don't we make a day of it together?"
By now they had reached his study where they found Zhan Guang, Cheng Rixing, Hu Silai and Shan Pinren as well as the singing-boy.
When greetings had been exchanged and tea drunk, Xue Pan ordered the feast to be served.
At once his pages bustled about to lay the table, and when all was finally ready the party took their seats.
Baoyu saw that the melon and lotus-root were quite phenomenal.
"I haven't yet sent you over a birthday present, but here I am enjoying myself at your expense," he remarked with a smile.
"That's right," said Xue Pan.
"What are you planning to send me?"
"I haven't anything really.
The money, clothes, food and stuff like that in my place aren't mine to give.
The only thing I could give you of my own would be a scroll of my calligraphy or painting. "
"Talking of painting," put in Xue Pan with a grin, "reminds me of an erotic picture I saw in someone's house the other day.
Really superb it was.
I didn't read all the inscriptions carefully, just noticed the artist's name Geng Huang.
The picture was marvellous."
Baoyu was puzzled.
He knew the work of many calligraphers and painters past and present, but had never heard of an artist called Geng Huang.
After a little thought he burst out laughing.
He called for a brush and wrote two characters on the palm of his left hand.
-400 "Are you sure the name was Geng Huang?"
he asked Xue Pan.
"Of course."
Baoyu held out his hand.
"It wasn't these two characters?
They're not very different."
When they saw he had written Tang Yin 2 , they declared, laughing, "That must be it.
Mr Xue's eyes may have been blurred at the time."
Xue Pan grinned sheepishly.
"Who cares whether the fellow's name means 'sweet-silver' or 'nut-silver'?"
3 he spluttered in his embarrassment.
Just then "Mr. Feng" was announced by one of the servants.
Baoyu realized this must be Feng Ziying, the son of Feng Tang, General Shenwu.
All urged that he be asked in.
And before the words were out of their mouths Feng Ziying strode, chatting and laughing, into the room.
They rose to offer him a seat.
"Fine!"
Feng chuckled.
"You don't go out, just enjoy yourselves at home."
Both Xue Pan and Baoyu smiled.
"We haven't seen you for some time," they said.
"Is your father well?"
"Very well, thank you.
But my mother recently contracted a chill and has been out of sorts for two days."
Xue Pan noticed some bruises on his face.
"Been fighting again?"
he asked.
"Who left his mark on your face?"
"Ever since I beat up Colonel Qiu's son I've made a point of keeping my temper.
No more fist-fights for me.
This happened the other day out hunting on Iron-Net Mountain, when my falcon caught me on the cheek with its wing."
"When was that?"
asked Baoyu.
"We left on the twenty-eighth of the third month and only got back the day before yesterday."
"No wonder I didn't see you when I called on Shen on the third, or was it the fourth.
I meant to ask where you were but I forgot.
Did you go alone on this trip or with your father?"
"With my father, of course.
I couldn't get out of it.
Do you think me crazy enough to prefer roughing it to drinking with you and listening to songs?
This time, though, something lucky turned up in my bad luck."
As he had now finished his tea, Xue Pan and the others asked him to join them at the table and take his time telling them just what had happened.
But instead Feng rose to leave.
"You must excuse me.
Really I should drink a few cups with you, but I've some very urgent business today to report to my father."
Xue Pan, Baoyu and the others would not hear of this and laid hands on him to keep him.
"Don't be ridiculous.
You ought to know me better," he protested.
"I really can't stay.
But if you insist, get me a big cup and I'll drain two cups with you."
They had to agree to this.
Xue Pan took the pot, Baoyu held the cup, and they poured two large cupfuls which Feng Ziying stood up and drained in a single breath.
"Do tell us before you leave what's your good luck in a stretch of bad," urged Baoyu.
Feng Ziying only laughed.
"I can't go into the details today.
But I promise to invite you air to a special party when we can have a good talk.
I've a favour to ask you too."
Raising his clasped hands to say goodbye he started off.
"You're just whetting our curiosity," objected Xue Pan.
"When is this party to be?
Tell us now so as not to leave us in suspense.
"In ten days at the latest, maybe eight."
Then Feng Ziying went out, mounted his horse and rode off.
The others returned from seeing him off to drink some more before the party dispersed.
When Baoyu went back to the Garden, Xiren was still worrying about the summons from his father, not knowing whether it meant trouble or the reverse.
Seeing that Baoyu was tipsy, she asked him what had happened and he told her in detail.
"We were waiting here on tenterhooks while you had a good time," she said reproachfully.
"You might at least have sent word."
"I meant to, but when Feng turned up I forgot."
Just then Baochai came in.
"So you've been treated to those delicacies of ours," she teased.
"Surely you and your family must have tasted them before us, cousin," he countered.
Baochai shook her head.
"Yesterday my brother did urge me to try them, but I didn't.
I told him to keep them for others.
I know it's not in my stars to deserve such dainties."
A maid brought her some tea as she spoke, and while she drank it they chatted.
But no more of this.
Daiyu too had been worried on Baoyu's behalf when she heard that he had not come back all day after being sent for by his father.
After dinner she learned of his return and decided to find out from him what had happened.
As she strolled over she saw Baochai going into Happy Red Court before her.
But noticing some unusually beautiful water-fowl of various species unknown to her splashing about in the pool by Seeping Fragrance Bridge, she stopped for a while to admire their brilliant colours.
By the time she reached Happy Red Court the gate was closed and she was obliged to knock.
It so happened that Qingwen was in a bad humour, having just quarrelled with Bihen, and at Baochai's arrival she transferred her anger to the visitor She was grumbling in the courtyard "She keeps coming here and sitting around for no reason, keeping us up till the third watch at night.
Now this fresh knocking on the gate only incensed her further.
"They've all gone to bed," she cried, not troubling to ask who it was.
"Come back tomorrow."
Daiyu know the maids' ways and the tricks they played on each other Assuming that the girl in the courtyard had failed to recognize her voice and taken her for another maid, she called out again more loudly.
"It's me.
Open the gate!"
Still Qingwen did not recognize her voice.
"I don't care who you are," she said crossly.
"Master Bao's given orders that no one's to be admitted."
Rooted indignantly to the spot and tempted to let fly at her, Daiyu reflected, "Although my aunt's house is a second home to me, I'm after all an outsider here.
With both my parents dead, I've no one to turn to except this family.
It would be foolish to start a real rumpus."
As she thought thus, tears ran down her cheeks.
She was wondering whether or not to go back when the sound of talk and laughter inside -- she distinguished the voices of Baoyu and Baochai -- upset her even more.
She thought back then to the events of the morning.
"Baoyu must be angry with me, thinking I told on him," she reflected.
"But I never did!
You ought to investigate before flying into a temper like this.
You can shut me out today, but shall we not see each other still tomorrow?"
The more she thought, the more distressed she felt.
Oblivious of the cold dew on the green moss and the chill wind on the path, standing under the blossom by tile corner of the wall she gave way to sobs.
And the sound of this beauty's weeping -- for Daiyu was the loveliest creature ever seen -- made the birds fly away from their roosts on the willows and flowering trees, unable to bear her distress.
Truly -694 The hearts of the flowers were broken, The birds were woken from their senseless dreams.
The reason is told in these lines -694 Peerless the beauty and talent of this girl Wrapped in scent from embroidered curtains come alone Before her first sob dies away Flowers strew the ground, the affrighted birds have flown.
As Daiyu was sobbing to herself the gate creaked open.
If you want to know who came out, read the next chapter.
Chapter 27 Baochai Chases a Butterfly to Dripping Emerald Pavillon Daiyu Weeps over Fallen Blossom by the Tomb of Flowers As Daiyu was weeping, the gate creaked open and out came Baochai escorted by Baoyu, Xiren and other maids.
Daiyu was tempted to accost Baoyu, but not wanting to embarrass him in public she stepped aside until Baochai had left and the others had gone in, when she came back and shed more tears before the closed gate.
Then she went back in low spirits to her room and prepared listlessly for bed.
Zijuan and Xueyan knew their young mistress' ways.
She would often sit moodily frowning or sighing over nothing or, for no apparent reason, would give way to tong spells of weeping.
At first they had tried to comfort her, imagining that she missed her parents and home or that someone had been unkind but as time went by and they found this was her habit they paid little further attention.
So tonight they withdrew to bed, leaving her to brood by herself.
Daiyu leaned against her bed-rail, clasping her knees.
Her eyes were brimming with tears.
There she stayed motionless as a statue, not lying down until after the second watch.
The next day was the twenty-sixth of the fourth month, the Festival of Grain in Ear.
It was the time-honoured custom on this day to offer all manner of gifts and a farewell feast to the God of Flowers, for this festival was said to mark the beginning of summer when all the blossom had withered and the God of flowers had to resign his throne and be seen off.
As this custom is most faithfully observed by women, all the inmates of Grand View Garden rose early that day.
The girls used flowers and osiers to weave small sedan-chairs and horses, or made pennants and flags of silk and gauze which they tied with gay ribbons to every tree and flower, turning the whole Garden into a blaze of colour.
They decked themselves out so prettily, too, as to put the very flowers and birds to shame.
But time forbids us to dwell on that splendid scene.
Now Baochai, the three Jia girls, Li Wan and Xifeng were enjoying themselves in the Garden with Xifeng's little daughter as well as Xiangling and the other maids.
Only one person was missing, and that was Daiyu.
"Why isn't Cousin Lin here?"
asked Yingchun.
"Surely the lazy creature isn't still sleeping?"
"I'll go and rouse her," volunteered Baochai.
"The rest of you wait here and I'll soon bring her."
She set off instantly for Bamboo Lodge.
On the way she met the twelve young actresses headed by Wenguan, who greeted her and chatted for a while.
Then Baochai told them how to find the others and, having explained her own errand, followed the winding path towards Daiyu's quarters.
As she approached Bamboo Lodge she saw Baoyu enter the courtyard.
That made her pause and lower her head in thought.
"Baoyu and Daiyu grew up under one roof," she reflected.
"They're so free and easy together, they don't care how they tease each other or show their feelings.
And Daiyu's rather jealous and petty-minded.
If I follow Baoyu in, he may not like it and she may resent it.
I'd better go back."
She had started back to rejoin the other girls when a pair of jade-coloured butterflies the size of a circular fan appeared before her.
They fluttered up and down most bewitchingly in the breeze.
What fun it would be to catch them!
Baochai drew her fan from her sleeve and ran after them over the grass.
Flitting now high now low, this way and that, the butterflies led her through the flowers and willows all the way to the water's brink.
By the time she neared Dripping Emerald Pavilion, panting and perspiring from all her exertions, she decided to give up the pursuit and go back.
But just then she heard muffled voices from the pavilion.
Now this pavilion, which stood out in the middle of the pool, was surrounded on four sides by covered corridors with balustrades and connected with the banks by zigzag bridges.
It had papered latticed windows on all four sides.
Baochai stopped outside it to catch what was being said.
"Look at this handkerchief.
If it's the one you lost, you can have it.
If not, I'll take it back to Master Yun."
"Of course it's mine.
Let me have it."
"What thanks am I going to get?
You don't expect me to do this for nothing, do you?"
"Don't worry.
I promised you something, I won't cheat you."
"I should hope not, after I've brought it back to you.
But how are you going to thank the man who found it?"
"Don't be silly.
He's a young gentleman.
It's only right he should return what he finds.
How could I reward him?"
"If you don't, what am I to say to him?
Besides, he told me repeatedly he wouldn't let me give you this unless you offered him some reward."
A short silence followed.
"All right," came the answer at last.
"Give him this from me to thank him.
But swear you won't let on to a soul."
"If I do, may a boil break out in my mouth and may I die a miserable death!"
Then a note of alarm was sounded.
"Goodness!
We've been so busy talking, what if someone's eavesdropping outside?
We'd better open the windows.
Then if people see us they'll assume we're just chatting.
And if anyone comes near we'll see her and can change the subject."
Baochai could hardly believe her ears.
"No wonder they say wicked people have always been cunning!"
she thought.
"How they're going to blush when they open the window and see me!
One of them sounded like that sly, conceited Xiaohong who works for Baoyu.
She's a strange crafty creature if ever I saw one.
'Desperation drives men to rebel and a dog to jump over a wall.'
If she thinks I know her secret there may be trouble, and that would be awkward for me.
Well, it's too late to hide now.
I must try to avoid suspicion by throwing them off the scent.... That same instant she heard the thud of a window opening.
At once she ran forward as noisily as she could, calling out laughingly "Where are you hiding, Daiyu?"
Xiaohong and Zhuier, who had just opened the window, were staggered to see her before them.
"Where have you hidden Miss Lin?"
Baochai asked them merrily.
"Miss Lin?
We haven't seen her," Zhuier answered.
"Just now, from the other bank, I saw her crouching here dabbling in the water.
I meant to take her by surprise but she spotted me coming and dashed off to the east.
And now she's disappeared.
Are you sure she's not hiding in there?"
She deliberately went in and made a search before going on.
"She must have popped into some cave in the rocks," she muttered.
"If a snake bites her, serve her right.
With that she went off, laughing up her sleeve at the way she had foxed them and wondering what they were thinking.
Xiaohong, in fact, had been quite taken in.
As soon as Baochai was safely out of earshot she caught Zhuier by the arm.
"Heaven help us!"
she whispered.
"If Miss Lin was here she must have overheard us."
Zhuier said nothing, and a long pause followed.
"What shall we do?"
asked Xiaohong.
"What if she did hear?
This is none of her business."
"It wouldn't have been so bad Miss Xue overhearing.
But Miss Lin's narrow-minded and likes to make cutting remarks.
If she heard, and gives us away, what shall we do?"
A stop was put to this discussion by the arrival of Wenguan with Xiangling, Siqi and Daishu.
The two girls chatted with them as if nothing had happened until Xiaohong saw Xifeng beckoning from the slope.
Leaving the other girls, she ran over to her.
"Can I do anything for Your Ladyship?"
she asked, smiling sweetly.
Xifeng had a close look at her and was favourably impressed by her neat good looks and pleasant way of talking.
"I didn't bring my maids with me today," she said.
"Hut now I've remembered something I want done.
Do you think you could deliver a message correctly?"
Xiaohong smiled.
"Just give me your instructions, madam.
If I don't get the message right and hold up your business, you can punish me."
"Tell me, which of the young ladies do you work for?
Then I can explain where you are if she asks for you.
"I'm attached to Master Bao's apartments."
Xifeng chuckled.
"I see.
That accounts for it.
All right, if he asks, I'll let him know where you are.
Now go to my house and tell your sister Pinger that she'll find a packet containing a hundred and sixty taels of silver under the stand of the ju -ware plate on the table in the outer room.
That's for the embroiderers.
When Zhang Cai's wife comes, she's to weigh it in her presence and let her take it.
And there's another thing.
I want you to bring me the pouch which is by the pillow on the bed in the inner room Xiaohong went off to carry out these orders.
She returned presently to find that Xifeng had vanished.
But Siqi had just emerged from a cave and stopped to fasten her skirt.
Xiaohong approached her.
"Know where the Second Mistress has gone?"
she asked.
"I didn't notice."
Xiaohong looked around and went to ask Tanchun and Baochai, who were watching the fish not far off.
"You'll find her with Madam Li Wan, I think," Tanchun told her.
Xiaohong promptly set off to Paddy-Sweet Cottage, but on the way met Qingwen and half a dozen other maids.
"Still prancing about!"
exclaimed Qingwen as soon as she set eyes on her.
"You haven't watered the flowers, fed the birds or lit the tea-stove in our courtyard, yet you gad about outside."
"Yesterday Master Bao said the flowers needn't be watered today -- once every other day would do," Xiaohong retorted.
"I fed the birds while you were still asleep.
"And what about the tea-stove?"
demanded Bihen.
"It's not my turn today, so don't ask me whether there's any tea or not."
"Just listen to the way she talks," jeered Yixian.
"You'd all better keep quiet and let her fool about."
"Who says I was fooling about?"
snapped Xiaohong.
"I've been on an errand for the Second Mistress."
With that she showed them the pouch to silence them, and they patted company.
"No wonder!"
Qingwen snorted as they walked on.
"Now that she's climbed to a higher branch of the tree, she won't pay any more attention to us.
Our lady may have thrown her a word or two, without even knowing her name, and she's already eaten up with pride.
What's so marvellous about running a little errand?
We shall see if anything comes of it or not.
If she's all that clever she'd better clear out of this Garden and stay perched on the top of the tree."
Xiaohong could hardly have it out with her.
Swallowing her resentment she went on and found Xifeng, sure enough, chatting in Li Wan's apartment.
She stepped forward to make her report.
"Sister Pinger said, madam, that as soon as Your Ladyship left she put away the money and when Zhang Cai's wife came for it, she weighed it in her presence and gave it to her."
She handed the pouch to Xifeng and continued, "Sister Pinger asked me to tell Your Ladyship Just now Lai Wang came to ask for your instructions before setting out to the mansion where you sent him, and she sent him off after explaining Your Ladyship's wishes."
"How did she explain my wishes?"
Xifeng smiled.
"She said, 'Our lady sends her compliments to Her Ladyship.
Our Second Master is away from home now, so Her Ladyship shouldn't worry over a couple of days' delay.
When the Fifth Mistress is better, our lady will come with her to see Her Ladyship.
The Fifth Mistress sent a servant the other day to report that our lady's sister-in-law had inquired after Her Ladyship in a letter, and hoped her sister-in-law here would oblige her with two longevity pills.
If Her Ladyship has any to spare, please send them to our lady, and the next person to go that way will deliver them to her sister-in-law.'"
"Mercy on us!"
cut in Li Wan with a laugh.
"I've lost track of all these ladies and mistresses."
"I don't blame you.
Xifeng smiled.
"There are five families involved."
She turned to Xiaohong.
"You're a good child and deliver messages clearly, not like some who mince their words or buzz like mosquitoes.
You know," she turned to Li Wan, "my dear sister-in-law, I can't stand talking to most of the maids, apart from, the few in my service.
They dont know It, but I find it quite maddening the way they pad out a sentence and then break it down Into several, the way they mince, drawl and stutter Our Pinger used to be as bad as the rest.
1 asked her Does a pretty girl have to buzz like a mosquito?
And after a few scoldings she improved."
Li Wan laughed.
"Not everyone is a termagant like you.
"But I like this girl," Xifeng continued.
"Admittedly, her two messages weren't long, but she spoke to the point."
She smiled at Xiaohong.
"You must come and work for me.
I'll make you my adopted daughter and see that you turn out all right."
Xiaohong burst out laughing.
"What's so funny?
demanded Xifeng.
"Do you think, because I'm not much older than you, I'm too young to be your mother?
If so, you're crazy.
Just ask around.
There are plenty of people twice your age eager to call me mother -- if only I'd let them.
I'm doing you an honour."
"That wasn't why I laughed," replied Xiaohong.
"1 laughed because Your Ladyship has got my generation wrong.
My mother's Your Ladyship's adopted daughter, yet now you talk of me as a daughter too."
"Who's your mother?"
"Don't you know her?"
put in Li Wan with a smile.
"This child is Lin Zhixiao's daughter."
"You don't say so!"
exclaimed Xifeng in surprise.
"Why, you can't get a word out of Lin Zhixiao and his wife, not even if you stick an awl into them.
I've always said they were a well-matched couple, deaf muses the pair of them.
Who could have believed they'd produce such a clever daughter?
How old are you?"
"Seventeen.
Next she was asked her name.
"I was first called Hongyu," she answered.
"But because of the 'yu' in Master Bao's name they call me Xiaohong now.
Xifeng frowned and tossed her head.
"Disgusting!
You'd think there was something special about ' yu ', the way everybody wants that name.
So in that case you can work for me.
You know, sister-in-law, I told her mother, 'Lai Da's wife has her hands full, and anyway she's no idea who's who in this household.
You choose a couple of good maids for me.'
And she promised that's what she'd do.
But instead, she sends this daughter of hers somewhere else.
Did she think the girl would have a bad time with me?"
"How suspicious you are," teased Li Wan.
"This child was already here by then.
Row can you blame her mother?"
"In that case, I'll tell Baoyu to ask for someone else and send this girl to me -- if she's willing, that is.
Xiaohong smiled.
"Willing?
As if that were for us to say!
But if only I could work for Your Ladyship, I'd learn some manners and get more experience."
As she said this a maid came from Lady Wang to summon Xifeng, who took her leave of Li Wan.
And Xiaohong went back to Happy Red Court, where we leave her.
Let us return to Daiyu, who had risen late after a sleepless night.
When she heard that the other girls were farewelling the God of Flowers in the Garden, for fear of being laughed at for laziness she made haste to dress and go out.
She was crossing the courtyard when Baoyu came in.
"Dear cousin, did you tell on me yesterday?"
he greeted her laughingly.
"You had me worrying the whole night long."
Daiyu turned away from him to Zijuan.
"When you've tidied the rooms, close the screen windows," she instructed.
"As soon as the big swallows come back, you can let down the curtains.
Hold them in place by moving the lions against them.
And cover the censer once the incense is lit."
As she said this, she walked on.
Baoyu attributed this cold behaviour to the lines he had quoted at noon the previous day, having no idea of the incident in the evening.
He bowed and raised his clasped hands in salute, but Daiyu simply ignored him, walking straight off to find the other girls.
Baoyu was puzzled.
"Surely what happened yesterday can't account for this?"
he thought.
"And I came back too late in the evening to see her again, so how else can I have offended her?"
With these reflections, he trailed after her.
Daiyu joined Baochai and Tanchun, who were both watching the storks dancing, and the three girls were chatting together when Baoyu arrived.
"How are you, brother?"
asked Tanchun.
"It's three whole days since last I saw you.
"How are you, sister?"
he rejoined.
"The other day I was asking our elder sister-in-law about you.
"Come over here.
I want to talk to you.
The pair of them strolled aside under a pomegranate tree away from the other two.
"Has father sent for you these last few days?"
asked Tanchun.
Baoyu smiled.
"No, he hasn't."
"Oh, I thought someone told me he sent for you yesterday."
"That someone must have misheard.
He didn't."
Tanchun chuckled.
"These last few months I've saved a dozen strings of cash.
r want you to take them.
Next time you go out you can buy me some good calligraphy and paintings, or some amusing toys."
"In my strolls through the squares and temple markets inside and outside the city," Baoyu told her, "I haven't seen anything novel or really well made.
Nothing but curios of gold, jade, bronze or porcelain, which would be out of place here.
Or things like silk textiles, food and clothing."
"That's not what I mean.
No, but things like you bought me last time little willow baskets, incense-boxes carved out of bamboo roots, and tiny clay stoves.
They were so sweet, I just loved them!
But the other people fell in love with them too and grabbed them as if they were treasures."
Baoyu laughed.
"If that's what you want, those things are dirt cheap.
Just give five hundred cash to the pages and they'll fetch you two cartloads."
"Those fellows have no taste.
Please choose some things which are simple without being vulgar, and genuine instead of artificial.
Do get me a whole lot more, and I'll make you another pair of slippers.
I'll put even more work into them than last time.
How's that?"
"That reminds me."
Baoyu grinned.
"I was wearing your slippers one day when I met father He asked mc disapprovingly who'd made them.
It wouldnt have dune to tell him it was you, sister so I said they were a present from Aunt Wang on my last birthday.
There wasn't much he could say to that, but after an awful silence he commented, 'What a waste of time and energy and good silk.'
When I told Xiren she said 'Never mind that, but the concubine Zhao's been complaining bitterly, Her own younger brother Huan's shoes and socks are in holes yet she doesn't care.
Instead she embroiders slippers for Baoyu.
Tanchun frowned.
"Did you ever hear such nonsense?"
she fumed.
"Is it my job to make shoes?
Doesn't Huan have his fair share of clothes, shoes and socks, not to mention a whole roomful of maids and servants?
What has she got to complain of?
Who's she trying to impress?
If I make a pair of slippers in my spare time, I can give them to any brother I choose and no one has any right to interfere.
She's crazy, carrying on like that."
Baoyu nodded and smiled.
"Still, it's natural, you know, for her to see things rather differently."
This only enraged Tanchun more.
She tossed her head.
"Now you're talking nonsense too.
Of course she sees things differently with that sly, low, dirty mind of hers.
Who cares what she thinks?
I don't owe any duty to anyone except our parents.
If my sisters, brothers and cousins are nice to me, I'll be nice to them too, regardless of which is the child of a wife or the child of a concubine.
Properly speaking, I shouldn't say such things, but really that woman's the limit!
"Let me tell you another ridiculous thing too.
Two days after I gave you that money to buy knick-knacks, she complained to me she was hard up.
I paid no attention, of course.
But after my maids left the room, she started scolding me for giving my savings to you instead of to Huan.
I didn't know whether to laugh or lose my temper.
So I left her and went to Her Ladyship."
But now Baochai called to them laughingly "Haven't you talked long enough?
It's clear you're brother and sister, the way you leave other people out in the cold to discuss your private affairs.
Aren't we allowed to hear a single word?"
They smiled at that and joined her.
Meanwhile Daiyu had disappeared, and Baoyu knew she was avoiding him.
He decided to wait a couple of days for the storm to blow over before approaching her again.
Then, towering his head, he noticed that the ground was strewn with balsam and pomegranate petals.
"She's too angry even to gather up the blossom," he sighed.
"I'IJ take these over and try to speak to her tomorrow.
At this point Baochai urged them to take a stroll.
"I'll join you later," he said.
As soon as the other two had gone, he gathered up the fallen flowers in the skirt of his gown and made his way over a small hill, across a stream and through an orchard towards the mound where Daiyu had buried the peach-blossom.
Just before rounding the hill by the flower's grave he caught the sound of sobs on the other side.
Someone was lamenting and weeping there in a heart-rending fashion.
"Some maid's been badly treated and come here to cry," he thought.
"I wonder which of them it is."
He halted to listen.
And this is what he heard As blossoms fade and fly across the sky, Who pities the faded red, the scent that has been?
Softly the gossamer floats over spring pavilions, Gently the willow fluff wafts to the embroidered screen.
A girl in her chamber mourns the passing of spring, No relief from anxiety her poor heart knows Hoe in hand she steps through her portal, Loath to tread on the blossom as she comes and goes.
Willows and elms, fresh and verdant, Care not if peach and plum blossom drift away Next year the peach and plum will bloom again, But her chamber may stand empty on that day.
By the third month the scented nests are built, But the swallows on the beam are heartless all Next year, though once again you may peck the buds, From the beam of an empty room your nest will fall.
Each year for three hundred and sixty days The cutting wind and biting frost contend.
Row long can beauty flower fresh and fair?
-747 In a single day wind can whirl it to its end.
-747 Fallen, the brightest blooms are hard to find With aching heart their grave-digger comes now Alone, her hoe in hand, her secret tears Falling like drops of blood on each bare bough.
-747 Dusk falls and the cuckoo is silent Her hoe brought back, the lodge is locked and still A green lamp lights the wall as steep enfolds her, Cold rain pelts the casement and her quilt is chill.
-747 What causes my two-fold anguish?
Love for spring and resentment of spring For suddenly it comes and suddenly goes, Its arrival unheralded, noiseless its departing.
-747 Last night from the courtyard floated a sad song Was it the soul of blossom, the soul of birds?
Hard to detain, the soul of blossom or birds, For blossoms have no assurance, birds no words.
-747 I long to take wing and fly With the flowers to earth's uttermost bound And yet at earth's uttermost bound Where can a fragrant burial mound be found?
-747 Better shroud the fair petals in silk With clean earth for their outer attire For pure you came and pure shall go, Not sinking into some foul ditch or mire.
Now you are dead I come to bury you None has divined the day when I shall die Men laugh at my folly in burying fallen flowers, But who will bury me when dead I lie?
-747 See, when spring draws to a close and flowers fall, This is the season when beauty must ebb and fade The day that spring takes wing and beauty fades Who will care for the fallen blossom or dead maid?
Baoyu, listening, was overwhelmed with grief.
To know more of this, read the next chapter.
Chapter 28 Jiang Yuhan Gives a New Friend a Scarlet Perfumed Sash Baochai Bashfully Shows Her Red Bracelet Scented with Musk As we saw, Daiyu held Baoyu to blame for her exclusion by Qingwen the previous night.
As today happened to be the occasion for feasting the God of Flowers, her pent-up resentment merged with her grief at the transience of spring, and as she buried the fading petals she could not help weeping over her own fate and composing a lament.
Baoyu listened from the slope.
At first he just nodded in sympathy, until she came, to the lines -774 Men laugh at my folly in burying fallen flowers, But who will bury mc when dead I lie?
The day that spring takes wing and beauty fades Who will care for the fallen blossom or dead maid?
At this point he flung himself wretchedly down on the ground, scattering his load of fallen flowers, heart-broken to think that Daiyu's loveliness and beauty must one day vanish away.
And it followed that the same fate awaited Baochai, Xiangling, Xiren and all the rest.
When at last they were all gone, what would become of him?
And if he had no idea where he would be by then, what would become of this place and all the flowers and willows in the Garden and who would take them over?
One reflection led to another until, after repeated ruminations, he wished he were some insensible, stupid object, able to escape all earthy entanglements and be free from such wretchedness despite the -- -774 Shadows of blossom all around, Birdsong on every side.
Daiyu, giving way to her own grief heard weeping now on the slope.
"Everyone laughs at me for being foolish.
Is there someone else equally foolish?"
she asked herself.
-400 Then, looking up, she saw Baoyu.
"So that's who it is."
She snorted.
"That heartless, wretched .
But the moment the words "wretched" escaped her she covered her mouth and moved quickly away with a long sigh.
When Baoyu recovered sufficiently to look up she had gone, obviously to avoid him.
Getting up rather sheepishly, he dusted off his clothes and walked down the hill to make his way back again to Happy Red Court.
Catching sight of Daiyu ahead, he overtook her.
"Do stop!"
he begged.
"I know you won't look at me, but let me just say one word.
After that we can part company for good."
Daiyu glanced round and would have ignored him, but was curious to hear this " one word," thinking there must be something in it.
She came to a halt.
-400 "Out with it."
Baoyu smiled.
"Would you listen if I said two words?"
he asked.
At once she walked away.
Baoyu, close behind her, sighed.
"Why are things so different now from in the past?"
Against her will she stopped once more and turned her head.
"What do you mean by 'now' and 'the past'?"
Baoyu heaved another sigh.
"Wasn't I your playmate when you first came?"
he demanded.
"Anything that pleased me was yours, cousin, for the asking.
If I knew you fancied a favourite dish of mine, I put it away in a clean place till you came.
We ate at the same table and slept on the same bed.
I took care that the maids did nothing to upset you for I thought cousins growing up together as such good friends should be kinder to each other than anyone else.
I never expected you to grow so proud that flow you have no use for me while you're so fond of outsiders like Baochai and Xifeng.
You ignore me or cut me for three of four days at a time.
I've no brothers or sisters of my own -- only two by a different mother, as well you know.
So I'm an only child like you, and I thought that would make for an affinity between us.
But apparently it was no use my hoping for that.
There's nobody I can tell how unhappy I am."
With that, he broke down again.
This appeal and his obvious wretchedness melted her heart.
But though shedding tears of sympathy, she kept her head lowered and made no reply.
This encouraged Baoyu to go on.
"I know my own faults.
But however bad I may be, I'd never dare do anything to hurt you.
If I do something the least bit wrong, you can tick me oft warn me, scold me or even strike me, and I won't mind.
But when you just ignore me and I can't tell why, I'm at my wits' end and don't know what to do.
If I die now I can only become a 'ghost hounded to death,' and not even the masses of the best bonzes and Taoists will be able to save my soul.
I can only be born again if you'll tell me what's wrong.
By now Daiyu's resentment over the previous evening was completely forgotten.
"Then why did you tell your maids not to open the gate when I called last night?"
she asked.
"Whatever do you mean?"
he cried in amazement.
"If I did such a thing, may I die on the spot."
"Hush!
Don't talk about dying so early in the morning.
Did you or didn't you?
There's no need to swear."
"I honestly knew nothing about your coming.
Baochai did drop in for a chat, but she didn't stay long."
Daiyu thought this over.
"Yes," she said more cheerfully, "I suppose your maids felt too lazy to stir and that made them answer rudely."
"That's it, for sure.
I shall find out who it was when I get back and give them a good scolding."
"Those maids of yours deserve one, although of course that's not for me to say.
It doesn't matter their offending me, but think what trouble there'll be if next time they offend your precious Baochai!"
She compressed her lips to smile, and Baoyu did not know whether to grind his teeth or laugh.
They were summoned now to a meal and went over to his mother's apartment where, on seeing Daiyu, Lady Wang asked -400 "Has Doctor Bao's medicine done you any good, child?"
"Not much," the girl answered.
"The old lady wants me to try Doctor Wang's medicine."
"You don't know, madam," said Baoyu, "Cousin Lin suffers from an inherited weakness and has such a delicate constitution that she can't stand the least little chill.
All she needs is a couple of doses to clear this up.
Some pills would be best for her."
"The other day the doctor recommended some pills," said his mother "I can't quite recall the name.
"I can guess," said Baoyu.
"Just ginseng tonic pills."
"That wasn't it."
"Eight-treasure-leonurus pills then?"
Left restorative?
Right restorative?
Or, failing that, six-flavour-digitalis pills?"
"No, it wasn't any of those.
All I can remember are the words guardian angel."
Baoyu clapped his hands and laughed.
"I've never heard of guardian-angel pills.
If there are guardian-angel pills there must be Bodhisattva powders too."
Everyone in the room burst out laughing.
Trying to repress a smile Baochai suggested "Were they heavenly-king-fortifying-the-heart pills?"
"That's it," said Lady Wang.
"Row muddle-headed I've grown. "
"You're not muddle-headed, madam," her son assured her.
"Those angels and Bodhisattvas have muddled you."
"That's enough from you," she scolded.
"It's time your father gave you another beating."
"My father wouldn't beat me for that."
"Since we know the name we'll send out tomorrow to buy some."
"Those remedies are useless," protested Baoyu.
"If you'll give me three hundred and sixty taels of silver, I'll make up some pills for my cousin and I guarantee she'll be cured before they're all taken."
"Have some sense!
What pills could be so expensive?"
Baoyu chuckled.
"It's true.
This is a unique prescription.
I won't go into all the strange ingredients now, but one's the afterbirth of a firstborn child, another's man-shaped ginseng roots with leaves on them -- these alone would cost more than three hundred and sixty taels.
Then there's polygonum the size of a tortoise, pachyma from the root of a thousand-year-old pine, and other things of the same sort.
These are nothing unusual, just ordinary herbs but the chief ingredient would give you a shock.
Cousin Xue Pan pestered me for more than a year to give him this prescription.
Even then, it took him more than two years and about a thousand taels of silver to have it made up.
If you don't believe me, madam, ask Cousin Baochai."
Baochai raised a protesting hand, smiling.
"I know nothing and never heard a word about it.
So don't refer auntie to me."
"After all she's good girl," said Lady Wang.
"Baochai wouldn't tell a lie."
Baoyu turned where he was standing and clapped his hands.
"What I said is in fact true.
Yet you accuse me of lying."
Whirling back he caught sight of Daiyu, who was seated behind Baochai, laughingly drawing one finger across her cheek to shame him.
Xifeng had been supervising the laying of the tables in the inner room but now she came out to join in the discussion.
"Baoyu isn't fibbing," she declared.
"It's true.
The other day Xue Pan came to me for some pearls.
'What for?'
I wanted to know.
"He said, 'For a prescription.'
And he grumbled, 'If I'd known all the trouble involved, I'd have left it alone.'
"I asked, 'What prescription is it?'
"He said, 'One of Baoyu's.'
"I hadn't time to listen to all the ingredients he listed.
Then he said, 'I could have bought some pearls, but pearls for this medicine must have been worn on the head.
That's why I've come to you.
If you haven't any loose ones, let me take the pearls from one of your trinkets and I'll find you some good ones later to replace them.'
"So I had to give him a couple of my pearl trinkets.
He wanted three feet of red gauze from the Palace too.
Said he meant to grind the pearls into a fine powder to be mixed with other powdered ingredients."
Baoyu had punctuated Xifeng's speech with cries of "Buddha be praised!
The sun shines at last in this room."
As soon as she had finished he put in "This is actually only a makeshift, madam.
The real prescription calls for pearls and gems worn by wealthy ladies of old from ancient tombs.
But we can hardly go and dig up graves, can we?
So we have to make do with pearls worn by living people."
"Amida Buddha!"
cried Lady Wang.
"The idea!
Even if there are pearls in old tombs, how can you dig them up and disturb the bones of people dead for all those hundreds of years?
No medicine made that way could be any good."
Baoyu appealed to Daiyu.
"You heard what's been said.
Would my Cousin Xifeng back me up if I were lying?"
Although facing Daiyu, he glanced at Baochai as he spoke.
Daiyu caught Lady Wang's arm.
"Just listen to him, auntie.
When Baochai won't back up his fib, he appeals to me."
"Yes, Baoyu is good at bullying you," said Lady Wang.
"You don't know the reason, madam."
Baoyu grinned.
"Even when Cousin Baochai lived with her family she didn't know her brother's doings so she knows even less now that she's in the Garden.
But just now cousin Daiyu, sitting at the back, drew a finger across her cheek to shame me because she thought I was fibbing."
A maid came in then to summon Baoyu and Daiyu to dinner with the Lady Dowager Without a word to Baoyu, Daiyu rose and started leading the maid away.
"Won't you wait for Master Bao?"
asked the maid.
"He doesn't want anything to eat," replied Daiyu.
"Come on, let's go.
I'm going."
She walked out.
"I'll eat here with you, madam," said Baoyu.
"No, no," objected Lady Wang.
"This is one of my meatless days, so run along and have a proper meal."
"I'll have vegetarian food with you."
He sent the maid away and took a seat at the table.
His mother told Baochai and the other girls to go ahead with their own meal and ignore him.
"You'd better go, " Baochai urged him "Even it you don't want anything to eat you should keep Daiyu company, she's not feeling happy. "
"Never mind her," he answered.
"She'll be all right presently."
But as soon as the meal was over he called for tea to rinse his mouth, suspecting that his grandmother might be worried by his absence, and worried himself about Daiyu.
Tanchun and Xichun smiled.
"Why are you always in such a hurry, brother?"
they teased.
"Even rushing through your meals and tea."
"Let him finish quickly and join Cousin Lin," said Baochai.
"Why should he fool around here?"
Baoyu gulped down his tea then and left, making straight for the west court.
On the way he found Xifeng standing in the gateway of her compound and picking her teeth with an earpick as she watched a dozen pages move some flower-pots.
"You've turned up just at the right time," she called to him with a smile.
"Come on in.
Come in and write a few words for me."
Baoyu had no option but to follow her in.
Once inside Xifeng called for a brush, inkstone and paper and started dictating to him "Forty rolls of red flowered satin forty rolls of satin with serpent designs a hundred rolls of Imperial gauze of different colours four gold necklaces. "
"What is all this?"
asked Baoyu.
"It sounds neither like an account nor a list of presents.
How am I to write it?"
"Just put it down.
So long as I know what it means that'll do."
Baoyu did as he was told.
And when he had finished she put the list away.
"There's something else I want, if you're agreeable," she then said with a smile.
"I'd like that maid called Hongyu in your place to come and work for me.
I'll find you a few others instead later All right?"
"My place is swarming with people," said Baoyu.
"Take any of them you like.
You don't have to ask."
"In that case, I'll send someone to fetch her. "
"Do."
He was starting to leave when Xifeng called him back, saying that she had something else to tell him.
"The old lady is waiting for me," he demurred.
"You can tell me when I come back."
By the time he reached the Lady Dowager's quarters they had finished their meal there.
"Well," his grandmother asked, "what good things did your mother give you to eat?"
"Nothing special, but I had one bowl of rice more than usual.
Where's Cousin Lin?"
"In the inner room.
Baoyu went in and saw a maid blowing at the charcoal in an iron.
Two others were chalking patterns on the kang where Daiyu, bending over, was cutting out some material.
He walked forward with a smile.
"Why, what are you doing?"
he asked.
"Stooping like that just after a meal will bring your headache back."
Daiyu paid no attention but went on with her work.
"That corner of the silk is still rather crumpled," one of the maids remarked.
"Better iron it again."
"Never mind it."
Daiyu put down her scissors.
"It'll be all right presently."
Baoyu was digesting this snub when Baochai, Tanchun and the others arrived to chat with the old lady.
Soon Baochai stepped into the inner room and asked Daiyu what she was doing, then watched her at work.
"How clever you're getting," she commented, "even able to cut out clothes. "
"This is just another specious way of fooling people," retorted Daiyu.
Baochai smiled.
"Let me tell you something funny," she volunteered.
"Cousin Bao's annoyed with me because I denied knowing anything about that medicine."
"Never mind him.
He'll be all right presently."
Baoyu told Baochai, "The old lady wants to play cards and there aren't enough people.
Won't you take a hand?"
Again Baochai smiled.
"Of course, that's what I came for."
As she went out Daiyu called after her, "You had better leave.
There's a tiger here who might eat you. "
She went on with her cutting and ignored Baoyu, who suggested with a conciliatory smile "Why don't you take a stroll before doing any more?"
Daiyu remained silent.
"Who told her to do this?"
he asked the maids.
"Whoever it was," said Daiyu, "It's none of Master Bao's business."
Before he could say any more a servant came in to announce that someone was waiting outside to see him.
As he hurried out Daiyu called after him "Buddha be praised!
I hope I'm dead before you come back."
Outside he found Beiming, who told him that Feng Ziying had invited him oven.
Remembering what had been said the previous day, Baoyu sent for his outdoor clothes and waited for them in the library.
Beiming went to the second gate, where he waited until an old woman appeared.
"Master Bao is in the library waiting for his outdoor clothes," he announced.
"Do you mind going in to tell them?"
"You farting fool!"
she cried.
"Master Bao lives in the Garden now and so do all his attendants.
Why bring the message here ?"
"Of course."
Beiming laughed.
"How idiotic of me!"
He hurried to the inner gate on the east and got one of the lads playing ball by the paved passageway to run in with the message.
The youngster came back after a while with a bundle which Beiming carried to the library.
Baoyu, having changed, called for his horse and set off with only four pages Beiming, Chuyao, Shuangrui and Shuangshou.
When they reached Feng Ziying's gate and were announced, Feng came out to welcome them.
Xue Pan had already been there for some time with a number of singing-boys, Jiang Yuhan, an actor who played female roles, and Yuner, a courtesan from Brocade Fragrance Court.
The introductions were made and tea was served.
Raising his cup Baoyu smiled at their host.
"Your remark the other day about good fortune and bad has been on my mind ever since," he said.
"So as soon as your summons arrived I hurried oven."
"Row trusting you all are."
Feng Ziying chuckled.
"That was just an excuse to get you over here, for otherwise I was afraid you might decline.
Fancy your taking it so seriously."
Amid laughter wine was brought in and they took seats in due order Feng made one of the boy singers pour the wine and asked Yuner to their table to toast the guests.
After three cups Xue Pan grew rowdy and seized her hand.
"Sing a nice new song for me," he begged, "and I'll drink a whole jarful of wine.
How about it? "
Yuner had no choice but to take her pipa and sing Two lovers have I, From both I'm loath to part, For while I think of one The other's in my heart.
Both have so many charms They're hard to list Last night by the rose trellis Was our tryst.
One came to make love, one to spy Caught in the act was I And, challenged by the two of them, Could think of no reply!
This sung, she said, "All fight, now drink ajar."
"That wasn't worth a whole jar," protested Xue Pan.
"Let's hear something better."
"Listen," put in Baoyu.
"If you drink so fast, you'll soon be drunk and we shan't have any fun.
Suppose I empty a goblet first and we play a new game of forfeits?
Anyone who doesn't do as I say will have to drain ten goblets in succession and leave the table to wait on the others."
When they all agreed to this, he picked up a goblet and drained it.
"Now," he said, "you must all make four lines about a girl's sorrow, her worry, her joy and her delight, explaining the reason for each.
Then you must drink a cup of wine, sing a new popular song, and recite either a line from an old poem or couplet, or a saying from the Four Books or the Five Classics connected with some object on the table."
Before he had finished Xue Pan was on his feet protesting.
"I'm not doing that.
Count me out.
You just want to make fun of me.
Yuner stood up to push him back on to his seat.
"What are you afraid of?"
she teased.
"Don't you drink every day?
Aren't you even up to me?
I'm going to join in.
If you do all right, well and good if not, it won't kill you to drink a few cups.
Or would you rather refuse and have to drink ten goblets and wait on the rest of us?"
All clapped their approval and Xue Pan had to subside.
Baoyu began "The girl's sorrow Youth is passing but she remains single.
"The girl's worry Her husband leaves home to make his fortune.
"The girl's joy Her good looks in the mirror in the morning.
"The girl's delight Swinging in a light spring gown."
All cried "Good!"
except Xue Pan, who shook his head.
"No good," he growled.
"He ought to pay a forfeit."
"Why?"
asked the others.
"Because I didn't understand a word."
Yuner gave him a pinch.
"Be quiet and think out your lines.
If you don't, you'll be the one to pay a forfeit."
She accompanied Baoyu on the pipa as he sang Like drops of blood fall endless tears of longing, By painted pavilion grow willows and flowers untold Sleepless at night when wind and rain lash gauze windows, She cannot forget her sorrows new and old Choking on rice like jade and wine like gold, She turns from her wan reflection in the glass Nothing can smooth away her frown, It seems that the long night will never pass Like the shadow of peaks, her grief is never gone Like the green stream it flows for ever on.
The only one not to applaud this song was Xue Pan.
"You were off beat," he objected.
Baoyu drained his cup and picked up a slice of pear from the table.
"'Rain buffets the pear blossom and the door is closed,"' he quoted.
It was now Feng Ziying's turn.
He started off "The girl's sorrow Her husband falls mortally ill. "The girl's worry Her boudoir in the tower is blown down.
"The girl's joy Twin sons at her first confinement.
"The girl's delight Catching crickets on the sly in the garden."
Next, raising his cup, he sang -400 You can bill and you can coo, Be an imp of mischief too, But a fairy?
No, not you, As my word you doubt.
Ask around and you'll find out I love you, yes, I do!
Then, having drunk up, he picked up a piece of chicken.
"'A cock crows at the moon by the rustic inn,"' was his quotation.
Yuner's turn came next and she began "The girl's sorrow Will she find a husband to support her?"
Xue Pan sighed.
"Why child," he said, "with Master Xue here, what have you to worry about?"
"Don't muddle her," cried the others.
"Don't muddle her."
Yuner went on "The girl's worry Will the bawd always beat and scold her?"
Xue Pan cut in, "The other day when I saw that bawd of yours, I told her not to beat you. "
"If you interrupt again," the others warned him, "you'll have to drink ten cups.
At once he slapped his own cheek.
"You've been warned.
Not another word now!"
Yuner continued "The girl's joy Her lover cannot bear to go home.
"The girl's delight The pipes hushed, she plays a stringed instrument."
Then she sang -774 On the third of the third moon blooms the cardamom Fain to creep into it an insect is come Failing to enter it clings To the petals and there it swings.
Dear heart, if I don't let you in, Your chances are thin!
She drained her cup and picked up a peach saying, "The peach trees are in blossom."'
It was now Xue Pan's turn.
"All right," he said.
"Here goes.
The girls sorrow... " A long pause followed.
"What is she sad about?"
Feng Ziying prompted him.
"Go on."
Xue Pan's eyes bulged, he was so frantic.
"The girl's sorrow... " He cleared his throat twice and persevered "The girl's sorrow She marries a queer. "
A roar of laughter went up.
"What's so funny?"
he demanded.
"Is that wrong?
Wouldn't a girl be sad if the man she married insisted on being a bugger?"
Doubled up with laughter they gasped, "Quite right.
Hurry up and go on.
His eyes bulging again he proceeded, "The girl's worry..." Once more his voice trailed away.
"Well, what's the worry?"
"The girl's worry A big gorilla springs out of her boudoir."
Roaring with laughter they cried, "Make him pay the forfeit.
The last could just pass but this is impossible."
However, before they could fill the goblet Baoyu put in, "As long as he rhymes it, that's good enough."
"If the man in charge passes it," blustered Xue Pan, "why should you lot kick up such a fuss?"
The others gave way.
"The next two lines are more difficult," said Yuner "Suppose I do them for you?"
"Nonsense.
You think I've nothing better coming?
Listen.
"The girl's joy Rising late after her wedding night."
"Row poetic he's growing!"
they exclaimed.
"The girl's delight A good fuck."
All turned away crying, "For shame!
Hurry up with your song. "
Then he sang A mosquito buzzes, hum-hum.
"What sort of song do you call this?"
they demanded.
He went on Two flies drone, buzz-buzz.
"That's enough.
Shut up!"
they cried.
"All right, if you don't want it.
That's a new song called Hum-hum.
If you can't be bothered to listen and want me to stop, you must let me off the drinking.
"We'll let you off.
You're just holding up other people."
Then Jiang Yuhan took over.
-400 "The girl's sorrow Her husband leaves, never to return.
"The girl's worry She has no money to buy pomade.
"The girl's joy The wick forms two heads like a double flower.
1 "The girl's delight Husband and wife in harmony."
Next he sang So many charms has Heaven given you, You seem a goddess come down from the blue And blooming youth, life's springtide, Is just the time to mate the lovebirds true.
The watch-tower drum is beating now, The Milky Way gleams high above Make haste to trim the silver lamp And draw the bridal curtains on our love.
This sung, he raised his cup and said, "I know very few poems, but luckily I remember a line of a couplet I read yesterday which happens to fit an object on the table."
Raving drained his cup he picked up a sprig of fragrant osmanthus and quoted "'When the fragrance of flowers assails men we know the day is warm. '"
Everyone passed this, and so the game ended.
But Xue Pan leapt to his feet.
"You've gone too far!"
he shouted.
"You must pay a forfeit.
How can you mention a treasure that isn't here?"
Jiang Yuhan was puzzled.
"What treasure?"
"Don't try to deny it.
Repeat that line again."
The actor complied.
"Isn't Xiren a treasure?"
demanded Xue Pan.
If you dont believe me, ask him."
He pointed at Baoyu.
In some embarrassment Baoyu stood up.
"How many cups should we fine you, cousin, for this?"
he asked.
"All right.
I'll pay the penalty."
Xue Pan picked up his cup and tossed it off.
Feng Ziying and Jiang Yuhan asked for an explanation and when Yuner told them who Xiren was, the actor rose to his feet to apologize.
"You're not to blame," said the others.
"You didn't know."
Presently Baoyu left the room to relieve himself, and Jiang Yuhan followed him out to apologize once more in the corridor.
Baoyu was much taken by his charming appearance.
Clasping his hand tightly he said "When you've time, do come and see me.
By the way, I've something to ask you.
In your honourable company there's an actor called Qiguan who's known all over the country, but I've never had a chance to see him."
-400 Jiang Yuhan smiled.
"That's my professional name."
Baoyu stamped one foot in delight.
"What luck!"
he cried.
"You certainly live up to your reputation.
How can I mark this first meeting?"
After a second's thought he drew the fan from his sleeve, unfastened the jade pendant on it and gave this to the actor "Please accept this trifle as a mark of my friendship.
"What have I done to deserve this?"
Qiguan smiled.
"All right, I've something unusual here which I only put on for the first time this morning.
It's still quite new.
A small token of my devotion."
He raised his gown to undo the scarlet sash round his trousers and handed it to Baoyu.
"This was part of the tribute from the Queen of Qianxiang," he explained.
"Worn in summer, it will perfume your skin and stop you from perspiring.
I was given it by the Prince of Beijing yesterday, and I put it on for the first time this morning.
I wouldn't dream of giving it to anybody else.
Would you mind letting me have your own in exchange, sir?"
Baoyu took the scarlet sash with the greatest of pleasure, then untied his own pale green one and handed it to the actor They were both fastening their new sashes when they heard a loud shout.
"Caught in the act!"
It was Xue Pan, who bounded over to seize them.
"What are you up to?"
he cried.
"Leaving your wine and slipping away from the feast!
Come on, let's see what you've got there."
When they told him "Nothing," he refused to believe them.
Not until Feng Ziying came out did he let them go.
Then they went back to their seats and drank until the evening, when the party broke up.
On Baoyu's return to the Garden he took off his outer garments to drink tea and Xiren, noticing that his fan-pendant was missing, asked what had become of it.
"I must have lost it out riding," said Baoyu.
But when he went to bed and she saw the blood-red sash round his waist, she knew more or less what had happened.
"Now that you've got a better sash, will you return mine?"
she asked.
Only then did he remember that the green sash belonged to Xiren and he should never have given it away.
He was sorry but could hardly explain to her what had happened.
"I'll get you another," he promised.
"I know what you've been up to again."
She nodded and sighed.
"You've no right to give my things to those low creatures.
You should know better."
She let it go at that and went to bed too, afraid to provoke him after he had been drinking.
As soon as she woke the next morning, Baoyu confronted her with a smile.
"You wouldn't know if a thief came in the night," he said.
"Look at your pants."
Xiren looked down and saw that the sash he had worn the previous day was now round her own waist.
Aware that he had changed it during the night, she immediately took it off.
"I'm not interested in such trash.
Take it away. "
He pleaded with her until she consented to wear it.
But as soon as he left the room she took it oft threw it into an empty case and put on another Baoyu did not notice this on his return.
"Did anything happen yesterday?"
he asked.
"Madam Lian sent over for Xiaohong.
The girl wanted to wait for your return but 1 didn't think that necessary, so I took it upon myself to send her away."
"Quite right.
I knew.
There was no need for her to wait."
"And yesterday the Imperial Consort sent the eunuch Xia here with a hundred and twenty taels to be spent on masses, theatricals and sacrifices on the first three days of the month at Ethereal Abbey.
She wants Lord Zhen to take all the gentlemen there to burn incense and worship Buddha.
She also sent over presents for the Dragon-Boat Festival."
Xiren told a young maid to fetch his gifts two fine Palace fans, two strings of red beads scented with musk, two lengths of phoenix-tail silk, and a bamboo mat woven in a lotus pattern.
Baoyu, delighted with these things, asked if the others had received the same gifts.
"The old lady had an extra sandalwood Ruyi sceptre and agate pillow.
Lord Zheng, Lady Wang and Madam Xue each had an extra sandalwood sceptre.
You got the same as Miss Xue, while Miss Lin and the three other young ladies were given fans and beads, nothing else.
Madam Li Wan and Madam Xifeng each had two rolls of gauze, two rolls of silk, two aromatic pouches and two pills from the Palace."
"How can that be?"
asked Baoyu.
"Why did Miss Xue get the same as me and not Miss Lin?
There must be some mistake."
"Impossible.
Each share was labelled when they were brought yesterday.
Yours went to the old lady's apartments, and when I fetched it she said you must go to the Palace at the fifth watch tomorrow to express your thanks."
"Yes, of course.
He called for Zixiao.
"Take these things to Miss Lin," he instructed her.
"Tell her this is what I got yesterday and she can keep anything she fancies."
The maid did as she was told, coming back to report, "Miss Lin says she received presents too she wants you to keep yours. "
He had the things put away then and washed his face before setting off to pay his respects to his grandmother.
Meeting Daiyu on the way, he hurried up to her with a smile.
"Why didn't you pick any of my things, as I asked?"
Daiyu had forgotten her earlier grievance in her preoccupation with this new incident.
"I'm not cut out for such good fortune," she said.
"I can't compare with Cousin Baochai and her gold and jade.
I'm just as common as any plant or tree."
Baoyu caught this innuendo.
"Other people may talk about gold and jade," he protested, "but if such an idea ever crossed my mind, may Heaven and Earth destroy me!
May I never again be reborn in human form!"
Daiyu knew from this how hurt he felt.
"What nonsense," she scoffed.
"Why make such oaths for no reason?
Who cares about your gold and jade anyway?"
"It's hard to tell you all that's in my heart, but you'll understand some day.
You're the closest person in the world to me after my grandmother and my own parents.
I sweart there's no one else."
"There's no need to swear I know I have a place in your heart.
But whenever you see her you forget all about me."
"That's your imagination.
I'm not like that."
"Why did you appeal to me when Baochai refused to backup your fib yesterday?
If I'd refused, goodness knows what you'd have done."
Seeing Baochai approaching just then, they moved on.
And pretending not to have seen them -- although she had -- she walked on with lowered head to chat with Lady Wang before going on to the Lady Dowager's apartments.
She found Baoyu already there.
Now ever since her mother had told Lady Wang about the gold locket given to Baochai by a monk and his prediction that she would only marry a man with jade, Baochai had been rather distant to Baoyu.
Yuanchun's gift of identical presents to them the previous day had made her even more sensitive on this score.
Fortunately Baoyu was so wrapped up in Daiyu, so utterly engrossed in her, that he paid no attention to this coincidence.
Without warning now he asked Baochai to let him have a look at the red bead bracelet scented with musk on her left wrist.
She had no alternative but to take it off.
She was so plump, however, that this was by no means easy.
And while he stood admiring her soft white arm it occurred to him.
If she were Daiyu, I might have a chance to stroke her arm.
Too bad for me that it's hers!
Suddenly remembering the talk about gold and jade, he looked at Baochai more closely.
Her face seemed a silver disc, her eyes were lustrous and almond-shaped, her lips red without rouge, her eyebrows dark without being pencilled.
She was charming in quite a different way from Daiyu.
He was so fascinated that when she pulled off the bracelet and offered it to him, he did not even take it.
Embarrassed by the way he was staring, Baochai put the bracelet down and turned to go.
She saw Daiyu then in the doorway, biting her handkerchief with a mocking smile.
"Why are you standing there in a draught?"
asked Baochai.
"You know how easily you catch cold."
"I was indoors until I heard a strange bird-cry.
When I came out to look, it was only a silly goose.
"Where is this silly goose?
I'd like to see it."
"As soon as I came out it flapped away.
With these words she flicked Baoyu's face with her handkerchief catching him right on the eyes.
He uttered an exclamation of surprise.
To know what came of this, read the next chapter.
Chapter 29 Favourites of Fortune Pray for Better Fortune An Absurd, Loving Girl Falls Deeper in Love Baoyu was so absorbed by his thoughts that when Daiyu flicked his eyes with her handkerchief, he gave a sudden start.
"Who's that?"
he exclaimed.
She shook her head laughingly.
"Sorry, a slip of the hand.
Cousin Baochai wanted to see the silly goose, and while pointing it out to her I hit you by mistake."
Baoyu rubbed his eyes and bit back the retort which was on the tip of his tongue.
Then Xifeng arrived and, alluding in the course of conversation to the Taoist mass to be held at Ethereal Abbey on the first of the next month, she urged the young people to go there to watch the operas.
"It's too hot for me," objected Baochai.
"Besides, there aren't any operas I haven't seen.
I'm not going."
"It's cool there with tall buildings on either side," countered Xifeng.
"If we're going I shall send servants a few days in advance to clear out the Taoist priests and clean the place up, then screen it off and close it to the general public.
It will be rather pleasant then.
I've already told Lady Wang.
If you won't go I mean to go alone.
Things have been so boring recently besides, even when we have shows at home, I can't watch them in comfort."
When the Lady Dowager heard of this she said, "In that case, I'll go along with you."
"If our Old Ancestress is going as well," cried Xifeng, "so much the better -- only I shan't be free to enjoy myself."
"I'll sit in the main balcony and you can watch from one of the side ones, will that suit you?
Then you won't have to dance attendance on me.
"See how our Old Ancestress dotes on me!"
Xifeng quipped.
"You must go, and your mother too," said the Lady Dowager to Baochai.
"If you stayed at home you'd only sleep the whole day long."
Then Baochai had to agree.
The old lady sent a maid to invite Aunt Xue and to notify Lady Wang on the way that she meant to take the girls.
Lady Wang had already excused herself on the grounds that she was unwell and expecting word from Yuanchun.
She received this message with a smile and the comment "What good spirits she's in.
Go and tell them in the Garden that any of the young ladies who would like an outing may accompany the old lady on the first."
Those most excited by this news were the young maids who normally had no chance to cross the threshold, all of whom longed to go.
If their mistresses were disinclined to stir they tried in every way to persuade them, to such effect that Li Wan and the rest all agreed to the trip.
This pleased the Lady Dowager even more.
Meanwhile servants had been sent to make everything ready.
When the first of the fifth month arrived, the road before the Rong Mansion was thronged with carriages, sedan-chairs, attendants and horses.
As this mass had been paid for by the Imperial Consort and the Lady Dowager was going in person to offer incense, and as moreover it was just before the Double Fifth Festival, all the preparations were on a more lavish scale than usual.
Presently the ladies of the house emerged.
The old lady's large sedan-chair had eight bearers those of Li Wan, Xifeng and Aunt Xue, four apiece.
The carriage shared by Baochai and Daiyu was gay with a green awning, pearl-tassels and designs of the Eight Precious Things that shared by the three Jia girls had crimson wheels and an ornamented covering.
Behind them followed the Lady Dowager's maids Yuanyang, Yingwu, Hupo and Zhenzhu Daiyu's maids Zijuan, Xueyan and Chunxian Baochai's maids Yinger and Wenxing Yingchun's maids Siqi and Xiuju Tanchun's maids Daishu and Cuimo Xichun's maids Ruhua and Caiping and Aunt Xue's maids Tongxi and Tonggui.
They were also accompanied by Xiangling and her maid Zhener Li Wan's maids Suyun and Biyue Xifeng's maids Pinger, Fenger and Xiaohong and Lady Wang's maids Jinchuan and Caiyun, who because they wanted to go were attending on Xifeng today.
Dajie and her wet-nurse rode in another carriage with other maids.
In addition there were two other maids and some old nurses from the different apartments, as well as some stewards' wives.
The whole street was nearly hidden from sight by all their conveyances.
Even after the Lady Dowager's sedan-chair had gone a considerable distance, these attendants were still mounting their carriages at the gate, where a babel of voices was heard "I don't want you in with me."
"Look out!
you're sitting on my lady's things."
"Don't tread on my flowers!"
"You've gone and broken my fan."
There was no end to their noisy talk and laughter.
Zhou Rui's wife went back and forth to remonstrate "Now, girls, don't make such laughing-stocks of yourselves out in the street."
She had to repeat this several times to make them quiet down, by which time the front part of the retinue had reached the abbey gate.
And as Baoyu rode up on horseback before the Lady Dowager's sedan-chair, spectators lined the street.
As they neared the abbey gate, they heard the peal of bells and the roll of drums.
Abbot Zhang in his robes of office, holding a tablet, was waiting with his priests by the roadside to welcome them.
The Lady Dowager's sedan-chair had just been borne through the gate when, at sight of the clay images of gods guarding the temple gate, those of two messenger gods -- one with eyes able to see a thousand ii, the other with ears able to catch each breath of rumour -- together with local tutelary gods, she ordered her bearers to halt.
Jia Zhen and the young men of the family advanced to receive her.
And Xifeng, knowing that Yuanyang and the others were too far behind to help the old lady alight, got down from her own chair to do this.
As she did so, an acolyte of twelve or thirteen, holding a case of scissors for cutting the candle-wicks, came darting out to see the fun and ran l tilt into her.
She boxed his ears so hard that he pitched to the ground.
"Look out where you're going, little bastard!"
she swore.
Too frightened to pick up his scissors, the boy scrambled to his feet to run outdoors.
Just then Baochai and the other girls were dismounting from their carriages, escorted by a multitude of matrons and stewards' wives.
At sight of the little fugitive, the attendants shouted "Catch him!
Beat him!"
"What's happened?"
asked the Lady Dowager.
Jia Zhen hurried over to make inquiries, while Xifeng gave the old lady her arm.
"It's an acolyte who trims the wicks," she explained.
"He didn't get out of the way in time and was rushing wildly about."
"Bring him here.
Don't frighten him," the Lady Dowager ordered.
"Children of humble families are well sheltered by their parents, they have never seen anything so grand before.
It would be too bad to frighten him out of his wits -- his father and mother would never get over it."
She told Jia Zhen, "Go and bring him gently here."
Jia Zhen had to drag the boy over.
His scissors now in one hand, trembling from head to foot, he fell on his knees.
The old lady made Jia Zhen help him up.
"Don't be afraid," she said.
"How old are you?"
But he was speechless with fright.
"Poor little thing!"
she exclaimed, then turned to Jia Zhen.
"Take him away, Zhen, and give him some cash to buy sweetmeats.
Don't let anyone bully him."
Jia Zhen assented and led the boy away, while the Lady Dowager moved on with her train to see the different shrines.
The pages outside had just observed them enter the third gate when out came Jia Zhen with the acolyte and ordered them to take him away, give him a few hundred cash and not illtreat him.
Several servants promptly came forward and led him off.
Standing on the steps Jia Zhen demanded, "Where is the steward?"
All the pages shouted in unison, "Steward!"
At once Lin Zhixiao came running over, holding on his cap with one hand.
"Although this is a large place," Jia Zhen told him, "there are more people here than we expected.
Keep those you need in this courtyard, send those you don't need to the other, and post some boys at the two main gates and side gates ready to carry out orders and run errands.
You know, don't you, that all the ladies have come today, so not a single outsider must be allowed in."
"Yes, sir.
Right, sir.
Very good, sir," agreed Lin Zhixiao hastily.
"You may go.
Wait!
Why isn't Rong here?"
While he was still speaking Jia Rong hurried out from the bell-tower, buttoning his clothes.
"Look at him," sneered Jia Zhen.
"While I swelter here he finds somewhere to cool off."
He ordered the servants to spit at him, and one of the pages spat in Jia Rong's face.
"Ask him what he means by it," ordered Jia Zhen.
So the page asked Jia Rong, "If His Lordship can stand the heat, why should you go to cool off?"
Jia Rong, his arms at his sides, dared not utter a word.
This had struck fear into Jia Yun, Jia Qin and Jia Ping and even Jia Huang, Jia Bin and Jia Qiong promptly put on their caps and one by one edged forward from the shade at the foot of the wall.
"What are you standing there for?"
Jia Zhen snapped at his son.
"Hurry up and gallop home to tell your mother and wife that the old lady and all the young ladies are here.
They should come at once and wait on them."
Jia Rong ran off shouting repeatedly for a horse.
He grumbled "Why was this not thought of before?
Now I'm the one to take the brunt."
Then he swore at a page, "Are your hands tied that you can't bring me a horse?"
He would have sent a page in his place, if not for fear this might be discovered later.
As it was, he had to ride back to town himself.
But to return to Jia Zhen.
As he was turning back to the hall he found Zhang the Taoist standing beside him.
"In view of my special position I ought to attend the ladies inside," the priest observed with a smile.
"But it's such a hot day, with so many young ladies here too, that I don't like to presume without your permission.
I'd better wait here in case the old lady may want me to show her round."
Jia Zhen knew that though this Taoist had been the Duke of Rongguo's substitute, 1 later he had been made Chief Warder of the Taoist Script, with the title "Saint of the Great Illusion" verbally conferred by the previous Emperor, and now being Keeper of the Taoist Seal and entitled "Man of Final Truth" by the Emperor he was addressed as "Immortal" by nobles and officials alike.
It would not do to slight him.
Besides, during his frequent visits to the two mansions he had already made the acquaintance of all the ladies there, both young and old.
So Jia Zhen responded with a smile, "What sort of talk is this among friends?
Stop it at once or I shall pull out your beard.
Come along in with me.
Laughing heartily the Taoist followed him in.
Jia Zhen found the Lady Dowager and with a bow informed her "Grandfather Zhang has come to pay his respects."
"Bring him here," she rejoined at once.
Jia Zhen led in the priest, chortling.
"Buddha of Infinite Longevity!"
he exclaimed.
"I hope the Old Ancestress has been enjoying good fortune, long life, health and peace, and that all the ladies and young ladies have been happy too.
I haven't called on you to pay my respects, but Your Ladyship looks in better health than ever. "
"And are you well, Old Immortal?"
she responded with a smile.
"Thanks to my share in your good fortune, yes.
I keep feeling concerned about your grandson, though.
How has he been keeping all this time?
Not long ago, on the twenty-sixth of last month, we celebrated the birthday of the Prince who Shades the Sky.
As few people would be coming and everything was quite clean, I sent to invite Master Bao to come but they told me he wasn't at home."
"It's true, he wasn't."
The old lady called for her grandson.
Baoyu, just back from the privy, hurriedly stepped forward to say, "How do you do, Grandad Zhang?"
The priest took him in his arms and asked after his health.
"Yes," he remarked to the Lady Dowager, "he looks as if he's putting on weight now."
"He may look all right but he's really delicate.
And his father is ruining his health, the way he keeps the boy poring over his books."
"I've seen some of his calligraphy and poems in different places recently.
They're so remarkably good I can't understand why His Lordship should still complain he's idle.
I'd say he's doing all right."
Then, with a sigh, the old Taoist observed, "To me, with his face and figure, his bearing and way of talking, Master Bao seems the image of the old duke."
Tears welled from his eyes as he spoke.
The old lady was painfully affected too.
"You're right," she agreed.
"Of all my sons and grandsons, Baoyu is the only one who takes after his grandfather."
The priest then remarked to Jia Zhen, "Of course, sir, your generation were born too late to see the duke.
I don't suppose even Lord She and Lord Zheng remember too well what he looked like."
He burst out laughing again before turning back to the Lady Dowager.
"The other day in a certain family I saw a young lady of fifteen, a pretty girl.
It seems to me time to arrange a match for the young master.
And that young lady would do, as far as looks, intelligence and family go.
But not knowing how Your Ladyship feels, I didn't like to do anything rash.
I can go and broach the subject if Your Ladyship gives the word."
"A bonze told us this boy isn't fated to marry too early," she replied.
"So we'll wait until he's older to settle things.
But by all means keep your eyes open.
Riches and rank are immaterial.
Only if you find a girl pretty enough, come and let us know.
Even if the family's poor it doesn't matter, we can always let them have a few taels of silver.
But good looks and a sweet dispostition are hard to find."
At this point Xifeng joined in with a smile "Grandfather Zhang, you still haven't brought our daughter her new talisman, yet you had the nerve to send round the other day to ask for yellow satin.
And I didn't like to make you lose face by not giving it."
Zhang the Taoist roared with laughter.
"My eyes are so dim, I didn't notice you, madam, and haven't thanked you The talisman was ready long ago and I was meaning to send it, but when Her Highness ordered this mass to be held I forgot.
It's still before the image of Buddha.
I'll go and get it."
He hurried off to the main hall, returning presently with a talisman on a tray covered with a red silk sutra wrapper with a dragon design.
As Dajie's nurse took this from him, he held out his arms for the child.
"Why didn't you bring it in your hands?"
Xifeng wanted to know.
"Why use a tray?"
"My hands are too dirty, madam.
A tray seemed cleaner."
"You gave me quite a turn when you brought in that tray," she teased.
"I didn't know you had the talisman on it, I thought you'd come to ask for donations."
This set the whole party laughing.
Even Jia Zhen could not suppress a smile.
"What a monkey you are!"
cried the Lady Dowager turning to Xifeng.
"Aren't you afraid of going to the Tongue-Cutting Hell?"
"I've done him no harm," she countered.
"Why is he always warning me that unless I do more good deeds I shan't live long?"
Zhang the Taoist chuckled.
"I brought the tray for two reasons," he explained.
"Not to collect donations, but to borrow Master Bao's jade to show my Taoist friends and disciples."
"If that's the case," said the Lady Dowager, "there's no reason why an old man like you should run around.
Take Baoyu out to show it to them all, then send him back.
Wouldn't that save trouble?"
"No, Your Ladyship doesn't understand.
I may be more than eighty, but thanks to your shared good fortune I'm hale and hearty and there are so many of them out there that the place stinks.
Master Bao, not being used to this heat, might be over-powered by the stench.
And that would be too bad."
Accordingly the old lady told Baoyu to take off his Jade of Spiritual Understanding and put it on the tray.
Zhang the Taoist laid it reverently on the silk and carried the tray respectfully out with both hands.
For their part, the Lady Dowager and her party went on strolling round the temple.
They were climbing to the upper storey of one building when Jia Zhen reported that Grandad Zhang had brought back the jade.
As he spoke, Zhang appeared with the tray.
"Everyone felt most obliged to me for the chance to see Master Bao's jade, which they think most wonderful," he declared.
"They've nothing else worth offering, so they've sent these Taoist amulets as tokens of their respect.
If Master Bao thinks they're nothing special, he can keep them as toys or give them away, just as he pleases."
The Lady Dowager saw in the tray several dozen amulets of gold and jade engraved with the inscriptions "May All Your Wishes Come True" and "Eternal Peace."
Each was studded with pearls or jewels and finely carved.
"This won't do," she expostulated.
"How can priests afford such things?
It's quite uncalled for.
We can't possibly accept them."
"These are just a small token of their esteem.
I couldn't stop them," he said.
"If Your Ladyship won't accept them, they'll think you look down on me and don't consider me as your protege."
So she had to tell a maid to take the gifts.
"Since Grandad Zhang won't let us refuse, and these things are no use to me, madam," said Baoyu, "why not let my pages carry them out with me now to distribute them to the poor?"
"That's a good idea," agreed his grandmother.
But Zhang the Taoist immediately objected, "That's a charitable thought, Master Bao but even if these things are of little value, some of them are well made.
They'd be wasted on beggars, who'd have no use for them.
If you want to help the poor, why not give them money instead?"
"All right," said Baoyu.
"We'll keep them and distribute some alms this evening."
Thereupon the priest withdrew, while the Lady Dowager and her party went upstairs to sit in the main balcony, Xifeng and her companions occupying that to the east.
The maids, in the west balcony, took turns waiting on their mistesses.
Presently Jia Zhen came to report that lots had been drawn before the shrine for the operas, and the first was to be The White Serpent .
"What's the story?"
asked the old lady.
"It's about the First Emperor of Han who killed a serpent, then founded the dynasty.
The second is Every Son a High Minister ."
2 "So that's the second?"
The Lady Dowager nodded, smiling.
"Well, if this is the wish of the gods, what must be must be.
And what's the third?"
" The Dream of the Southern Tributary State . "
3 At this she made no comment.
Jia Zhen withdrew to prepare the written prayers, burn incense and order the actors to start.
But no more of this.
Baoyu, seated next to his grandmother upstairs, told one of the maids to bring him the tray of gifts.
Having put on his own jade again he rummaged through his presents, showing them one by one to the old lady.
Her eye was struck by a gold unicorn decorated with turquoise enamel, which she picked up.
"I'm sure I've seen something like this on one of the girls," she remarked.
"Cousin Xiangyun has one like that, only a little smaller," Baochai told her.
"So that's it!"
exclaimed the Lady Dowager.
"All this time she's been staying with us, how come I've never noticed it?"
asked Baoyu.
"Cousin Baochai's observant," chuckled Tanchun.
"She never forgets anything either."
"She's not so observant about other things," remarked Daiyu cuttingly.
"But she's most observant about other people's trinkets."
Baochai turned away and pretended not to have heard.
As soon as Baoyu knew that Xiangyun had a unicorn too, he picked this one up and slipped it into his pocket.
Then, afraid people might see through him, he glanced surreptitiously round.
The only one paying any attention was Daiyu, who was nodding at him with a look of speculation in her eyes.
Embarrassed by this, he took the unicorn out again and showed it to her.
"This is rather fun," he said with a smile.
"I'll keep it for you till we get home, then put it on a cord for you to wear. "
Daiyu tossed her head.
"I don't fancy it."
"If you really don't, in that case I'll keep it for myself."
He put it away again.
Before he could say more, Madam You and Rong's second wife -- Jia Zhen's wife and daughter-in-law -- arrived to pay their respects.
"You shouldn't have come," protested the old lady.
"I'm just out for a little jaunt."
The next second it was announced that messengers had come from General Feng.
For as soon as Feng Ziying heard that the Jia family were celebrating a mass in the abbey he had prepared gifts of pigs, sheep, incense, candles and sweetmeats and had them sent along.
The moment Xifeng knew this she hurried over to the main balcony.
"Aiya!"
she exclaimed, clapping her hands.
"I wasn't prepared for this.
We just looked on this as an outing, but they've sent offerings under the impression that we're making a serious sacrifice of it.
It's all our old lady's fault.
Now I shall have to prepare some tips."
That same instant up come two stewards' wives from the Feng family.
And before they had left more presents arrived from Vice-Minister Zhao, to be followed in quick succession by gifts from all their relatives and friends who had heard that the ladies of the Jia family were holding a service in the abbey.
The Lady Dowager began to regret the whole expedition.
"This isn't a regular sacrifice," she said.
"We just came out for fun, but we've put them to all this trouble."
So after watching only one performance she went home that same afternoon and refused to go back the next day.
"Why not go the whole hog?"
Xifeng reasoned.
"Since we've already put everybody out, we may as well amuse ourselves again today."
But Baoyu had been sulking ever since Zhang the Taoist broached the subject of his marriage to his grandmother.
He was still fulminating against the priest and puzzling other people by muttering "I never want to set eyes on him again."
As for Daiyu she had been suffering since her return from a touch of the sun.
For these reasons the old lady remained adamant.
When Xifeng saw that she would not go, she took some others back with her to the abbey.
Baoyu was so worried on Daiyu's account that he would not touch his food and kept going over to find out how she was.
Daiyu, for her part, was worried about him.
"Why don't you go and see the shows?"
she asked.
"Why should you stay at home?"
The Taoist's officiousness still rankled with Baoyu, and when Daiyu, said this he thought "I could forgive others for not understanding me, but now even she is making fun of me."
So his resentment increased a hundredfold.
He wouldn't have flared up had it been anyone else, but Daiyu's behaving this way was a different matter.
His face clouded over.
"All right, all right," he said sullenly.
"We've known each other all these years in vain."
"I know that too."
She laughed sarcastically.
"I'm not like those others who own things which make them a good match for you. "
He went up to her then and demanded to her face, "Does this mean you really want to invoke Heaven and Earth to destroy me?"
Before she could fathom his meaning he went on, "Yesterday I took an oath because of this, and today you provoke me again.
If Heaven and Earth destroy me, what good will it do you?"
Daiyu remembered their previous conversation and realized she had blundered.
She was conscience-stricken and frantic.
"If I wish you harm, may Heaven and Earth destroy me too," she sobbed.
"Why take on like this?
I know.
When Zhang the Taoist spoke of your marriage yesterday, you were afraid he might prevent the match of your choice.
And now you're working your temper off on me."
Now Baoyu had always been deplorably eccentric.
Since childhood, moreover, he had been intimate with Daiyu, finding her a kindred spirit.
Thus now that he knew a little more and had read some improper books, he felt none of the fine girls he had seen in the families of relatives and friends fit to hold a candle to her.
He had long since set his heart on having her, but could not admit as much.
So whether happy or angry, he used every means to test her secretly.
And Daiyu, being rather eccentric too, would disguise her feelings to test him in return.
Thus each concealed his or her real sentiments to sound the other out.
The proverb says, "When false meets false, the truth will out."
So inevitably, in the process, they kept quarrelling over trifles.
So now Baoyu was reflecting.
"I can forgive others not understanding me, but you ought to know you're the only one I care for.
Yet instead of comforting me you only taunt me.
It's obviously no use my thinking of you every minute of the day -- you've no place for me in your heart."
To tell her this, however, was beyond him.
As for Daiyu, she was reflecting, "I know I've a place in your heart.
Naturally you don't take that vicious talk about gold matching jade seriously, but think of me seriously instead.
Even if I raise the subject, you should take it perfectly calmly to show that it means nothing to you, that the one you really care for is me.
Why get so worked up at the mention of gold and jade?
This shows you're thinking about them all the time.
You're afraid I suspect this when I mention them, so you put on a show of being worked up -- just to fool me.
In fact, to start with their two hearts were one, but each of them was so hyper-sensitive that their longing to be close ended in estrangement.
Now Baoyu was telling himself, "Nothing else matters to me so long as you're happy.
Then I'd gladly die for you this very instant.
Whether you know this or not, you can at least feel that in my heart you're close to me and not distant."
Daiyu meanwhile was thinking, "Just take good care of yourself.
When you're happy, I'm happy too.
Why should you be upset because of me?
You should know that if you're upset, so am I.
It means you won't let me be close to you and want me to keep at a distance."
So their mutual concern for each other resulted in their estrangement.
But as it is hard to describe all their secret thoughts, we shall have to content ourselves with recording their actions.
Those words "the match of your choice" infuriated Baoyu.
Too choked with rage to speak, he tore the jade from his neck and dashed it to the floor.
"You rubbishy thing!"
he cried, gnashing his teeth.
"I'1l smash you to pieces and have done with it."
The jade was so hard, however, that no damage was done.
So he looked around for something with which to smash it.
Daiyu was already weeping.
"Why destroy that dumb object?"
she sobbed.
"Better destroy me instead."
Zijuan and Xueyan dashed in to stop this quarrel.
Seeing Baoyu hammering at the jade they tried to snatch it away from him but failed.
And since this was more serious than usual they had to send for Xiren, who hurried in and managed to rescue the stone.
Baoyu smiled bitterly.
"I can smash what's mine, can't I?
What business is it of yours?"
Xiren had never before seen him so livid with rage, his whole face contorted.
"Because you have words with your cousin is no reason to smash this up," she said coaxingly, taking his hand.
"Suppose you broke it, think how bad she'd feel."
This touched Daiyu's heart, yet it only made her more wretched to think that Baoyu had less consideration for her than Xiren.
She sobbed even more bitterly, so distraught that she threw up the herbal medicine she had just taken.
Zijuan hastily brought her a handkerchief which soon was completely soaked through.
Xueyan meanwhile massaged her back.
"No matter how angry you are, miss, do think of your health!"
Zijuan urged.
"You were feeling a little better after the medicine it's this tiff with Master Bao that's made you retch.
If you fall ill, how upset Master Bao will be."
This touched Baoyu's heart, yet also struck him as proof that Daiyu had less consideration for him than Zijuan.
But now Daiyu's cheeks were flushed and swollen.
Weeping and choking, her face streaked with tears and sweat, she looked most fearfully frail.
The sight filled him with compunction.
"I should never have argued with her and got her into this state," he scolded himself.
"I can't even suffer instead of her."
He, too, shed tears.
Xiren's heart ached to see how bitterly both of them were weeping.
She felt Baoyu's hands.
They were icy cold.
She wanted to urge him not to cry, but feared that bottling up his resentment would be bad for him on the other hand, comforting him might seem like slighting Daiyu.
Thinking that tears might calm them all, she wept in sympathy.
Zijuan, who had cleaned up and was gently fanning Daiyu, was so affected by the sight of the three of them weeping in silence that she had to put a handkerchief to her own eyes.
So all four of them wept in silence until Xiren, forcing a smile, said to Baoyu "Just because of the tassel on your jade, if not for any other reason, you shouldn't quarrel with Miss Lin."
At this Daiyu forgot her nausea and rushed over to snatch the jade, seizing a pair of scissors to cut off the tassel.
Xiren and Zijuan intervened too late to save it.
"All my work for nothing," sobbed Daiyu.
"He doesn't care for it.
He can get someone else to make him a better one."
Xiren hastily took the jade from her.
"Why do that?"
she protested.
"It's my fault.
I should have held my tongue."
"Go ahead and cut it up," Baoyu urged Daiyu.
"I shan't wear it anyway, so it doesn't matter."
During this commotion, some old nurses had bustled off without their knowing to inform the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang.
For having heard Daiyu crying and vomiting and Baoyu threatening to smash his jade, they did not want to be held responsible should any serious trouble come of it.
Their flurried, earnest report so alarmed the old lady and Lady Wang that both came to the Garden to see what dreadful thing had happened.
Xiren was frantic and blamed Zijuan for disturbing their mistresses, while Zijuan held Xiren to blame.
When the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang found both the young people quiet and were told there was nothing amiss, they vented their anger on their two chief maids.
"Why don't you look after them properly?"
they scolded.
"Can't you do something when they start quarrelling?"
The two maids had to listen meekly to a long lecture, and peace was only restored when the old lady took Baoyu away.
The next day, the third of the month, was Xue Pan's birthday, and the whole Jia family was invited to a feast and theatricals.
Baoyu had not seen Daiyu since he offended her and was feeling too remorseful and depressed to enjoy any show.
He pleaded illness, therefore, as an excuse not to go.
Daiyu was not seriously ill, simply suffering from the heat.
When she heard of Baoyu's refusal to go she thought, "He has a weakness for feasts and theatricals.
If he's staying away today, it must either be because yesterday's business still rankles or because he knows I'm not going.
I should never have cut that tassel off his jade.
I'm sure he won't wear it again now unless I make him another."
So she felt thoroughly conscience-stricken too.
The Lady Dowager had hoped they would stop sulking and make it up while watching operas together.
When both refused to go she grew quite frantic.
"What sins have I committed in a past existence to be plagued with two such troublesome children?"
she lamented.
"Not a day goes by without something to worry about.
How true the proverb is that 'Enemies and lovers are destined to meet.'
Once I've closed my eyes and breathed my last, they can quarrel and storm as much as they like.
What the eye doesn't see the heart doesn't grieve for.
But I'm not at my last gasp just yet."
With that she wept too.
When word of this reached Baoyu and Daiyu, neither of whom had heard that proverb before, they felt as if a great light had dawned on them.
With lowered heads they pondered its meaning and could not hold back their tears.
True, they were still apart one weeping to the breeze in Bamboo Lodge, the other sighing to the moon in Happy Red Court.
But although apart, at heart they were as one.
Xiren scolded Baoyu, "It's entirely your fault.
You used to blame boys who quarrelled with their sisters, or husbands who disputed with their wives, for being too stupid to understand girl's hearts.
Yet now you're being just as bad yourself.
The day after tomorrow, the fifth, is the festival.
If you two go on looking daggers at each other that will make the old lady even angrier and no one will have any peace.
Do get over your temper and apologize!
Let bygones be bygones.
Wouldn't that be better for both sides?"
Whether Baoyu took her advice or not you may read in the next chapter.
Chapter 30 Baochai Uses a Fan to Make an Insinuation Lingguan Writes on the Ground and a Foolish Young Man Is Touched Daiyu for her part was also remorseful after her quarrel with Baoyu, but could think of no pretext to go and make it up.
So she spent all day and night in a state of depression, feeling as if bereft.
Zijuan, who guessed how she felt, tried to reason with her.
"The fact is you were too hasty the other day, miss," she said.
"We should know Baoyu if no one else does.
After all, it's not the first time there's been a rumpus over that jade."
"So you side with the others and blame me," snapped Daiyu.
"In what way was I hasty?"
"Why did you cut off the tassel for no reason?
That put you more in the wrong than Master Bao.
I know how devoted he is to you, miss.
All this comes of your touchiness and the way you twist his words."
Before Daiyu could retort they heard someone calling at the outer gate.
"It's Baoyu's voice."
Zijuan smiled.
"He must be coming to apologize."
"Don't let him in. "
"That wouldn't be right, miss.
It's a scorching day.
We don't want him to get sunstroke."
She went and opened the gate, ushering Baoyu in with a smile.
"I thought you'd never cross this threshold of ours again," she remarked.
"But here you are. "
"You take things far too seriously."
He chuckled.
"Why shouldn't I come?
Even if I were dead, my ghost would haunt you a hundred times a day.
Tell me, is my cousin better?"
"In her health, yes.
Not in her feelings."
"I know what's the trouble with her."
He went in and found Daiyu indulging in a fresh fit of weeping on her bed, so much had his arrival touched her.
Walking cheerfully up to her bedside he asked, "Are you feeling a little better?"
When she simply wiped her tears without answering, he sat down on the edge of the bed.
"I know you're not really angry with me," he told her.
"But if I stayed away others might think we'd quarrelled again and come to act as peacemakers, as if the two of us were strangers.
So beat me or scold me as much as you like but for pity's sake don't ignore me, dear cousin, sweet cousin!"
Daiyu had in fact determined to ignore him, but this speech proving that she was dearer to him than anyone else, and all the endearments he now poured out, made her break down again.
"You needn't flatter me," she sobbed.
"I shall never dare be friends with you again.
Behave as if I'd gone."
"Where would you go?"
Baoyu laughed.
"Home."
"I'd go with you. "
"What if I should die?"
"I'd become a monk."
"What a thing to say!"
She frowned sternly.
"Why talk such nonsense?
Think of all the sisters and girl cousins you have.
Do you have so many lives that you can become a monk every time one of them dies?
Wait and see what the others say when I tell them this."
Baoyu could have kicked himself for this fresh blunder.
Flushing red he hung his head without a word, thankful that no one else was in the room.
Too angry to speak, she fixed him with furious eyes until his cheeks were burning.
Then, clenching her teeth, she stabbed with one finger at his forehead.
"You...." But this exclamation ended in a sigh as she took out her handkerchief and wiped her tears.
Baoyu's heart was very full and he was ashamed of speaking so foolishly.
When she struck him then sighed and wept without a word, he too was reduced to tears.
He started to wipe them with his sleeve, having forgotten to bring a handkerchief, and Daiyu noticed through her own tears that he was wearing a new lilac blue linen gown.
While dabbing at her own eyes she turned and took a silk handkerchief from her pillow, tossed him this in silence and covered her face again.
Baoyu took the handkerchief and wiped his tears, then stepped forward to clasp her hand.
"You're breaking my heart with your weeping," he declared.
"Come, let's go and see the old lady."
"Take your hands off me!"
She pulled away.
"You're not a child any more, yet you still carry on in this shameless way.
Can't you behave yourself?"
She was interrupted by the cry "Thank goodness!"
The two of them started, then turned to see Xifeng sweeping gaily in.
"The old lady's fulminating against Heaven and Earth," she informed them.
"She insisted I come to see if you'd made it up.
I told her, 'No need, they'll be friends again in less than three days.'
But she scolded me for being too lazy to stir, so I had to come.
Well, what did I say?
I can't see what you two have to quarrel about.
Friends one day, squabbing the next, you're worse than children.
Now you're holding hands and crying, but yesterday you were like fighting cocks.
Come along with me, quick, to your grandmother to set the old lady's mind at rest."
She caught hold of Daiyu meaning to lead her away.
Daiyu turned to call her maids but not one was there.
"What do you want them for?"
asked Xifeng.
"I'll look after you."
With that she pulled her out.
And Baoyu followed them out of the Garden to the Lady Dowager's quarters.
"I said don't worry, they'll make it up themselves," announced Xifeng cheerfully.
"Our Old Ancestress didn't believe me, and insisted I go along as peacemaker.
I found they'd already asked each other's forgiveness, and were clinging together like an eagle sinking its talons into a hawk.
They didn't need any help."
This set the whole room laughing.
Baochai was also there.
Daiyu said nothing but took a seat by the Lady Dowager.
To make conversation Baoyu told Baochai "I would have to be out of sorts on your brother's birthday that's why I haven't sent any present over or even gone to offer congratulations.
If he doesn't know I'm unwell, he may think I couldn't be bothered and be offended.
Do explain to him, will you, cousin?"
-1152 "You're over-punctilious," said Baochai.
"We wouldn't dare put you to any trouble even if you wished to go, much less so when you're unwell.
As cousins you're always seeing so much of each other, you've no call to behave like strangers."
"So long as you understand and will overlook it."
He added, "But why aren't you watching the operas, cousin?"
"I feel the heat.
After watching two pieces I couldn't stand it any longer.
But as the guests hadn't left, I had to pretend to be feeling unwell in order to slip away."
This sounded to Baoyu like a reflection on him.
In his embarrassment he said with a sheepish smile "No wonder they compare you to Lady Yang, you're both 'plump and sensitive to the heat. '"
1 -576 Baochai was so enraged by this remark that she could have flown into a temper, but she restrained herself.
This quip rankled so much, however, that she reddened and laughed sarcastically.
-1152 "If I'm so like Lady Yang," she retorted, "it's too bad I've no brother or cousin able to be another Yang Guozhong. "
2 She was interrupted by one of the young maids, Dianer, who had mislaid her fan.
"You must have hidden it, miss," she said playfully.
"Do let me have it back."
"Behave yourself!"
cried Baochai sharply, wagging one finger at her.
"Have I ever played such tricks with you, that you should suspect me?
You should ask the other young ladies who are always joking with you."
This rebuff frightened Dianer away.
Baoyu knew he had made another gaffe, in public too.
Even more embarrassed than earlier on with Daiyu, he turned away to talk to the others.
Daiyu had been delighted to hear him make fun of Baochai.
She would, indeed, have joined in if not for Baochai's retort regarding the fan.
She decided, as it was, to change the subject.
"What were the two operas you saw, cousin?"
she asked.
Daiyu's enjoyment of her discomfiture at Baoyu's remark had not escaped Baochai, who smiled at this question.
"One was that piece," she answered, "in which Li Kui abuses Song Jiang and then apologizes."
Baoyu laughed.
"Why, cousin," he cried, "surely you're sufficiently well versed in ancient and modern literature to know the title of that opera.
Why do you have to describe it?
It's called Abject Apologies. "
" Abject Apologies, is it?"
retorted Baochai. "
You two are the ones well versed in ancient and modern literature, so of course you know all about 'abject apologies' -- that's something quite beyond me."
As both Baoyu and Daiyu were conscience-stricken, they immediately blushed.
And Xifeng, although she did not understand such allusions, could guess from their expressions what was afoot.
"Who's been eating ginger in such hot weather?"
she asked.
The others were mystified.
"No one's been eating ginger."
Xifeng put both hands to her cheeks with a show of astonishment.
"In that case, why are some people so red in the face?"
This embarrassed Baoyu and Daiyu even more.
And when Baochai saw Baoyu so out of countenance, she simply smiled and let the matter drop.
So did the others, who had not caught on to this exchange between the four of them.
Presently Baochai and Xifeng left.
Then Daiyu turned with a smile to Baoyu.
"Now you've come up against someone with a sharper tongue than mine.
Not everyone's as simple and tongue-tied as I am, so easy to tease."
Baoyu was already put out by Baochai's annoyance, and this fresh provocation added to his ill humour.
But not wanting to annoy Daiyu too, he kept his temper and sulkily left the room.
It was now mid-summer.
The days were so long that after lunch masters and servants alike were exhausted.
His hands behind his back, Baoyu strolled through the grounds and did not hear a sound.
From the Lady Dowager's quarters he wandered west through the passage hall to Xifeng's compound but the gate there was closed and he knew he had better not call as she usually took a nap after lunch in the summer.
So he sauntered through a side gate to his mother's apartments, where some maids were dozing with needlework in their hands while Lady Wang slept on a couch in the inner room.
Jinchuan, sitting by her to massage her legs, was nodding drowsily too.
Baoyu tiptoed up to her and flicked one of her earrings, whereupon she opened her eyes.
"You sleepy-head!"
he whispered.
She pouted, smiled and motioned him away, then closed her eyes again but Baoyu was reluctant to leave her.
He stole a glance at his mother.
Her eyes were closed.
Then he took a peppermint pastille from his pouch and slipped it between Jinchuan's lips.
She accepted it without opening her eyes.
At that Baoyu pressed closer and took her hand.
"I'll ask your mistress for you tomorrow," he said softly.
"Then we can be together."
Jinchuan made no reply.
"Or rather I'll ask her as soon as she wakes."
The girl opened her eyes then and pushed him away.
"What's the hurry?
'A gold pin may fall into the well, but if it's yours it remains yours.'
Can't you understand that proverb?
I'll tell you some-thing amusing to do.
Go to the small east courtyard and see what your brother Huan and Caiyun are up to."
"I don't care what they're up to.
It's you I'm interested in."
At this point Lady Wang sat up and slapped Jinchuan's face.
"Shameless slut!"
she scolded.
"It's low creatures like you who lead the young masters astray."
Baoyu had vanished like smoke as soon as his mother sat up.
Jinchuan's cheek was tingling but she dared say nothing and the other maids, hearing their mistress's voice, hurried in.
"Jinchuan!"
ordered Lady Wang.
"Go and tell your mother to come at once and take your sister away."
At these words Jinchuan fell on her knees and burst into tears.
"I shan't let it happen again, madam," she cried.
"Whip me, scold me or punish me as you please, but for pity's sake don't send me away!
I've been with Your Ladyship more than ten years.
If you dismiss me now, how can I look anyone in the face again?"
Lady Wang was generally speaking too good-natured and easy-going to beat the maids but the shameless way in which Jinchuan had behaved was the one thing she could not abide.
That was why, flaring up, she had slapped and cursed her.
Although the maid pleaded hard she refused to keep her, and her mother, old Mrs. Bai, had to take her away.
So Jinchuan went home in disgrace.
Meanwhile Baoyu had scuttled back to Grand View Garden.
The sun was high in the sky, trees cast ample shade and the air was full of the shrilling of cicadas, but no human voice could be heard.
However, as he approached a trellis of roses, he heard sobbing and stopped in his surprise to listen, Yes, there was someone on the other side of the trellis.
As it was now the fifth month, the roses were in full bloom.
Peeping through the lattice-work, he saw a girl crouching below the flowers and weeping all alone as she scratched the ground with a hairpin.
"Can this be another absurd maid come to bury flowers like Daiyu?"
he wondered in some amusement.
"If so, she's 'Dong Shi imitating Xi Shi,' 3 which isn't original but rather tiresome."
He was on the point of calling out to the girl, "It's no use your trying to copy Miss Lin!"
when he realized she was not one of the maids but looked like one of the twelve actresses, although he could not remember which role she played.
He grimaced then hastily covered his mouth.
"It's a good thing I held my tongue," he told himself.
"I've already annoyed Daiyu and hurt Baochai's feelings by my tactlessness.
It would be still more senseless to offend any of these girls."
With these reflections, he felt put out at not being able to identify the girl and he studied her more closely.
With her finely arched eyebrows and limpid eyes, her delicate features, slender waist and graceful movements, she bore a striking resemblance to Daiyu.
He stood staring, unable to tear himself away.
And now he observed that instead of using her hairpin to bury flowers she was writing something with it on the ground.
Baoyu followed the pin with his eyes as it moved up and down.
He counted the strokes -- vertical, horizontal, dotted and curved -- there were seventeen in all.
Then he traced them in the same order on his palm and discovered that this was the character Qiang for "rose."
"She must be trying to write a poem," he thought, "and these flowers have suggested the idea for a couple of lines.
For fear of forgetting it, she's tracing the character while she thinks it out.
Yes, that may be it.
Let me see what else she writes."
He went on watching as the girl went on writing, but she merely repeated the same character.
Lost in thought, the girl by the trellis traced one Qiang after another until she had written several dozen, while Baoyu watched raptly from the other side, following the movements of the pin with his eyes.
"She must have some secret anxiety preying on her mind to carry on like this," he reflected.
"Yet she looks too delicate to stand much anxiety.
I wish I could share her troubles."
Mid-summer weather is unpredictable a passing cloud may bring rain.
Now a cool breeze sprang up and there was a sudden shower.
Seeing that water dripped off the girl's head and in no time had wet her gauze clothes, he thought It's raining.
She's too frail to stand such a downpour.
Impulsively he called out "Do stop writing!
Look, you're getting drenched."
The girl raised her head with a start at hearing this shout from the other side of the trellis.
As Baoyu was finely-featured and as the thick foliage screened all but the top of his face, she took him for a maid.
"Thanks, sister," she said with a smile.
"You don't seem to have much shelter out there yourself either."
Baoyu uttered an exclamation of dismay as it came home to him how cold he was.
Looking down he saw that his clothes were wet through.
"Bother it!"
he cried.
He set off at a run then towards Happy Red Court, still worrying over the girl out in the rain.
Now as this was the eve of the Double Fifth Festival, the twelve young actresses had been given a holiday and were amusing themselves in different parts of the Garden.
Baoguan who played young scholars and Yuguan who played young ladies were enjoying themselves in Happy Red Court with Xiren, when it came on to rain.
They stopped up the drain to make water collect in the yard and caught some water-fowl- green -headed ducks, speckled mallards and mandarin ducks.
Having tied their wings they let these loose in the yard, after which they bolted the gate.
While they stood on the verandah enjoying the fun, Baoyu arrived back only to find the gate closed.
The girls were laughing too much to hear his knock, so that he shouted and pounded for a long time before they finally heard.
And of course they were not expecting him back at this time.
"Who's that at the gate?"
asked Xiren.
"Who'll go and see?"
"It's I!"
cried Baoyu.
"Sounds like Miss Baochai," said Sheyue.
"Nonsense!"
exclaimed Qingwen.
"Miss Baochai wouldn't come at this hour."
"I'll peep through a crack," offered Xiren, "to see if it's somebody we should let in.
If it's not, we'll let whoever it is get a soaking."
She went along the covered corridor to the gate and discovered Baoyu there, drenched as a drowned cock.
Torn between concern and amusement she hastily opened the gate, then doubled up with laughter, clapping her hands.
"How were we to know you were back?"
she spluttered.
"Where have you been, running about in such a downpour?"
Baoyu, in a foul temper, had decided to punish whoever opened the gate.
Without waiting to see who it was, and assuming that this was one of the younger girls, he kicked Xiren so hard in the side that she let out a cry.
"You low creatures!"
he stormed.
"I treat you so well that you've lost all sense of respect.
Now you dare make fun of me!"
At this point he lowered his head and heard Xiren's cry.
He realized then what a blunder he had made.
"Oh, is it you?"
He smiled apologetically.
"Where did I kick you?"
Xiren had never had so much as a harsh word from Baoyu.
Now that he had lost his temper and kicked her in public too -- she felt overwhelmed with shame, resentment and pain.
But sure that he hadn't done this deliberately, she did her best to control herself.
"It's all right," she answered.
"Go in and change your clothes."
Once inside he said contritely, "This is the first time in my life I've lashed out in a temper -- and it had to be at you."
Still wincing she helped him out of his wet clothes.
"I'm your number one maid," she answered jokingly, "So I should have first share of everything big or small, good or bad.
I just hope you won't make a habit of kicking people."
"I didn't mean to do it."
"I'm not saying you did.
Usually it's the younger ones who go to the gate.
They're all so spoilt that nobody can stand them, and they're not afraid of anyone either.
It would have served them right if you'd kicked one of them to frighten them.
Today Im to blame for not letting them open the gate."
By now the rain had stopped.
Both Baoguan and Yuguan had left.
What with the pain in her side and her vexation, Xiren ate nothing that evening.
And when she undressed to have her bath she was frightened by the bruise, the size of a bowl, below her ribs, but could hardly remark on it.
The pain continued after she was in bed and made her groan in her sleep.
Though Baoyu had not kicked her deliberately, Xiren's obvious discomfort disturbed him.
And hearing her cry out during the night he realized how badly he must have hurt her.
He slipped out of bed, took the lamp, and went over to have a look.
Just as he reached her bedside she coughed, then brought up some phlegm and opened her eyes with a gasp.
"What are you doing?"
she asked in surprise when she saw him.
"You were groaning in your sleep.
I must have hurt you badly.
Let me have a look."
"I feel dizzy and there's a bitter-sweet taste in my throat.
Throw the light on the floor, will you?"
Baoyu did as she asked and saw that she had coughed blood.
"How dreadful!"
he exclaimed.
Xiren's heart failed her at the sight of the blood.
But to know what followed, you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 31 A Torn Fan Wins a Smile from a Maid A Pair of Unicorns Suggest a Match When Xiren saw the blood on the floor her heart failed her, for she had often heard tell Spitting blood while young means an early death or infirmity for life.
So her dreams of future honour and splendour had gone up in smoke!
She could not help shedding tears.
Baoyu's heart ached too.
"Row are you feeling?"
he asked.
She forced a smile.
"All right."
He would have called someone at once to heat Shaoxing wine and fetch pills compounded with goat's blood, but Xiren restrained him.
"If you make such a fuss that people come flocking in, they'll blame me for getting above myself," she explained.
"At present not a soul knows, but to noise it abroad would be damaging for us both.
Just send a boy tomorrow to ask Doctor Wang for some medicine, and that will set me right.
Far better keep the whole business quiet."
Since this made sense Baoyu had to agree.
He fetched tea for Xiren to rinse her mouth and, knowing how worried he was, she lay there quietly letting him wait on her, for otherwise he would have roused the others.
Next day, at the crack of dawn, Baoyu scrambled into his clothes.
Not stopping to wash or comb his hair, he went off to find Wang Jiren whom he plied with questions.
When the doctor heard what had happened, he assured him it was simply a contusion and prescribed some pills, giving directions as to their use which Baoyu carried out on his return to the Garden.
But no more of this.
This was the day of the Double Fifth Festival.
The doors were hung with mugwort and rushes, everyone wore tiger-charms, and Lady Wang gave a family feast at midday to which Aunt Xue and her daughter were invited.
Baoyu noticed that Baochai was cold-shouldering him because of what had happened the previous day.
His own low spirits were ascribed by his mother to embarrassment over yesterdays episode with Jinchuan, and therefore she deliberately ignored him.
Daiyu, for her part, assumed that his dejection was the result of having offended Baochai, and that displeased her too.
As for Xifeng, she had heard the evening before from Lady Wang about Baoyu and Jinchuan, and in deference to her aunt's displeasure was not her usual cheerful, laughing self, making the atmosphere even more constrained.
As Yingchun and the other Jia girls were affected by the general lack of spirits, the company soon dispersed.
Now Daiyu naturally preferred solitude to society.
She reasoned, "Coming together can only be followed by parting.
The more pleasure people find in parties, the more lonely and unhappy they must feel when the parties break up.
So better not forgather in the first place.
The same is true of flowers they delight people when in bloom, but it's so heartrending to see them fade that it would be better if they never blossomed."
For this reason she grieved over what others enjoyed.
Baoyu, on the other hand, wished that parties need never break up, flowers never fade and although he could neither stop a feast from ending nor flowers from withering, he grieved every time this happened.
So whereas Daiyu did not care when the feasters parted in low spirits today, Baoyu went back to his room feeling so gloomy that he did nothing but sigh.
When Qingwen, who was helping him change, dropped his fan and broke it he sighed "How stupid you are!
What's to become of you when in future you have a home of your own?
Surely you can't go on being so careless then."
"How bad-tempered you've grown lately," she retorted with a snigger.
"Always throwing your weight about.
The other day you even beat Xiren, and now you're picking on me.
You can kick or beat us as much as you like, of course, but what's so dreadful about dropping a fan?
Plenty of glass vases and agate bowls have been smashed before without your flaring up.
It seems pointless to make such a fuss over a fan.
If you're fed up with us, you can send us packing and get some better attendants.
But why not part company in a peaceful, friendly way?"
"Don't worry," he cried, fairly trembling with rage.
"We shall part sooner or later."
Xiren, who had overheard them, now hurried in.
"Why take on again for no reason?"
she asked Baoyu.
"Didn't I tell you, the moment my back's turned there's trouble."
"If you're so clever," sneered Qingwen, "you should have come earlier to prevent this tantrum.
You're the one who's looked after him since ancient times -- I never did.
It's because you're so good at it that you got kicked right under your heart yesterday.
Heaven knows what punishment is waiting tomorrow for me, unfit as I am to wait on him."
Annoyance and mortification tempted Xiren to make a sharp retort.
She only controlled herself because Baoyu was already livid with rage.
"Run along and amuse yourself outside, good sister," she said, pushing Qingwen away.
"Were the ones to blame."
This "we," obviously meaning Baoyu and herself, made Qingwen even more jealous.
"I don't know what you mean by 'we,'" she cried with a scornful laugh.
"Don't make me blush for you.
What you're up to on the sly is no secret to me.
The fact of the matter is, you've not even earned the grade of a concubine yet, so you're no better than I am.
How can you talk of 'we'?"
Xiren flushed crimson over her indiscretion.
"If the rest of you are so jealous," raged Baoyu, "I'll raise her status just to spite you."
Xiren caught him by the hand to restrain him.
"Why argue with a silly girl?
You're usually broad-minded enough to overlook plenty of worse things than this.
What's got into you today?"
"I'm too silly to be up to talking to you," snorted Qingwen.
"Are you quarrelling with me, miss, or with Master Bao?
If I annoy you just tell me, instead of squabbling with him.
If Master Bao annoys you, don't make such a row that everybody hears.
I came in to try to smooth things over and save everybody's face, but then you set on me.
Which of us are you mad at, him or me?
What's the idea, lashing out in all directions?
Well, I'll say no more.
It's up to you now. "
With that she walked away.
"There was no need to fly into such a temper," said Baoyu to Qingwen.
"I know what's on your mind.
I'll tell the mistress you've reached the age to be sent home.
How about that?"
"Why should I go home?"
Tears of distress welled up in Qingwen's eyes.
"How can you trump up an excuse to get rid of me just because youve taken a dislike to me?"
"I've never been through such a scene before.
You're obviously set on going.
So I'd better ask my mother to send you away."
He was starting out when Xiren barred the way.
"Where are you off to?"
she asked.
'To tell my mother."
"What nonsense!"
She smiled at him coaxingly.
"How can you have the heart to shame her so?
Even if she really wanted to leave, you should wait until she's cooled down and then mention it to the mistress casually.
If you rush over now as if this were something urgent, Her Ladyship's bound to start imagining things."
"Not her.
I'll just tell her that she insists on leaving."
"When did I insist on leaving?"
sobbed Qingwen.
"You fly into a rage, then put words into my mouth.
All right, go and report it.
But I'll dash out my brains sooner than leave this house."
"That's strange!"
he fumed.
"If you won't go, what's all this fuss about?
I can't stand these rows.
Far simpler if you left."
He was so set on telling his mother that Xiren saw no way to stop him.
She fell on her knees to plead.
This was the signal for Bihen, Qiuwen and Sheyue, who had been listening with bated breath outside, to rush in and kneel down beside her.
Baoyu pulled Xiren to her feet, sank with a sigh on to his bed, and sent the other girls out.
"What am I to do?"
he demanded.
"I've worn my heart out, yet nobody cares."
He wept and Xiren shed tears in sympathy.
Qingwen beside them was trying to speak through her sobs when Daiyu's arrival made her slip away.
"What's all this crying during the festival?"
asked Daiyu mockingly.
"Are you fighting for sticky rice dumplings?"
The two of them laughed.
"Since you won't tell me I'll find out from her."
Daiyu patted Xiren's shoulder.
"What's happened, dear sister-in-law?
I suppose you two have been squabbling again.
Tell me what's wrong and I'll act as peacemaker."
"You're joking, miss."
Xiren pushed her away.
"Don't talk such nonsense to us servant-girls."
"You may call yourself a servant-girl, but I regard you as my sister-in-law."
"Why give her another name for people to jeer at?"
protested Baoyu.
"There's enough gossip already without your joining in."
"You don't know how I feel, miss," said Xiren.
"I'll never have any peace until I can die and be done with it!"
"I can't say what others would do if you died."
Daiyu smiled.
"I'd die first of crying."
"I'd become a monk if you died," Baoyu declared.
"Do be quiet," cried Xiren.
"That's no way to talk."
Daiyu held out two fingers with a smile.
"That's twice, so far, you've become a monk.
I must keep track of how many times you do it."
Baoyu knew she was referring to their conversation the other day, and with a smile he let the matter drop.
Soon after that Daiyu left and Baoyu received an invitation from Xue Pan, which he could hardly decline, to a drinking party.
He was unable to leave before the end.
Dusk had fallen by the time he came back, slightly tipsy, and as he lurched into his courtyard he noticed someone lying on a couch there.
Assuming that it was Xiren, he sat down beside her and nudged her.
"Has the pain stopped?"
he asked.
The figure on the couch sat up.
"Why are you back to plague me again?"
she demanded.
It was not Xiren but Qingwen.
He made her sit beside him.
"You're growing more and more spoilt," he teased.
"When you dropped that fan and I just said a couple of words, you launched into such a tirade.
I don't mind your scolding me, but was it right to drag Xiren into -400 it too when she meant so well?"
"It's so hot, keep your hands to yourself," countered Qingwen.
"What would people think if they saw?
I'm not fit to be sitting here with you anyway.
"Then why were you sleeping here?"
he asked with a grin.
She giggled.
"It was all right before you came, but not now that you're here.
Get up and let me have my bath.
I'll call Xiren and Sheyue -- they've already had theirs."
"After all the wine I've drunk I need a bath too.
If you've not had yours, fill the tub and we'll bath together."
Qingwen waved this proposal aside with a laugh.
"Not I.I wouldn't dare.
I remember what happened that time Bihen helped you bath.
Two or three hours it took and we couldn't go in heaven knows what you were up to.
When you'd finished and we had a look, the floor right up to the legs of the bed was all over water -- even the bed mat was sopping.
Goodness knows what sort of bath you had!
It kept us laughing for days.
I haven't the time to mop up after you, and see no need for you to bath with me.
Besides, it's so cool now I don't think you ought to have a bath I'll just get you a basin of water to wash your face and comb your hair.
Yuanyang brought in a lot of fruit not long ago which is being chilled in that crystal bowl.
I'll tell them to bring it for you."
"In that case, you mustn't bath either.
Just wash your hands and bring the fruit."
Qingwen laughed.
"If I'm so careless that I even break fans, how can I fetch fruit?
If I broke a plate too, I'd never hear the end of it."
"You can if you want.
Such things are meant to be used.
You may like one thing, I another.
People's tastes differ.
For instance, fans are meant for fanning but if I choose to break one for fun, what's wrong with that?
But we shouldn't break things to work off a fit of temper.
It's the same with cups or plates which are for serving things in.
If you smash them because you like the sound, all right.
Just don't work off your temper on them.
That's what's called caring for things."
"If that's so, get me a fan to tear up.
I love ripping things apart."
With a smile he handed her his own.
Sure enough, she ripped it in two, then tore it to pieces.
Baoyu chuckled.
"Well done!
Try and make a bigger noise."
Just then along came Sheyue.
"What a wicked waste!"
she cried.
"Stop it."
Baoyu's answer was to snatch her fan from her and give it to Qingwen, who promptly tore it up and joined in his loud laughter.
"What's the idea?"
demanded Sheyue.
"Spoiling my fan -- is that your idea of fun?"
"Just pick another from the fan case," Baoyu told her.
"What's so wonderful about a fan?"
"You'd better bring the case out here then and let her tear the whole lot up."
"You bring it."
Baoyu chuckled.
"I won't do anything of the sort.
She's not broken her wrist, let her fetch it."
"I'm tired."
Qingwen lay back laughing.
"I'll tear up some more tomorrow."
"You know the ancient saying," put in Baoyu.
"'A thousand pieces of gold can hardly purchase a smile.'
And what are a few fans worth?"
He called for Xiren, who came out having just changed into clean clothes and got little Jia Hui to clear away the broken fans.
Then they sat outside for a while enjoying the cool.
At noon the next day Lady Wang and the girls were gathered in the Lady Dowager's room when the arrival of Shi Xiangyun was announced.
She entered the courtyard presently with a troop of maids and nurses, to be greeted by her cousins at the foot of the steps.
As the girls had not seen each other for a month they naturally had a most affectionate reunion, after which Xiangyun went in to pay her respects to the others.
"It's hot," said the Lady Dowager.
"Do take off your outer garments."
As Xiangyun did so Lady Wang remarked, "What a lot you're wearing, child."
"My second aunt made me," she replied.
"I didn't want to put on so much."
"If you only knew, aunt, she loves dressing up in other people's clothes," said Baochai with a smile.
"During her visit here in the third or fourth month last year, she put on Cousin Bao's gown and boots, as well as his chaplet, and stood behind that chair.
At a casual glance she looked so like him -- except for two extra earrings -- that the old lady was quite taken in.
"'Baoyu, come here,' she cried.
'Don't let the dust from the lantern tassels over your head get in your eyes.
"The little wretch just smiled and didn't stir.
Then we all burst out laughing and the old lady had to laugh too.
"'Well, you look even better dressed up as a boy,' she said."
"You don't know the half of it," put in Daiyu.
"The year before last she was fetched in the first month, and she'd only been here a couple of days when it started to snow.
I believe my grandmother and aunt had just come back from bowing to the ancestral portraits, and the old lady's new red woollen cape was lying there.
Cousin Shi put it on without anyone noticing, tying it at the waist with a handkerchief because it was too big and long for her.
Then she went with the maids to the back yard to make a snow-man and fell flat on her face by the drain, covering herself with mud."
At the recollection of this everybody laughed.
"Nanny Zhou," asked Baochai, "does your young lady still get up to pranks like that?"
Xiangyun's nanny only smiled.
"I don't mind her pranks," said Yingchun, "But she chatters too much for me.
Even in her sleep she rattles away, laughing and chattering.
All the nonsense she talks - I don't know where she gets it from!"
"I expect she's better now," remarked Lady Wang.
"The other day a match was proposed for her, and she'll soon be going to live with her mother-in-law.
Then she'll have to change her ways.
"Are you staying here or going back today?"
asked the Lady Dowager.
"Your Ladyship hasn't seen all the clothes we've brought," replied Nanny Zhou with a smile.
"Oh yes, we mean to stay for a couple of days."
"Isn't Cousin Bao at home?"
Xiangyun now asked.
"Cousin Bao's the only one she thinks of."
Baochai laughed.
"It's because they're both fond of pranks.
That shows she hasn't changed her mischievous ways. "
"You're getting too big to go on calling each other by your pet names, said the Lady Dowager.
Just then Baoyu walked in.
"So Cousin Yun's here!"
he exclaimed.
"Why didn't you come last time we sent to invite you?"
"The old lady said you must stop that," Lady Wang told him.
"But there you go using pet names again."
Daiyu told Xiangyun, "He has something nice for you."
"Something nice for me?"
"Don't believe her."
Baoyu laughed.
"How tall you've grown in the short time you've been away.
"And how is Sister Xiren?"
she asked him.
"Very well, thank you."
"I've brought her a little present."
With that she produced a handkerchief tied in a knot.
"What is it?"
he asked.
"Why didn't you bring her a couple of red cornelian rings like those you sent over the other day?"
"What do you think these are?"
Xiangyun unwrapped the handkerchief with a smile, disclosing four more rings of the same sort.
"Look at the girl!"
cried Daiyu.
"Why didn't you give the servant these to bring too, when you sent those rings to us?
Wouldn't that have been simpler?
Now you turn up with more yourself.
I thought it was something different, but it's only the same again.
How silly you are!"
"Silly yourself!"
Xiangyun smiled.
"Let me explain and the rest of you shall judge which of us is silly.
I sent those rings to you by the page you'd dispatched.
The messenger needn't say a word, once you saw the rings you'd know that they were for the young ladies.
Whereas if I'd sent some for the maids as well, I'd have had to tell him which was for which.
If he'd been intelligent, all right but if he'd been stupid he couldn't have remembered the names and would have mixed everything up, including your rings.
A matron who knew the maids would have managed all right, but that day it happened to be a page who couldn't possibly be told the maids' names.
So wasn't it simpler for me to bring them here myself?"
She put the four rings down.
"One for Xiren, one for Yuanyang, one for Jinchuan, one for Pinger," she announced.
"Could a page have remembered the four of them so clearly?"
Everyone laughed.
"Now she's cleared the matter up.
"Still such a talker!"
cried Baoyu.
"She's never at a loss."
"Even if she couldn't talk, her golden unicorn could."
With this thrust Daiyu rose and left the room.
Luckily her remark had been heard only by Baoyu and Baochai.
When the latter smiled Baoyu had to smile too, conscience-stricken as he was.
And seeing him smile, Baochai went off hurriedly to join Daiyu.
"Have some tea and rest," the Lady Dowager urged Xiangyun.
"Then you can go and see your sisters-in-law and stroll with your cousins in the Garden where it's cool."
Xiangyun did as she was told.
After a short rest she wrapped up three of the rings and, accompanied by her nurses and maids, called on Xifeng and chatted for a while with her before going on to visit Li Wan in the Garden.
And after a little conversation there she set off to see Xiren in Happy Red Court.
"You needn't all come with me," She told her nurses and maids.
"Go and see your friends and relatives.
It'll be enough if I have Cuilu."
So the others went off, leaving just the two of them.
"Why isn't the lotus in bloom yet?"
asked Cuilu.
"It isn't time yet."
"Their lotus is like that in our pool -- it has double flowers."
"Theirs isn't as good as ours. "
"Look, they have a pomegranate-tree over there, miss, with four or five branches trained together, one above the other.
That can't have been easy to grow. "
"Plants are like human beings," said Xiangyun.
"When they're filled with vital force they grow well."
"I don't believe it."
Cuilu shook her head.
"If human beings and plants are alike, why haven't I seen a man with one head growing on top of another?"
Xiangyun had to smile at this.
"Can't you ever keep quiet?"
she scolded.
"How can I explain this to you?
All things between heaven and earth are born from the dual principles yin and yang.
So whether good or bad, weird or wonderful, everything that comes into being depends on the favourable or unfavourable influence of these two forces.
This is true of even the rarest, strangest things."
"Do you mean to say everything's been a yin or a yang ever since Creation and the beginning of time?"
"What nonsense you do talk, you stupid thing."
Xiangyun couldn't help laughing.
"How could there be so many yins and yangs?
Yin and yang are one.
Where one ends, the other begins.
It's not that after a yang is exhausted a yin comes into being, or the other way round."
"I find this terribly muddling," complained Cuilu.
"What are yin and yang?
Have they no shape or form, miss?
Do just tell me what they look like.." "They're simply natural forces, but whatever they enter assumes a form.
Heaven is yang and the earth yin, for instance.
Water is yin, fire yang the sun is yang the moon yin."
"I see."
Cuilu's face lit up.
"Now I understand.
No wonder people call the sun the 'great yang' and fortune-tellers call the moon the 'great yin star.'
This explains it."
"Buddha be praised.
So you've caught on at last."
"It's all very well for these big things to have yin and yang, but what about mosquitoes, fleas and midges?
What about flowers and grass, or bricks and tiles?
Do they have yin and yang too?"
"Of course they do.
That leaf, for instance, has its yin and yang.
The side facing the light is yang, the side underneath yin."
"So that's how it is."
Cuilu nodded.
"I see.
But which is yang and which yin in these fans we're holding?"
"The front is yang and the back yin."
After nodding again Cuilu lowered her head to think up some more questions, and her eye fell on the golden unicorn which her young mistress was wearing as a pendant.
"Does this have yin and yang too, miss?"
she asked.
"Of couse it has.
The male of all beasts and birds is yang and the female yin."
"Is it male or female then?"
"Not even I know that."
"Never mind.
If all other things have yin and yang, why don't human beings?"
"Get away, you low creature!"
Xiangyun spat in disgust.
"You're going too far."
"Why don't you tell me, miss?
I know anyway, so don't think you can hide it from me.
"What do you know?"
Xiangyun giggled.
"You're yang, miss, and I'm yin" Xiangyun put her handkerchief to her mouth and burst out laughing.
"I get the point," insisted Cuilu.
"Why should you find it so funny?"
"Quite right, quite right."
"People say that masters are yang and slaves are yin.
Do you think I don't know an important rule like that?"
"You know all about it," replied Xiangyun with a smile.
By now they had reached the rose trellis.
"Look, what's that thing glittering like gold?"
exclaimed Xiangyun.
"Has someone dropped a trinket here?"
Cuilu quickly picked up the object and closed her fingers round it.
"Now we'll see which is yang and which yin," she cried with a laugh.
With that she took Xiangyun's unicorn to examine it.
But asked to show what she had in her hand, she refused to let go of it.
"I can't let you see this treasure, miss," she teased.
"I wonder where it comes from.
How very odd!
I've never seen anyone here with such a thing."
"Let me have a look."
At last Cuilu held out her hand.
"There you are.
Xiangyun saw it was a splendid gold unicorn, even bigger and handsomer than the one she wore.
As she reached out for it and held it on her palm, a strange fancy crossed her mind.
And just at that moment they were joined by Baoyu.
"What are you doing here in the sun?"
he asked.
"Why don't you go and see Xiren?"
"We're on our way there," replied Xiangyun, hiding the unicorn.
"Let's go together."
They went on to Happy Red Court, where Xiren was leaning on the balustrade at the foot of the steps in the breeze.
She made haste to greet Xiangyun and led her inside to sit down, asking what she had been doing since last they met.
"You should have come earlier," remarked Baoyu.
"I've got something nice which I've been keeping for you."
He rummaged in his pockets for a while.
"Aiya!"
Then turning to Xiren he asked, "Did you put that thing away?"
"What thing?"
"That unicorn I got the other day."
"You've been carrying it on you all the time, why ask me?"
"I've lost it."
He clapped his hands.
"Where can I find it?"
He was about to go off in search of it.
Xiangyun guessed that he was referring to her find.
"When did you get hold of a unicorn?"
she asked.
"Only the other day, and I didn't come by it easily either.
I can't think when I lost it.
How stupid of me."
Xiangyun laughed.
"It's lucky it's just a toy, yet see what a state you're in!"
With that she unclenched her fingers.
"Look, is this it?"
Baoyu was overjoyed to see she had it.
If you want to know what happened next, read on.
Chapter 32 An Avowal Leaves Baoyu Bemused Disgrace Drives Jinchuan to Suicide Baoyu was overjoyed to see the gold unicorn.
"Thank you!"
Re reached out for it, laughing.
"Where did you find it?"
"It's lucky it was only this."
Xiangyun smiled.
"Will you let it go at that if you lose your official seal in future?"
"Losing an official seal is nothing."
He grinned.
"But I deserve death for losing this."
Meanwhile Xiren had poured out tea which she offered to Xiangyun.
"Miss Shi, I heard the other day that you're engaged now," she remarked with a smile.
Xiangyun blushed and said nothing, simply sipping her tea.
"So coy!"
cried the maid.
"Remember what you told me one evening some ten years ago when we were staying in the alcove on the west side?
You weren't coy then why be so bashful now?"
"The things you say!"
Xiangyun expostulated.
"How friendly we were then!
But after my mother died and I went home they sent you here to wait on Second Brother, and now when I come you're no longer the same to me.
"Well I never!"
Xiren protested.
"In those days I was 'sister' and 'dear sister' to you when you wanted me to comb your hair, wash your face and dance attendance on you.
Now you've grown up, you've put on the airs of a young lady.
If you stand on your dignity, how dare I take liberties?"
"Amida Buddha!
That's not fair," cried Xiangyun.
"May I drop dead if I ever give myself airs.
Look how hot it is today, yet as soon as I arrive I hurry straight over to see you.
If you don't believe me, ask Cuilu.
At home I'm always saying how much I miss you."
"Can't you take a joke?"
Xiren and Baoyu remonstrated.
"You still flare up so easily."
"You won't admit how provoking you are, yet scold me for flaring up."
As Xiangyun said this she unwrapped her handkerchief from which she took a ring and passed it to Xiren, who was loud in her thanks.
"Actually, I was given one of those you sent your cousins," she remarked.
"And now you've brought me one yourself -- a sure sign that you hadn't forgotten me.
It's not the rings I value, it's the thought that counts."
"Who gave you one?"
asked Xiangyun.
"Miss Baochai."
"I thought it was Miss Lin.
So it was Baochai."
Xiangyun sighed.
"At home every day I often think that of all my cousins Baochai is the best.
What a pity we aren't real sisters!
If we were, it wouldn't be so bad being an orphan."
Her eyes were brimming with tears.
"All right, all right," cried Baoyu.
"No more of this."
"What's wrong?"
demanded Xiangyun.
"I know what's worrying you.
You're afraid your Cousin Lin may hear and be cross with me for singing Baochai's praises -- right?"
"Miss Yun!"
Xiren burst out laughing.
"The older you grow the more outspoken you get."
Baoyu chuckled.
"I always say you girls are hard to talk with.
And this proves it."
"Don't make me sick, dear cousin, speaking like that.
You can keep your end up with us, but what happens when you cross swords with Daiyu?"
"That's enough," interposed Xiren.
"I've a favour to ask you."
"What is it?"
inquired Xiangyun.
"I've started on a pair of slippers but haven't been able to finish them because I've been poorly for the last couple of days.
Have you time to do them for me?"
"Well, well," exclaimed Xiangyun.
"This house is full of clever girls, to say nothing of sewing-women and tailors.
Why pick on me?
How can anyone who's asked possibly refuse?"
"Are you so dense?"
parried Xiren with a smile.
"Don't you know that none of the needlework for our apartments is done by sewing-women?"
Realizing that the shoes were for Baoyu, Xiangyun chuckled.
"In that case I'll do it -- but on one condition.
I'll make slippers for you, not for anybody else."
"There you go again," protested Xiren.
"Who am I to ask you to make slippers for me?
The fact is they're not mine, but don't ask whose they are.
At any rate I'd take it kindly of you."
"Of course, I've done plenty of sewing for you in the past.
But you'll understand why I can't do it this time."
"Indeed, I don 't understand."
Xiangyun laughed sarcastically.
"I heard the fan-sheath I made the other day was taken to compare with someone else's, and in a tantrum that someone cut it to pieces.
I know all about it, so don't try to fool me.
Am I your slave to be given tasks like this?"
Baoyu cut in with a disarming smile, "I didn't know that sheath was your work."
"He honestly didn't know," Xiren assured her.
"I told him that recently there was a girl outside who did wonderful embroidery, and suggested trying her out with a fan-sheath.
He took me at my word, then showed it off right and left.
For some reason it upset Miss Lin again and she snipped it in two.
When he came back to ask for another like it, and I told him you'd made it, he was ever so sorry.
"Stranger and stranger!"
cried Xiangyun.
"Why should Miss Lin be angry?
If she can snip, ask her to make another."
"Out of the question," said Xiren.
"Even as it is, the old lady's afraid of her overtiring herself and the doctor has prescribed her a good rest.
Who'd dream of troubling her with needlework?
Last year it took her a whole year to finish one scented pouch.
And this year I've not yet seen needle or thread in her hands."
As they were talking a servant came to announce "Mr. Jia of Prosperity Street has called.
The master wants the young gentleman to go and see him."
Knowing that it was Jia Yucun, Baoyu was most reluctant to go, but Xiren lost no time in fetching his formal clothes.
As he pulled on his boots he grumbled "Surely it's enough if my father keeps him company.
Why must he see me each time?"
Fanning herself, Xiangyun replied with a smile, "It must be because uncle thinks you're a good host.
Otherwise he wouldn't send for you."
"It's not my father's idea.
It's that fellow who asks for me each single time."
"'When the host is cultured, guests frequent his house,"' quoted Xiangyun.
"He likes seeing you, surely, because he can learn something from you. "
"Don't call me cultured," begged Baoyu.
"I'm the most vulgar of the vulgar herd, and I've no desire at all to mix with such people."
"You haven't changed one bit," sighed Xiangyun.
"But now you're growing up.
Even if you don't want to study and sit for the examinations, you should at least associate with officials and learn something about the world and administration.
That'1l help you to manage your own affairs in future and make some friends.
What other young gentleman spends all his time, the way you do, playing about with us girls?"
"Please go and call on some of your other cousins, young lady," he retorted.
"People with worldly wisdom like yours will be polluted here."
"Don't say such things to him, miss," Xiren interposed.
"Last time Miss Baochai gave him the same advice he just snorted and walked away without any regard for her feelings.
In the middle of what she was saying he marched off.
She flushed crimson and hardly knew whether to go on or not.
Thank goodness it was Miss Baochai and not Miss Lin -- she 'd have made a fearful scene, weeping and sobbing.
But there you are, it's true that nobody can help admiring Miss Baochai.
She just blushed and went away.
I felt very bad, sure she must be offended but later she behaved as if nothing had happened.
She's really good natured and tolerant.
He's the one, believe it or not, who has since kept his distance.
If you sulked and ignored Miss Lin like that," she asked Baoyu, "how many apologies would you have to make her?"
"Has Miss Lin ever talked such disgusting nonsense?"
demanded Baoyu.
"If she had, I'd have stopped having anything to do with her long ago.
Xiren and Xiangyun nodded and laughed.
"So nonsense is the name for it."
Now Daiyu had discovered Xiangyun's whereabouts and knew that Baoyu had hurried back, no doubt to talk about the gold unicorns.
That set her thinking.
In most of the romances Baoyu had recently acquired, a young scholar and beautiful girl came together and fell in love thanks to lovebirds, phoenixes, jade rings, gold pendants, silk handkerchiefs, embroidered girdles or other baubles of the sort.
So Baoyu's possession of a gold unicorn like Xiangyun's might lead to a romance between them.
She slipped over to see what was happening and judge of their feelings for each other, arriving just as Xiangyun was speaking of worldly affairs, and in time to hear Baoyu answer, "Miss Lin never talks such disgusting nonsense.
If she did, I'd have stopped having anything to do with her."
This surprised and delighted Daiyu but also distressed and grieved her.
She was delighted to know she had not misjudged him, for he had now proved just as understanding as she had always thought.
Surprised that he had been so indiscreet as to acknowledge his preference for her openly.
Distressed because their mutual understanding ought to preclude all talk about gold matching jade, or she instead of Baochai should have the gold locket to match his jade amulet.
Grieved because her parents had died, and although his preference was so clear there was no one to propose the match for her.
Besides, she had recently been suffering from dizzy spells which the doctor had warned might end in consumption, as she was so weak and frail.
Dear as she and Baoyu were to each other, she might not have long to live.
And what use was their affinity if she were fated to die?
These thoughts sent tears coursing down her cheeks.
And therefore instead of entering she turned away, wiping her tears.
Baoyu hurried out after changing his clothes to see Daiyu walking slowly ahead, apparently wiping her tears.
He overtook her.
"Where are you going, cousin?"
he asked with a smile.
"What, crying again?
Who's offended you this time?"
Daiyu turned and saw who it was.
"I'm all right."
She gave a wan smile.
"I wasn't crying."
"Don't fib -- your eyes are still wet."
He raised his hand instinctively to wipe away her tears.
At once she recoiled a few steps.
"Are you crazy?
Can't you keep your hands to yourself?"
"I did it without thinking."
Baoyu laughed.
"I was dead to all around me. "
"No one will care when you 're dead, but what about the gold locket and unicorn you'll have to leave behind?"
This remark made Baoyu frantic.
"How can you talk like that!
Are you trying to put me under a curse, or set on annoying me?"
Reminded of what had happened the previous day, Daiyu regretted her thoughtlessness.
"Don't get so excited," she begged.
"Why work yourself up over a slip of the tongue?
The veins on your forehead are all swollen with anger, and what a sweat you're in!"
So saying, she too stepped forward without thinking and reached out her hand to wipe his perspiring face.
Baoyu fixed his eyes on her.
After a while he said gently, "You mustn't worry. "
Daiyu gazed at him in silence.
"Worry?"
she repeated at last.
"I don't understand.
What do you mean?"
"Don't you really understand?"
He sighed.
"Could it be that since I've known you all my feelings for you have been wrong?
If I can't even enter into your feelings, then you're quite right to be angry with me all the time."
"I really don't understand what you mean by telling me not to worry.
"Dear cousin, don't tease."
Baoyu nodded and sighed.
"If you really don't understand, all my devotion's been wasted and even your feeling for me has been thrown away.
You ruin your health by worrying so much.
If you'd take things less to heart, your illness wouldn't be getting worse every day."
These words struck Daiyu like a thunderbolt.
As she turned them over in her mind, they seemed closer to her innermost thoughts than if wrung from her own heart.
There were a thousand things she longed to say, yet she could not utter a word.
She just stared at him in silence.
As Baoyu was in similar case, he too stared at her without a word.
So they stood transfixed for some time.
Then Daiyu gave a choking cough and tears rolled down her cheeks.
She was turning to go when Baoyu caught hold of her.
"Dear cousin, wait.
Just let me say one word."
She dried her tears with one hand, repulsing him with the other.
"What more is there to say?
I understand."
She hurried off without one look behind, while he just stood there like a man in a trance.
Now Baoyu in his haste had forgotten his fan, and as Xiren ran after him with it she caught sight of Daiyu face to face with him.
As soon as Daiyu left, the maid walked up to Baoyu, still standing there as if rooted to the ground.
"You forgot your fan," she said.
"Luckily I noticed it.
And here it is."
Too bemused still to know who was speaking, he seized her hands.
"Dear cousin, I never ventured before to bare my heart to you," he declared.
"Now that I've summoned up courage to speak, I'll die content.
I was making myself ill on account of you, but I dared not tell anyone and hid my feelings.
I shan't recover till you're better too, I can't forget you even in my dreams."
"Merciful Buddha, save me!"
cried Xiren in consternation.
Shaking him she asked, "What sort of talk is this?
Has some evil spirit taken possession of you?
Go quickly!"
When Baoyu came to himself and saw Xiren there, blushing all over his face he snatched the fan and ran off without a word.
As the maid watched him go it dawned on her that his avowal had been meant for Daiyu, in which case it must surely lead to trouble and scandal.
That would be truly fearful.
She wondered how best to avert such a dreadful calamity.
She was still lost in thought when Baochai appeared.
"'Why are you standing here dreaming?"
asked Baochai.
"This sun is scorching."
"Two sparrows were fighting over there," improvised Xiren hastily.
"It was so amusing that I stayed to watch."
"Where has Cousin Bao rushed off to all dressed up?
I saw him passing and thought of stopping him but because nowadays he often -1152 talks so wildly, I decided not to call out."
"The master sent for him."
"Aiya!
On such a sweltering day.
What for?
Could it be that something's made him angry and he's sent for Cousin Bao to lecture him?"
"It's nothing like that," replied Xiren with a laugh.
"I think a guest wants to see him."
"A guest with no sense."
Baochai appeared amused.
"Why gad about in such hot weather instead of staying indoors and keeping cool?"
"Why indeed?"
"And what was Xiangyun doing in your compound?"
"She just dropped in for a chat.
You know that pair of shoes I started the other day?
I've asked her to finish them for me. "
Baochai glanced around to make sure no one was about.
"How could someone with your good sense suddenly be so inconsiderate?"
she asked.
"Piecing together what I've seen and heard recently, I guess Yun's a nobody at home.
To save expense, her people no longer employ sewing-women but make practically everything they need themselves.
That's why, during her last few visits, she's confided to me when nobody was about that she gets quite tired out at home.
And when I asked about their daily life, her eyes filled with tears and she made some evasive answer.
So I gather she's having a hard time of it because she lost her parents so early on.
I can't help feeling sorry for her."
"That's it, that's it."
Xiren clapped her hands.
"No wonder when I asked her last month to make ten butterfly knots, it took her so long to send them.
"'I've stitched them just anyhow,' she told me.
'I hope they'll do.
If you want better ones, wait until I come to stay with you.'
"After what you've said, miss, I realize she couldn't very well refuse but she probably has to work late into the night at home.
How stupid of me!
If I'd known, I wouldn't have asked her."
"Last time she did tell me she has to work till midnight at home, and if she does the least bit of work for other people the ladies of the house don't like it."
"But we have such a stubborn, wayward young master he won't let the sewing-women make any of his things, big or small, and I haven't the time for it all."
"Never mind him.
Just get the other girls to do it, and tell him you did it yourself."
"There's no fooling him.
He'd know at once.
No, I shall just have to slave away myself."
"Wait a bit."
Baochai smiled.
"Suppose I help you?"
"Will you really?
What luck for me."
Xiren beamed.
"I'll bring the shoes over this evening."
While she was speaking an old maid-servant came panting up to them.
"Just imagine!"
she gasped.
"That girl Jinchuan, for no reason at all, has drowned herself in the well."
Xiren gave a start.
"Which Jinchuan?"
"How many Jinchuans are there?
The girl who worked for the mistress, of course.
The other day, we don't know why, she was dismissed.
She wept and sobbed at home but no one took any notice, till they found she'd disappeared.
Just now one of the water-carriers was drawing water from that well in the southeast corner when he discovered a corpse.
He fetched people to get it out, and it was Jinchuan.
Her family's trying frantically to bring her round, but of course it's too late."
"This is rather odd!"
exclaimed Baochai.
Xiren nodded and sighed, and the thought of her friendship with Jinchuan made tears run down her cheeks.
She went back to Happy Red Court while Baochai hurried off to condole with Lady Wang.
All was strangely quiet in Lady Wang's apartments, where she sat in the inner chamber shedding tears all by herself.
Not wanting to mention the maid's suicide, Baochai sat by her aunt in silence until asked where she had come from.
"From the Garden," was her reply.
"Did you see your Cousin Bao?"
"Yes, I saw him just now going out in formal clothes, but I don't know where he's gone.
Lady Wang nodded tearfully.
"Did you hear this extraordinary business about Jinchuan suddenly drowning herself in the well?"
-400 "Why should she do a thing like that for no reason?
It's very strange."
"The other day she broke something of mine, and in a fit of anger I struck her and sent her away.
I was meaning to punish her for a couple of days and then to have her fetched back.
I'd no idea she'd fly into such a passion she'd jump into the well.
This is all my fault."
"You feel that way, auntie, because you're so kind-hearted.
But I can't believe she drowned herself in a tantrum.
She was playing by the well, more likely, and fell in.
After being rather confined in your rooms she'd want to play around once she left, stands to reason.
How could she work herself into such a passion?
If she did, that was very foolish.
She doesn't deserve any pity."
Lady Wang nodded.
"But even if you're right," she sighed, "I still feel bad about it."
"Don't take it so much to heart, auntie.
If you feel bad about it, just give them a few extra taels of silver for her burial and you'll be doing all a kind mistress could."
"Just now I gave her mother fifty taels.
I wanted to give them two sets of your cousins' new clothes to lay her out in as well but according to Xifeng the only ones ready are two new sets for your Cousin Lin's birthday.
She's such a sensitive child, so delicate too, that wouldn't she think it unlucky to have the clothes made for her birthday made over to a dead girl?
So I've told the tailors to make two new sets as fast as they can.
If it had been any other maid, I'd have felt a few taels of silver would be enough but Jinchuan was with me for some time and was just like a daughter to me."
As she was speaking she could not help shedding more tears.
"There's no need to hurry the tailors, "said Baochai.
"The other day I had two sets made.
I can easily fetch them for her.
That would save lots of trouble.
When she was alive she wore my old clothes and they were a perfect fit."
"But aren't you afraid it may bring bad luck?"
Baochai smiled.
"Don't worry, auntie.
I'm not superstitious."
She rose to go, and Lady Wang sent two maids along with her.
When Baochai returned with the clothes a little later she found Baoyu sitting in tears beside his mother.
Lady Wang had been scolding him, but at Baochai's entrance she stopped.
The girl was shrewd enough to guess pretty well what had happened.
She handed over the clothes to Lady Wang who sent for Jinchuan's mother and gave them to her.
What happened next is related in the following chapter.
Chapter 33 A Jealous Younger Brother Tells Tales A Worthless Son Receives a Fearful Flogging Lady Wang, having summoned Jinchuan's mother and given her some trinkets, issued orders then and there for monks to be called in to say masses for the dead girl.
Then the mother kowtowed her thanks and left the house.
Now Baoyu, on his return from seeing Yucun, had been cut to the heart by the news that her disgrace had driven Jinchuan to suicide.
He had nothing to say in reply to his mother's scolding, but Baochai's arrival gave him a chance to slip out.
He wandered aimlessly along, his hands behind his back, hanging his head and sighing, until he found himself by the front hall.
He was skirting the door-screen when as ill luck would have it he bumped full tilt into someone who shouted to him to stop.
Baoyu started and, looking up, saw to his dismay that it was no other than his father.
He had to stand aside respectfully, gasping with fright.
"Why are you moping like this?"
demanded Jia Zheng.
"It took you a long time to come out when Yucun asked for you and when you did come, you had nothing spirited or cheerful to say but looked quite down in the mouth, the picture of gloom.
And now you're sighing again.
What have you to moan about?
Is anything wrong?
Why are you carrying on in this way?"
Baoyu normally had a ready tongue, but now he was so distressed by Jinchuan's death that he wished he could follow her straight to the other world.
He heard not a word his father said but just stood there in a daze.
His stupefied silence -- so unlike Baoyu -- exasperated Jia Zheng, who had not to begin with been angry.
Before he could say more, however, an officer from the household of Prince Zhongshun was announced.
Somewhat taken aback Jia Zheng wondered what this meant, for in general they had no dealings with this prince.
He ordered the man to be shown in at once and, hurrying to meet him, found that it was the chief steward of the prince's household.
He hastily offered him a seat in the reception hall and tea was served.
The chief steward did not beat about the bush.
"Excuse the presumption of this intrusion," he said.
"I come at the order of the prince to request a favour.
If you, my lord, will grant it, His Highness will remember your kindness and I shall be infinitely indebted to you.
More mystified than ever, Jia Zheng rose to his feet with a smile.
"What instructions have you for me, sir, from the prince?"
he asked.
"I beg to be enlightened so that I may do my best to carry them out."
The chief steward gave a faint smile.
"There is no need for you, my lord, to do more than say one word," he answered.
"There is in our palace an actor by the name of Qiguan, who plays female roles.
He had never previously given any trouble, but several days ago he disappeared.
After searching the city for him without success, we instituted careful inquiries.
We are told by eight out of every ten persons questioned that he has recently been on the closest terms with your esteemed son who was born with jade in his mouth.
Of course, we could not seize him from your honourable mansion as if it were an ordinary household.
So we reported the matter to His Highness, who says he would rather lose a hundred other actors than Qiguan, for this clever well-behaved lad is such a favourite with our master's father that he cannot do without him.
I beg you, therefore, to ask your noble son to send Qiguan back, in compliance with the prince's earnest request and to save me from wearing myself out in a fruitless search."
He concluded this speech with a bow.
Alarmed and scandalized, Jia Zheng summoned Baoyu, who hurried in without knowing why he was wanted.
"You scoundrel!"
thundered his father.
"Not content with shirking your studies at home, you commit such wicked crimes outside!
Qiguan is in the service of Prince Zhongshun how dare a wretch like you lure him away and bring calamity on me?"
Baoyu on hearing this was consternated.
"I know nothing about it," he cried.
"I've never even heard the name Qiguan, let alone lured him away.
He burst into tears.
Before Jia Zheng could speak again the chief steward said with a sardonic smile "It is useless to keep it a secret, sir.
Tell us whether he is hiding here or where else he has gone.
A prompt avowal will save us trouble and win you our gratitude."
Still Baoyu denied any knowledge of the matter.
"You may have been misinformed, I'm afraid," he muttered.
The steward gave a scornful laugh.
"Why deny it when we have proof?
What good can it do you to force me to speak out before your noble father?
If you never heard of this actor, how is it that you wear his red sash round your waist?"
Baoyu was thunderstruck and stood aghast.
"How did they find out?"
he wondered.
"If they've even found out such secrets, it's not much use trying to keep the rest from them.
Better send him off before he does any more blabbing."
So he said, "If you know so much, sir, how is it you are ignorant of something as important as his purchase of property?
I am told that twenty li to the east of the city, in a place called Sandalwood Castle, he has bought a house and a few mu of land.
I should think he might possibly be there."
The chief steward's face brightened.
"He must be there if you say so.
I shall go and investigate.
If we find him, well and good.
If not, we shall come back for further enlightenment."
He took a hasty leave.
Jia Zheng's eyes were nearly bursting from his head with rage.
As he followed the chief steward out, he turned to order Baoyu "Stay where you are.
I shall deal with you presently."
He escorted the steward all the way to the gate, and was just starting back when he saw Jia Huan racing past with a few pages.
In his fury he ordered his own pages to beat them.
The sight of his father paralysed Huan with fright.
He pulled up short, hanging his head.
"What are you rushing about for?"
demanded Jia Zheng.
"Where are all the people supposed to look after you?
Have they gone off to amuse themselves while you run wild?"
As he shouted for the servants who accompanied Huan to school, the boy saw a chance to divert his father's anger.
"I wasn't running to begin with," he said.
"Not until I passed the well where that maid drowned herself.
Her head's swollen up like this, and her body's all bloated from soaking in the water.
It was such a horrible sight that I ran away as fast as ever I could."
Jia Zheng was astounded.
"What maid here had any reason to throw herself into a well?"
he wondered.
"Such a thing has never happened before in this house.
Since the time of our ancestors we have always treated our subordinates well.
Of late, though, I've neglected household affairs and those in charge must have abused their power, resulting in this calamitous suicide.
If word of this gets out, it will disgrace our ancestors' good name."
-1152 He called for Jia Lian, Lai Da and Lai Xing.
Some pages were going to fetch them when Huan stepped forward and caught hold of his father's gown, then fell on his knees.
"Don't be angry, sir!"
he begged.
"No one knows about this except those in my lady's apartment.
I heard my mother say ."
He stopped and looked around, and Jia Zheng understood.
At a glance from him the servants on both sides withdrew.
"My mother told me," Huan went on in a whisper, "that the other day Brother Baoyu grabbed hold of Jinchuan in my lady's room and tried to rape her.
When she wouldn't let him, he beat her.
That's why she drowned herself in a fit of passion."
Before he had finished Jia Zheng was livid with fury.
"Fetch Baoyu!
Quick!"
he roared.
He strode to his study fuming, "If anybody tries to stop me this time, I'll make over to him my official insignia and property and let him serve Baoyu!
How can I escape blame?
I'll shave off these few remaining hairs and retire to a monastery, there to atone for disgracing my ancestors by begetting such a monster."
His secretaries and attendants bit their lips or fingers in dismay and hastily withdrew as they heard him raging at Baoyu again.
Then Jia Zheng, panting hard, his cheeks wet with tears, sat stiffly erect in his chair.
"Bring Baoyu in!"
he bellowed.
"Fetch the heavy rod!
Tie him up!
Close all the doors.
Anyone who sends word to the inner apartments will be killed on the spot."
The servants had to obey.
Some pages went to fetch Baoyu.
Baoyu knew he was in for trouble when ordered by his father to wait, but he had no idea of the tale Huan had since told.
He paced helplessly up and down the hall, wishing someone would carry the news to the inner apartments but it so happened that nobody was about - even Beiming had disappeared.
As he was looking round anxiously, an old nanny finally appeared.
He seized on her as if she were a treasure.
"Go in quick!"
he cried.
"Tell them the master's going to beat me.
Do hurry!
This is urgent!"
He was too terrified to speak distinctly and the old woman, being hard of hearing, mistook the word "urgent" for "drowning."
"She chose drowning herself," she told him soothingly.
"What does it matter to you?"
Her deafness made Baoyu frantic.
"Go and get my page to come," he begged.
"It's over now.
Over and done with.
And the mistress has given them clothes and silver too.
Don't fret."
Baoyu was stamping his foot in desperation when his father's servants arrived and he had perforce to go with them.
Jia Zheng's eyes blazed at the sight of him.
He did not even ask his son what he meant by playing about outside and exchanging gifts with actors, or by neglecting his studies at home and attempting to rape his mother's maid.
"Gag him!"
he roared.
"Beat him to death!"
The attendants dared not disobey.
They thrust Baoyu down on a bench and gave him a dozen strokes with the heavy rod.
His father, thinking these strokes too light, kicked aside the man with the rod and snatched it up himself.
With clenched teeth he rained down dozens of vicious blows until his secretaries, foreseeing serious consequences, stepped forward to intervene.
But Jia Zheng refused to listen.
"Ask him if such conduct as his can be pardoned," he cried.
"You're the ones who've been spoiling him.
When it comes to this do you still intercede for him?
Will you still persist when he commits regicide or parricide?"
Realizing from this tirade that their master was quite beside himself with rage, they hurried away, feeling constrained to send word to the inner apartments.
Lady Wang dared not tell her mother-in-law at once.
Having dressed in haste she ran towards the study, regardless of who was about, while men-servants and secretaries fled out of her way in confusion.
His wife's arrival roused Jia Zheng to still greater fury and he belaboured his son yet more mercilessly.
The two servants holding Baoyu instantly withdrew, but the boy was already incapable of moving.
Before his father could beat him any further, Lady Wang seized the rod with both hands.
"This is the end!"
roared Jia Zheng.
"You're determined to be the death of me today."
"I know Baoyu deserves a beating," sobbed Lady Wang.
"But you mustn't wear yourself out, sir.
It's a sweltering day and the old lady isn't well.
Killing Baoyu is a small matter, but should anything happen to the old lady that would be serious."
"Spare me this talk."
Jia Zheng gave a scornful laugh.
"I've already proved an unfilial son by begetting this degenerate.
When I discipline him all of you protect him.
I'd better strangle him now to avoid further trouble."
With that he called for a rope.
Lady Wang hastily threw her arms around him.
"You're right to chastise your son, sir, but have pity on your wife!"
she cried.
"I'm getting on for fifty and this wretch is my only son.
If you insist on making an example of him, how dare I dissuade you?
But if you kill him today, it means you want me to die too.
If strangle him you must, take this rope and strangle me first, then strangle him.
Mother and son, we won't dare hold it against you, and at least I shall have some support in the nether world."
She threw herself down on Baoyu and gave way to a storm of weeping.
Jia Zheng heaved a long sigh and sat down, his tears falling like rain.
Lady Wang, clasping Baoyu in her arms, saw that his face was white, his breathing weak, and his green linen underclothes were soaked with blood.
When she undid them she cried out in distress at the sight of his buttocks and legs beaten black and blue , with every inch bruised or bleeding.
"Ah, my poor child!"
she wailed.
As she wept for her "poor child" she remembered her first son and called Jia Zhu's name.
"If you were still living," she sobbed, "I shouldn't care if a hundred others died."
Lady Wang's departure had roused the inner apartments, and she had been joined by Li Wan and Xifeng as well as Yingchun and Tanchun.
Jia Zhu's name did not affect the others so much, but it reduced his widow to sobs.
And the chorus of lamentation made Jia Zheng weep more bitterly himself.
In the middle of this commotion a maid suddenly announced, "The old lady is coming!"
And they heard her quavering voice outside the window, "Kill me first and then kill him.
That will be a clean sweep.
Jia Zheng rose in dismay and distress to greet his mother, who entered on a maid's arm, gasping for breath.
At once he stepped forward to bow respectfully.
"Why should you vex yourself, mother, and come over on such a hot day?
If you have any instructions, just send for your son."
The Lady Dowager halted to catch her breath.
"Were you addressing me?"
she demanded sternly.
"Yes, I have some instructions.
The pity is I've borne no filial son to whom I can speak."
Appalled by this rebuke, Jia Zheng fell on his knees, tears in his eyes.
"If your son disciplines his son, it is for the honour of our ancestors," he pleaded.
"How can I bear your reproaches?"
The Lady Dowager spat in disgust.
"So you can't bear one word from me, eh?
Then how does Baoyu bear your lethal rod?
You talk of disciplining your son for the honour of your ancestors, but how did your father discipline you in the past?"
Her eyes filled with tears.
"Don't grieve, mother," he begged.
"I was wrong to lose my temper.
I shall never beat him again."
-1152 The old lady snorted.
"You needn't try to work off your rage on me.
It's not for me to stop you beating your son.
I suppose you're tired of us all, and we'd better leave now to save trouble all round."
She ordered the servants to prepare sedan-chairs and horses, telling them, "Your mistress and Baoyu are going back to Nanjing with me this instant."
The attendants had to make a show of complying with her orders.
Then the Lady Dowager turned to her daughter-in-law.
"Don't cry," she urged Lady Wang.
"Baoyu's still a child now and you love him but when he grows up and becomes a high official he may not have any consideration for his mother either.
Better not be too fond of him now if you want to avoid heartache later."
When Jia Zheng heard this he knocked his head on the floor.
"What place is there for me on earth, mother," he wailed, "if you reproach me like this?"
The Lady Dowager smiled sarcastically.
"You're making it clear that there's no place for me, and yet you start complaining.
We are simply going away to save you trouble and leave you free to beat anyone you please."
She ordered attendants to pack up at once and make ready for the journey, while Jia Zheng kowtowed and earnestly begged her forgiveness.
But while storming at her son the old lady was worried about her grandson, and now she hurried over to look at the boy.
She was further pained and enraged by the severity of his flogging today.
Clasping him to her she wept bitterly.
Lady Wang and Xifeng were hard put to it to soothe her.
Then some of the maids who had assembled there took Baoyu's arms, meaning to help him out.
"Stupid creatures!"
scolded Xifeng.
"Have you no eyes?
He's in no state to walk.
Go and fetch that wicker couch."
They hastily did as they were told.
Baoyu was laid on the couch and carried to the old lady's room accompanied by his grandmother and mother.
As the Lady Dowager was still incensed Jia Zheng dared not withdraw but followed them, aware from a glance at Baoyu that this time he had flogged him too severely.
He turned to his wife, who was now lamenting even more bitterly.
"My child, my darling!"
she wailed.
"Why didn't you die as a baby in Zhu's place?
Then your father wouldn't be so angry, and all my trouble wouldn't have been in vain.
If anything happens to you now I shall be left all alone, with no one to depend on in my old age!"
These lamentations interspersed with reproaches against her "worthless son" dismayed Jia Zheng and made him repent that he had beaten Baoyu so mercilessly.
But when he tried to mollify his mother she rounded on him with tears in her eyes.
"Why don't you leave us?
What are you hanging around for?
Won't you be satisfied until you've made sure that he dies?"
Then Jia Zheng was forced to withdraw.
By now Aunt Xue, Baochai, Xiangling, Xiren and Xiangyun had gathered there too.
Xiren was simmering with indignation which she could not express outright.
And since Baoyu was surrounded by people, some giving him water to drink, some fanning him, there seemed nothing for her to do.
She therefore slipped out and went to the inner gate, where she told some pages to go and fetch Beiming.
"There was no sign of trouble earlier on.
How did this start?"
she asked him.
"And why didn't you come to report it earlier?"
"It just happened that I wasn't there," explained Beiming frantically.
"I only heard about it half-way through the beating.
At once I asked people how the trouble had started.
It was over the business of Qiguan and Sister Jinchuan."
"How did the master come to hear about it?"
"In the case of Qiguan, it looks as if Master Xue Pan was behind it.
Having no other way to vent his jealous spite, he got somebody from outside to come and tell His Lordship - then the fat was in the fire.
As for Jinchuan, it was young Master Huan who blabbed.
Or so His Lordship's men told me."
Both stories seemed likely and Xiren was convinced.
She went back to find everyone ministering to Baoyu.
When there was no more to be done for him, the Lady Dowager ordered them to carry him carefully back to his own room.
All lent a hand to convey him to Happy Red Court, where they laid him on his own bed.
And after some further bustle the others gradually dispersed, leaving Xiren able at last to wait on him hand and foot.
The next chapter tells how Baoyu answered her questions.
Chapter 34 Moved by Affection, Baoyu Moves His Cousin A Wrong Report Makes Baochai Wrong Her Brother As soon as the others had left, Xiren sat down by Baoyu's side and with tears in her eyes asked the reason for this fearful beating.
"Oh, nothing special.
What's the use of asking?"
Baoyu sighed.
"The lower part of my body hurts terribly.
Do see how serious the damage is."
Xiren gently set about removing his underwear, but the least movement made him grit his teeth and groan so much that she stopped.
Only after three or four attempts did she succeed in undressing him.
Then she clenched her teeth at the sight of his thighs, all black and purple with weals four fingers wide.
"Heavens!
How could he be so cruel?"
she exclaimed.
"But, you know, this would never have happened if you'd paid the least attention to my advice.
Well, it's lucky no bones are broken.
What if you'd been maimed for life?"
Just then Baochai was announced.
As there was no time to clothe Baoyu again, Xiren threw a lined gauze coverlet over him as Baochai walked in, a pill in one hand.
"Dissolve this drug in wine this evening and apply it as a salve," she told Xiren.
"That will draw the heat and poison from the bruise and help to cure him."
Having handed her the pill, she asked, "Is he any better?"
Baoyu gratefully assured her that he was and asked her to take a seat.
Seeing he was now able to open his eyes and talk, Baochai nodded in relief.
"If you'd listened to our advice, this wouldn't have happened," she sighed.
"Now you've not only upset the old lady and your mother when the rest of us see you like this, our hearts ache too.... " She broke off abruptly, regretting her indiscretion, and hung her head with a blush.
She had spoken with such intimate, tender concern, although attempting to hide her deep emotion, and she looked so indescribably charming in her bashful confusion as she hid her blushing face and fingered her sash, that Baoyu completely forgot his pain in his elation.
"I just get given a few strokes," he thought, "and they show such sweet distress and sympathy.
How good and kind they are!
How admirable!
If I were to meet with some accident and die, they'd surely be quite overcome with grief.
But it would be worth dying, even with nothing to show for my life, provided I'd won their hearts.
Indeed, it would be silly if I wasn't a happy and contented ghost."
His thoughts were interrupted by a question Baochai put to Xiren "What's the reason for this sudden row and beating?"
Xiren passed on what Beiming had said, and this was Baoyu's first inkling of Jia Huan's tale-telling.
But when Xue Pan's name came up he was afraid Baochai would be upset.
"Cousin Xue would never do such a thing!"
he interposed quickly.
"Stop making such wild guesses. "
Baochai understood why he had silenced Xiren.
"How tactful and cautious you are in spite of your pain after such a dreadful beating," she thought.
"If you can be so considerate of our feelings, why not pay equal attention to important matters outside?
For then your father would be pleased, and you wouldn't get into hot water like this.
You cut Xiren short for fear of hurting me, but do you suppose I don't know my brother's wild, lawless ways?
If such a rumpus was raised that time because of Qin Zhong, much worse things are possible now."
After these reflections she turned to Xiren with a smile.
"Why pin the blame on this person or that?"
she said.
"I think the master was angry because Cousin Bao doesn't behave well and keeps bad company.
Even if my brother did let fall some careless remark about Cousin Bao, he can't have meant to make trouble.
For after all, in the first place, it was the truth in the second, he's the type who can't be bothered to gossip.
You're used to Cousin Bao who's so considerate.
You haven't met my brother, who fears neither Heaven nor Earth and blurts out whatever happens to be in his mind."
Baoyu's interruption when she spoke of Xue Pan had made Xiren realize that her tactlessness must have embarrassed Baochai, whose last remarks abashed her even more.
As for Baoyu, he could see that while saying what was right and proper Baochai was also trying to put him at his ease.
He felt even more touched.
But before he could speak again she rose to leave.
"I'll come back tomorrow to see how you are," she assured him.
"Have a good rest.
I've given Xiren something to make you a salve tonight, and that should help."
With that she left, and Xiren escorted her out of the courtyard.
"Thank you, miss, for taking so much trouble," she said.
"When Master Bao's better he'll come himself to thank you."
Baochai turned and smiled.
"There's nothing to thank me for.
Just persuade him to rest properly and not let his imagination run away with him.
We don't want the old lady and the mistress and everyone disturbed.
For if word of it reached the master's ears, even if he did nothing for the time being, there'd be trouble later on."
So saying, she went off.
With a warm sense of gratitude to her, Xiren returned to Baoyu.
Finding him in a dreamy, drowsy state, she went to the other room to tidy herself.
Although Baoyu lay as still as he could, his buttocks were smarting as if scorched by fire, pricked by needles, or cut by knives.
The slightest movement wrung a groan from him.
Dusk was falling, Xiren had gone, and he dismissed the other maids saying that he would call if he wanted anything.
Dozing off, he dreamed that Qiguan had come to tell of his capture by prince Zhongshun's steward after which Jinchuan appeared, in tears, to explain why she had thrown herself into the well.
Half sleeping and half waking, he paid only scant attention.
But then he felt himself shaken and caught the faint sound of sobbing.
He opened his eyes with a start to see Daiyu.
Suspecting at first that this was another dream, he propped himself up to look at her more closely.
Her eyes were swollen, her face was bathed in tears it was Daiyu beyond a doubt.
He would have gazed at her longer, but the pain in his legs was so unbearable that he fell back with a groan.
"You shouldn't have come," he said.
"Though the sun's set, the ground is still hot.
Walking here and back may make you unwell again.
I'm not in any pain after my beating, just putting on an act to fool them so that word of it will get out to my father.
I'm shamming actually.
Don't you worry about me. "
Daiyu was not crying aloud.
She swallowed her tears in silence till she felt as if she would choke.
She had a thousand replies to make to Baoyu, but not one word could she utter.
At long last she sobbed "Never do such things again."
"Don't you worry," replied Baoyu with a long sigh.
"Please don't talk this way.
I would die happily for people like them, and I'm still alive."
At this point some maids in the courtyard announced Xifeng's arrival.
Daiyu at once stood up.
"I'll go out the back way and drop in again later," she said.
Baoyu caught her hand protesting, "That's a strange thing to do.
Why should you be afraid of her?"
Daiyu stamped one foot in desperation.
"Look at my eyes," she whispered.
"She'd make fun of me if she saw. "
At once he released her and she slipped past his bed and out through the back court just as Xifeng came in from the front.
"Are you better?"
she asked Baoyu.
"If you fancy anything to eat, send someone to my place for it."
Aunt Xue called next.
And then the Lady Dowager sent maids to inquire after the invalid.
When it was time to light the lamps, Baoyu swallowed two mouthfuls of soup and soon dozed off.
Then came some of the older maid-servants, the wives of Zhou Rui, Wu Xindeng and Zheng Haoshi, who were in the habit of calling and had dropped in after hearing of today's trouble.
Xiren hurried out to greet them with a smile.
"You're a second too late, aunties," she whispered, "Master Bao has just gone to sleep."
She offered them tea in the outer room and after sitting quietly for a while they left, having asked her to let Baoyu know that they had called.
As Xiren was coming back from seeing them off, one of Lady Wang's women accosted her with the message that her mistress wanted to see one of Master Bao's maids.
Xiren came to a quick decision.
Turning softly she told Qingwen, Sheyue, Tanyun and Qiuwen "The mistress has sent for one of us.
You see to things here.
I'll be back presently."
She went with the other woman out of the Garden to Lady Wang's apartments, where she found her fanning herself with a palm-leaf fan on the couch.
"Why didn't you send one of the others?"
asked Baoyu's mother.
"Who'll look after him in your absence?"
"Master Bao's sound asleep now, and the other girls know how to look after him," Xiren answered confidently.
"Please don't worry, madam.
I thought perhaps you had some instructions which one of the others might not understand, and that might hold things up."
"I've no special instructions.
I just wanted to know how he is now."
"Miss Baochai brought us a salve, and after I applied it he seemed better.
At first the pain kept him awake, but now he's sleeping soundly.
It shows he's on the mend."
"Did he eat anything?"
"Only two mouthfuls of the soup the old lady sent.
He complained he was parched and asked for some sour plum juice.
But I thought to myself Sour things are astringent, and when he was beaten and couldn't cry out some choleric humours must have rushed to his viscera plum juice might affect them, bringing on a serious illness, and that would never do.
Finally I talked him out of it and gave him some candied rose petals instead.
He only ate half a bowl, though, then found it cloying and insipid."
"Why didn't you send and let me know before?"
cried Lady Wang.
"The other day I was sent a couple of bottles of scented flower juice and meant to give them to him, but thought he might waste them.
If he finds rose petals cloying, take him these.
One tea-spoon in a bowl of water is delicious."
She told Caiyun, "Fetch those bottles of juice which were brought the other day."
"Two bottles will be plenty," Xiren assured her, "More would be wasted.
We can always come and ask for more when it's finished."
Caiyun went off on this errand, returning presently with two bottles which she handed to Xiren.
They were tiny glass bottles barely three inches high, with silver caps which screwed on, and yellow labels.
On one was written "Pure Osmanthus Juice," on the other "Pure Rose Juice."
"What luxury objects!"
Xiren laughed.
"Such small bottles can't hold much."
"They're for the Imperial use," explained Lady Wang.
"Don't you see the yellow label?
Mind you keep them carefully for him.
Don't waste any of the juice."
Xiren assented and was about to leave when Lady Wang told her to wait.
"There's something else I want to ask you," she said.
Having made sure that no one else was about she continued, "There's talk that the master beat Baoyu because of some tale Huan told.
Did you hear that?
If you did, just tell me what it was.
I won't make a rumpus about it.
No one will know that it was you who told me."
"No, I didn't hear that," replied Xiren.
"I heard it was because Master Bao kept an actor from some prince's mansion, and they came to ask His Lordship to send him back."
Lady Wang shook her head.
"That was one reason, but there was another too. "
"If there's anything else I really don't know it," rejoined Xiren.
She added, "May I make so bold, now that I'm here, to suggest something, madam 9 She broke off at this point.
"Go on.
With a sly smile she went on, "I hope Your Ladyship won't think it presumptuous."
"Of course not.
What is it?"
"Actually, Master Bao does need to be taught a lesson.
If His Lordship doesn't discipline him, there's no knowing what may happen in future."
On hearing this, Lady Wang clapped her hands together, exclaiming "Gracious Buddha!"
Then although so eager to hear more, she confided, "Dear child, I'm glad you are so understanding -- that's exactly how I fed.
Of course I know the importance of discipline.
I haven't forgotten how strict I was with Master Zhu.
But there's a reason for my indulgence now.
I'm getting on for fifty, and I've only the one son left besides, he's rather delicate and the old lady dotes on him.
If I were too strict so that something happened to him, or if the old lady were upset, the whole household would be turned upside down and that would be even worse.
That's why he's been spoiled.
I'm always scolding him, pleading with him, getting angry with him or crying over him, but after a short improvement back he slips.
He'll never mend his ways unless he's made to smart.
Yet if he's badly injured, I'll have no one to depend on in the future."
With this she burst into tears.
And Xiren, seeing her distress, wept in sympathy.
"He's your son, madam, of course you take this to heart.
Even those of us who wait on him would be happy if everyone could keep out of trouble.
If things go on like this we'll have no peace either.
Not a day goes by but I reason with Master Bao, yet it has no effect.
It's not his fault if people of that sort make up to him, and he loses patience when we reason with him.
Since you've brought this up, madam, I'd like to ask your advice about something that's been worrying me for a long time.
I've never raised it before for fear you might misunderstand.
In that case, not only would I be wasting my breath but taking an outrageous liberty."
Lady Wang realized there was something behind this.
"Just say what's on your mind, my child," she urged.
"I've heard nothing but good of you recently from everyone.
I assumed it was just because you looked after Baoyu well and were pleasant to everybody.
Such thoughtfulness in little things is good.
That's why I treated you like one of the old nurses.
Now I see you have principles too and your views coincide with mine.
Just say whatever's on your mind, but don't let it go any further."
"It's nothing else, only that I was hoping Your Ladyship might arrange for Master Bao to move out of the Garden."
Lady Wang was shocked.
She caught hold of Xiren's hand.
"Has Baoyu been up to anything improper?"
"No, no, madam.
Don't misunderstand me.
Nothing of that sort.
But in my humble opinion, now that he and the young ladies are no longer children and, what's more, Miss Lin and Miss Bao aren't members of the family, cousins of different sexes should live apart.
When they spend all their time together every day, it's not convenient for them and we can't help worrying.
Besides, it doesn't look good to people outside.
As the proverb has it Best be prepared for the worst.
A lot of foolishness is quite innocent, but suspicious people always think the worst.
Better make sure in advance that there's no trouble.
"You know, madam, what Master Bao is like and how he enjoys amusing himself with us girls.
If no precautions are taken and he does something the least bit foolish -- no matter whether it's true or not -- there's bound to be talk.
Lowclass people will gossip.
When they're well disposed, they laud you to the skies when they're not, they talk as if you were worse than a beast.
If people speak well of him, that's as it should be.
If a single slighting remark is passed, not only shall we deserve a thousand deaths - that's not important - but his reputation will be ruined for life and how will you answer for it to His Lordship?
Another proverb says A gentleman should show providence.
Better guard against this now.
You're naturally too busy, madam, to think of these things, and they might not occur to us either.
But if they do and we fail to mention it, that would be very remiss.
Lately this has been preying on my mind day and night, but I couldn't mention it to anyone else.
Only my lamp at night knew how I worried!"
Lady Wang felt thunderstruck on hearing this, borne out as it was by the case of Jinchuan.
The more she thought, the more grateful she felt to Xiren.
"What a wise child you are to see so far!"
she exclaimed.
"Of course I've given some thought to this myself, but lately I've had too much else on my mind.
Now you've reminded me.
I'm glad you're so concerned for our reputation.
I really had no idea what a good girl you are!
All right, you may go now.
Leave everything to me.
But I tell you this after what you've said today, I mean to entrust Baoyu to you.
You must look after him and keep him safe.
That way, you'll be safeguarding me as well, and I shan't forget our obligation to you. "
-1152 Xiren hastily assented and withdrew.
Back in Happy Red Court, she found Baoyu had just woken up.
When she told him about the juice he was delighted.
He asked to taste some and pronounced it delicious.
Because Baoyu had Daiyu on his mind he was eager to send someone over to her, but for fear of Xiren he had to resort to a trick.
He dispatched Xiren to Baochai to borrow some books, and as soon as she had left called for Qingwen.
"Go and see what Miss Lin is doing," he said.
"If she asks after me, tell her I'm better."
"I can't just go there without any excuse.
Is there no message that you want to send?"
"Not that I can think of."
"Give me something to take then, or ask to borrow something.
Other-wise what am I going to say when I see her?"
After a little thought Baoyu picked up two handkerchiefs and tossed them to her.
"All right, tell her I sent you to give her these."
"This is even odder!"
cried Qingwen.
"What would she want two old handkerchiefs for?
She'll flare up again and say you're teasing her."
"Don't worry.
She'll understand."
So Qingwen took his gift to Bamboo Lodge, where she found Chunxian hanging some handkerchiefs to dry on the balustrade.
-400 Chunxian held up a warning finger "She's gone to bed.
-1152 Qingwen slipped into the dark room where the lamps were not yet lit.
Daiyu, lying on the bed, asked who it was.
"It's me, Qingwen."
"What do you want?"
-400 "Master Bao has sent you some handkerchiefs, miss."
Why should he send me handkerchiefs?
Daiyu wondered.
"Who gave these to him?"
she asked.
"I suppose they're specially fine ones.
Tell him to keep them for someone else, I don't need them for the time being."
-1152 "They're not new," replied Qingwen giggling.
"He's often used them."
Daiyu was even more mystified at this, but some careful thought cleared up the riddle for her.
"Leave them then," she said quickly, "You may go.
So Qingwen put down the handkerchiefs and left, puzzling her head all the way back over this gift.
Meanwhile Daiyu, touched by the meaning of this gift, was lost in reverie.
Pleased as she was by Baoyu's insight and sympathy, it was sad to think that all her concern for him might come to nothing.
This unexpected present of two used handkerchiefs was rather laughable if it were not for the fact that she understood the thought behind it yet it was scandalous that he should send and she accept a secret gift.
And it made her ashamed of her habit of crying so much.
As she mused in this way, her heart was very full, her mind in a turmoil.
Having ordered the lamps to be lit, without any thought of the possible consequences she ground some ink on the inkstone, dipped her brush in it and quickly wrote these lines on the handkerchiefs -774 Vain are all these idle tears, Tears shed secretly -- for whom?
Your kind gift of a foot of gauze Only deepens my gloom.
By stealth I shed pearly tears, Idle tears the livelong day Hard to wipe them from sleeve and pillow, Then suffer the stains to stay.
No silk thread can string these pearls Dim now the tear-stains of those bygone years A thousand bamboos grow before my window Is each dappled and stained with tears?
1 She would have written more but her whole body was afire, her face burning.
Going to the mirror-stand she removed its silk cover and saw that her flushed cheeks were redder than peach blossom, but failed to realize that this was the first symptom of consumption.
She went to bed with the handkerchiefs clasped in her hands and lost herself in dreams.
To return to Xiren and her errand to Baochai, when she found that Baochai was not in the Garden but had gone to her mother's house, she went back empty-handed.
And Baochai did not return till the second watch.
The fact is that Baochai's knowledge of her brother had led her to suspect that he was behind the visit of the prince's chief steward, and Xiren's report confirmed her suspicion.
Xiren of course had this on hearsay from Beiming, who had simply been guessing, not having any proof.
But she now was sure of his guilt.
The joke was that for all Xue Pan's bad reputation he was not to blame this time, and yet everyone condemned him out of hand.
Coming home today after carousing outside, Xue Pan went in to greet his mother and found Baochai with her.
After they had exchanged a few words he remarked "I hear Cousin Bao got a whacking.
What for?"
Aunt Xue was already upset on this score.
"You trouble-maker," she snapped back, gnashing her teeth, "this is all your doing.
And you have the impudence to ask!"
Xue Pan was genuinely taken aback.
"What trouble have I made?"
he asked.
"Still playing the innocent?
Everyone knows you were the one who told.
Do you still deny it?"
"If everyone said I'd killed a man, would you believe it?"
"Even your sister knows it was you.
Would she make up something against you?"
"Do keep your voices down!"
put in Baochai quickly.
"It will all be cleared up by and by."
She turned to her brother.
"Whether you told or not, it's over and done with.
Don't let's quibble or make a mountain out of a molehill.
Take my advice, though, and stop fooling around outside.
Just mind your own business.
You waste all your time with those rowdies and you're too careless.
If nothing happens, well and good.
But if trouble starts everyone is bound to suspect you, whether you caused it or not.
Why, even I would suspect you, let alone others."
Blunt, outspoken Xue Pan could not stand such insinuations.
Baochai's warning against fooling about outside and his mother's charge that his careless talk had caused Baoyu's flogging made him stamp with rage and swear he must clear himself.
"Who's been shifting the blame on to me?"
he fumed.
"I'll smash the scoundrel's teeth.
It's obvious that to make up to Baoyu they're using me as a whipping-boy.
Is Baoyu the king of heaven?
Whenever his father whacks him the whole household's bound to be upside down for days.
After my uncle caned him for misbehaving last time, it somehow came to the old lady's ears that Cousin Zhen was behind it and she summoned him to give him a big dressing-down.
This time they're picking on me.
Well, I'm not afraid.
I'll go and kill Baoyu then pay with my life -- make a clean sweep!"
He seized the door bar and started rushing out.
In desperation his mother dragged him back.
"You'll be the death of me, you monster," she scolded.
"Off to pick a fight, are you?
Better kill me first."
Xue Pan's eyes nearly started from his head in fury.
"What's all this nonsense!"
he bellowed.
"You won't let me go, yet pin this thing on me for no reason at all.
As long as Baoyu lives, I shall always be his whipping-boy.
We'd better all die and be done with it."
"Do have patience," urged Baochai, stepping quickly forward.
"Mother's so upset, yet instead of soothing her you raise this rumpus.
When people -- especially your own mother -- advise you, it's for your own good.
You shouldn't fly into a temper."
"So you 're nagging again, are you?"
he roared.
"You're the one who started this."
"You only blame me for nagging, never blame your own thoughtlessness."
"Instead of blaming my thoughtlessness, why don't you blame Baoyu for looking for trouble outside?
Let's take just one example -- that recent business of Qiguan.
I've met Qiguan a dozen times without his making up to me once but the very first time Baoyu met him, before he even knew his name, Qiguan gave him his girdle.
That was my fault too, I suppose?"
"There you go again," cried his mother and sister frantically.
"That's why he got beaten.
This shows you're the one who told."
"You want me to burst with anger," growled Xue Pan.
"It's not being wrongly accused that enrages me, it's this fearful fuss you make over Baoyu."
"Who's making a fuss?"
retorted Baochai.
"You started it by arming yourself and threatening to fight.
Now you accuse us of fussing."
As all her arguments were so reasonable and even harder to refute than his mother's, Xue Pan cast about for some way to silence her in order to have his say.
And being in a towering rage, he did not trouble to weigh his words carefully.
"It's no use flying into a huff with me, my dear sister," he sneered.
"I can see into your heart.
Mother's told me about your gold locket which has to be matched with jade.
Naturally you looked round carefully, and now that you find Baoyu has that rubbishy thing you're bound to take his side."
Baochai was speechless at first with indignation.
Then catching hold of her mother she sobbed "Do you hear what he's saying, mother?"
At this Xue Pan knew he had gone too far and sullenly retired to his own room.
Though trembling with rage, Aunt Xue tried to comfort her daughter.
"You know that monster always talks nonsense," she said.
"Tomorrow I'll tell him to apologize."
Bitterly wronged as Baochai felt, she could not make a scene for fear of upsetting her mother.
So with tears in her eyes she took her leave and went back to her own apartment to cry all night.
The next morning she rose early and, without troubling to make a careful toilet, simply straightened her clothes and set off to see her mother again.
On the way she happened to meet Daiyu standing alone under the shade of some blossom and was asked where she was going.
Baochai, not stopping, said she was on her way home.
Daiyu saw that she looked in low spirits, quite unlike her usual self, and had been crying.
She called mischievously after her, "Cousin, look after your health!
Even if you fill two vats with tears that won't cure his welts."
To know how Baochai replied you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 35 Yuchuan Tastes Some Lotus-Leaf Broth Yinger Skilfully Makes a Plum-Blossom Net Baochai heard Daiyu's taunt but walked past without turning her head, so anxious was she to see her mother and brother.
Daiyu, standing in the shade of the blossom, went on staring into the distance towards Happy Red Court.
She saw Li Wan, Yingchun, Tanchun, Xichun and their maids pay short calls and leave again, but there was no sign of Xifeng.
"Why hasn't she called to see Baoyu?"
she wondered.
"Even if she's busy, you'd think she'd put in an appearance to please the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang.
There must be some reason why she hasn't come."
But just then, raising her head, she caught sight of a gaily dressed group proceeding in that direction.
Looking more closely she could recognize the Lady Dowager on Xifeng's arm, then Lady Xing and Lady Wang, with the concubine Zhou and some maids bringing up the rear.
Together they entered the court.
Daiyu nodded and tears ran down her cheeks as she reflected wistfully how good it was to have parents.
A little later she saw Baochai enter with Aunt Xue, and then Zijuan came up suddenly behind her.
"Do go and take your medicine, miss, before the boiled water gets cold," she urged.
"Must you always be hurrying me?"
protested Daiyu.
"Whether I take it or not is none of your business."
"You shouldn't stop taking medicine just because your cough's beginning to be better.
Although it's the fifth month and the weather's warm, you still ought to be careful.
You've been standing here in the damp since first thing this morning.
It's time to go back now and rest."
Daiyu realized then that she was indeed rather tired, and after some hesitation she walked slowly back to Bamboo Lodge on her maid's arm.
As they entered the courtyard, the chequered shade cast by bamboos on the moss reminded her of those lines in The Western Chamber Who walks in this secluded spot, Where dew glimmers white on dark moss?
"Fate was unkind to Cui Yingying," she told herself with a sigh.
"But at least she had a widowed mother and a younger brother, whereas poor Daiyu has nobody at all.
The ancients said All beauties are ill-fated.
But I'm no beauty.
Why should my fate be so cruel?"
She was walking on lost in thought when the parrot in the covered walk swoped down to squawk at her.
"You pest!"
she cried, giving a start.
"Smothering my hair with dust."
Flying back to its perch the parrot screeched, "Raise the curtain, Xueyan.
The young lady's here."
She stopped, her hand on the perch, to ask whether the parrot's bird-seed and water had been changed.
The bird gave a wheeze much like one of Daiyu's deep sighs.
Then it rattled off the lines "Men laugh at my folly in burying fallen flowers, But who will bury me when dead I lie?
See, when spring draws to a close and flowers fall, This is the season when beauty must ebb and fade The day that spring takes wing and beauty fades Who will care for the fallen blossom or dead maid?"
The two girls burst out laughing.
"Those are lines you often recite, miss," giggled Zijuan.
"Fancy him getting them by heart!"
Daiyu made her take the perch down and hang it on a hook outside the moon window, then went inside and sat down by the window to take her medicine.
The room was flooded with a dim green light, its tables and couches cool in the green shade cast by bamboos through the gauze netting.
To while away the time she played with the parrot from inside, teasing it and teaching it some of her favourite poems.
But let us return to Baochai who reached home to find her mother doing her hair.
"What are you doing here so early in the morning?"
asked Aunt Xue.
-576 "I came to see how you were, mother.
Did he come back after I left yesterday or make any more trouble?"
Baochai sat down beside her mother and burst into tears.
"There, child, don't take it so to heart," urged her mother, weeping too.
"I' ll teach the monster a lesson.
If anything were to happen to you, on whom could I rely?"
Overhearing this, Xue Pan hurried in.
"Forgive me this once, there's a good sister," he begged, making Baochai several bows from left and right.
"I had a few drinks yesterday so I stayed out late, then on my way back I knocked into a friend and that made me arrive home so drunk I've no idea what nonsense I may have talked.
I don't blame you for being angry."
Baochai, who had been hiding her face to weep, looked up at this with a smile.
"Don't put on that act!"
She spat in disgust.
"I know what a nuisance you find us.
You're trying to make us leave you so that you can do as you please."
"How can you say such a thing, sister, not leaving me a leg to stand on?
It's not like you to be so suspicious and unkind."
"You accuse her of being unkind," put in his mother.
"Was it kind what you said last night?
Really you must have lost your senses."
"Don't be angry, mother, and don't you worry, sister.
I promise not to drink or fool about with those fellows any more, how's that?"
Baochai smiled.
"At last you're showing some sense."
"If you can stick to that, why, dragons can lay eggs," scoffed his mother.
"If you catch me fooling around with them again, sister, you can spit in my face and call me a beast, not a man.
I don't want to be such a trial to you both all the time.
Vexing mother is bad enough if I worry my sister too I'm less than human.
Instead of being a filial son and good brother now that father's gone, I'm only upsetting you both.
I'm really worse than a brute!"
While talking, tears gushed from his eyes.
Since their mother showed fresh signs of distress at this, Baochai forced herself to interpose.
"You've already made trouble enough without reducing mother to tears again."
Xue Pan dabbed quickly at his eyes and grinned.
"When did I reduce her to tears?
All right, that's enough.
Forget it.
I'll get Xiangling to pour you a cup of tea."
"I don't want any, thank you.
As soon as mother's ready we're going to the Garden."
"Let me have a look at your necklace.
Shouldn't it be gilded again?"
"No need.
It's still a bright gold.
"You ought to make yourself some new clothes too.
Just let me know what colours and patterns you fancy."
"I haven't yet worn all the clothes I have.
Why make new ones?"
By now Aunt Xue had changed, and she led her daughter into the Garden while Xue Pan went out.
When Aunt Xue and Baochai reached Happy Red Court to inquire after Baoyu, they knew from the throng of maids and nurses on the verandah that the Lady Dowager and others must be there.
Having gone in and exchanged greetings with all the ladies, Aunt Xue asked Baoyu if he were any better.
He sat up on his couch to answer "Yes, thank you, auntie.
I'm sorry to have put you and my cousin to such trouble."
She hastily made him lie down again.
"If there's anything you want," she said, 'lust let me know."
"Thank you, I will," he replied gaily.
"What would you like to eat?"
his mother asked.
"I can have it sent over later."
"I'm not really hungry, but I'd like some of that broth you once had made with small lotus leaves and lotus seeds."
"Just listen to him!"
Xifeng laughed.
"You may not have expensive tastes, but you're certainly choosy to want something like that."
"Have it made!
Have it made!"
the Lady Dowager ordered.
"Don't be in such a hurry, Old Ancestress," cried Xifeng.
"I must try to remember where the moulds are."
She sent an old servant to fetch them from the head cook, and after a while the woman came back to report "The cook says those four moulds were returned, madam."
Xifeng thought this over.
"Well, I can't remember to whom I sent them," she remarked.
"They're in the tea pantry most likely."
She sent to ask the steward in charge, but he did not have them either.
Finally the steward in charge of the gold and silver plate had them sent over.
Aunt Xue took the casket containing the four silver moulds and examined them curiously.
More than a foot long and about one inch across, they were inset with more than thirty delicately fashioned shapes no larger than peas -- chrysanthemum, plum-blossom, lotus flower, caltrop and the like.
"Your house is really the last word in refinement," she exclaimed to the old lady and her sister.
"So many shapes just for one bowl of soup!
I wouldn't have known what these were for if I hadn't been told."
Xifeng interrupted with a smile, "Why, auntie, the cooks preparing the Royal Feast last year thought this up, flavouring the dough shapes with fresh lotus leaves but what really counts is the quality of the soup.
It isn't anything special after all.
Indeed, what family would often have such a soup!
We did try it, though, when we first got the moulds and he's suddenly remembered it today."
She passed the casket to a maid with the order, "Tell the kitchen to kill a few chickens at once and make enough well-seasoned soup for a dozen people."
"Why so much?"
asked Lady Wang.
"For a good reason."
Xifeng smiled.
"This is something we seldom have, and now that Cousin Bao has asked for it, it would be a pity just to make some for him and none for the old lady and Aunt Xue.
We may as well all have some while we're about it -- then even I can taste this novelty."
"You monkey!"
exclaimed the Lady Dowager.
"Treating people at public expense. "
"That's all right," countered Xifeng quickly amid general laughter.
"I can afford this little treat."
She turned to the maid.
"Tell them in the kitchen to do their best and charge it to my account."
As the maid left on this errand Baochai said playfully, "In the few years I've been here, careful observation has led me to the conclusion that, however clever Cousin Xifeng may be, she's no match for the old lady."
'I'm old and slow-witted now, child," said the Lady Dowager.
"But at Xifeng's age I outshone her.
Still, even if she's not up to me she's way ahead of your aunt.
Your aunt, poor thing, has no more to say for herself than a block of wood and can't show herself to advantage to her elders.
They can't help liking Xifeng for her clever tongue."
Baoyu chuckled.
"Does that mean you don't like people who don't talk much?"
"Oh, they have their merits too, just as those with smooth tongues have faults.
It's better not to have too much to say for yourself."
"Quite so."
Baoyu laughed.
"My sister-in-law never talks much, yet you treat her just as well as Cousin Xifeng.
If you merely liked good talkers, the only ones of these girls you could fancy would be Xifeng and Daiyu."
"Talking about the girls," observed the old lady.
"I'm not saying this as a compliment to Aunt Xue, but the truth is that none of our four girls can stand comparison with Baochai."
"You're partial, madam," disclaimed Aunt Xue with a smile.
"But it's true," put in Lady Wang.
"The old lady's often told me privately how good Baochai is."
Baoyu, angling for compliments for Daiyu, had not expected his grandmother to praise Baochai instead.
He glanced at the latter with a smile, but she had turned away to talk to Xiren.
At this point lunch was announced and the Lady Dowager rose.
Raving told Baoyu to rest well and charged the maids to take good care of him, she took Xifeng's arm and urged Aunt Xue to lead the way.
As they left, she asked if the soup was ready or not, and what Aunt Xue and the others fancied to eat.
"If there's anything special, just tell me," she said.
"I know how to make this minx Xifeng get it for us."
"How you love to tease her, madam," replied Aunt Xue, "She's always offering you good things, but of course you don't eat very much."
"Don't say that auntie," countered Xifeng.
"If our Old Ancestress didn't think human flesh rancid, she'd have eaten me long ago. "
That set the whole company laughing.
Even Baoyu joined in from his bed.
"What a terrible tongue Madam Lian has!"
Xiren commented with a smile.
He reached out to make her sit beside him.
"You must be tired after standing so long."
"How forgetful I am!"
she exclaimed.
"Do ask Miss Baochai before she leaves the courtyard to send Yinger over to make a few nets for us."
"I'm glad you reminded me."
Baoyu sat up and called to Baochai through the window, "Will you send Yinger over after your meal, cousin?
I want her to make me some nets if she has time."
"Of course," promised Baochai, turning back.
"I'll send her presently."
The others who had not understood this exchange stopped to ask Baochai what was wanted.
When she had explained the Lady Dowager said "That's a good child.
Send her to do as he asks.
If you need more hands I have plenty of girls sitting idle.
You can send for any of them."
"We can manage without Yinger," Aunt Xue and Baochai assured her.
"She's nothing to do every day and needs something to keep her out of mischief."
As they walked on they were greeted by Xiangyun, Pinger and Xiangling, who had been picking balsam by some rocks and now left the Garden with them.
Lady Wang urged her mother-in-law to have a rest in her room, as she feared she must be tired.
As the old lady's legs were aching she agreed.
Maids were sent on ahead to see that all was ready and because the concubine Zhao had excused herself on the grounds of an indisposition, there was only the concubine Zhou to help the serving-women and maids raise the portire and set out the back-rests and cushions.
The Lady Dowager entered on Xifeng's arm and sat down with Aunt Xue in the places of honour.
Baochai and Xiangyun took two lower seats.
Lady Wang brought tea herself to her mother-in-law while Li Wan served Aunt Xue.
"Leave serving to the young people," said the Lady Dowager to Lady Wang.
"You sit down and chat with us."
Seating herself on a stool, Lady Wang told Xifeng to have the old lady's meal brought there with some extra portions.
Xifeng withdrew and told Lady Wang's serving-women to pass the order on to those of the Lady Dowager and ask her maids to hurry over, while Lady Wang instructed another serving-woman to fetch the young ladies.
This took some time, and only Tanchun and Xichun appeared eventually for Yingchun had no appetite that day, and no one thought anything of Daiyu's absence as she never ate more than one meal out of two.
Soon the food arrived and the table was laid.
"Our Old Ancestress and Aunt Xue mustn't stand on ceremony but do as I say," declared Xifeng, approaching them with a bundle of ivory chopsticks wrapped in a handkerchief.
"This is how we do things," the old lady told Aunt Xue, who acquiesced cheerfully.
Xifeng placed four pairs of chopsticks before the Lady Dowager, Aunt Xue, Baochai and Xiangyun, while Lady Wang and Li Wan superintended the serving of the dishes.
Then Xifeng called for clean bowls and chose dishes for Baoyu.
After the lotus broth arrived and the old lady had inspected it, Lady Wang commissioned Yuchuan who was standing behind her to take Baoyu his meal.
"She can't carry all this single-handed," remarked Xifeng.
Just then, as it happened, Yinger and Xier arrived.
Baochai knew that they had eaten already.
"Master Bao wants you to make some nets for him," she told Yinger.
"You'd better go with Yuchuan."
As the two maids left on this errand Yinger asked, "How are we to carry this hot soup all that way?"
"Don't worry."
Yuchuan smiled.
"Leave it to me. "
She made an old nurse put the broth and dishes in a hamper and carry this behind them while they walked empty-handed to Happy Red Court.
There Yuchuan took over the hamper and the two girls went in.
Xiren, Sheyue and Qiuwen, who were amusing Baoyu, stood up to greet them.
"How did you two happen to arrive together?"
they asked, taking the hamper.
Yuchuan promptly sat herself down on a chair, but Yinger would not presume to sit although Xiren hastily fetched a foot-stool for her.
Baoyu was delighted by Yinger's arrival but distressed and embarrassed by the sight of Yuchuan, who reminded him of her elder sister Jinchuan.
For this reason he addressed himself exclusively to her.
This made Xiren afraid that Yinger might feel slighted, and since she refused to be seated she took her to the outer room for some tea and a chat.
Meanwhile Sheyue and the others had fetched Baoyu's bowl and chopsticks, but instead of starting his lunch he asked Yuchuan "How is your mother?"
Scowling and refusing to look at him, for a long time she did not answer.
Then she snapped out "All right."
Silence followed this snub.
Then Baoyu tried again.
"Who asked you to bring me my lunch?"
"The madams and the ladies, naturally."
Well aware that Jinchuan's death was behind Yuchuan's displeasure, Baoyu cast about for some means to placate her.
Not wanting to humble himself in front of the others, he dismissed them on various pretexts and then put himself out to be pleasant.
And tempted though Yuchuan was to cold-shoulder him, she could not but be mollified by the amiable way in which he put up with all her rudeness.
It was her turn to feel embarrassed.
"Do pass me the broth to taste, dear sister," he begged when he saw her face begin to brighten.
"I've never fed anyone.
Wait till the others come back."
"I don't want you to feed me but I can't get out of bed," he said coaxingly.
"If you'll just pass me the bowl, you can report back so much the sooner and have your own meal.
I mustn't keep you here starving.
If you can't be bothered to move I'll have to fetch the bowl myself, however much it hurts."
He struggled to get out of bed and could not suppress a groan.
At that Yuchuan no longer had the heart to refuse.
"Lie down," she said, leaving her seat.
"What a sight you are, suffering for the sins committed in your previous incarnations."
With a giggle she passed him the bowl.
"If you must be angry, dear sister, be angry here," advised Baoyu amiably.
"Try to keep your temper in front of the old lady and the mistress.
If you carry on like this with them, you'll get another scolding."
"Drink your soup, go on, I'm not taken in by that sweet talk."
She made him drink a couple of mouthfuls, but Baoyu pretended not to like the flavour and left the rest untouched.
"Gracious Buddha!"
she exclaimed.
"You're hard to please."
"It's got no taste at all.
If you don't believe me, try it."
Rising to his bait, Yuchuan took a sip.
At once he cried with a laugh "Now it must taste delicious!"
Realizing that she had been tricked she said, "First you don't like it, now you say it's delicious.
Well, I shan't let you have any more.
Though he smiled and pleaded she was adamant.
She called the others to come to serve him his meal.
As the maids came back they heard the unexpected announcement that two nannies sent by Second Master Fu had called to pay their respects.
Baoyu knew that they came from the house of the sub-prefect Fu Shi, one of his father's former pupils who had prospered thanks to his connection with the celebrated Jia family.
Jia Zheng treated him better than his other pupils, and Fu Shi was forever sending servants over.
Now Baoyu disliked foolish old nurses as much as hulking men-servants, but today he asked these two in for the reason that Fu Shi's younger sister Qiufang was said to be remarkably talented and good-looking and although he had never seen her, his admiration for such a fine girl made him feel it would be slighting her not to admit them.
So he promptly invited them in.
Fu Shi, being an upstart, wanted to consolidate his own position by marrying his pretty, gifted sister into some rich and noble family.
Indeed, his requirements were so strict that she was still not engaged yet at twenty-three for no proposals had come from the rich and great, who looked down on his poverty and humble origin.
Naturally, then, Fu Shi had his own reason for ingratiating himself with the Jia house.
The two nurses sent today happened to be exceptionally stupid.
When invited in they paid their respects to Baoyu, and Yuchuan stopped teasing him to listen, bowl in hand, to the conversation.
Baoyu went on eating as he talked while both he and Yuchuan kept their eyes on the two visitors.
When he reached out suddenly for the bowl and upset it, splashing soup over his hand, Yuchuan started although not hurt herself and gave a cry "What are you doing?"
As the other maids rushed forward to take the bowl, Baoyu oblivious of his own pain cried "Where did you scald yourself, Yuchuan?
Does it hurt?"
Everyone laughed at that.
"You're the one who got scalded, not me," she pointed out.
Only then did he realize that his own hand was smarting.
No time was lost in mopping up the spilt soup.
Baoyu stopped eating, rinsed his fingers and sipped some tea while exchanging a few more remarks with the two nurses, who then took their leave and were seen off to the bridge by Qingwen and some other girls.
As soon as they were alone, the old women started talking as they ambled along.
One of them said with a laugh, "No wonder Baoyu's called a handsome fool.
Handsome is as handsome does, and anyone can see he's a bit touched.
He scalds his own hand and asks someone else if it hurts what could be more stupid than that?"
"The last time I came here," the other rejoined, "I heard several of those girls say he's downright cracked.
He got drenched himself in the rain and advised someone else to take shelter.
Don't you call that soft?
When there's no one about he laughs and cries to himself.
When he sees a swallow he talks to the swallow, when he sees a fish in the stream he talks to the fish.
He sighs or mumbles to the moon and stars, and has so little spirit he even puts up with the tantrums of those pert girls.
When he's in a saving mood he treasures the least scrap of thread, but at other times he doesn't mind squandering millions."
Chatting like this they left the Garden and after taking leave of the others went home.
To revert to Xiren, as soon as these visitors had left she brought Yinger in and asked Baoyu what sort of net he wanted.
"I was so busy talking I forgot you," he told Yinger with an apologetic smile.
"I want to trouble you to make me some nets."
"Nets for what?"
"Never mind about that.
Make a few of each kind."
"Good gracious!"
Yinger clapped her hands and laughed.
"That would take ten years and more."
"You've nothing to do anyway, dear sister, so do make them for me."
"You're asking the impossible," protested Xiren with a smile.
"Let her first do a couple of the kind you need most."
"And which are those?"
asked Yinger.
"Nets to hold fans, scented pouches, or sashes?"
"Yes," said Baoyu.
"One for a sash would be nice."
"For what colour sash?"
asked Yinger.
"Scarlet," said Baoyu.
"A black or slate- blue net would make a good contrast, then."
"What would match a light green one?"
"That would go well with peach- pink ."
"All right.
Do me one also in peach- pink and another in leek- green ."
"What design would you like?"
"How many do you know?"
"'Incense-stick,' 'ladder,' 'lozenge,' 'double squares,' 'chains,' 'plum-blossom' and 'willow-catkins. '"
"What was that pattern you worked for Miss Tanchun the other day?"
"That was 'clustered plum-blossom. '"
"That would do nicely," Baoyu said.
At the same time he asked Xiren to fetch the thread.
Then a nurse called through the window "Your lunch is ready, misses!"
"Go and have lunch," said Baoyu, "and come back as soon as you can."
"How can we go when we've a visitor here?"
asked Xiren with a smile.
"Nonsense," declared Yinger, sorting out the thread.
"Run along."
Then Xiren and all but two of the youngest girls left.
Baoyu chatted with Yinger as he watched her work.
"How old are you?"
he asked.
"Sixteen," she replied, her fingers busy netting the thread.
"What's your family name?"
"Huang."
Baoyu smiled.
"Then you're aptly named, because you really are a golden oriole."
1 "My name used to be Jinying, but my young lady found that awkward and just called me Yinger instead.
Now everyone's got into the way of it."
"Cousin Baochai is very fond of you," he remarked.
"When she marries she's sure to take you along with her."
Yinger smiled at this and said nothing.
Baoyu went on, "I often tell Xiren he'll be a lucky man, whoever gets the pair of you, mistress and maid."
To this she replied, "I don't think you quite realize that our young lady, apart from her good looks, has some wonderful qualities which you won't find in anyone else in the world."
Baoyu was enchanted by Yinger's charming manner and the sweet, innocent way she spoke of her mistress.
"What wonderful qualities?"
he asked.
"Do tell me, dear sister."
"If I do, you mustn't let her know."
"Of course not."
Just then a voice outside asked, "Why are you so quiet?"
Looking round they saw that it was Baochai herself.
Baoyu hastily offered her a seat, and having sat down she asked Yinger what kind of net she was making.
Examining the net, which was only half done, she remarked "This isn't very interesting.
Why not make a net for his jade?"
"Of course, cousin!"
Baoyu clapped his hands in approval.
"I'd forgotten that.
But what colour would be best?"
"Nothing too nondescript would do," said Baochai.
"But crimson would clash, yellow wouldn't stand out well enough, and black would be too drab.
I suggest you get some golden thread and plait it with black-beaded thread to make a net.
That would look handsome."
Baoyu was so delighted with this idea that he immediately called for Xiren to fetch the gold thread.
She happened to come in at that moment with two dishes.
"This is odd," she told him.
"Her Ladyship has just sent me these two dishes."
"There must be such a lot of dishes today that she has sent these for all you girls."
"No, they said these were specially for me, and I needn't go over to kowtow my thanks.
This seems very strange."
"If they're for you, then eat them," put in Baochai with a smile.
"Don't look so puzzled."
"But such a thing has never happened before.
I feel rather embarrassed."
"What's there to be embarrassed about?"
Baochai smiled significantly.
"Some day more embarrassing things than this will happen to you.
Xiren sensed something behind these words, knowing that Baochai was not one to make cutting remarks.
Recalling Lady Wang's hint the previous day, she dropped the subject and simply showed Baoyu the dishes before withdrawing again with the assurance "I'll fetch the thread as soon as I've washed my hands."
After lunch, having rinsed her hands, she brought the gold thread to Yinger and found that Baochai had been summoned by her brother and left.
While Baoyu watched Yinger at work, Lady Xing sent two maids with two varieties of fruit for him and the message "If you're fit enough to walk, Her Ladyship hopes you'll go over tomorrow to have a little distraction.
She's longing to see you.
"If I'm able I'll certainly come and pay my respects," he answered.
"I'm already feeling much better.
Please tell her not to worry.
He made the girls sit down and told Qiuwen to take half the fruit to Miss Lin.
She was just leaving to do this when they heard Daiyu's voice outside, and Baoyu lost no time in inviting her in.
To know what followed, read on.
Chapter 36 A Dream During the Embroidering of Mandarin Ducks in Red Rue Studio Foretells the Future Baoyu Learns in Pear Fragrance Court That Each Has His Share of Love The Lady Dowager went back from Lady Wang's rooms to her own quarters very pleased by Baoyu's steady recovery.
To forestall any further summons from his father, she sent for Jia Zheng's chief page and gave him these orders "Next time your master wants Baoyu to meet or entertain guests, you can tell him without reporting it to me that I've forbidden the boy to set foot outside the second gate until after the eighth month.
For one thing, it will be several months before he can walk again after that terrible beating.
For another, just now his stars are unpropitious, and he mustn't meet any outsiders while sacrifices are being made to the stars."
When the page had assented and left, Nanny Li and Xiren were summoned and instructed to tell Baoyu this to reassure him.
Baoyu had an inveterate dislike of entertaining literati or men in general.
He hated putting on ceremonial dress to pay calls, return visits or offer congratulations or condolences.
Delighted by his grandmother's decision, he not only stopped seeing most relatives and friends but even grew lax about asking after the health of his seniors each morning and evening.
After paying his respects early in the morning to his grandmother and mother he spent the rest of the day amusing himself in the Garden, often glad to idle away his time by offering his services to the maids.
When Baochai or any of the others advised against this it only angered him.
"Imagine a pure, innocent girl joining the ranks of time-servers and place-seekers, who set such store by reputation!"
he would fume.
"This is all the fault of the ancients who had nothing better to do than coin maxims and codes to control stupid, uncouth men.
It's too bad that in our time even those in refined ladies' chambers have been contaminated.
This is an offence against Heaven and Earth which endowed them with the finest qualities."
Going further in his anger against the ancients, he burned all the Confucian classics in his possession except the Four Books.
His wild ways discouraged people from talking to him about serious matters.
And the only person he really admired was Daiyu precisely because she alone had never urged him to seek an official career or fame for himself.
But now let us return to Xifeng.
After Jinchuan's death several servants suddenly started bringing her gifts and coming to pay their respects or flatter her.
She became at a loss to account for the stream of presents sent her.
One evening, when no one else was about, she remarked to Pinger "These families never had much to do with me before.
Why are they making up to me now like this?"
"Isn't it obvious, madam?"
Pinger smiled.
"I fancy their daughters are working for Lady Wang.
Her four chief maids get one tael of silver a month, the others only a few hundred cash apiece.
Now that Jinchuan's dead they're all hoping to land this cushy one-tael job."
"Of course."
Xifeng laughed.
"Good for you.
There's no satisfying some people.
They've squeezed enough and no hard work ever comes their way.
You'd think they'd be contented with getting their daughters off their hands, but no, they want something better.
Well, it's not often they spend their money on me.
Since they're doing this of their own free will I'll accept whatever they bring, but it won't make any difference to my decision."
So she waited until enough gifts had been sent before taking the matter up with Lady Wang.
Her chance came at noon one day when Aunt Xue, Baochai and Daiyu were eating water-melons in Lady Wang's apartments.
"Since Yuchuan's sister died you've been one maid short, madam," observed Xifeng.
"If there's any girl you fancy, just tell me, and next month we can issue her allowance."
Lady Wang thought this over.
"I don't see why we must have a fixed number of maids," she said.
"I've all I need, why not let it go at that?"
"What you say makes good sense, of course, madam," answered Xifeng.
"This just happens to be the tradition.
If even the concubines have two maids apiece, why shouldn't you have your full quota?
It's only saving one tael in any case."
"Very well," said Lady Wang on second thoughts.
"You can issue the allowance but don't assign me another maid.
We'll give this tael to Yuchuan.
Jinchuan waited on me all that time before coming to such a sad end, it's only fair this double pay should go to her sister."
Xifeng turned to look at Yuchuan.
"Congratulations!"
she called with a smile.
Then Yuchuan stepped forward to kowtow her thanks.
"That reminds me," said Lady Wang.
"How much are the concubines Zhao and Zhou allowed a month?"
"The regular two taels each.
Concubine Zhao gets another two for Huan, making four taels and an extra four strings of cash."
"Are they paid in full every month?"
"Of course they are," declared Xifeng in surprise.
"The other day I seem to have heard someone complaining that she was one string short.
Why was that?"
Xifeng replied readily, "The allowance for the concubines' maids used to be one string a month, but last year the gentlemen in the treasury decided to reduce it by half - to five hundred cash for each.
As each of them has two maids, that makes one string less.
They can't complain this was my doing.
I'd like to give them the usual amount but since the gentlemen cut it, how can I make good the cut?
I'm only the intermediary, I've no say in the matter.
I merely hand out what I'm given.
Several times in fact I've suggested restoring their original pay, only to be told, 'This is the quota.'
I can't do more.
At least I pay them on the dot each month, whereas in the past those people in the treasury always kept them waiting.
They were never paid so regularly before."
A short silence followed.
Then Lady Wang asked again, "Row many of the old lady's maids get one tael?"
"Eight before, now seven.
The other one is Xiren."
"That's right, Baoyu has no maids in the one-tael class, but Xiren's still counted as in the old lady's service."
"Yes, Xiren still belongs to the old lady and is simply on loan to Cousin Bao, so her money comes out of the allowance for the old lady's maids.
It would certainly be wrong to reduce Xiren's one-tael allowance because she's waiting on Baoyu, unless we gave the old lady another maid.
And in that case, if Xiren's pay isn't cut Cousin Huan ought to have a maid with the same pay as well, to be fair.
As for Qingwen, Sheyue and the other five of them, they get one string of cash apiece, while the eight younger girls like Jiahui get half a string.
This is all according to the old lady's instructions, so it's no use anyone cutting up rough about it."
"Just listen to her," cried Aunt Xue with a laugh, "She rattles on like walnuts tipped out of a cart.
But how clearly and fairly she puts every-thing."
"Did I say anything wrong, aunt?"
asked Xifeng.
"Of course not.
But you'd save breath by speaking slower."
Suppressing a smile, Xifeng waited for further instructions.
Lady Wang thought for a while.
"Now," she announced, "you must choose the old lady a good maid in Xiren's place and stop Xiren's pay, but give her two taels and one string of cash from the twenty taels I get every month.
In future she's to have the same treatment as Concubine Zhao, only her share is to come from my allowance, not from the general fund."
Having agreed to this, Xifeng nudged Aunt Xue, "Did you hear that, aunt?"
She asked.
"What did I tell you?"
"This should have been done long ago," was Aunt Xue's comment.
"Quite apart from the girl's looks where would you find another with such ladylike manners, so polite and yet so firm and principled?
She really is a treasure."
"You don't know half her fine qualities."
There were tears in Lady Wang's eyes.
"She's ten times as good as my Baoyu.
I ask no better luck for him than to have her looking after him all his life."
"In that case," suggested Xifeng, "Why not go through the usual ceremonies and make her his concubine openly?"
"No, that wouldn't do.
For one thing, they're both too young.
For another, his father would never agree.
Besides, when he behaves wildly, so long as Xiren's his maid he listens to her but if she were made his concubine now she wouldn't dare remonstrate strongly.
Better let things stand as they are for a few more years.
After Lady Wang had finished, as she had no further instructions Xifeng withdrew.
As soon as she reached the corridor she found some stewards' wives waiting for her there.
"What business has kept you so long today, madam?"
they asked her gaily.
"You must be feeling the heat."
Xifeng tucked up her sleeves and stood on the doorstep.
"It's pleasant here with the through draught, I'll cool off a bit before going on," she remarked.
"It's not my fault if I've been a long time.
Her Ladyship has been raking up ancient history, and I had to answer her questions one by one.
With a grim smile she added, "Well, from today on, I mean to show how ruthless I can be, and I don't care if they complain to Her Ladyship either.
Rot those stupid, foul-mouthed bitches!
They'll come to no good end.
How puffed up they are with their own consequence!
But they'll lose the lot, and sooner than they think.
Blaming us, indeed, because their maids' pay is cut.
Who do they think they are?
Do they deserve maids?"
Still pouring out abuse, she went off to select a new maid for the Lady Dowager.
Meanwhile Lady Wang and the others had finished their melons, and after some further talk the party broke up, the girls returning to the Garden.
Daiyu, on the grounds that she must have a bath, turned down a suggestion by Baochai to call on Xichun.
And after the two girls had parted, Baochai walked on alone to Happy Red Court, hoping that a chat with Baoyu would overcome the drowsiness induced by the mid-day heat.
To her surprise, his courtyard was utterly quiet.
Even the two storks were sleeping under the plantain.
Walking along the verandah into the outer room, she found his maids sprawled on their beds having a nap.
She passed the curio cabinet into Baoyu's room and discovered him sleeping too.
Xiren seated by him was sewing, a white whisk beside her.
Baochai tiptoed up to her.
"You're overdoing it, surely!"
she said with a soft laugh.
"You've no flies or mosquitoes here, so why the whisk?"
Xiren raised her head in surprise, then hastily put down her work and rose to her feet.
"So it's you, miss," she whispered.
"You gave me quite a start.
We've no flies or mosquitoes, I know.
But there's a kind of midge, so small you can hardly see it, which can get through the gauze and bite anyone who's sleeping.
It's like being stung by an ant."
"That's true.
You've not much open space behind the house, but you've fragrant flowers all around and this room is scented too.
These insects which live on the pollen of flowers are attracted to anything fragrant."
While saying this Baochai had been examining the work in Xiren's hand.
It was a white silk stomacher lined with red, which she was embroidering with mandarin ducks at play among some lotus.
The lotus flowers were pink , the leaves green, and the ducks a medley of colours.
"How charming!"
exclaimed Baochai.
"Whose is it, to be worth so much effort?"
Xiren motioned with her lips towards the bed.
"Isn't he too big to wear such things?"
asked Baochai.
Xiren smiled.
"That's what he thinks.
So to tempt him, I make them specially handsome.
In this heat he's careless about covering himself but if I get him to wear one of these it doesn't matter if he kicks off his bedding at night.
If you think I've put a lot of work into this, you should see the one he has on.
"It's a good thing you have the patience."
"My neck aches from bending over so long today.
Do you mind sitting here for a minute, miss, while I take a turn outside?"
With that Xiren left the room.
Baochai was so interested in the stomacher that she sat down without thinking in Xiren's place, unable to resist picking up the needle and going on embroidering the charming design.
Meanwhile Daiyu had run into Xiangyun and suggested they go together to congratulate Xiren.
When they found the courtyard so quiet Xiangyun walked towards the servants' quarters in search of Xiren, but Daiyu peeped through the gauze of Baoyu's window.
She saw him lying fast asleep in a pink linen shirt while Baochai sat next to him sewing, a whisk beside her.
Seeing this Daiyu ducked out of sight and clapped one hand over her mouth to stifle her giggles, beckoning Xiangyun with the other hand.
Her cousin ran over to see what was so amusing.
She too was tempted to laugh, but restrained herself at the thought of how good Baochai had always been to her.
"Come on," she said, dragging Daiyu away before she could make any cutting remarks.
"I remember now, Xiren said she was going to the pool at noon to wash some clothes.
Let's go and look for her there."
Daiyu saw through this ruse and snorted, but let Xiangyun lead her away.
Baochai inside had embroidered two or three petals when Baoyu started calling out in his sleep "Who believes what those bonzes and Taoists say?
A match between gold and jade?
Nonsense!
Between wood and stone more likely, I'd say."
Baochai was stunned by this when Xiren returned.
"Still not awake?"
the maid asked.
Baochai simply shook her head.
"I just met Miss Lin and Miss Shi.
Did they come in?"
"No, I didn't see them.
Hadn't they something to tell you?"
"Some nonsense," Xiren said.
"They were just having one of their jokes."
"They weren't joking this time, I assure you."
Baochai smiled.
"I was just going to tell you myself when you hurried off."
She was interrupted by one of Xifeng's maids who arrived with a summons for Xiren.
"There you are!"
Baochai chuckled.
Then Xiren woke two of the other girls and left Happy Red Court with Baochai, going on alone to Xifeng's quarters.
There she was indeed informed of her promotion and told to go and kowtow to Lady Wang, but not to trouble the Lady Dowager.
Xiren was quite overwhelmed.
On her hasty return from thanking Lady Wang, Baoyu was awake and asked where she had been.
She gave an evasive answer.
Only that night when they were alone did she tell him the truth, at which he was overjoyed.
"I don't see you going home now," he gloated.
"After your last visit home you tried to frighten me with heartless talk, saying your brother meant to redeem you and you'd no future here.
Now we'll see who dares fetch you away.
"You've no call to talk like that."
She gave an ironic smile.
"From now on I belong to Her Ladyship.
I can leave without so much as a word to you, just by getting permission from her."
"Well, suppose I behaved so badly that you got leave from her and left, people hearing of it would put the blame on me.
Wouldn't you feel bad about that?"
Xiren laughed.
"Why should I?
If you turn bandit, should I have to go along with you?
Anyhow, there is always death as a way out.
All of us must die in the end, even if we live to be a hundred.
Once I've breathed my last and can't see or hear any more I'll be through with you, won't I?"
Baoyu hastily put his hand over her mouth.
"All right, all right.
Don't say such things."
Xiren knew all his foibles.
Whereas hypocritical compliments disgusted him, true sentiments of this kind distressed him too.
Regretting her tactlessness she hastily turned to subjects more to his taste the spring breeze and autumn moon powder and rouge and, finally, the good qualities of girls.
When this led inadvertently to talk of girls' dying, she hastily broke off.
Baoyu had been joining in with the greatest of pleasure, and when she stopped he responded cheerfully "All men must die.
The thing is to die for good reasons.
Those vulgar sods believe that ministers who die for remonstrating with the Emperor and generals who die in battle win immortal fame as fine, upright men -- but wouldn't it be better if they didn't die?
After all, there has to be a despot on the throne before ministers can remonstrate but they court death in their eagerness to make a name, with a complete disregard for their sovereign.
In the same way, there has to be a war before generals can die in battle so they fight recklessly and try to win glory by dying, with no thought of the country's welfare.
That's why I say these aren't worthy deaths."
"Loyal ministers and good generals only die when it's necessary, countered Xiren.
"If a foolhardy general has no idea of strategy and gets killed through incompetence, is that necessary?
Civil officials are even worse.
They learn by heart a few passages from books and if the government has the slightest fault they remonstrate at random, in the hope of winning fame as loyal men.
If they court death in a fit of temper, is that necessary too?
They should know that the sovereign receives his mandate from Heaven.
Heaven wouldn't entrust such an onerous task to anyone but a benevolent sage.
So, you see, they die to win a reputation, not for the sake of noble principles.
"In my own case, if I had any luck I should die now with all of you around me still better if your tears for me were to become a great stream and float my corpse away to some quiet spot deserted even by crows or any other birds, to vanish with the wind, never again to be born as a human being.
That's how I should like to die."
To cut short such wild talk Xiren said she was tired and gave up answering him.
Then Baoyu closed his own eyes and went to sleep.
Nor did he revert to the subject the next day.
That day, bored with the Garden, Baoyu recalled some songs in The Peony Pavilion and read through the libretto twice.
Still not satisfied, he decided to look for Lingguan who played the part of young ladies and was said to be the best singer among the twelve young actresses in Pear Fragrance Court.
So he went out through the side gate in search of her.
Baoguan and Yuguan, whom he found in the courtyard there, greeted him pleasantly and invited him in.
"Where is Lingguan?"
he asked.
"In her room," they told him.
He hurried in and found her lying alone on her bed, and she did not move when she saw him.
Used as he was to playing about with girls, he imagined Lingguan would respond like all the others so he sat down beside her and with a coaxing smile begged her to get up and sing for him the passage describing the visit to the garden.
To his surprise she sat up and moved away.
"I've strained my voice," she said gravely.
"I didn't even sing the last time Her Imperial Highness sent for us.
Now that she had sat up, Baoyu saw she was the girl who had written Qiang at the foot of the rose trellis.
Never before had he been snubbed like this.
His cheeks burning, he left the room.
And when Baoguan and the others asked what the matter was, he told them.
"Just wait a bit till Master Qiang comes," advised Baoguan.
"If he asks her to sing, she will."
"Where is he?"
asked Baoyu, rather puzzled by this.
"He's just gone out.
Lingguan must have taken a fancy to something and he's out trying to procure it for her."
Baoyu waited, mystified, until Jia Qiang arrived with a bird-cage containing a bird and a miniature stage.
He strode in cheerfully, eager to see Lingguan, but halted at sight of his uncle.
"What sort of bird is that," inquired Baoyu, "able to hold a flag in its beak and walk round the stage?"
"It's a jade-crested oriole," Jia Qiang told him.
"How much did you give for it?"
"One tael, eighty cents."
Urging Baoyu to sit a while, he went in to see Lingguan.
By now Baoyu no longer wanted to hear her sing but was curious to know her relationship to Jia Qiang, who had walked in gaily calling out "Get up and look at this!"
"What is it?"
Lingguan raised herself on one elbow.
"I've brought you a bird to stop you feeling so bored.
Let me show you how to put it through its tricks."
Holding out a few seeds, he coaxed the bird to pick up a mask and flag and strut round the stage.
All the other girls laughed, exclaiming "How amusing!
", but Lingguan gave a couple of snorts and lay down again in disgust.
"Like it?"
Jia Qiang asked with a smile.
"It's bad enough your family cooping us up here to learn that old trash," she retorted.
"And now you get a bird to do the same.
You've obviously bought it to make fun of us, yet you ask whether I like it."
Jia Qiang was disconcerted and swore that he had never meant to hurt her.
"What a fool I am!"
he cried.
"I gave a couple of taels for this in the hope that it would amuse you, never dreaming that you'd feel this way about it.
All right, I'll set it free -- to make you feel better."
With that he let the bird out and smashed the cage.
"That bird may not be human," said Lingguan, "but it has a mother bird in its nest.
How heartless you are, bringing it here to play with.
I coughed blood twice today, and Her Ladyship said that a doctor should be sent to examine me.
But you -- you bring this here to make fun of me.
How unlucky I am, ill, with no one to care for me.
She started sobbing again.
"I spoke to the doctor last night," Jia Qiang replied hastily.
"He said it was nothing serious and he'd come to examine you again after you'd taken a dose or two of the medicine prescribed.
I'd no idea you'd coughed blood again.
I'll go and get him at once.
He started off, but Lingguan called him back.
"The sun's scorching just now," she said.
"If you go off in a huff to fetch him, I won't see him."
So the young man had to remain where he was.
Meanwhile Baoyu was lost in wonder as the significance of all those chiangs written on the ground dawned on him.
And feeling superfluous there he took his leave.
Jia Qiang being too absorbed in Lingguan to notice, it was left to the other girls to see him out.
Turning this discovery over in his mind, Baoyu walked back in a daze to Happy Red Court where he found Daiyu sitting and talking to Xiren.
Baoyu went straight up to Xiren.
"What I said last night was wrong," he told her with a sigh.
"No wonder my father complains that I'm 'benighted.'
It was wrong to say you'd all weep over my death.
Now I know not all your tears would be for me everyone will have his share."
Xiren had forgotten those words spoken lightly the previous evening, and was surprised when he brought them up again.
"You really are crazy," she told him teasingly.
Baoyu made no reply.
Convinced now that all love was predestined, each having his allotted share, he was wondering wistfully who would shed tears for him when he was gone.
But we need not attempt to guess all his inmost thoughts.
When Daiyu saw the distracted state he was in she refrained from asking any questions, knowing that he must have been affected by something somewhere.
"I've just come from auntie," she told him.
"Tomorrow is Aunt Xue's birthday, and auntie wants to know whether you'll go over or not.
You'd better send someone to tell her."
"I didn't even go on my uncle's birthday," he said.
"What if I were to meet someone there tomorrow?
I'd rather steer clear of both birthdays.
Besides, it's too hot for ceremonial dress.
I'm sure Aunt Xue won't mind if I don't show up.
"The idea!"
exclaimed Xiren.
"She's on quite a different footing from His Lordship.
You live close by, and she's a relative.
If you don't go, she'll wonder why.
If it's the heat you're afraid of, why not go first thing to kowtow and come back again after a cup of tea.
Wouldn't that look better?"
Before Baoyu could answer, Daiyu teased, "You should go anyway for the sake of the one who kept away the mosquitoes."
"What's this about mosquitoes?"
he demanded.
Xiren explained how Baochai had sat with him during his siesta the previous day, when there was nobody to wait on him.
"That's too bad," he cried.
"How rude of me to sleep all through her visit.
Well then, I must go tomorrow."
Just then Xiangyun appeared in formal dress.
Her family had sent for her and she had come to say goodbye.
At once they rose and asked her to be seated, but she could not stay and they had to see her out.
Although her eyes were brimming with tears, she dared not complain in front of her family servants but Baochai's arrival presently increased her reluctance to leave.
Baochai knew that if the servants reported this on their return to her aunt, Xiangyun might suffer for it.
Accordingly she urged her to make a start.
They saw her to the second gate, and Baoyu would have gone further but Xiangyun stopped him.
She turned back, however, and beckoned him to her side.
"If the old lady forgets me," she whispered, "do remind her to send someone to send me back.
Baoyu promised to do this for her.
They followed her with their eyes while she went to her carriage, and then retraced their steps.
If you want to know what happened next, read on.
Chapter 37 Begonia Club Takes Form One Day in the Studio of Autumn Freshness Themes for Poems on Chrysanthemums Are Prepared One Evening in Alpinia Park Jia Zheng, having been appointed this year an Examiner of Provincial Education, chose the twentieth of the eighth month to start his journey.
On that day, after paying his respects to the ancestral shrines and to the Lady Dowager, he was seen off by Baoyu and other young men of the family all the way to the Pavilion of Parting.
But his doings outside need not concern us here.
His father's departure left Baoyu free to do as he pleased in the Garden, and he frittered away whole months in idleness.
Re was feeling listless one day when Cuimo brought him a letter on fancy note-paper.
"I'm glad you've come," said Baoyu.
"I'd quite forgotten, I meant to go and see Third Sister.
Is she better?"
"Yes, she's stopped taking medicine today," replied Cuimo.
"It was only a slight chill."
Baoyu unfolded the letter then and read -774 Tanchun greets her Second Brother.
-768 The other night the moon was clear after the rain, and it seemed such a rare chance to enjoy the moonlight that I stayed up until midnight strolling under the trees.
As a result, I caught a chill in the dew.
You took the trouble to come in person and cheer me up yesterday, then sent your maids with gifts of fresh lichees and Yan Zhenqing's 1 calligraphy.
I was extremely touched by your kind concern.
As I was resting quietly today it occurred to me that the ancients, even when pursuing fame and struggling for profit, kept a small hill or stream to which they could retire and there, with a few friends from far or near, they amused themselves in their cups by organizing poetry clubs or literary forums.
The fame of those impromptu gatherings has come down through the centuries.
Though I myself have no talent I am lucky enough to live with others among rocks and fountains, and I admire the polished verses of Baochai and Daiyu.
It would be a pity not to invite poetizers to a feast in a cool courtyard and a moonlit pavilion or to make poems and drink in Apricot Tavern by Peach Stream.
Why should the genius of the Lotus Society 2 be confined to men?
Why should girls be excluded from cultured gatherings like those in the Eastern Hills?
3 If you will condescend to come, I shall sweep the path clear of blossoms to wait for you.
-4374 Respectfully written.
Baoyu clapped his hands delightedly.
"How high-brow Third Sister's become!"
he chuckled.
"I'll go now and discuss this with her."
He set off at once with Cuimo at his heels, and had just reached Seeping Fragrance Pavilion when the serving-woman on duty at the back gate of the Garden appeared with a letter.
Catching sight of Baoyu she approached him and announced "Master Yun sends his respects.
He is waiting at the back gate and told me to give you this."
Baoyu opened the letter and read Your unworthy child Jia Yun sends his respectful greetings and wishes his noble father boundless health and happiness.
Since I had the good fortune to become your adopted son, I have been longing day and night to please you but found no way to show my filial piety.
Recently I was entrusted with the purchase of flowers, and thanks to your great influence I have been able to make the acquaintance of many gardeners and visit many celebrated gardens.
I discovered a rare species of white begonia and after considerable difficulty have succeeded in acquiring just two pots.
If you consider me as your own son, please keep these flowers to enjoy.
As the weather is so hot I will not presume to intrude, for fear of disturbing the young ladies in the Garden.
I kowtow with humble respect, wishing you good health.
Having read this Baoyu asked with a smile, "Did he come all alone?"
"Just with two pots of flowers," said the old woman.
"Go and tell him I've read his letter and appreciate his thoughtfulness.
You can put the flowers in my room.
With that he went with Cuimo to the Studio of Autumn Freshness where Baochai, Daiyu, Yingchun and Xichun were assembled.
"Here comes another!"
they cried, laughing, as he entered.
"Not so vulgar, was it, that sudden idea of mine?"
asked Tanchun gleefully.
"I wrote a few invitations to see what would happen, and you all turn up in force."
"We should have started a club like this long ago," observed Baoyu.
"Start one if you like, but don't count me in," said Daiyu.
"I'm not up to it."
"If you're not, who is?"
countered Yingchun with a smile.
"This is a serious business," declared Baoyu.
"We should encourage each other, not back out of politeness.
Let's all give our ideas for general discussion.
What suggestions have you, Cousin Baochai?
And Cousin Daiyu?"
-400 "What's the hurry?"
asked Baochai.
"We're not all here yet."
Before she had finished speaking Li Wan walked in.
"How very refined!"
she cried, laughing.
"If you're going to start a poetry club, I'll volunteer to preside.
I had this very idea last spring, but on second thoughts decided it would only be asking for trouble as I can't write poetry myself.
So I dropped the idea and forgot it.
Now that Third Sister's so keen, I'll help you get this going."
"If you're set on starting a poetry club," said Daiyu, "we must all be poets.
And first, to be less conventional, we must stop calling each other 'sister,' 'cousin,' 'sister-in-law' and so forth."
"Quite right," agreed Li Wan.
"Let's choose some elegant pen-names.
I'll be The Old Peasant of Sweet Paddy.
No one else can have that name.
"I'll be Master of Autumn Freshness," cried Tanchun.
"There's something unreal and awkward about 'master' and 'scholar,"' objected Baoyu.
"With all these wu-tung trees and plantains here, why not use them in your name?"
"Yes, I know what.
I like plantains best so I'll call myself The Stranger Under the Plantain."
The others approved this as more original.
Only Daiyu teased, "Drag her off, quick!
Stew some slices of her flesh to go with our wine."
When the others looked mystified she explained with a smile, "Didn't an ancient say, 'The deer was covered with the plantain'?
If she calls herself The Stranger Under the Plantain, she must be a deer.
Let's hurry up and cook this venison."
Amid general laughter Tanchun cried, "Just you wait!
You're very clever at making fun of people, but I've got the right name for you, a perfect name."
She turned to the rest.
"The wives of King Shun 4 shed so many tears on bamboos that thereafter their stems became speckled, and now the speckled bamboo is called by their name.
Well, she lives in Bamboo Lodge and she's always crying.
When one day she pines for a husband, I'm sure the bamboos there will grow speckled too.
I propose we call her Queen of the Bamboos."
The rest applauded while Daiyu lowered her head, reduced to silence.
"I've thought of a good name for Cousin Baochai," volunteered Li Wan.
"A short one too."
"What is it?"
asked Xichun and Yingchun.
"I'm entitling her Lady of the Alpinia.
How's that?"
"An excellent title," said Tanchun.
"How about me?"
asked Baoyu.
"Think of one for me too."
"You've already got one."
Baochai chuckled.
"Much Ado About Nothing is just the name for you.
"Why not keep your old title of Prince of the Crimson Cavern?"
suggested Li Wan.
Baoyu smiled sheepishly.
"Don't bring up the silly things I did as a child."
"You've already got plenty of pen-names," said Tanchun.
"What do you want a new one for?
We can just call you by any name we feel like."
"I've got one for you," offered Baochai.
"It's vulgar, but it suits you to the ground.
The two hardest things to come by are riches and nobility, and the third is leisure.
Few people enjoy more than one of these, but you have all three.
So you should be called The Rich and Noble Idler."
"That's too good for me."
Baoyu grinned.
"But just as you please."
"What about Second Cousin and Fourth Cousin?"
asked Li Wan.
"We're no good at writing poetry so we shan't need pen-names, rejoined Yingchun.
"Even so, you'd each better have one," urged Tanchun.
"As Yingchun lives on Purple Caltrop Isle, let her be Mistress of Caltrop Isle," suggested Baochai.
"And Xichun in the Pavilion of Scented Lotus could be Mistress of Lotus Pavilion."
"Very good," said Li Wan.
"Now as I'm the eldest you must all listen to me.
I'm sure you'll agree to my proposal.
We seven are starting this club but as Second Cousin, Fourth Cousin and I are no poetesses you must leave us out when it comes to writing, and we'll each take charge of something."
"We've already got titles."
Tanchun giggled.
"But we might just as well not have them, the way you're still talking.
We must decide on forfeits for mistakes like that from now on.
"Wait till we've set up the club before laying down rules," said Li Wan.
"My apartments are the largest, let's meet there.
Though I can't versify, if you poets don't object to my vulgar company I'll act as hostess and in that way acquire some culture too.
But if you elect me as warden, I shan't be able to manage on my own.
We must have as our deputy-wardens the scholars of Caltrop Isle and Lotus Pavilion, one to set the theme and rhymes, the other as copyist and supervisor.
We won't make a ruling that we three are not to write when the subject and rhyme are easy we may have a go but you four definitely must write.
That's my proposal.
If you don't accept it, I must withdraw from this illustrious company.
As Yingchun and Xichun had no liking for versifying and no chance of outdoing Baochai or Daiyu, they willingly agreed to this arrangement which suited them down to the ground.
The others, seeing their relief, acquiesced understandingly without pressing them.
"All righ then," said Tanchun cheerfully.
"Seems funny to me, though.
This was my brain-wave, but you three end up in charge."
"Now that's settled," put in Baoyu, "let's go to Paddy-Sweet Cottage."
"Don't be in such a hurry," objected Li Wan.
"We're still in the planning stage.
Wait till I invite you."
"At least we should agree on how often to meet," urged Baochai.
"If we meet too often we won't enjoy it," predicted Tanchun.
"Let's limit it to two or three times a month."
Baochai nodded.
"Twice a month is enough.
We'll fix dates and meet regardless of wind or rain.
If anyone likes to invite people to her place or the usual place for another gathering on some other day, well and good.
Wouldn't that be more flexible and greater fun?"
They all approved this idea.
"As this was my suggestion," said Tanchun, "you must let me play hostess first.
That's only fair."
"Very well then," agreed Li Wan.
"You can call the first meeting tomorrow."
"Why not today?
There's no time like the present.
You set the subject, Caltrop Isle can fix the rhymes, and Lotus Pavilion can supervise."
"I don't think the subject and rhymes should be decided by one per-son," Yingchun demurred.
"Drawing lots would be fairer."
"On my way here," remarked Li Wan, "I saw them carrying in two pots of white begonia which looked simply lovely.
Why not write on the begonia?"
"Without having seen them?"
protested Yingchun.
"How can we?"
"It's only white begonia," countered Baochai.
"There's no need to look at it first.
The ancients wrote to manifest their own temperaments and feelings.
If they'd only written about things they'd seen, we wouldn't have so many poems today."
"In that case let me settle the rhymes," said Yingchun.
She took a volume of poetry from the bookcase and opened it at random at a lushi with seven-character lines.
Having held this out for all to see, she told them to use the same metre.
Then putting the book away she turned to a little maid.
"Say any word that comes into your head."
The maid, standing by the door, said, "Men door."
"Very well, that rhyme belongs to the thirteenth section of the rhyme system," announced Yingchun.
"And that word must come in the first line."
Next she asked for the box of rhyme cards, pulled out the thirteenth drawer and told the maid to pick four cards at random.
These proved to be pen pot, hun spirit, hen stain and hun dim.
"'Pot' and 'door' aren't easy to fit in," was Baoyu's comment.
Daishu prepared four lots of paper and writing-brushes, and all quietened down to think.
All but Daiyu, who went on fondling the wu-tong trees, looking at the autumn scene or joking with the maids.
Yingchun had a stick of Sweet-Dream Incense lit.
Being only three inches long and no thicker than a lampwick, this burnt quickly.
The poems had to be finished before it burnt out, on pain of a penalty.
Tanchun was the first to finish.
She wrote out her poem, made one or two corrections, and handed the paper to Yingchun.
"Are you ready, Lady of the Alpinia?"
she asked Baochai.
"Yes, mine's done, but it's no good," replied Baochai.
Baoyu, his hands behind his back, was pacing up and down the corridor.
"Hear that?"
he said to Daiyu.
"They've finished theirs."
"Don't worry about me," she answered.
Then he saw that Baochai had copied out her poem.
"Good gracious!"
he exclaimed.
"There's only one inch of the incense left, but all I've done is four lines."
He turned to Daiyu.
"The incense is nearly burnt out.
Do stop squatting on the damp ground."
Daiyu paid no attention.
"I can't help you now," he said.
"I must write mine out, however bad it is."
With that he walked to the desk.
"We're going to look at the poems now," announced Li Wan.
"Anyone who doesn't hand his in by the time we finish reading the others will have to pay a forfeit."
"The Old Peasant of Sweet Paddy may not write well herself," remarked Baoyu, "but she's a good judge and absolutely impartial.
We'll all stand by your verdict."
The rest agreed.
First they looked at Tanchun's paper.
-774 Chill the sunset grass in front of the closed door, Thick the green moss the rain-drenched pot below Her spirit's purity surpasses jade, Her gentle form is ravishing as snow.
A faint ethereal loveliness is hers, Her shadow at midnight chequers the moon's light.
Do not fly from me, chaste goodess Abide with me as fall the shades of night.
-384 After admiring this they read Baochai's poem -774 For the sake of the flowers the door is closed by day As I go to water the pots with moss overgrown Immaculate its shadow on autumn steps, Pure as snow and ice its spirit by dewy stone.
Only true whiteness dazzles with its brightness Can so much sadness leave a flawless jade?
Its purity rewards the god of autumn, Speechless and chaste it stays as sunbeams fade.
-400 Li Wan remarked with a smile, "Trust the Lady of the Alpinia!"
Then they turned to Baoyu's poem -774 Autumn blooms cast chequered shadows by the door, Seven nodes of snowy flowers in pots arrayed, Like Lady Yang's shade, fresh from the bath, ice-pure, Or Xi Shi's mournful spirit fair as jade.
No morning breeze can scatter this infinite sadness, And the rain adds fresh tear-stains at night Leaning by painted balustrade it seems sensate As pounding of clothes and fluting put dusk to flight.
When all had read this, Baoyu expressed his own preference for Tanchun's verse, but Li Wan insisted that Baochai's was more distinguished.
She then asked Daiyu for her poem.
"Have you all finished?"
cried Daiyu.
At once she took up her brush and dashed off eight lines which she tossed over to them.
Li Wan and the others read -774 Half-rolled the bamboo blind, half-closed the door -800 Crushed ice serves as mould for jade pots.
"How do you do it?"
exclaimed Baoyu in admiration before reading on.
-800 Some whiteness from the pear-blossom is stolen, Some of its spirit winter-plum allots.
"Splendid!"
cried the others.
"She's really original."
They read on -800 The goddess of the moon sews a white gown, The maid's weeping in autumn chamber never ends Silently, shyly, with never a word of complaint, She reclines in the autumn breeze as night descends.
"This is the best!"
cried the young people.
"It's certainly the most charming and unusual," said Li Wan.
"But our Lady Alpinia's has deeper significance and real substance."
"Quite right," put in Tanchun.
"The Queen of Bamboos should come second."
"And the Happy Red Prince last," said Li Wan.
"Agreed?"
"Mine was no good, that's quite fair," said Baoyu with a smile.
"But you should reconsider which is the better, Lady Alpinia's or Queen Bamboo's."
"I'm the arbiter," insisted Li Wan.
"You've no say in the matter.
Any more argument will be penalized."
So Baoyu said no more.
"I've decided that from now on we should meet on the second and sixteenth of each month," continued Li Wan.
"And you'll have to accept the subjects and rhymes I choose.
You can have extra meetings on other days if you like -- I don't care if you meet every day.
But mind you come to my place on the second and sixteenth."
"We must choose a name for this club," declared Baoyu.
"Nothing too common," said Tanchun.
"Nothing too new-fangled either.
As we happened to start with poems on begonia, why not call it Begonia Club?
Even if this sounds a little commonplace, as it's based on fact that doesn't matter."
After some further discussion and some refreshments they parted, some going back to their own rooms, others calling on the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang.
But no more of this.
Now Xiren had wondered what Baoyu was up to when he hurried off with Cuimo after reading the note.
When two women from the back gate brought in two pots of begonia some time later, she asked where these were from and was told what had happened.
Xiren made them put the plants down and take seats in the servants' room while she went inside, weighed out sixty cents of silver and fetched another three hundred cash which she handed to the two women.
"This silver is for the boys who brought the flowers," she explained.
"And the cash is for you to buy drinks."
The two women stood up, beaming, to thank her profusely and make a show of declining but on Xiren's insistence they accepted the tip.
"Are there any pages on duty outside the back gate?"
she asked them.
"Yes, there are four of them there every day," they answered.
"If there's anything you want done, miss, we can tell them."
"There's nothing I want," answered Xiren, smiling.
"But Master Bao wanted to send something today to Miss Shi in the house of the young marquis.
It's lucky you came.
When you go out, please tell those boys at the back gate to hire a carriage.
As soon as it arrives you can come here to get the money.
Don't let them knock around in the front."
When the women had left to see to this, Xiren went back inside to look for a plate on which to put the gifts for Xiangyun but the plate she wanted was missing from the carved cabinet.
Turning round, she saw Qingwen, Qiuwen and Sheyue busy with their needlework.
"What's become of that white agate plate with spiral designs?"
she asked them.
The girls looked at each other but could not remember.
"It was used to send lichees to Miss Tanchun," said Qingwen after some thought.
"They've not sent it back yet."
"There are plenty of everyday dishes you could have used.
Why choose that particular one?"
Xiren inquired.
"Just what I said.
But he insisted that plate looked best with the fresh lichees.
And when I took it over, Miss Tanchun liked it so much she told me to leave the fruit on it so I didn't bring it back.
Look, that pair of vases from the top shelf hasn't come back either."
"Speaking of those vases reminds me of something funny," put in Qiuwen.
"When our Master Bao takes it into his head to be filial, he really goes the whole hog.
When he saw the fragrant osmanthus in bloom in the Garden he picked two sprays for himself, but all of a sudden he thought better of it.
He said, 'These flowers have just bloomed in our own garden, I shouldn't be the first to enjoy them.'
He promptly took down those two vases, filled them with water and put the sprays in himself, then having them carried over, he went personally to deliver on to his grandmother, another to his mother.
"This sudden filial piety on his part brought good luck to his messenger too.
I happened to be the one who went that day, and the old lady was as pleased as pleased could be.
She told everyone "'What a good grandson Baoyu is after all, even sending me flowers like this!
Yet other people blame me for spoiling him.'
"You know how little the old lady usually has to say to me.
I've never been a favourite of hers.
But that day she told them to give me a few strings of cash, saying I was a 'poor, delicate little thing.'
What an unexpected stroke of luck!
A few strings of cash mayn't be much, but it was a rare honour.
"Then I went to Her Ladyship's place just as she was looking through some cases with Madam Lian and the concubines Zhao and Zhou, sorting out the bright clothes she'd worn in her young days to give away.
When I went in she stopped looking at the clothes to admire the flowers.
And to please her Madam Lian started praising Baoyu for being such a considerate, filial son -- she came out with two cartloads of compliments.
Her Ladyship felt that in front of everyone she had gained credit because of him, and this should silence those who had gossiped about him.
She was so delighted that she gave me two gowns on the spot.
Clothes are nothing special either - we're given new ones at any rate every year -- but this was a great mark of favour."
"Bah, you're easily pleased," scoffed Qingwen.
"She gives others the best and you the cast-offs, yet you feel you have big face."
"Cast-offs or not, it was kind of Her Ladyship."
"If I'd been you I wouldn't have taken them," retorted Qingwen.
"Anyone else's cast-offs I wouldn't mind but why should someone in these rooms be superior to the rest of us?
If she got the good clothes and I the cast-offs, I'd refuse them.
Even at the risk of offending the mistress, I wouldn't put up with that."
"Who here got the good ones?"
demanded Qiuwen quickly.
"I was ill for a few days at home, I didn't know.
Do be a dear and tell me.
"If I tell you, will you return those gowns to the mistress?"
"Don't be silly.
I just think it would be fun to know.
Even if Her Ladyship gave me the dog's left-overs, I'd think it kind of her.
I don't worry about other people's business."
The other girls laughed.
"You've hit the nail on the head.
They were given to this foreign-species, spotted lap-dog of ours."
5 "May all your tongues rot!"
parried Xiren with a smile.
"Never miss a chance to make fun of me, do you?
You'll one by one come to a bad end."
"So it was you, sister," said Qiuwen.
"I'd no idea.
I do apologize."
"Stop fooling," urged Xiren.
"I wish one of you would bring that plate back."
"Those vases should be fetched back too," said Sheyue.
"It'd be all right in the old lady's place, but all sorts of people go to Her Ladyship's rooms.
The rest don't matter, but if Concubine Zhao and that lot saw things from here they'd try some mean trick to break them, and the mistress wouldn't pay too much attention.
We'd better fetch them back before it's too late."
Qingwen, hearing this, put down her needlework.
"All right, I'll go and get them," she volunteered.
"I'll go while you fetch the plate," offered Qiuwen.
"No, it's my turn," insisted Qingwen, laughing.
"Are you going to take all the good errands and leave none for me?"
"Qiuwen only got clothes that once," teased Sheyue.
"How can you expect to find them looking through clothes again today?
That would be too much of a coincidence."
Qingwen snorted.
"Even if I don't see any clothes, maybe the mistress will think me so trustworthy that she gives me two taels of silver a month from her own allowance too.
Who knows?"
She laughed.
"Don't try to fool me.
I know all about it."
With that she ran off, and Qiuwen also left to fetch the plate from Tanchun's apartments.
When the plate had been brought, Xiren prepared the gifts then called for Nanny Song who was attached to their compound.
"Get yourself spruced up and put on your outdoor things," she said.
"I want you to take some presents to Miss Shi."
"Just give the things and message to me," said the nurse.
"I'll get ready and go at once.
Xiren picked up two small woven bamboo hampers.
The first she opened contained fresh caltrops and euryale seeds the second, powdered chestnut cake sweetened with osmanthus.
"These are fresh from our Garden," she explained.
"Master Bao wants Miss Shi to try them.
And the other day she admired this agate plate, so she must keep it.
Then here, in this silk wrapper, is the needlework she asked me to do.
I hope she won't find it too clumsy.
Send her our respects and the young master's greetings."
"Has Master Bao any other messages?"
asked the nurse.
"Will you go and find out, miss, in case you've forgotten something."
"Did you see him with Miss Tanchun?"
Xiren asked Qiuwen.
"Yes, they were disussing starting some sort of poetry club and all busy writing poems.
I shouldn't think he has any message.
She needn't wait."
As Nanny Song took the things and prepared to leave, Xiren told her to go by the back gate where the boys had a carriage waiting.
So the nurse left.
When Baoyu came back, the first thing he did was to admire the begonia then, going inside, he told Xiren about the poetry club.
She in turn reported how she had sent Nanny Song with the gifts to Xiangyun.
He clapped his hands at this.
"How could we forget her?"
he cried.
"I felt there was something missing, but couldn't think what it was.
I'm so glad you mentioned her.
I meant to invite her.
Our poetry club will be no fun without her."
"It's not all that important - just a way to pass the time," rejoined Xiren.
"She's not as free as the rest of you and has no say at home.
If you tell her she'll want to come, but she may not be able, and if she can't she'll be terribly disappointed.
You'll only be upsetting her."
"That's all right," said Baoyu.
"I shall ask my grandmother to send and fetch her."
Just then Nanny Song came back to report on her errand.
Having expressed Xiangyun's thanks for the gift she told Xiren, "Miss Shi asked what Master Bao was doing.
When I told her, 'Writing poems with the young ladies and starting a poetry club,' she was most disappointed you hadn't let her know.
Quite a state she was in!"
This made Baoyu go straight to the Lady Dowager to insist that Xiangyun should be fetched at once.
When the old lady told him that it was too late and she should be invited first thing the next day, he had to accept this reply and returned dejectedly to his own rooms.
Early the next morning he went back to urge his grandmother to send for Xiangyun, and did not relax until she finally arrived in the afternoon.
After greeting her he lost no time in explaining the whole business to her.
He was about to show her their poems when Li Wan and the others stopped him.
"Don't show her yet," said Li Wan.
"Give her the rhymes.
We'll fine her for coming late by making her write a poem in the same metre first.
If it's good, we'll welcome her to join the club, if not, she'll have to stand treat first and then we'll think it over.
"You forgot to ask me it's I who should fine you people," said Xiangyun laughingly.
"All right, show me the rhymes.
I'm no good, but I don't mind making a fool of myself.
Just let me join the club and I'll willingly sweep the ground and burn incense for you.
"How could we forget her yesterday?"
cried the others, delighted to find her so full of fun.
They quickly told her the rhymes.
Xiangyun was too excited to give careful thought to her poems or to polish them.
While chatting with the rest she made up some lines and casually wrote them out.
''I've done two verses using the same rhyme sequence, " she said.
''I don't suppose they're much good, they're just made to order."
She handed over her poems for their inspection.
"Our four poems exhausted the subject, we couldn't have written another," they commented.
"Yet here you come up with two.
How can you have so much to say, unless you're repeating us?"
As they said this they read the poems -800 A fairy flew down last night to the capital And planted in a pot these flowers of rare jade, Like the goddess of frost who loves the cold, But not the wandering spirit of some chaste maid.
-774 Whence comes this snow on a dull autumn day?
-800 A night's rain stains its loveliness But poets will never tire of singing it, That it may not pass the day in loneliness.
The others all applauded this, then went on to read the next.
-800 Steps through alpinia lead to an ivy-clad gate -774 Fit place, the wall's comer, for this pot set apart -800 Love of purity makes the flower hold aloof, Grief for the autumn breaks its owner's heart Wind dries the tears on jade candles.
Crystal screens break up its shadow cast by the moon.
I long to tell the moon goodess its secret, But in the corridor night fades too soon.
The others exclaimed in delight after each line.
"See what a good idea it was to write poems on the begonia," they said.
"How right we were to start our Begonia Club."
"Tomorrow let me pay my penalty by standing treat and calling the first meeting.
All right?"
proposed Xiangyun.
"Perfect!"
they cried.
Then they asked her opinion of the poems written the previous day.
That evening Baochai invited Xiangyun to stay with her, and by lamplight Xiangyun outlined her plans for entertaining the others and setting subjects for poems.
But Baochai thought all her proposals unsuitable.
"Since you've called a meeting, you're the hostess," she pointed out.
"Although it's just fun, you must make proper provision.
Do the thing cheaply but give no grounds for complaints then everyone can have a good time.
"You're not in charge at home, and the few strings of cash you get each month hardly cover your own expenses yet you took this on yourself quite needlessly.
When your aunt hears of it she's bound to scold you.
Why, your whole allowance isn't enough to stand treat.
Are you going home to ask for more?
Or will you ask them here for money?"
This set Xiangyun worrying.
"Actually, I have an idea," continued Baochai.
"One of the assistants in our pawnshop has a farm which produces fine crabs, and the other day he sent us several catties.
Most of the people here, from the old lady down to those in the Garden, are very partial to crabs.
Only the other day aunt talked of inviting the old lady to the Garden to enjoy the fragrant osmanthus and eat some crabs but she's been too busy to ask her.
So don't mention the poetry club but just issue a general invitation, and after the older people have left we can write all the poems we please.
"I'll get my brother to send us a few crates of the biggest crabs with some vats of good wine from our shop, in addition to which we'll prepare four or five tables of other refreshments.
That's easily done and we'll all have a good time."
Xiangyun was extremely grateful.
"You've thought it all out!"
she exclaimed admiringly.
"I'm only thinking of you," replied Baochai.
"You mustn't be touchy or imagine I look down on you, because this is between friends.
If you've no objection, I'll tell them to go ahead."
"My dear cousin, you're being touchy instead if you talk like that," said Xiangyun.
"However scatter-brained I may be, I know when someone's being good to me.
At least I've that much sense.
If I didn't look on you as my own elder sister, I wouldn't have confided to you last time all the troubles I have at home."
Accordingly Baochai ordered a serving-woman, "Go and ask my brother to get us several crates of big crabs like those we had the other day.
Tomorrow after lunch we're inviting the old lady and my aunt to see the fragrant osmanthus in the Garden.
Tell him to be sure not to forget, as I've already issued the invitations."
The old woman went off to do as she was told.
Then Baochai advised Xiangyun, "The themes for verses shouldn't be too outlandish.
You can see that the poets of old times didn't go in for far-fetched subjects or freakish rhymes.
Such things don't make for good poems and seem rather lowclass.
Of course, poetry shouldn't be stereotyped, but we mustn't overdo the emphasis on originality either.
So long as our ideas are fresh, the language can't be vulgar.
In any case, writing poetry isn't important.
Our main jobs are spinning and sewing.
If we've time to spare, the proper thing for us is to read a few chapters of some improving book."
Xiangyun, having agreed to this, suggested, "As we wrote poems on the begonia yesterday, I wonder if we could write about the chrysanthemum this time?"
"Yes, the chrysanthemum is suitable for autumn.
The only objection is that too many poems have been written about it in the past."
"That's what I feel.
We could hardly avoid plagiarism."
Baochai thought this over.
"I know," she said presently.
"We'll lay stress not on the chrysanthemum but on the people looking at it, and set themes about their reactions to the flower.
In this way we shall have tributes to the chrysanthemum as well as descriptions of feeling.
This hasn't been done before and can't be too stereotyped.
In fact, this combination will have freshness and distinction."
"A good idea," agreed Xiangyun.
"But how will you introduce the feeling?
Give me an example."
After a moment's thought Baochai replied, "A Dream of Chrysanthemums for instance."
"Of course.
I've got one too.
How about The Chrysanthemum's Shadow?"
"Can do, although of course it's been used before.
If we have a fair number of themes we can include it.
I've thought of another."
"Go on!"
-374 "Questioning the Chrysanthemum."
"Splendid!"
Xiangyun clapped one hand on the table.
"I know.
How d'you like Seeking Out the Chrysanthemum?"
"Good.
We may as well think of ten themes and write them out."
They ground ink and dipped in the brush.
Xiangyun wrote the themes out at Baochai's dictation, and in no time at all they had ten.
After reading them through Xiangyun said "Ten doesn't make a set.
Let's have twelve while we're about it, like those albums of calligraphy and painting."
So Baochai thought up two more, making twelve in all.
"In this case let's arrange them in the right order."
she said.
"Better still!"
cried Xiangyun.
"We shall have a chrysanthemum album."
"We'll start with Thinking of the Chrysanthemum.
After thinking of it we seek it out so number two will be visiting the Chrysanthemum.
After finding it we plant it so the third will be Planting the Chrysanthemum.
After it has been planted and flowers, we face it and enjoy it so four is Facing the Chrysanthemum.
To enjoy it further we pick it to put in a vase so five is Displaying the Chrysanthemum.
But to bring out its splendour once it is displayed we must write poems about it so six is Writing About the Chrysanthemum.
And as a verse must be accompanied by a painting, number seven is Painting the Chrysanthemum.
Even though we've been to so much trouble over it, we shan't know all its rare qualities unless we ask questions so eight is Questioning the Chrysanthemum.
If the flower seems able to understand, we are so thrilled that we want to get closer to it hence nine is Wearing the Chrysanthemum.
"This exhausts all that men can do but, as there still remain certain aspects of the flower which can be described, ten and eleven are The Chrysanthemum's Shadow and A Dream of Chrysanthemum.
And we end with The Withered Chrysanthemum to sum up all the emotions expressed before.
In this way we shall cover all the fine sights and occupations of autumn."
Xiangyun copied out the themes again in this order and read them through once more.
"What rhymes shall we decide on?"
she asked next.
"In general I'm against a hard-and-fast rhyme pattern," replied Baochai.
"Why should fine lines be restricted by fixed rhymes?
Let's not follow that petty rule but simply set themes.
We want everyone to write some fine lines for pleasure, not to make it hard for them."
"I quite agree.
In this way we should write better.
But there are only five of us.
Will each of us have to write on all twelve of these subjects?"
"No, that would be asking too much.
We'll just copy out these themes and stipulate that the seven-character lushi form is to be used.
We'll put the notice on the wall tomorrow, and people can choose whichever theme they like.
If anyone's able to write on all twelve, well and good but it's all right, too, not to do any.
The winner will be the one who writes best and fastest.
Once all twelve are done, those who haven't finished must stop and submit to the penalty."
Xiangyun agreed to this and, their plans made, the two girls put out the light and went to bed.
If you want to know what followed, read the next chapter.
Chapter 38 The Queen of Bamboos Wins First Place with Her Poems on Chrysanthemums The Lady of the Alpinia Writes a Satire upon Crabs Having laid their plans Baochai and Xiangyun slept, and the next morning the latter invited the Lady Dowager and others over to enjoy the fragrant osmanthus.
"What a delightful, refined idea," said the old lady.
"We should take advantage of such an invitation."
At noon she took Lady Wang and Xifeng to invite Aunt Xue to accompany them to the Garden, and asked "Which would be the best spot?"
"It's up to you to choose, madam," said Lady Wang.
"Preparations have been made in Lotus Fragrance Anchorage," put in Xifeng.
"The two fragrant osmanthus trees at the foot of the slope there are in full bloom, the water flowing past is green and clear, and you get a fine view from the pavilion in midstream.
It's refreshing to look at water."
The Lady Dowager approved and led the way to Lotus Fragrance Anchorage.
This pavilion, built in the middle of the lake, had windows on all four sides, twisting corridors on left and right leading to both shores and, be-hind, a winding bamboo bridge connecting it with the bank.
As they stepped on to this, Xifeng moved forward quickly to take the old lady's arm.
"Just step out boldly, Old Ancestress," she cried.
"This bamboo bridge always creaks -- it doesn't matter."
Upon reaching the pavilion they saw on the balcony two bamboo tables, one laid with cups, chopsticks and wine pots, the other with a tea-service.
Beside them a few maids were fanning two stoves one to brew tea, the other to heat wine.
"Tea -- splendid!
This is just the place for it," remarked the Lady Dowager.
"Everything here is so clean."
Xiangyun said with a smile, "Cousin Baochai helped prepare this."
"Yes, I always say she's most provident, that child, and thinks of everything."
As the old lady made this observation, she noticed two inscriptions inlaid in mother-of-pearl on the black lacquer tablets hanging on the pillars.
She asked someone to read them to her.
Xiangyun complied -774 Magnolia oars shatter the reflections of lotus Caltrops and lotus-root scent the bamboo bridge.
The Lady Dowager glanced up again at the inscription on the board above her head, then turned to Aunt Xue.
"When I was young we had a pavilion like this too at home," she said.
"It was called Pillowed Iridescence or something of the sort.
I was no bigger than these girls at that time and I used to play with my sisters there every day.
Once I slipped and fell into the water and nearly drowned!
They managed to pull me out, but a wooden bolt had gashed my head.
That's how I got this dent the size of a finger-tip on my temple here.
They were all afraid I was done for after that ducking and chill, but I recovered."
Before anyone else could comment Xifeng quipped, "If you hadn't, who'd be enjoying all this good fortune today?
Obviously our Old Ancestress was destined from birth to good luck and a long life that's why the gods dented her head to hold her good luck!
The God of Longevity originally had a dent in his head too, but it was so stuffed with good fortune it swelled up instead into a bump."
Before she had finished, the Lady Dowager and all the others were quite limp from laughing.
"This monkey's so dreadfully spoilt, she even makes fun of me," declared the old lady.
"I ought to tear out that glib tongue of yours."
"We'll presently be eating crabs," said Xifeng.
"I was afraid you might have indigestion if I didn't first make you laugh.
If you're in good spirits it doesn't matter eating a little more.
"I'll make you stay with me day and night to keep me laughing," threatened the Lady Dowager.
"I won't let you go home."
"It's because you're so fond of her, madam, that she's so spoilt," interposed Lady Wang.
"And by talking like that you'll make her even worse.
"I like her as she is."
The old lady chuckled.
"Besides, she never really oversteps the mark.
When we've no visitors we should joke and chat, so long as the young people don't break the main rules of propriety.
Why should we expect them to behave like angels?"
Now that everyone was in the pavilion tea was served, after which Xifeng set the tables.
The one at the head was for the Lady Dowager, Aunt Xue, Baochai, Daiyu and Baoyu that on the east for Xiangyun, Lady Wang, Yingchun, Tanchun and Xichun and the small one near the door on the west for Li Wan and Xifeng.
The seats at this were unoccupied, however, as they were waiting on the tables of the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang.
"Don't bring too many crabs," Xifeng told the maids.
"Fetch us ten and keep the rest in the steamer, to be brought in as we need them."
Having called for water to wash her hands, she stood by the old lady and shelled a crab, offering the meat to Aunt Xue.
But the latter declined it.
"Please don't trouble," she said.
"I prefer to do it myself."
So Xifeng gave this crab to the Lady Dowager, the second to Baoyu.
She then sent for piping hot wine and ordered some young maids to fetch powdered green beans scented with chrysanthemum leaves and fragrant osmanthus, for use when they washed their hands.
Xiangyun, after eating one crab with her guests, left her seat to help the others and also went outside to give instructions that two dishes of crabs should be sent to the concubines Zhao and Zhou.
"You're not used to entertaining," said Xifeng coming over to her.
"Go back and eat while I look after your guests for you.
I'll eat after they've left."
But Xiangyun, declining this offer, had two more tables placed on the balcony for Yuanyang, Hupo, Caixia, Caiyun and Pinger.
"Since you're seeing to things here, madam," said Yuanyang to Xifeng, "we may as well go and eat."
"Yes, go along, all of you.
Leave everything to me. "
At that Xiangyun went back to her seat and, after Xifeng and Li Wan had eaten a few hurried mouthfuls as a matter of form, Xifeng left the table again to do the honours.
Presently she stepped out on to the balcony where the maids were enjoying the crabs.
At her approach they rose and Yuanyang asked "Why have you come out here, madam?
Do let us enjoy our crabs in peace!"
"This little bitch has become quite impossible!"
cried Xifeng laughing.
"Instead of thanking me for doing your job, you're complaining.
Hurry up and pour me some wine."
Smiling, Yuanyang made haste to fill a cup and hold it to her lips.
Xifeng tossed it off.
Then Hupo and Caixia poured two more cups and held them to her lips, and she drank them too.
By this time Pinger had ready a shellful of yellow crab meat.
"Add plenty of ginger and vinegar," said Xifeng.
And when this was eaten she told them, "Sit down and go on with your meal.
I'm leaving you.
"How shameless!"
Yuanyang tittered.
"Cadging from us."
"You'd better behave," warned Xifeng.
"You know your Master Lian is in love with you and means to ask the old lady to let him have you as his concubine."
"Bah!"
Yuanyang spat out.
"What a way for a lady to talk!
I'm going to smear your face with my dirty hands to get even."
She stood up as if to carry out her threat.
"Let me off this time, good sister!"
pleaded Xifeng.
"If Yuanyang becomes a concubine, Pinger will make things hot for her."
Hupo giggled.
"Just look at her.
She's drunk a whole saucer of vinegar with less than two crabs -- that's soured her."
Pinger had just scooped out the yellow flesh of a crab, and at this gibe she aimed it at Hupo's face, laughing.
"You foul-mouthed bitch!"
she swore.
Hupo giggled and dodged so that Pinger, stumbling forward, smeared Xifeng's cheek with the crab flesh.
Xifeng, still joking with Yuanyang, cried out with a start which made everyone burst out laughing.
Unable to help joining in herself, she cursed "Damn slut!
Have you no eyes that you smear anyone?"
Pinger hastily wiped Xifeng's face and went to fetch water.
"Gracious Buddha!"
cried Yuanyang.
"This is just retribution."
"What's happened?"
called the Lady Dowager.
"What are you laughing at?
Let us into the joke."
Yuanyang and the others, still shaking with mirth, called back loudly, "Madam Lian came here to steal our crabs.
Then Pinger flared up and smeared her face with yellow crab meat.
Now mistress and maid are scrapping."
Amid general laughter the Lady Dowager said, "Do take pity on the poor thing and give her some of the smaller legs and innards."
Yuanyang cheerfully assented and cried loudly, "The table is covered with legs.
Just help yourself, madam."
Then Xifeng, having washed her face, went back to wait on the Lady Dowager.
Daiyu, the only one afraid to eat much, had contented herself with a little meat from the pincers, after which she left the table.
As soon as the old lady had had enough they all left their places to wash their hands, then strolled off to look at the flowers, play with the water or watch the fish.
"It's windy here, and you've just been eating crab, madam," said Lady Wang presently to her mother-in-law.
"You'd better go back and rest.
If you've enjoyed this you can come again tomorrow."
"Very well," replied the Lady Dowager.
"I didn't want to spoil your fun by leaving but since you suggest it, let's go."
She turned to Xiangyun.
"Don't let your cousins Baoyu and Daiyu eat too much."
When Xiangyun agreed, she advised her and Baochai, "You two had better not eat too much either.
Crabs are delicious but not very wholesome.
If you overeat you'll have a stomach-ache."
Having assented and seen her out of the Garden, they returned and ordered the tables to be cleared and reset.
"There's no need for that," Baoyu objected.
"It's time to write poems now.
Just put the wine and dishes on the big round table in the middle there.
You needn't assign seats either.
We can help ourselves and sit wherever we please.
Wouldn't that be more comfortable?"
-427 "An excellent idea," Baochai approved.
"That's all very well," said Xiangyun, "but we mustn't forget the others."
She had another table set and more hot crabs brought for Xiren, Zijuan, Siqi, Shishu, Ruhua, Yinger and Cuimo.
Two rugs were spread at the foot of the slope under the fragrant osmanthus trees for the serving-women and the younger maids, who were urged to eat and drink as much as they liked and not to come unless called.
Then Xiangyun pinned the themes on one wall.
And the others crowding round to look exclaimed "How original!
But this isn't going to be easy."
She explained why they had chosen no definite rhymes.
"Quite right too," approved Baoyu.
"I don't like hard-and-fast rhyme schemes either."
As Daiyu did not want much wine or crab, she sent her maid for an embroidered cushion and sat by the balustrade angling for fish.
Baochai played for a while with a spray of fragrant osmanthus, then leaned out of the window to toss some petals into the water so that the fish would come and nibble at them.
Xiangyun roused herself from a brown study to urge Xiren's party and the maids at the foot of the slope to eat their fill.
Tanchun, Li Wan and Xichun stood in the shade of the willows watching the waterfowl, while Yingchun, standing apart in the shade of the blossom, threaded jasmine flowers with a needle.
Baoyu first watched Daiyu fishing, then went over to make a few remarks to Baochai, after which he joined Xiren and the rest and sipped some wine with them while Xiren prepared a shellful of meat for him.
At this point Daiyu, laying down her rod, walked over to the table.
She picked up a tarnished silver pot with a plum-blossom design and chose a tiny red soapstone cup shaped like a palm leaf.
To the maid who hurried forward to pour her a drink she said "Go on with your meal.
Let me pour my own wine, that's more fun."
By now she had poured half a cup and could see it was yellow wine.
"After eating a bit of crab I've slight indigestion," she said.
"What I really want is a mouthful of hot spirits."
"There's some here," said Baoyu promptly.
He told the maids to heat a pot of spirits in which acacia flowers had been steeped.
After just one sip Daiyu put the cup down.
Baochai, coming over just then, picked up another cup and drank a mouthful before wetting her brush and ticking off the first title on the wall Thinking of the Chrysanthemum, beside which she wrote "Alpinia."
"Dear cousin," put in Baoyu hastily.
"I've got four lines already for the second.
Do leave that one for me."
"I've only just taken one, yet what a fluster you're in!"
replied Baochai mockingly.
Daiyu silently took the brush from her and ticked off the eighth subject, Questioning the Chrysanthemum, as well as the eleventh, A Dream of Chrysanthemums, writing "Bamboo" beside them.
Baoyu, the next to take the brush, ticked off the second title Visiting the Chrysanthemum and wrote "Red" by it.
Tanchun, strolling over now to look, remarked, "If no one's doing Wearing the Chrysanthemum, I'll try that."
She wagged a finger teasingly at Baoyu.
"It's just been announced that no allusions to the inner chambers are allowed, so be careful!"
Meanwhile Xiangyun had come over to tick off numbers four and five, Facing the Chrysanthemum and Displaying the Chrysanthemum, next to which she wrote her name.
"You should have a pen-name too," Tanchun objected.
"Though we've still a few pavilions and lodges at home, I'm not living there now," replied Xiangyun.
"And there's no point in using a borrowed name."
Baochai countered, "Just now the old lady said your house has a water pavilion called Pillowed Iridescence.
That's yours all right.
Even though it's in other hands now, you're after all its old mistress."
"That's right," approved the rest.
Before Xiangyun could make any move, Baoyu blotted out her name and wrote up "Iridescence" in its place.
Then, in less time than it takes for a meal, the twelve poems were finished, written out and handed to Yingchun, who copied them out on a fresh sheet of coloured Xue Tao stationery 1 , adding the pen-name of the author to each.
Li Wan and the others read them.
-840 THINKING OF THE CHRYSANTHEMUM I gaze around in the west wind, sick at heart A sad season this of red smartweed and white reeds No sign is there of autumn by the bare fence round my plot.
Yet I dream of attenuated blooms in the frost.
My heart follows the wild geese back to the distant south, Sitting lonely at dusk I hear pounding of washing blocks.
Who will pity me pining away for the yellow flowers?
On the Double Ninth Festival they will reappear.
-3948 The Lady of the Alpinia -840 VISITING THE CHRYSANTHEMUM Seize the chance to ramble out on a clear frosty day Rather than linger over wine or tea.
Who has planted this flower before the frost under the moonlight?
Whence springs this autumn glory by balustrade and fence?
Waxed sandals patter, come gaily from far away, In soaring spirits he chants endless poems If the yellow bloom will take pity on the poet, Let it welcome him with a string of cash hung from his cane.
-840 The Happy Red Prince PLANTIING CHRYSANTHEMUMS -840 With my hoe I moved them from their bed in autumn To plant them by the fence before my court An unexpected rain last night revived them, How good to see them flower in this morning's frost.
I chant a thousand poems to this autumn splendour And drunk with wine toast its cold fragrance, Seal its roots with mud and water it with spring water To keep it free from dust by the three paths to the house of the recluse.
-840 The Happy Red Prince FACING THE CHIRYSANTHEMUM -840 Brought from another plot, more precious than gold, One clump is pale, one dark Sitting bareheaded by the lonely fence, In the cold clean scent I hug my knees and chant.
None, surely, in the world as proud as you I alone, it seems, know your worth.
We should make the most of autumn, gone so soon, And facing you I treasure every moment.
-3164 Old Friend of Pillowed Iridescence -840 DISPLAYING THE CHRYSANTHEMUM -840 Music and wine gladly accompany Chrysanthemum adorning a desk with style.
By the seat dewy fragrance as if from the garden path Tossing my book aside I face a spray of autumn.
Fresh dreams penetrate the curtain in clear frost, Sunset in chill garden recalls a former visit.
You too disdain the world, for we share the same taste, Not lingering by breezy spring's peach and plum blossom.
Old Friend of Pillowed Iridescence -840 WRTITNG ABOUT THE CHRYSANTHEMUM -840 Day and night the imp of poetry assails men Skirting the fence, leaning on the rock, they start chanting With the tip of the brush, by the rime, they write fine lines, Or facing the moon croon their sweet melodies.
We may fill a page with sorrow and self-pity, But who can put into words what autumn means?
Ever since Tao Yuanming of old passed judgement This flower's worth has been sung through the centuries.
-840 The Queen of Bamboos PAITTING THE CHRYSANTHEMUM -840 Painting for pleasure after writing verses One brushes on the reds and blue s at random A thousand ink-dots form the leaves, Traces of frost stain the clustering flowers Dark and light their shadows overlap in the breeze, Under one's hand autumn exhales its fragrance.
Don't think these flowers are picked by the east fence, They are fixed to the screen for the Double Ninth Festival.
-840 The Lady of the Alpinia QUESTIONING THE CHIRYSANTHEMUM -840 My questions about autumn none can answer, Musing alone I stroll to the eastern fence.
Proud recluse, with what hermit are you taking refuge?
All flowers must bloom, what makes you bloom so late?
So lonely in dewy gardens and frosty courts, When swans fly off, crickets chirp, does your heart ache?
Say not there is none in the world worth talking to Since you understand, why don't we chat awhile?
-840 The Queen of Bamboos WEARING THE CHRYSANTHEMUM -840 Busy every day planting by the fence, picking for vases, Not to adorn himself before the mirror, The young lord of Changan is infatuated with flowers, Just as the poet of Pengze 2 was crazy for wine.
His short hair is wet with cold dew from the path, His coarse cap stained with autumn frost and fragrance This eccentric recluse is scorned by the men of today, But let them clap their hands and jeer by the roadside.
The Stranger Under the Plantain -840 THE CHRYSANTHEMUM'S SHADOW -840 The teeming, diverse shades of autumn splendour Quietly loiter about the mountain path The few lamps inside windows far or near cast their shadows, Chequered patterns of moonlight filtered through wicker fence.
The soul of cold fragrance should dwell in these reflections, Empty even in dreams the frost tracery of their spirit Tread softly and take good care of this dark sweetness, For who can discern it in his drunken eyes?
Old Friend of Pillowed Iridescence -840 A DREAM OF CHRYSANTHEMUMS -840 A refreshing sleep by the fence while autumn mellows And clouds and moonlight mingle hazily No need to envy Zhuang Zi his butterfly dream Recalling old friends, let me seek out Tao Yuanming.
In sleep the vision recedes with the flight of swans, Aroused with a start we resent the chirp of crickets Awake, to whom can I describe my grief, The infinite melancholy of cold mist and withered grass?
-840 The Queen of Bamboos -774 THE WITHERED CHRYSANTHEMUM Slowly drooping below congealed dew and heavy frost Just after a feast in its honour on the Day of Light Snow.
The pale golden petals still retain some fragrance, But the marred green leaves are withering on the stem.
Crickets chirp sadly under denuded boughs, Wild geese wing slowly through far-flung frosty clouds Next year in autumn we shall meet again, No need to sorrow over this brief parting.
The Stranger Under the Plantain As they read each poem they praised it, heaping compliments on each other.
"Let me try to pass fair judgement now," said Li Wan with a smile.
"On the whole each poem has striking lines but, speaking impartially, I rank Writing About the Chrysanthemum first, Questioning the Chrysanthemum second, and A Dream of Chrysanthemums third for all three show originality in the theme, ideas and style.
The Queen of Bamboos will have to be given first place.
Next in order of merit come Wearing the Chrysanthemum, Facing the Chrysanthemum, Displaying the Chrysanthemum, Painting the Chrysanthemum and Thinking of the Chrysanthemum."
Baoyu clapped his hands in delight at this, exclaiming, "Absolutely right.
Very fair."
"Mine didn't amount to much," Daiyu observed.
"They're rather contrived."
"But aptly so," rejoined Li Wan.
"Not stiff and overloaded."
"To my mind," continued Daiyu, "the best line of all is 'Sunset in chill garden recalls a former visit' which presents such a strong contrast.
And 'Tossing my book aside I face a spray of autumn' is perfect, leaving nothing more to be said about displaying chrysanthemums, so that she had to revert to the time before the flower was plucked and put in the vase.
Very penetrating, very subtle."
"Quite so.
Still, your line about 'sweet melodies' is even better," countered Li Wan.
Tanchun put in, "And what about the Lady of the Alpinia?
'No sign is -1120 there of autumn' and 'yet in dream I see' bring out the idea of nostalgia so vividly."
Baochai smiled and replied, "Your 'short hair wet with cold dew' and 'coarse cap stained with fragrance' do full justice to the subject too."
Xiangyun remarked gaily, "Questions like 'With what hermit are you taking refuge?'
and 'What makes you bloom so late?'
are bound to stump the flower."
Li Wan retorted, "I daresay your sitting bareheaded and hugging your knees while you chant, refusing to leave, would get on the flower's nerves too -- if it had any. "
At that there was general laughter.
"I'm last again," said Baoyu cheerfully.
"But surely my 'Who has planted this flower?'
'Whence springs this autumn glory?
', 'waxed sandals come from far away,' and 'chants endless poems' describe visiting the chrysanthemum all right?
And don't 'rain last night' and 'this morning's frost' describe the planting?
It's just that they're not up to such images as 'facing the moon croon their sweet melodies,' 'In the cold clean scent I hug my knees and chant,' 'short hair,' 'coarse cap, 'pale gold,' 'the marred green leaves are withering,' 'no sign is there of autumn' and 'seen in dreams."'
He added, "Tomorrow when I've time, I mean to write on all twelve themes."
"Your verses aren't bad," Li Wan told him.
"They're not as distinctive as the others though."
After some further discussion of the poems they called for more hot crabs and sat round the big table to eat.
"Now that we're enjoying the fragrant osmanthus and eating crabs, we should write verses about this too," said Baoyu presently.
"I've already made one.
Who else is game?"
With that he hastily washed his hands and wrote out his poem for the others.
-774 EATING CRABS Row fine to eat crabs in the cool shade of osmanthus Gaily we pile on ginger, splash vinegar on each part A true gourmand should also have wine But this creature scuttling sidewise has no heart.
In our greed we forget how hard it is to digest, Our fingers washed, the reek of its oil will remain The crab's sole function is to please men's palate, And Su Dongpo 3 laughed because its whole life it's busy in vain.
"If you call that a poem," scoffed Daiyu, "I can write you a hundred."
"No, you've exhausted your talent, you can't write any more.
All you can do is to disparage other people."
Instead of answering and without stopping to think, she picked up the brush and promptly wrote a verse -774 Girt even in death with iron armour and long spears.
On the plate, delicious, it's sat, Its pincers packed with meat like tender jade, Its shell bulging with red, tasty fat.
-960 How I love those eight succulent legs But who'll urge me to drink a thousand cups till my grief is overcome?
Let us toast this dainty at our feast today When breeze ruffles fragrant osmanthus and frost gathers on chrysanthemum.
Baoyu reading this was loud in his praise, but Daiyu tore it up and told the maids to burn it.
"Mine isn't as good as yours, so I'm burning it," she told him with a smile.
"Yours is fine.
Better than your chrysanthemum poems.
You should keep it to show other people."
"I've made a feeble attempt too," Baochai put in with a laugh.
"It's not much good, but I'll write it out to amuse you. "
She did so and they read -960 We sit, cups raised, in the shade of osmanthus and Wu-tong Mouths watering, for the Double Ninth we pine It crawls sidewise because the ways of the world are crooked, And, white and yellow , harbours a dark design.
They all exclaimed at this point in admiration.
"That's the style!"
cried Baoyu.
"My verse will have to be burned too."
Then they read on -960 Wine won't purge the smell without chrysanthemums, And ginger is needed dyspepsia to prevent What can it do now, fallen into the cauldron?
On the moonlit bank all that remains is the millet's scent.
"It takes real talent to get deep significance into such a small subject as eating crabs," the others commented.
"But as a satire, this is rather hard on the world!"
They were interrupted by Pinger's return to the Garden.
To know what her business was, you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 39 An Old Village Woman Tells Tall Stories A Romantic Youth Insists on Following Them Up On Pinger's return she was asked, "What's your mistress doing?
Why hasn't she come back?"
"She's too busy," replied Pinger, smiling.
"As she didn't get a chance to eat properly and can't come, she's sent me to ask whether there are any crabs left.
If so, I'm to take a few back for her to eat."
"There are plenty left," Xiangyun assured her.
She promptly ordered ten of the largest crabs to be brought.
"Mostly female ones if you please!"
added Pinger.
They tried to make her take a seat, but she refused.
"We insist!"
cried Li Wan laughingly.
She forced her on to the seat beside her own, filled a cup with wine and held it to her lips.
But after one hurried sip Pinger rose to go.
"Oh no, you don't," said Li Wan.
"I can see the only one who counts for you is Xifeng.
You won't listen to what I say."
She ordered some matrons to deliver the hamper of crabs and tell Xifeng that she was keeping Pinger there.
Presently a matron returned with the empty hamper.
"Madam Lian says you and the young ladies mustn't laugh at her greediness, madam," she reported.
"In this hamper are some caltrop cakes and chicken-fat rolls sent by Aunt Wang for you, madam, and the young ladies."
She then turned to Pinger.
"She says she knew, once she sent you here, you'd stay to amuse yourself but you mustn't drink too much."
"And what if I do?"
retorted Pinger, as she went on helping herself to wine and crab.
"Such a lovely girl!"
cried Li Wan, taking her arm.
"What a pity she's fated to wait on other people.
Anyone not in the know would take you for the mistress of the house."
Pinger, eating and drinking with Baochai and Xiangyun, turned her head to protest with a smile, "Don't tickle me, madam."
"My, what are these hard things?"
asked Li Wan.
"Keys," was the answer.
"Why, what valuables are you afraid of people stealing that you carry these keys about on you?
It's as I always say When Monk Tripitaka 1 was searching for Buddhist scriptures, a white horse turned up to carry him when Liu Zhiyuan 2 was fighting for the empire, a melon spirit appeared to give him armour.
In the same way, Xifeng has you.
You're her master-key.
What does she want these keys for?"
Pinger laughed.
"Now you're making fun of me in your cups, madam."
"It's true all the same," said Baochai.
"When we've nothing to do but gossip, we always agree that each single one of you girls is one in a hundred.
And the wonderful thing is that each one of you has her own good qualities."
"Providence orders all things, great and small," chimed in Li Wan.
"For instance, what would the old lady do without Yuanyang?
Nobody else, not eyen Lady Wang, dares contradict the old lady but when Yuanyang does, the old lady listens to her.
Nobody else can remember all the clothes and trinkets the old lady has, but Yuanyang remembers.
If not for her being in charge, goodness knows how many things would have been swindled out of them.
Even so, the girl's broad-minded and instead of throwing her weight about she often puts in a good word for others."
"Only yesterday," remarked Xichun with a smile, "the old lady was saying she's better than any of us."
"She's really fine," agreed Pinger.
"We others can't compare with her."
"Caixia in my mother's apartments is an honest girl too," put in Baoyu.
"Yes, she appears simple," said Tanchun, "yet she's smart.
Her Ladyship is as unworldly as a Buddha, but if she overlooks anything Caixia sees to it for her.
She keeps an eye on everything down to the least details of our father's affairs at home and outside.
So if her mistress forgets anything she quietly reminds her."
"True enough," said Li Wan.
She pointed at Baoyu, "And think what would happen in this young gentleman's rooms, if not for Xiren's good judgement.
As for Xifeng, why, even if she had the strength of the Conqueror of Chu who could lift a tripod weighing a thousand catties, how could she handle everything without Pinger here?"
"Four of us came with our mistress at the time of her marriage," said Pinger.
"But the others have either died or gone, so that now I'm the only one left."
"So much the better for you as well as for Xifeng," commented Li Wan.
"When your Master Zhu was alive we had two maids too, and I'm not the jealous type, am I?
But they bickered so much every day that after his death I married them both off while they were still young.
If there'd been just one worth keeping, I'd have someone to help me now."
Tears ran down her cheeks.
"Why let this upset you?"
said the others.
"You're better off without them."
So saying they washed their hands and went to pay their respects to the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang.
While the other maids swept the pavilion and cleared away the cups and dishes, Xiren took Pinger back with her to her room.
And once seated there she asked her "Why has no one received the allowance for this month yet?"
"It'll be coming in a couple of days," Pinger whispered.
"My mistress got this month's allowance some time ago but has loaned it out.
She'll distribute it as soon as she's collected the interest.
But mind you don't pass this on."
"I can't believe she's short of money.
Why should she put herself to all that trouble?"
Pinger smiled.
"These last few years she's been lending out this money for the monthly allowances together with her own.
The interest she gets on these loans comes to more than a thousand taels of silver a year.
"So the two of you, mistress and maid, have been using our money to get interest and kept us waiting like regular fools!"
said Xiren with a smile.
"There you go again, talking in that heartless way!
You're not short, are you?"
"No, I'm not.
I've nothing to spend money on, but I need a reserve for him."
"If you need money urgently, I still have a few taels you can be going on with.
I'll deduct it later from your allowance."
"I don't need any at the moment, but if we run out I'll send somebody to fetch it."
Pinger, having agreed to this, left the Garden and returned to her own quarters.
Xifeng was out when she got back.
But seated in her room, accompanied by the wives of Zhang Cai and Zhou Rui, were Granny Liu and Baner who had called before to ask for help.
A few maids were emptying on to the floor some sacks of dates, pumpkins and other farm produce.
They stood up when Pinger came in.
Granny Liu, who knew Pinger's status from her last visit, scrambled off the kang to greet her.
"All at home send their compliments," she said.
"We'd have come before this to pay our respects to the mistress and to you, miss, but we've been very busy on the farm.
This year we managed to get in a couple of piculs more of grain and a good crop of pumpkins, fruit and vegetables.
These here are our first pickings.
We didn't like to sell them but kept the best for you to taste.
You young ladies must be tired of the delicacies you eat every day, and you may care to try our country fare.
This is just our poor way of showing our gratitude."
Pinger thanked her for her trouble and asked her to take a seat.
Having sat down herself she urged Mrs. Zhang and Mrs. Zhou to be seated too, then told a maid to bring tea.
"You're rather flushed today, miss," remarked the stewards' wives.
"Why, even your eyes are red. "
"I know," replied Pinger.
"I really can't drink, but Madam Li Wan and the young ladies simply forced me.
I had to swallow one or two cups, which made my face red. "
"I wouldn't mind a drink myself, but nobody treats me," joked Mrs. Zhang.
"Next time you get an invitation, miss, I hope you'll take me along."
Everybody laughed.
"I saw those crabs this morning," remarked Mrs. Zhou.
"I reckon two or three of them must weigh a catty.
Three big crates like those must have weighed nearly eighty catties."
She added, "Still, I don't suppose there were enough for everyone, high and low."
"Of course not," said Pinger.
"Only people of some consequence had a couple.
Of the others, some were lucky and some weren't."
"Crabs that size cost five silver cents a catty this year," put in Granny Liu.
"That's fifty cents for ten catties.
Five times fifty makes two taels fifty three times five makes fifteen.
Together with the wine and eatables, that adds up to more than twenty taels of silver.
Gracious Buddha!
That's enough to keep us country folk for a whole year."
"Have you seen our mistress yet?"
Pinger asked her.
"Yes," replied Granny Liu.
"She told us to wait."
Looking out of the window at the sky she added, "It's getting late.
We ought to be going.
If we found the city gate closed we'd be in a fine fix."
"True," said Mrs. Zhou.
"I'll go and see what she's doing."
She went out and reappeared after some time, beaming.
"Luck must be with you today, granny," she announced.
"The two ladies have taken quite a fancy to you."
Pinger and the others asked her what she meant.
"Madam Lian was with the old lady," replied Mrs. Zhou.
"I told her quietly, 'Granny Lin wants to leave, so as to reach the city gate before it's closed.'
She said, 'She's come all that way with a load of things let her spend the night here and go back tomorrow.'
Doesn't that show she's taken a fancy to you?
"That's not all either.
The old lady happened to overhear us and asked, 'Who's this Granny Liu?'
When that was explained by Madam Lian she said, 'I've been wanting to have a chat with some experienced old soul.
Ask her over to see me.'
Who could have imagined such a stroke of luck?"
She urged Granny Liu to go at once to the Lady Dowager.
"I'm not fit to be seen," objected Granny Liu.
"Good sister, just tell her I've left."
"Go on, don't worry about that," said Pinger.
"Our old lady is good ness itself to the old and needy.
She's not haughty and high-handed like some people.
If you're shy, Mrs. Zhou and I can come with you.
So she and Zhou Rui's wife set out with Granny Lin for the Lady Dowager's quarters.
When the pages on duty at the inner gate saw Pinger, they all stood at attention.
Then two of them ran over to her, calling out a respectful greeting.
"Now what is it?"
she asked.
"It's late, miss," said one boy, smiling.
"My mother's ill and wants me to go for a doctor.
Can I have a few hours off, please?"
"A fine lot you are," cried Pinger.
"Ganging up to ask for leave in turn every day, and not reporting to the mistress either but pestering me instead.
After Zhuer went the other day, Master Lian happened to call for him and when he wasn't to be found I was blamed for giving him leave.
Now you're trying it on.
"It's quite true that his mother is ill," Mrs. Zhou confirmed.
"Do let him go, miss."
"Come back early tomorrow then," stipulated Pinger.
"And listen, I've an errand for you, so don't wait till the sun bakes your behind before coming back.
And take a message for me on your way to Lai Wang.
Tell him from the mistress that if he doesn't bring in the rest of that interest tomorrow, she doesn't want it -- he can keep it for himself."
The boy assented and made off in high spirits.
Pinger and the two others proceeded then to the Lady Dowager's apartments where all the girls from the Graden were assembled.
Granny Liu had no idea who all these beauties decked out with pearls and emeralds could be but she saw an old lady on a couch with a pretty silk-clad girl massaging her legs while Xifeng stood chatting to her.
Concluding that this was the Lady Dowager, the old woman stepped forward, smiling, and curtseyed to her.
"Greetings, Goddess of Long Life!"
she cried.
The Lady Dowager raised herself to greet her in return and ordered Mrs. Zhou to fetch a chair for her.
Baner, of course, was still too shy to pay his respects.
"How old are you, venerable kinswoman?"
asked the Lady Dowager.
Granny Liu rose to answer, "Seventy-five."
"So old, yet so hale and hearty!
Why, you're older than I am by several years.
If I live to your age, I doubt whether I shall be so spry.
"We're born to put up with hardships, madam, and you to enjoy good fortune," replied Granny Liu with a smile.
"If we were all like you, who'd do the farming?"
"And your eyes and teeth, are they still good?"
"I can't complain.
But this year one of my back teeth on the left side has come loose."
"I'm old and useless now," rejoined the Lady Dowager.
"My sight's failing, I'm hard of hearing, and my memory's going.
I can't even remember all our old relatives.
When they call I don't see them for fear they'll laugh at me, I've become so helpless.
All I can do is eat pap, sleep, or amuse myself for a while with these grandchildren when I'm bored."
Granny Liu smiled.
"That's your good fortune, madam.
We couldn't manage it even if we wanted to."
"Good fortune?
I'm nothing but a useless old thing."
Everyone laughed at that.
"Just now Xifeng told me you've brought us a lot of pumpkins and vegetables," the Lady Dowager went on.
"I've asked to have them cooked at once.
I've been longing for some freshly picked things of this kind.
Those we buy outside aren't as good as yours, straight from the fields."
"This is rough country fare but at least it's fresh," Granny Liu answered.
"We'd rather eat meat and fish ourselves, only we can't afford it."
"Now that we relatives have met, you mustn't leave with nothing to show for your visit.
If you don't dislike our place, do stay for a couple of days.
We have a garden too with fruit in it.
Tomorrow you must try some and take some home, to show you've visited your relatives here."
Xifeng also pressed Granny Lin to stay, seeing what a liking the old lady had taken to her.
"Though our place here isn't as large as your farm we have a couple of empty rooms," she said.
"Do stay for a day or two, and tell our old lady some of your village news and stories."
"You're not to make fun of her, you baggage," warned the Lady Dowager.
"She's an honest village woman, how can she stand up to your teasing?"
She told the maids to offer Baner some fruit, but with so many people about the boy dared not eat.
So she ordered them to give him some cash and sent him off to play with the pages outside.
Then Granny Liu, after sipping a cup of tea, regaled the Lady Dowager with some village gossip which quite delighted her.
Granny Liu was still holding forth when Xifeng told a maid to invite her to dinner, and the Lady Dowager sent her some of her own dishes.
Knowing how pleased the old lady was with her, Xifeng sent Granny Liu back again after her meal and Yuanyang deputed an old nurse to take her to have a bath while she picked a simple change of clothing for her.
Granny Lin, who was having the time of her life, changed quickly.
Then, seated in front of the Lady Dowager's couch, she found some more gossip to tell her.
Baoyu and the girls were there too and never having heard such talk before they found it more diverting than the ballads of blind folk-singers.
Now Granny Lin though a countrywoman was no fool.
Besides, being old and experienced she could see how delighted the old lady was and how eagerly the young people were listening.
So when she ran out of gossip she drew on her imagination.
"In our village we grow grain and vegetables year in, year out," she said.
"Spring, summer, autumn and winter, in wind and rain, what time have we to sit idle?
We just knock off for a rest each day in the fields, and I can assure you we see all kinds of queer doings.
"Last winter, for example, the snow fell for several days on end and piled up on the ground three of four feet deep.
I got up early one day and hadn't yet left the house when I heard a noise from the woodpile.
I peeped through the window, thinking it must be someone filching our firewood.
But it wasn't anybody from our village."
"I suppose it was some passer-by who felt cold," put in the Lady Dowager.
"Seeing fuel ready at hand he took some to make a fire.
That might well be."
"It wasn't a passer-by either," Granny Liu chortled.
"That's what was so strange.
Who d'you think it was, my lady?
A slip of a girl of seventeen or eighteen, pretty as a picture, with hair as glossy as oil, wearing a red tunic and a white silk skirt .
Just then a sudden commotion broke out outside.
"It's not serious," someone shouted.
"Don't alarm the old lady."
At once they asked what had happened.
A maid explained that a fire had broken out in the stables in the south court, but there was no danger as it was now under control.
The Lady Dowager, being very easily frightened, got up quickly and made them help her out to the verandah.
At sight of flames in the southeast part of the grounds she invoked Buddha in her terror, then ordered incense to be burned to the God of Fire.
Lady Wang and the others hurried over to the Lady Dowager's apartments to comfort her.
"It'll soon be put out," they assured her.
"Do go back inside, madam."
But the old lady waited till all the flames had died down before leading the whole company indoors again.
At once Baoyu asked Granny Liu "Why was that girl taking firewood when the snow lay so deep?
Did she catch cold?"
"It was this talk about firewood that caused the fire," put in his grandmother.
"Yet you still keep on asking about it.
Don't mention it any more.
Let's talk about something else."
Much against his will Baoyu had to drop the subject, and Granny Liu thought up another tale.
"To the east of our village," she said, "there lives an old woman who's over ninety this year.
She fasts and prays to Buddha every day.
And would you believe it, this so moved the Goddess of Mercy that she appeared to her one night in a dream.
'You were fated to have no descendants,' she said.
'But I've told the Jade Emperor how devout you are, and he's going to give you a grandson.'
"The fact is, this old woman had only one son.
This son, too, had just the one son but they only managed to bring him up to the age of seventeen or eighteen when he died, nearly breaking their hearts.
In due time, sure enough, another son was born to them.
He's just fourteen now, as plump and white as a snowball and the sharpest lad you ever set eyes on.
This shows, doesn't it, that there really are gods and spirits?"
This story was just the kind that appealed to the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang, hence even the latter listened with close attention.
Baoyu, however, was still trying go imagine what could have become of the girl who took the firewood, when he was addressed by Tanchun.
"Yesterday Xiangyun treated us," she said.
"When we go back let's talk over our next meeting and how to ask her back.
Suppose we invite the old lady to come and look at the chrysanthemums?"
"The old lady says she means to give a party herself in return for Xiangyun's, and we'll be invited too," replied Baoyu.
"So we'd better wait till after that."
"If we wait until it's cold, though, the old lady may not like it."
"Why not?
She enjoys rain and snow.
Better wait for the first fall of snow and then ask her to a snow party.
We'll have more fun ourselves too, writing poems in the snow.
"Writing poems in the snow?"
put in Daiyu mockingly.
"I don't think that would be half as much fun as building a woodpile and having a campfire in the snow."
Baochai and the others laughed, while Baoyu flashed a glance at Daiyu but said nothing.
As soon as the party broke up, he quietly took Granny Liu aside to ask her who the girl in her story was.
This forced the old woman to improvise again.
"In the fields just north of our village there stands a small shrine," she said.
"It wasn't built for any god or Buddha, but there was once a gentleman ...." She stopped to think of a name.
"Never mind," said Baoyu.
"Names don't matter, just tell me the story."
"This gentleman had no son, only one daughter called Mingyu," continued Granny Liu.
"She could read and write and was her parent's most precious treasure, but when she reached the age of seventeen the poor girl fell ill and died...." Baoyu stamped his foot and sighed.
"What happened afterwards?"
he asked.
"Her parents were so heartbroken that they built this shrine, had an effigy made of the girl, and kept someone there to burn incense and keep the lamp burning.
That was many years ago.
Those people are dead now, the temple is in ruins, and a spirit has taken possession of the effigy."
"It's not that a spirit's taken possession of it," he retorted quickly.
"The rule is that people of this kind are immortal."
"You don't say!
Gracious Buddha!
If you hadn't told me, I'd have sworn it was magic.
She often takes human form to roam about through the villages, farmsteads and highways, and it was she who took that firewood.
In our village they're talking of smashing up this image and razing the shrine to the ground."
"Don't let them do that!"
urged Baoyu hastily.
"It would be a great sin to destroy that shrine."
"I'm glad you told me, sir," said Granny Liu.
"When I go back tomorrow I'll stop them."
"My grandmother and my mother are both charitable people.
In fact, our whole family, old and young, like to do good deeds and give alms and they take the greatest delight in building temples and having images made.
So tomorrow I'll draw up a subscription notice to collect donations for you.
When enough contributions have come in, you can take charge of repairing the shrine and restoring the image, and every month I'll give you money for incense.
Wouldn't that be a good thing?"
"If you do that I'll have a few cash to spend too, all thanks to this young lady!"
Baoyu then asked her the name of the district and village, how far it was there and back, and just where the shrine stood.
She made up answers at random but he believed her, and on his return to his room he spent the whole night thinking the matter over.
The next morning, as soon as it was light, he sent Mingyan with several hundred cash to find the place described by Granny Liu and bring him back a clear report so that he could make further plans.
Baoyu waited hour after hour for Mingyan's return, as frantic as an ant on a hot pan.
He waited and waited till sunset, when his page came back looking very pleased with himself.
"Did you find it?"
demanded Baoyu eagerly.
"You must have got it wrong, Master Bao.
You led me a fine dance," replied Mingyan, smiling.
"It's not where you said, and the name's different too.
So it took me a whole day to track it down.
Then I found a tumbledown temple in the fields to the northeast."
Baoyu beamed with joy.
"Granny Liu's old," he said.
"Her memory probably plays tricks with her.
Well, what did you find?
Go on!"
"The temple gate faces south all right, and the place is tumbling down.
I was fed up with hunting for it, and as soon as I saw it I said to myself, 'At last!'
I marched straight in.
One look at the image, though, made me take to my heels - it's so fearfully lifelike!"
"She can take human form, so naturally she looks lifelike," replied Baoyu cheerfully.
"But it isn't a girl."
Mingyan clapped his hands together.
"It's blue -faced and red-haired -- the God of Plague!"
"You useless fool," swore Baoyu in disgust.
"You can't handle the least little job."
"I don't know what books you've been reading, Master Bao, or what nonsensical talk you've been swallowing, to send me on a wild-goose chase of this sort.
And now you say I'm useless."
"Don't get so worked up," rejoined Baoyu soothingly.
"You must try again some other day when you've time.
If she was having me on, of course there's no such place but if there is, you'll be doing a good deed and you can be sure I'll reward you handsomely."
Just then a page from the inner gate announced, "Some girls from the old lady's apartments are waiting for you, Master Bao, at the inner gate."
If you want to know what this meant, read the next chapter.
Chapter 40 The Lady Dowager Feasts Again in Grand View Garden Yuanyang Presides over a Drinking Game Baoyu hurried over at this summons and found Hupo by the screen.
"Come quickly," she urged him.
"The old lady's waiting for you."
He went to the Lady Dowager's apartments, where she was discussing with Lady Wang and the girls how to repay Xiangyun's hospitality.
'I've a suggestion," said Baoyu.
"As we're not inviting outsiders, there's no need for too many dishes let's just have a few we like.
There's no need for tables either each of us can have a teapoy with a couple of dishes we fancy, as well as a ten-compartment box of titbits and a winepot apiece.
Wouldn't that be more original?"
The Lady Dowager approved.
She sent instructions to the kitchen to prepare their favourite dainties the next day and put them in separate boxes, and to serve breakfast in the Garden too.
By the time this was settled the lamps were lit, and they retired for the night.
The next morning, as luck would have it, the weather was fine.
Li Wan rose at daybreak to supervise the matrons and maids as they swept up fallen leaves, dusted tables and chairs, and prepared the tea-services and wine vessels.
While she was doing this, Fenger arrived with Granny Liu and Baner.
"How busy you are, madam!"
remarked Granny Liu.
"I knew you wouldn't be able to leave yesterday," replied Li Wan with a smile.
"Yet you were in such a hurry to get away.
"The old lady made me stay to enjoy myself for a day," chuckled Granny Liu.
Fenger produced a bunch of keys and announced, "Madam Lian says there may not be enough teapoys out we'd better unlock the attic in the tower and fetch some down to use for a day.
She wanted to see to it herself, but she's talking with Lady Wang.
So do you mind opening the attic, madam, and having the things brought out?"
Li Wan made Suyun take the keys, and sent one of the matrons to fetch a few page boys from the inner gate.
Standing with raised head at the foot of Grand View Pavilion, she ordered them to go up and open the Tower of Variegated Splendour and carry down the teapoys one by one.
Pages, matrons and maids set to work then to bring down more than twenty, while Li Wan warned "Careful!
Steady on!
You're not being chased by ghosts.
Mind you don't bump them."
Then she turned to ask Granny Liu, "Would you care to go up too and have a look?"
The old woman needed no pressing but promptly pulled Baner up the stairs with her.
She found the attic chock-a-block with screens, tables, chairs, ornamental lanterns large and small, and other similar objects.
Although ignorant of the function of most of them, she was dazzled by their gay colours and fine workmanship.
"Gracious Buddha!"
she exclaimed.
When she withdrew the door was locked and everyone came down.
Then it occurred to Li Wan that the old Lady might feel disposed to go boating.
So on her instructions they unlocked the door once more and brought down oars, punt-poles and awnings.
Pages were also sent to the boatwomen to order two barges from the boathouse.
In the middle of this bustle, along came the Lady Dowager with a whole company of people.
"How bright and early you are, madam!"
cried Li Wan hurrying to meet her.
"I didn't think you'd have finished your toilet yet.
I'd just picked some chrysanthemums to send you.
Biyue held out a large emerald plate in the form of a lotus leaf, on which were chrysanthemums of different kinds.
The Lady Dowager selected a red one and pinned it in her hair.
Then, turning, she caught sight of Granny Liu.
"Come here and take a few flowers to wear!"
she called with a smile.
While the words were still on her lips, Xifeng pulled Granny Liu forward.
"Let me make you beautiful, granny!"
she cried.
Seizing all the flowers on the plate, she stuck them this way and that in the old woman's hair, reducing everyone present to helpless laughter.
"I don't know what meritorious deed my head's done to deserve this good fortune," cackled Granny Liu.
"What a dash I'm cutting today!"
"Why don't you pull them out and throw them in her face?"
gasped the others.
"She's got you up to look a real old vampire."
"I'm old now, but when I was young I was flighty too and fond of flowers," chuckled Granny Liu.
"So it's right I should be an old flibbertigibbet today."
While laughing and chatting they had come to Seeping Fragrance Pavilion.
Maids spread a large brocade cushion they had brought on the railing of the balcony.
The Lady Dowager, seating herself there with her back against a pillar, made Granny Liu sit beside her.
"Well, what do you think of this garden'?"
she inquired.
"Gracious Buddha!"
ejaculated Granny Liu.
"We country folk come to town before New Year to buy pictures to stick up and when we're at a loose end we often say, 'If only we could take a stroll in these pictures !'
We always reckoned the places shown were too good to be true, but coming to this garden today I can see it's ten times better than any painting.
I wish someone would paint me a picture of it to show the folk at home.
Then I'd die content."
The Lady Dowager pointed to Xichun.
"See this young grand-daughter of mine?"
she asked.
"She can paint.
Shall I get her to do a painting for you tomorrow?"
This offer so delighted Granny Liu that she hurried over to take Xichun's hand.
"Why, miss!
So young and pretty, yet so clever too -- you must be a goddess come down to the earth."
After a short rest the Lady Dowager started showing Granny Liu round, going first to Bamboo Lodge.
Inside its gate, a narrow pebbled path flanked with bamboos met their gaze.
The ground on either side of it was carpeted with dark moss.
Granny Liu left the path for the others, walking on the verge herself.
"Come up here, granny," urged Hupo taking her arm.
"That moss is slippery."
"That's all right, I'm used to it," said the old woman.
"Just go ahead, young ladies.
Take care not to get your embroidered slippers dirty."
Intent on talking, she slipped and fell with a thud, at which the whole company clapped their hands and laughed.
"You wretches!"
scolded the Lady Dowager.
"Help her up.
Don't just stand there laughing."
"That was to punish me for boasting," chuckled Granny Liu as she scrambled to her feet.
"Did you strain your back?"
asked the Lady Dowager.
"Let one of the maids pummel it."
"I'm not so finicky.
Hardly a day goes by without my falling.
How could I get someone to pummel my back each time?"
Zijuan had the bamboo portiere raised ready for them.
The Lady Dowager and others went in and took seats, after which Daiyu with her own hands brought her grandmother a covered bowl of tea on a small tray.
"No tea for us," said Lady Wang.
"Don't trouble to pour any more."
Then Daiyu told a maid to fetch her favourite chair from the window for Lady Wang.
Granny Liu, meanwhile, was struck by the brushes and inkstones on the desk by the window and the bookcase piled with books.
"This must be the young master's study," she said.
The Lady Dowager smiled and pointed at Daiyu.
"This is my grand-daughter's room."
Granny Liu looked intently at Daiyu.
"This isn't like a young lady's chamber," she remarked.
"But it's far better than the best study."
"Where is Baoyu?"
asked the Lady Dowager.
"Boating on the lake," the maids told her.
"Who ordered boats?"
"I did," replied Li Wan hastily.
"As we were fetching things from the attic just now, it occurred to me you might feel inclined for a turn on the lake, madam."
Before the old lady could answer, Aunt Xue was announced.
And even as they rose to their feet she came in.
When they had resumed their seats she remarked "You must be in good spirits, madam, to have come here so early."
"Only a minute ago I was saying all late-comers must be fined," the Lady Dowager chuckled.
"I'd no idea the offender would be you.
They chatted for a while.
Then the Lady Dowager noticed that the gauze on the window had faded.
"This gauze is pretty when new," she remarked to Lady Wang, "but it soon loses its vivid emerald colour.
Anyway, as there are no peach or apricot trees in this courtyard and the bamboos are green themselves, green gauze is out of place here.
We used to have window gauze in four or five colours, I remember.
Tomorrow we shall have to change this for her."
"When I opened the storeroom yesterday," put in Xifeng, "I saw several rolls of pink cicada-wing gauze in one of the chests.
There are several different designs -- sprays of blossom, floating clouds and bats, butterflies and flowers -- the colours so vivid and the gauze so soft, I've never seen anything like it.
I took out two rolls, thinking they'd make good coverlets."
"Bah!"
the Lady Dowager snorted.
"Everybody says there's nothing you haven't seen or done, but you don't even know what this gauze is.
You must stop bragging in future."
"However knowledgeable she may be, she can't compare with you, madam," said Aunt Xue.
"Do enlighten her and let us hear as well."
"Yes, good Ancestress, do enlighten me," begged Xifeng smiling.
Then the Lady Dowager told them all, "That gauze is older than any of you.
No wonder she mistook it for cicada-wing gauze.
As a matter off act, the two are so alike that those not in the know always mix them up.
Its proper name is soft-mist silk."
"What a charming name," cried Xifeng.
"I've seen hundreds of kinds of silk, but never heard of this one."
"How long have you lived?"
retorted the old lady.
"How many rarities have you seen?
What have you to brag about?
This soft-mist silk comes in four colours only light blue , russet, pine- green and pink .
Used for bed-curtains or window gauze, from a distance it looks like smoke or mist -- that's how it got its name.
The pink 's also called rosy-cloud gauze.
Even the Imperial gauze used in the Palace today isn't so soft and fine."
"I'm not surprised Xifeng hadn't seen it before," interposed Aunt Xue.
"I'd never even heard of it either."
By now a roll had been fetched on Xifeng's instructions.
"That's it!"
exclaimed the Lady Dowager.
"We used it first just for windows, then found it was good for quilts and bed-curtains too.
You must get some more out tomorrow and screen the windows here with some of the pink ."
Xifeng promised to attend to this while the whole party admired the material.
As for Granny Liu, her eyes were nearly popping out of her head.
"Gracious Buddha!"
she gasped.
"We couldn't afford to make clothes of this.
It seems a shame to use it for windows."
"Clothes of this don't look well," said the Lady Dowager.
Xifeng promptly showed them the lapel of the red gauze tunic she was wearing, saying, "Look at this tunic of mine."
"Very nice too," said the Lady Dowager and Aunt Xue.
"This is made nowadays for the Palace.
Still, it can't compare with the other."
"You mean to say this shoddy stuff is made for the Imperial use?"
exclaimed Xifeng.
"Why, it's not even up to the gauze made for officials."
"We must see if there's any more of the blue ," said the Lady Dowager.
"If there is, give a couple of rolls to Granny Liu to make a bed curtain.
What's left can be matched with some lining and made into lined sleeveless jackets for the maids.
Don't leave it there to be spoiled by the damp."
Xifeng agreed, and had the stuff put away.
Then the Lady Dowager rose to her feet.
"Let's stroll on," she suggested.
"Why should we stay cooped up here?"
Invoking Buddha again, Granny Liu remarked "Everyone says 'The great live in great houses.'
When I saw your room yesterday, madam, it was a grand sight with all those big cases, big wardrobes, big tables and big bed.
The wardrobes alone are bigger and higher than one of our whole rooms.
No wonder you keep that ladder in the back yard.
I couldn't think at first what it was for, as you don't sun things on the roof.
Then I saw it must be for opening the tops of wardrobes to take things out or put them in, for without a ladder how could you get up?
But this small room is even better furnished than that big one, with all these fine things -- whatever they're called -- in it.
The more I see of it, the less I want to leave."
"I'll show you better places than this," promised Xifeng.
Upon leaving Bamboo Lodge they saw a punting party out on the lake.
"Since they've got the boats ready, we may as well go aboard," suggested the Lady Dowager.
They were on their way to Purple Caltrop Isle and Smartweed Bank when they met several matrons carrying multicoloured lacquered hampers inlaid with gilt designs.
Xifeng at once asked Lady Wang where they should breakfast.
"Wherever the old lady chooses," was the reply.
The Lady Dowager, hearing this, called over her shoulder to Xifeng, "Your third cousin's place is pleasant.
Take some people there to get it ready while we go by boat."
Then Xifeng turned back with Li Wan, Tanchun, Yuanyang and Hupo, accompanied by the attendants with the food.
Having taken a short cut to the Studio of Autumn Freshness, they arranged the tables in Morning Emerald Hall.
Yuanyang remarked with a chuckle, "We often say that when the gentlemen feast outside they've someone who can raise a laugh to entertain them.
Today we've a female entertainer too."
Li Wan was too good-natured to catch on, but Xifeng knew that Granny Liu was meant.
"Yes, she should be good for some laughs today," she agreed.
Then the two of them began to lay their plans.
"You're up to no good," protested Li Wan, smiling.
"As bad as children.
Mind the old lady doesn't scold you!"
"You won't be involved.
Just leave the old lady to me," Yuanyang giggled.
As they were talking the rest of the party arrived.
They sat where they pleased and were first served tea by the maids.
Then Xifeng placed before each the ebony chopsticks inlaid with silver which she had brought wrapped in a cambric napkin.
"Bring that small cedar table over here," directed the Lady Dowager.
"I want our kinswoman to sit next to me. "
As her order was carried out Xifeng cast Yuanyang a meaning glance, and the maid led Granny Liu aside to give her some whispered instructions.
"This is the custom of our house," she concluded.
"If you disregard it people will laugh at you."
When all was ready they took seats at the tables.
All but Aunt Xue who, having breakfasted already, did not eat anything but sat on one side sipping tea.
The old lady had Baoyu, Xiangyun, Daiyu and Baochai at her table Lady Wang had Yingchun, Tanchun and Xichun while Granny Liu sat at the table next to the Lady Dowager's.
Usually Yuanyang left the younger maids to wait on the old lady during meals, holding ready her rinse bowl, whisk and handkerchief.
Today, however, she held the whisk herself and the other maids kept out of the way, realizing that she meant to bait Granny Liu.
Yuanyang, standing there, now whispered to the old woman, "Don't forget!"
"Don't worry, miss," was the answer.
Having taken her seat Granny Liu picked up the chopsticks, but found them too awkward to manage.
For Xifeng and Yuanyang had decided to give her an old-fashioned pair of square-edged ivory chopsticks inlaid with gold.
"Why, these prongs are heavier than our iron shovels," the old woman complained.
"How can I handle them?"
As everyone laughed, a matron brought in a box and stood holding it while a maid removed the cover, revealing two bowls.
Li Wan put one on the Lady Dowager's table and Xifeng set the other, containing pigeon's eggs, before Granny Liu.
The Lady Dowager urged her to make a start.
Granny Liu stood up then and declaimed at the top of her voice -800 "Old woman Liu, I vow, Eats more than any cow, And down she settles now To gobble an enormous sow. "
Then she dried up abruptly, puffing out her cheeks and staring down at her bowl.
The others had been staggered at first but now everyone, high and low, started roaring with laughter.
Xiangyun shook so uncontrollably that she sputtered out the rice she had in her mouth, while Daiyu nearly choked and collapsed over the table gasping, "Mercy!"
Baoyu fell convulsively into his grand mother's arms and she chuckled as she hugged him to her crying, "My precious!"
Lady Wang wagged one finger at Xifeng but was laughing too much to speak.
Aunt Xue, too exploded in such mirth that she sprayed tea all over Tanchun's skirt, making her upset her bowl over Yingchun, while Xichun left her seat and begged her nurse to rub her stomach for her.
As for the maids, some doubled up in hysterics, others sneaked outside to squat down in a fit of giggles, yet others controlled themselves sufficiently to fetch clean clothes for their young mistresses.
Xifeng and Yuanyang, the only ones with straight faces, urged Granny Liu to eat.
But when she picked up the chopsticks she still found them unwieldy.
"Even your hens here are refined," she remarked, "laying such tiny, dainty eggs as these.
Well, let me 'fuck' one of them."
This caused a fresh outburst of laughter.
The Lady Dowager laughed so much that tears streamed from her eyes and Hupo had to pat her on the back.
"That wretch Xifeng's up to her tricks again," she gasped.
"Don't believe a word she says."
Granny Liu was still admiring the dainty eggs and saying she wanted to "fuck" one, when Xifeng told her merrily "They cost one tael of silver each.
Better try one while they're hot."
The old woman reached out with her chopsticks but failed to secure an egg.
After chasing them round the bowl for a time she finally succeeded in catching one but as she craned forward to eat it, the egg slipped and fell to the floor.
She hastily put down her chopsticks and stooped to retrieve it.
However, a maid had already picked it up.
"A tael of silver!"
Granny Liu sighed.
"And gone without a sound."
The others had long since stopped eating to watch her antics.
"This isn't a formal banquet.
Who gave her those chop sticks?"
demanded the Lady Dowager.
"This is all the doing of that minx Xifeng.
Get her another pair."
It was, indeed, not the maids but Xifeng and Yuanyang who had brought the ivory chopsticks.
Now these were removed, an ebony pair inlaid with silver taking their place.
"After the gold comes the silver," observed Granny Liu.
"They're not as handy, though, as the ones we use.
"If there's poison in the dish," Xifeng explained, "the silver will show it."
"Poison!
If this food is poison, ours is pure arsenic.
But I'm going to finish the lot, even if it kill me."
The Lady Dowager found her so amusing as she munched away with relish that she passed her some of her own dishes, at the same time instructing an old nurse to help Baner to everything that was going.
When presently the meal ended, the Lady Dowager and some of the others adjourned to Tanchun's bedroom for a chat while the tables were cleared and another laid for Li Wan and Xifeng.
Granny Liu watching this said, "Leaving everything else aside, what I like best is the way things are done in your household.
No wonder they say, 'Good manners come from great households.
"You mustn't take offence," responded Xifeng quickly.
"We were only having fun just now."
Yuanyang promptly stepped forward too.
"Don't be cross, granny," she begged with a smile.
"Please accept my apologies."
"What a thing to say, miss!"
Granny Liu laughed.
"We were trying to amuse the old lady, why should I be cross?
When you tipped me off, I knew it was all in fun.
If I'd been annoyed I would have kept my mouth shut."
Yuanyang then scolded the maids for not serving granny with tea.
"That sister-in-law there brought me some just now," put in Granny Liu hastily.
"No more, thank you.
You ought to have your own breakfast now, miss."
"Come and eat with us," said Xifeng to Yuanyang, making her sit down at their table.
"That'll save another commotion later on.
So Yuanyang sat down with them and the matrons brought an extra bowl and chopsticks.
The three of them finished so soon that Granny Liu commented with a smile "It's a marvel to me what small appetites you have.
No wonder a gust of wind can blow you over.
"What's happened to all the left-overs?"
asked Yuanyang.
"Nothing's been done with them yet," replied the matrons.
"They're still waiting here to be shared out."
"There's more than enough for the people here," said Yuanyang.
"Choose two dishes for Pinger and send them round to Madam Lian's quarters."
"She's eaten already," put in Xifeng.
"There's no need."
"If she doesn't eat them your cat can have them," said Yuanyang.
A matron promptly chose two dishes and took them off in a hamper.
"Where's Suyun?"
Yuanyang asked next.
"They'll all eat here together," said Li Wan.
"Why single her out?"
"That's all right then," replied Yuanyang.
"Xiren's not here," Xifeng reminded her.
"You might send her a couple of dishes."
Yuanyang saw that this was done, then asked the matrons whether the boxes of titbits to go with the wine were ready yet or not.
On being told that this would probably still take some time, she sent them off to expedite matters.
Xifeng and the others now joined the rest of the party who were calling in Tanchun's room.
This was really three rooms in one, as Tanchun liked plenty of space.
On the big rosewood marble-topped desk in the centre were piles of albums by noted calligraphers, several dozen good inkstones and an array of jars and other containers holding a regular forest of brushes.
On one side a Ru -ware vase the size of a peck measure was filled with chrysanthemums white as crystal balls.
In the middle of the west wall hung a large painting by Mi Fu, Mist and Rain, flanked by a couplet in Yan Zhenqing's 1 calligraphy -800 Indolent fellow among mist and clouds, Rustic life amidst rocks and springs.
On another table was a large tripod.
To its left, on a red sandalwood stand, a big dish of Guan-ware porcelain was heaped with several dozen handsome golden Buddha's-hands.
To its right, suspended on a lacquer frame, was a white jade musical stone with a small hammer next to it.
Baner, over the worst of his shyness now, was reaching out for the hammer to strike the jade when one of the maids quickly stopped him.
Then he wanted a Buddha's-hand to eat.
Tanchun gave him one explaining that it was to play with, not to eat.
At the east end of the room stood a large bed, its leek- green gauze curtain embroidered on both sides with flowers and insects.
Baner ran over to have a look.
"Here's a cricket!"
he exclaimed.
"Here's a locust!"
Granny Liu promptly gave him a slap.
"Little wretch!"
she scolded.
"Pawing everything with your dirty hands.
If you're allowed in to look, don't raise such a rumpus.
At this Baner set up a howl and the others had to intercede to soothe him.
Meanwhile the Lady Dowager had been looking through the window gauze at the back yard.
"That wu-tung tree under the eaves looks well," she remarked.
"It's not sturdy enough though."
Just then a gust of wind carried them the strains of distant music.
"Who's having a wedding?"
she asked.
"We must be quite near the street here."
"Not near enough to hear sounds from the street," replied Lady Wang.
"It's those child-actresses of ours rehearsing their music."
"If they're rehearsing, let's get them to do it here.
It'll be a little outing for them and we'll have fun too."
Xifeng promptly sent for the actresses and gave orders for tables to be brought and a red carpet spread.
"No, let's use that lake pavilion by Lotus Fragrance Anchorage," proposed the Lady Dowager.
"Music sounds better on the water.
And we can drink in the Tower of Variegated Splendour which is roomy and within easy hearing distance."
All approved this idea.
Then with a smile to Aunt Xue the old lady said, "Let's go.
These girls don't really welcome visitors for fear their rooms may be dirtied.
We mustn't impose on them.
So let's go boating and then have a few drinks."
As everyone rose to leave Tanchun protested, "What a thing to say!
We only wish you'd come more often."
"Yes, my third grand-daughter's good that way," said the old lady.
"It's Daiyu and Baoyu who are so pernickety.
On our way back, when we're tipsy, we must go there just to annoy them."
They trooped out, laughing, and soon reached Watercress Isle where some boatwomen from Suzhou had punted two pyrus-wood boats.
Into one of these they helped the Lady Dowager, Lady Wang, Aunt Xue, Granny Liu, Yuanyang and Yuchuan.
Li Wan followed them and so did Xifeng, who took her stand in the prow meaning to punt.
"It's not as easy as it looks!"
warned the Lady Dowager from the cabin.
"We're not on the river, it's true, but it's fairly deep here.
So don't try, and come inside at once."
"It's quite safe," cried Xifeng.
"Don't worry, Old Ancestress."
She pushed off with a shove for the middle of the lake, but when the small overloaded boat started rocking she thrust the pole into the hands of a boatwoman and hastily squatted down.
Yingchun and the other girls followed in the second boat with Baoyu, while the rest of the attendants walked along the bank.
"How disgusting those withered lotus leaves look," remarked Baoyu.
"Why not get people to pull them out?"
"What time has there been for that?"
countered Baochai with a smile.
"We've been out here enjoying ourselves every day recently."
Daiyu put in, "I don't like Li Shangyin's 2 verses except for that single line -800 'Leave the withered lotus to hear the patter of rain.
But now you two don't want to leave them."
"That's a good line," agreed Baoyu.
"All right, we won't have them pulled out."
They had now reached Reed Creek by Flowery Harbour.
In the shade here chill penetrated their very bones, while their awareness of autumn was heightened by the withered grass and caltrops on both sides.
The Lady Dowager fixed her eyes on the airy lodge on the bank.
"Isn't that where Baochai lives?"
she asked.
They told her it was.
At once she ordered the boats to go alongside and, climbing the stone steps to Alpinia Park, they were greeted by a strange fragrance.
The advance of autumn had deepened the green of the rare plants and creepers there, from each of which hung charming clusters of berries like coral beads.
The room which they now entered was spotless as a snow cave, with hardly an ornament in the whole place.
The desk was bare except for a rough crackleware vase with some chrysanthemums in it, two sets of books and a tea-service.
The blue gauze bed-curtains and bedding were also of the simplest.
"What a goose this child is!"
cried the Lady Dowager.
"Why not ask your aunt for some knick-knacks?
It didn't occur to me, I just didn't think.
Of course you left all your own things at home."
Having told Yuanyang to be sure to fetch some curios, she called Xifeng to task.
"Why didn't you send over some pretty things for your cousin?
How very stingy!"
"She wouldn't have them," explained Lady Wang and Xifeng.
"She returned all the ones we sent."
"She doesn't care for such things at home either," put in Aunt Xue.
"This will never do."
The old lady shook her head.
"She may have simple tastes, but this wouldn't look well if relatives were to call.
Besides, it'll bring bad luck for girls, this austerity.
Why, in that case we old women ought to live in stables!
You've all heard those descriptions in ballads and operas of the elegance of young ladies' boudoirs.
Maybe these girls of ours can't compare with those young ladies, but they shouldn't go to the other extreme either.
When we've knick-knacks ready at hand why not display them?
Of course, if your tastes are simple you can have less.
"I used to have a flair for decorating rooms, but now that I'm old I haven't the energy.
These girls should learn how to fix up their rooms too.
The only trouble is if you've a vulgar taste, for then you'll make even handsome things look frightful but I wouldn't call our girls vulgar.
Now let me fit out this room for you, and I promise it'll be in quiet yet excellent taste.
I've a couple of nice things which I've managed to keep by not allowing Baoyu to set eyes on them -- if he had, they'd have disappeared."
She called Yuanyang over and ordered, "Fetch that miniature rock garden, that little gauze screen and the dark steatite tripod.
Those three things will do nicely for the desk.
And fetch those white silk bed-curtains with the ink painting and calligraphy in place of these."
"Very good, madam," said Yuanyang.
"But those things are in some cases in the east attic.
They may take a little finding.
Suppose I get them tomorrow?"
"Tomorrow or the day after, it doesn't matter.
Don't forget, that's all."
After sitting a little longer they went on to the Tower of Variegated Splendour, where Wenguan and the other young actresses paid their respects and asked which tunes they should play.
"Just choose a few you want to rehearse," replied the Lady Dowager.
Thereupon the actresses withdrew to Lotus Fragrance Anchorage.
By now Xifeng and her helpers had everything in perfect order.
There were two couches on the north side, left and right, spread with brocade cushions and velvet coverlets.
In front of each couch stood two carved lacquer teapoys of different shapes with pyrus-blossom, plum-blossom, lotus and sun flower designs, some square, some round, one of which held an incense-burner, a vase and a box of various sweetmeats.
The other was empty, ready for their favourite dishes.
These two couches with four teapoys were for the Lady Dowager and Aunt Xue.
Then there were a chair and two teapoys for Lady Wang, while the others had one chair and teapoy apiece.
Granny Liu's seat was on the east below it was that of Lady Wang.
On the west sat Xiangyun, Baochai, Daiyu, Yingchun, Tanchun and Xichun in that order with, last of all, Baoyu.
Li Wan and Xifeng had seats outside the inner screen, within the third row of balustrades.
The designs on the comfit-boxes matched those of the teapoys.
Everyone also had a tarnished silver wine-pot with engraved designs and variegated cloisonn cup.
As soon as the party was seated the Lady Dowager proposed, "Let's begin with a few cups of wine.
It would be fun to play a drinking game."
"I know you're good at drinking games, madam," chuckled Aunt Xue.
"But how can we play them?
If you just want to get us drunk, let's simply drink a few cups more apiece."
"How modest you are today!"
retorted the Lady Dowager.
"Do you find me too old for this company?"
"I'm not being modest.
I'm afraid of getting laughed at for giving the wrong answer.
"Even if we can't answer," interposed Lady Wang, "it only means drinking an extra cup.
And anyone feeling tipsy can go and lie down.
No one will laugh at us.
"Very well then," Aunt Xue agreed.
"But you must start off with a cup, madam."
"Of course."
The Lady Dowager drained her cup.
Xifeng stepped forward to propose, "If we're to have a game, let Yuan-yang take charge."
The whole party agreed, knowing that it was always Yuanyang who made the rules for the old lady's drinking games.
So Xifeng made her join them.
"If you're joining in, there's no reason why you should stand," said Lady Wang.
She then ordered a young maid to fetch a chair and put it by Xifeng's or Li Wan's table.
After making a show of declining, Yuanyang took the seat with thanks and drank a cup, after which she announced "Drinking rules are as strict as martial law.
Now that I'm in charge I'll be no respecter of persons -- anybody who disobeys me must pay a forfeit."
The others smiled and Lady Wang said, "Of course.
Hurry up and tell us the rules."
But before Yuanyang could speak Granny Liu left her seat, waving one hand in protest.
"Don't make fun of me like this.
I'm leaving," she declared.
"That won't do," chuckled the others.
Yuanyang ordered some maids to drag Granny Liu back to her table.
They did so, giggling, while she pleaded to be let off.
"Anybody who speaks out of turn again will be made to drink a whole pot of wine," warned Yuanyang.
At this the old woman held her peace.
"I shall use three dominoes," announced Yuanyang.
"We'll start with the old lady and go round in turn, ending with Granny Liu.
For example, I'll take a set of three dominoes and read out what's on each of the three in turn, ending with the name of the set.
You must say either a line of classical poetry, a proverb or an adage after each and they must rhyme.
A cup of wine is the forfeit for any mistake."
Laughingly they all approved and begged her to start.
"Here's a set," said Yuanyang.
"On the left is the 'sky'" "The sky is blue on high," responded the Lady Dowager.
"Bravo!"
applauded the others.
"In the centre's a 'five and six,'" Yuanyang continued.
"Six bridges with the scent of plum admix."
"The last piece is 'six and one."'
"From fleecy clouds rises a round red sun."
"Together they make a 'ghost distraught. '"
"By his leg the ghost-catcher he's caught."
While the whole party laughed and cheered, the Lady Dowager tossed off a cup of wine.
Then Yuanyang resumed, "Here's another set.
The one on the left is a 'double five. '"
Aunt Xue responded "Plum blossom dances when soft winds arrive."
"A 'double five' again here on the right."
-400 "In the tenth month plum blossom scents the height."
"In the middle 'two and five' make seven."
"The Weaving Maid and Cowherd 3 meet in Heaven."
"The whole O'er the Five Peaks the young god wends his way."
"Immortal joys are barred to mortal clay."
All applauded Aunt Xue's performance and she drank a cup.
"Here's another set," said Yuanyang.
"On the left 'two aces' combine."
Xiangyun capped this "The sun and moon on earth and heaven shine."
Yuanyang continued, "On the right 'double aces' are found."
-400 "The idle flowers fall, noiseless, to the ground."
"In the middle, a 'four and a one. '"
"Red apricot leans on clouds beside the sun."
"Together The cherries ripen nine times in all."
"Birds in the Palace orchard make them fall."
Her turn finished, Xiangyun drained her cup.
"Next one," said Yuanyang.
"On the left is a 'double three. '"
Baochai responded, "Pairs of swallows chirp merrily."
"Another 'double three' upon the right."
-400 "The wind-trailed weeds seem belts of malachite."
"In the middle, 'three and six' make nine."
"Three hills across the azure sky incline."
"Together A lonely boat moored by a chain."
"The wind and waves bring sorrow in their train."
In conclusion Baochai drank her wine.
Yuanyang resumed, "The sign of 'heaven' on the left."
Daiyu answered, "A fair season, a season bereft."
4 Baochai turned to dart her a glance, but for fear of a penalty Daiyu ignored her.
Yuanyang continued, "In the middle a 'screen' finely wrought."
"No maid a message to the gauze window has brought."
5 "That leaves only eight, by 'two and six' shown."
"Together they pay homage at the jade throne."
"Combined A basket in which to gather posies."
"On her fairy wand she carries peonies."
Having finished her turn Daiyu took a sip of wine.
Yuanyang went on, "On the left, 'four and five' make nine."
Yingchun responded, "The peach blossom is heavy with rain."
"Fine her!
Fine her!"
cried the others.
"That doesn't rhyme.
Besides, why peach blossom?"
Yingchun smiled and took a sip.
The fact is that Xifeng and Yuanyang were so eager to hear Granny Liu make a fool of herself that they had urged the others to give wrong answers, so that all were fined.
When it came to Lady Wang's turn, Yuanyang answered for her.
Then it was Granny Liu's turn.
"We country folk sometimes get together and play this when we've nothing better to do," said the old woman.
"Mind you, our answers aren't so fine-sounding as yours.
Still, I suppose I must try."
"It's easy," they assured her.
"Just go ahead, it doesn't matter."
Smiling, Yuanyang announced, "On the left, 'four and four' make a man.
Granny Liu thought this over, then suggested, "A farmer?"
The company roared with laughter.
"Good," the Lady Dowager encouraged her.
"That's the style."
"We country people can only talk about the things we know," said Granny Liu, laughing herself.
"You mustn't make fun of me."
Yuanyang continued, "'Three and four,' green and red, in the centre."
"A big fire burns the hairy caterpillar."
The others chortled, "That's right.
Go on in your own way.
Yuanyang said, "On the right a really fine 'double ace. '"
"A turnip and head of garlic in one place."
Giggles broke out again.
Yuanyang went on, "They make up 'flowers' in all."
Gesturing with both hands Granny Liu responded, "And a huge pumpkin forms when the flower fall."
The others were shaking with laughter when they heard a commotion outside.
What had happened will be told in the next chapter.
Chapter 41 Baoyu Sips Tea in Green Lattice Nunnery Granny Liu Succumbs to Wine in Happy Red Court Granny Lius gestures and response, A huge pumpkin forms when the flowers fall, caused a fresh glae of mirth.
After tossing off the cup of wine, in the hope of wine, in the hope of raising another laugh she observed To tell the truth, Im clumsy.
And now that Im tipsy, unless Im very careful, I may smash this porcelain cup.
If youd given me a wooden one it wouldnt matter even if I dropped it.
Once more everybody laughed.
If you really prefer wooden cups Ill fetch some, offered Xifeng.
But first I must warn you that the wooden cups arent like porcelain ones they come in a set, and you must drink from every cup in the set.
The old woman thought I was only trying to raise a laugh, but it seems they really do have them.
When Ive dined with the village gentry Ive seen plenty of gold and silver cups, never any made of wood.
I know These must be wooden bowls that the children use.
She just wants to fool me into drinking more.
Never mind, this wines no stronger than mead anyway, so I neednt be afraid of drinking a bit extra.
So she said, Fetch them, and well see.
Xifeng told Fenger Bring that set of ten cups carved out of bamboo root on the bookshelf in the inner room.
The maid assented, but as she was about to go on this errand Yuanyang put in with a smile I know that set, its too small.
Besides, you just said wood and it wont look right if now you produce bamboo.
Better fetch from our place that large set of ten cups made out of boxwood roots.
Let her drink from those.
Xifeng thought this a better idea, so Yuanyang sent someone to fetch them.
These cups when brought filled Granny Liu with amazement and admiration.
Amazement because all ten fitted into each other, the largest being the size of a small basin and even the smallest as big as the cup in her hand.
Admiration at the fine landscapes, trees and figures carved on them, as well as the seals and inscriptions.
Just give me that small one, she said hastily.
I cant use so many.
No, you cant just have one, chuckled Xifeng.
None of our family has ever ventured to use this set, not having a big enough capacity for it.
As you asked for it, granny, and we went to all the trouble of fetching it, you must drink from each cup in turn.
I darent!
exclaimed Granny Liu in consternation.
Dear madam, do let me off.
The Lady Dowager, Aunt Xue and Lady Wang, knowing that she was too old to stand this, made haste to intervene.
She mustnt drink too much, they said.
Itll do if she just empties the biggest cup.
Amida Buddha!
cried the old woman.
Let me use the small one, and put that big one aside.
Ill take it home to drink up little by little.
All Yuanyang could do was to have one large cup filled, and Granny Liu raised this in both hands to her lips.
Go easy, warned both the Lady Dowager and Aunt Xue.
Mind you dont chock.
Aunt Xue urged Xifeng to give her some food with the wine.
What would you like, granny?
Xifeng asked.
Just name it and Ill feed you some.
How can I tell what these dishes are?
said Granny Liu.
They all look good to me.
Give her some fried egg-plant, proposed the Lady Dowager with a smile.
Xifeng did so, picking up the food with her chopsticks and putting it into Granny Lius mouth.
You must eat egg-plant every day, she remarked.
Taste this of ours and see how you like it.
Dont try to fool me, cackled Granny Liu.
If egg-plant tasted like this, wed stop growing other crops just stick to egg-plant.
It really is eggplant, they assured her.
Were not fooling you.
Really egg-plant, is it?
marvelled the old woman.
All this time Id no idea.
Give me some more, madam, to chew more carefully.
Xifeng accordingly fed her another mouthful.
After savouring it slowly Granny Liu said, It does taste a little like egg-plant, but still its quite different.
Tell me how you prepared this, so that I can cook some for myself.
Its quite simple, replied Xifeng, twinkling.
Pick some early eggplant and peel it, keeping only the best part, which must be cut into small pieces and fried with chicken fat.
Then get some chicken breast, fresh mushrooms, bamboo shoots, dried mushrooms, spiced dried beancurd and various kinds of preserved fruit.
Dice these too and boil them with the egg-plant in chicken soup, then add sesame oil and pickles and store it in a tightly-sealed porcelain jar.
Thats all.
Granny Liu shook her head and stuck out her tongue in amazement.
Gracious Buddha!
No wonder it tastes so good, cooked with a dozen chickens.
While talking she had slowly finished the wine and now she started examining the cup.
You havent drunk enough yet, said Xifeng.
Have another cupful.
Not on your life!
It would kill me.
Its just that I admire pretty things like this.
What workmanship!
Now that youve finished drinking from it, put in Yuanyang, tell us what wood its made of.
Im not surprised you dont know, miss.
Granny Liu smiled.
Living behind golden gates and embroidered screens, what should you know about wood?
But we hobnob with wood all day long, sleep on wooden pillows, rest on wooden stools and even eat the bark of trees in time of a famine.
Seeing it and hearing and talking about it all the time, I can naturally tell good wood from bad and true from false.
Well now, let me see what this is.
She was scrutinizing the cup carefully as she spoke.
Such a family as yours would certainly have nothing cheap, nor would you use any wood thats easily come by.
Judging by the weight of this, it cant be fir, it must be pine wood.
The whole party had exploded in fits of mirth when a serving-woman came in to tell the old lady The young actresses have all gone to Lotus Fragrance Anchorage and are waiting for Your Ladyships instructions.
Should they start their performance now or wait a while?
Yes, wed forgotten them, chuckled the Lady Dowager.
Tell them to start.
Soon after the serving-woman left on this errand they heard the lilting strains of flutes and pipes.
The breeze was light, the air clear, and this music coming through the trees and across the water refreshed and gladdened theirhearts.
Baoyu could not resist filling his cup with wine, which he tossed straight off.
He had just poured himself another cup when he saw his mother, who also wanted a drink, send for freshly-heated wine.
He promptly took his cup over and held it to her lips.
She took two sips.
When presently the heated wine arrived, Baoyu returned to his place while Lady Wang rose from her seat, holding the wine-pot.
At this all the rest, including Aunt Xue, stood up.
At once the Lady Dowager told Li Wan and Xifeng to take the pot.
Make your aunt sit down, she said.
Lets not be so formal.
Lady Wang relinquished the pot then to Xifeng and resumed her seat.
How pleasant it is today, remarked the Lady Dowager cheerfully.
Lets all have a couple of drinks.
Having urged Aunt Xue to drink she said to Xiangyun and Baochai, You two must drink a cup too.
And even though your cousin Daiyu cant take much, we wont let her off either.
With that she drained her own cup so that Xiangyun, Baochai and Daiyu had to follow suit.
Now the music, on top of the wine, set Granny Liu waving her arms and beating time with her feet for sheer delight.
Baoyu slipped across to whisper in Daiyus ear Look at Granny Liu!
When the sage king of old played music, all the hundred beasts started dancing, quipped Daiyu.
Today weve just this one cow.
The others tittered.
Presently the music stopped and Aunt Xue rising from her seat suggested, Weve all had enough to drink, havent we?
Lets go for a stroll before sitting down again.
As this suited the Lady Dowager, they all got up and she led the way outside.
In the hope of some freash diversion, she took Granny Liu to a grove at the foot of a hill and led her to and fro, telling her the names of the different trees, flowers and rocks.
After digestingall this information the old woman remarked, Fancy, in town its not only the people who have class, the birds are high-class too.
Why, when they come to this place of yours, they grow so clever they can even talk.
Baffled by this the others asked, What birds have grown so clever they can talk?
I know that green bird with the red beak on the golden perch in the corridor, she said.
Hes a parrot.
But how come that black crow in the cage has grown a phoenix-lile crest and learned to talk too?
This provoked a fresh burst of laughter.
Soon some maids came to ask if they would take some refreshments.
After all that wine, were not hungry, replied the Lady Dowager.
Still, bring the things here and those who want to can help themselves.
The maids fetched two teapoys and also two small hampers.
These when opened were seen to contain two different confections each.
In one were cakes made of ground lotus-foot flavoured with fragrant osmanthus, and pine-kernel and goose-fat rolls.
In the other were tiny fried dumplings no more than one inch long.
Whats the stuffing in these?
asked the Lady Dowager.
Some servants told her, Crab-meat.
The old lady frowned.
Who wants anything so greasy?
The other confection, small coloured pastries fried with cream, did not appeal to her either.
Aunt Xue took a roll when she was pressed, but after one bite she handed it to a maid.
Granny Liu was struck by the daintiness and variety of the small pastries.
Selecting one shaped like a peony she said The cleverest girls in our village couldnt make scissor-cuts as good as this.
Im longing to try one, but it seems a shame to eat them.
It would be nice to take some back as patterns for the folk at home.
Everyone laughed.
When you go, promised the Lady Dowager, Ill give you a jarful to take back with you.
First try some while theyre hot.
The others simply picked out one or two titbits which took their fancy, but Granny Liu had never tasted anything of the sort before.
It hardly seemed possible that these small dainty objects could be very filling, and so she and Baner sampled some of each until presently half were gone.
Xifeng had the remainder put on two plates and sent in a hamper to the actresses.
Now Dajies nurse brought her along and they played with her for a while.
The child was amusing herself with a pomelo when she noticed Baners Buddhas-hand and wanted it.
Although the maids promised to fetch her one too, she was unwilling to wait and burst into tears.
At once they gave the pomelo to Baner and induced him to part with his Buddhas-hand.
He had played with it long enough by then and now had both hands full with the cakes he was eating besides, this fragrant round pomelo seemed more amusing so, kicking it about like a ball, he cheerfully relinquished the Buddhas-hand.
As soon as they had finished this collation the Lady Dowager took Granny Liu to Green Lattice Nunnery.
Miaoyu promptly ushered them into the courtyard, luxuriant with trees and flowers.
Its those who live the ascetic life, after all, who have time to improve their grounds, observed the Lady Dowager.
These look better-kept than other places.
As she spoke, they were walking towards the hall for meditation on the east side, and Miaoyu invited them to go in.
Weve just been having wine and meat, said the old lady.
As youve an image of Buddha inside, it would be sacrilege.
Well just sit in the outside room for a while and have a cup of your good tea.
Miaoyu at once went to make tea.
Baoyu watched the proceedings carefully.
He saw Miaoyu bring out in her own hands a carved lacquer tea-tray in the shape of crab-apple blossom, inlaid with a golden design of the cloud dragon offering longevity.
On this was a covered gilded polyehrome bowl made in the Cheng Hua period, which she offered to the Lady Dowager.
I dont drink Liuan tea, said the old lady.
I know, replied Miaoyu smiling.
This is Patriarchs Eyebrows.
What water have you used?
Rain-water saved from last year.
The Lady Dowager drank half the bowl and passed the rest with a twinkle to Granny Liu, urging her to taste the tea.
The old woman drank it straight off.
Quite good, but a bit on the weak side, was her verdict, which made everyone laugh.
It should have been left to draw a little longer.
All the others had melon- green covered bowls with golden designs of new Imperial kiln porcelain.
Having served tea, Miaoyu plucked at the lapels of Baochais and Daiyus clothes and they went out with her, followed surreptitiously by Baoyu.
She invited the two girls into a side room, where Baochai sat on a couch and Daiyu on Miaoyus hassock, while the nun herself fanned the stove and when the water boiled brewed some fresh tea.
Baoyu slipped in then and accused them teasingly So youre having a treat here in secret!
The three girls laughed.
What are you doing here?
Theres nothing here for you.
Miaoyu was just looking for cups when an old nun came in bringing the used bowls.
Dont put away that Cheng Hua bowl, cried Miaoyu hastily.
Leave it outside.
Baoyu knew that because Granny Liu had used it, she thought it too dirty to keep.
Then he saw Miaoyu produce two cups, one with a handle and the name in uncial characters Calabash Cup.
In smaller characters it bore the inscriptions Treasured by Wang Kai of the Jin Dynasty and In the fourth month of the fifth year of the Yuan Feng period 2 of the Song Dynasty, Su Shi of Meishan saw this cup in the Imperial Secretariat.
Miaoyu filled this cup and handed it to Baochai.
The other, shaped like a small alms-bowl, bore the name in the curly seal script Rhinoceros Cup.
Having filled this for Daiyu, she offered Baoyu the green jade beaker that she normally drank from herself.
I thought that according to Buddhist law all men should be treated alike, said Baoyu with a grin.
Why give me this vulgar object when they get such priceless antiques?
Vulgar object!
retorted Miaoyu.
I doubt if your family could produce anything half as good, and thats not boasting either.
As people say, Other countries, other ways.
Here with a person like you, gold, pearls, jade and jewels must all count as vulgar.
Very gratified by this remark, Miaoyu produced a huge goblet carved out of a whole hamboo root which was covered with knots and whorls.
Heres the only other one I have, she said.
Can you manage such a large one?
Of course I can!
declared Baoyu delightedly.
Even if you can, Ive not so much tea to waste on you.
Have you never heard the saying First cup to taste, second to quench a fools thirst, third to water an ox or donkey?
What would you be if you swallowed such an amount?
As the three others laughed, Miaoyu picked up the pot and poured the equivalent of one small cup into the goblet.
Baoyu tasted it carefully and could not praise its bland purity enough.
Youve your cousins to thank for this treat, observed Miaoyu primly.
If youd come alone, I wouldnt have offered you tea.
Im well aware of that.
Baoyu chuckled.
So Ill thank them instead of you.
So you should, said the nun.
Is this made with last years rain-water too?
asked Daiyu.
Miaoyu smiled disdainfully.
Can you really be so vulgar as not even to tell the difference?
This is snow I gathered from plum-blossom five years ago while staying in Curly Fragrance Nunnery on Mount Xuanmu.
I managed to fill that whole dark blue porcelain pot, but it seemed too precious to use so Ive kept it buried in the earth all these years, not opening it till this summer.
Today is only the second time Ive used it.
Surely you can taste the difference?
How could last years rain-water be as light and pure as this?
Daiyu, knowing her eccentricity, did not like to say too much or stay too long.
After finishing her tea she signalled to Baochai and the two girls left, followed by Baoyu.
As he was leaving he said with a smile to Miaoyu, That bowl may have been contaminated, but surely its a pity to throw it away?
I think youd do better to give it to that poor woman, whod make enough by selling it to keep her for some time.
Dont you agree?
After a little reflection Miaoyu nodded.
All right, she said.
Its a good thing Id never drunk out of it, or Id have smashed it.
But I cant give it to her myself.
If you want to give it to her, Ive no objection.
Go ahead and take it.
Of course, he chuckled.
How could you speak to the likes of her?
Youd be contaminating yourself.
Just let me have it.
Miaoyu sent for the bowl and had it handed to him.
As he took it he said, After weve gone, shall I send a few pages with some buckets of water from the stream to wash your floors?
Thats a good idea.
She smiled.
Only make them leave the buckets by the wall outside the gate.
They mustnt come in.
Of course not.
He withdrew, the bowl in his sleeve, and entrusted it to one of his grandmothers small maids with the instruction, Give this to Granny Liu to take home tomorrow.
By this time the Lady Dowager was ready to leave, and Miaoyu did not press her hard to stay but saw them out and closed the gate behind them.
The Lady Dowager, feeling rather tired, told Lady Wang and the girls to go and drink with Aunt Xue while she herself had a rest in Paddy-Sweet Cottage.
Xifeng ordered a small bamboo sedan-chair to be brought.
The old lady seated herself in this and was carried off by two serving-women, accompanied by Xifeng, Li Wan and all her own maids and older serving-women.
Meanwhile Aunt Xue had taken her leave too.
Lady Wang, having dismissed the actresses and given what was left in the hampers to the maids, was free to lie down on the couch vacated by her mother-in-law.
She told a small maid to lower the portiere and massage her legs.
When the old lady wakes, come and let me know, she ordered the servants.
With that she settled down for a nap, and the rest of the party dispersed.
Baoyu, Xiangyun and the other girls watched the maids put the boxes of titbits on the rocks.
Then, some sitting on the rocks or grass, some leaning against trees or strolling by the lake, they niade very merry.
Yuanyang arrived presently to take Granny Liu for a stroll, and the rest of them tagged along to watch the run.
When they reached the arch erected for the Imperial Consorts visit home, Granny Liu exclaimed My word, what a big temple!
She plumped down to kowtow, making everyone double up with laughter.
Whats so funny?
she asked.
I know the words on this arch.
We have plenty of temples like this where I live, all with arches like this one here.
The characters on it are the name of the temple.
What temple is this?
they demanded.
Granny Liu looked up and pointed at the inscription.
Splendid Hall of the Jade Emperor, isnt it?
They laughed and clapped and would have gone on teasing her, but Granny Lius stomach suddenly started to rumble.
Hastily asking one of the younger maids for some paper, she set about loosening her clothes.
No, no!
Not here!
they cried, nearly in hysterics.
An old nurse was told to take her to the northeastern corner.
Having shown her the way, the old servant took the chance to amble off to have a rest.
Now the yellow wine which Granny Liu had been drinking did not agree with her and to quench her thirst after eating all that rich food she had drunk so much tea that her stomach was upset.
She remained squatting for some time in the privy.
When she emerged the wine had gone to her head, and squatting so long had left the old creature too dizzy to remember the way .she had come.
She looked round.
Trees, rocks, towers and pavilions stretched on every side, but having no idea how to reach these different places she could only hobble slowly down a cobbled path until she came to a building.
After searching for a long time for the gate, she saw a bamboo fence.
So they have beantrellises here too, she thought.
Skirting the hedge, shereached a moon-gate and stepped through it.
Before her was a pool five or six feet across, its banks paved with flag-stones, a clear green brook flowing through it, and lying across it a long slab of white stone.
She crossed over this stone to a cobbled path which, after a couple of bends, brought her to a door.
The first thing she saw as she entered it was a girl, smiling in welcome.
The young ladies ditched me, said Granny Liu hastily.
I had to knock about till I found this place.
When the girl did not answer, the old woman stepped forward to take her hand and bang!
bumped her head painfully on a wooden partition.
Looking carefully at it, she found it was a painting.
Strange!
How could they make the figure stick out like a real person?
Touching it, however, she found it was flat all over.
With a nod and couple of sighs of admiration she moved on to a small door over which hung a soft green flowered portiere.
She lifted this, stepped through and looked around.
The four walls here were panelled with cunningly carved shelves on which were displayed lyres, swords, vases and incense-burners.
They were hung moreover with embroidered curtains and gauze glittering with gold and pearls.
Even the green glazed floor-tiles had floral designs.
More dazzled than ever she turned to leave but where was the door?
To her left was a bookcase, to her right a screen.
She had just discovered a door behind the screen and stepped forward to open it when, to her amazement, her son-in-laws mother came in.
Fancy seeing you here!
exclaimed Granny Liu.
I suppose you found I hadnt been home these last few days and tracked me down here.
Which of the girls brought you in?
The other old woman simply smiled and did not answer.
How little youve seen of the world, chuckled Granny Liu.
The flowers in this garden are so fine, you just had to go picking some to stick all over your own head for shame!
Again the other made no reply.
Suddenly Granny Liu recalled having heard that rich folk had in their houses some kind of full-length mirror.
It dawned on her that this was her own reflection.
She felt it with her hand and looked more carefully.
Sure enough, it was a mirror set in four carved red sandalwood partitions.
This has barred my way.
How am I to get out?
she muttered.
Then the pressure of her fingers produced a click.
For this mirror had western-style hinges enabling it to open or shut, and she had accidentally pressed the spring which made it swing back, revealing a doorway.
In pleased surprise Granny Liu stepped into the next room, where her eye was caught by some exquisite bed-curtains.
Being still more than half drunk and tired from her walk, she plumped down on the bed to have a little rest.
But her limbs no longer obeyed her.
She swayed to and fro, unable to keep her eyes open, then curled up and fell fast asleep.
Meanwhile the others outside waited in vain for her till Baner started crying for his grandmother.
Lets hope she hasnt fallen into the cesspool of the latrine, they said jokingly.
Someone should go and see.
Two old women were sent but came back to report that there was no sign of her.
So they searched in all directions but still could not find her.
She must have lost her way because shes drunk, thought Xiren, and may have followed that path to our back yard.
If she passed the hedge and went in by the back door, even if she knocked about blindly the girls there must have seen her.
If she didnt go that way but headed southwest, lets hope shes found her way out.
If not, she may still be wandering around there.
Ill go and have a look.
Thinking in this way, she went back to Happy Red Court and called for the younger maids who had been left to keep an eye on the place.
But they had seized this chance to run off and play.
Going in past the latticed screen she heard thunderous snores and, hurrying into the bedroom, found the whole place reeking of wine and farts.
On the bed, sprawled out on her back, lay Granny Liu.
Xiren was shocked.
She ran over and shook her hard until Granny Liu woke with a start.
At sight of Xiren she hastily scrambled up.
It was wrong of me, miss, she cried.
But I havent dirtied the bed.
She was brushing it with both hands as she spoke.
Xiren signed to her to keep quiet, not wanting to disturb others for fear Baoyu should come to hear of this.
Hurriedly she thrust several handfuls of incense into the large tripod and replaced the cover, then straightened things a little in the room.
It was lucky at least that the old woman hadnt been sick.
Its all right, she whispered quickly.
Ill see to this.
Just say you were so tipsy that you fell asleep on one of the rocks outside.
Now come along with me.
Granny Liu assented readily and followed Xiren out to the young maids room where she was told to sit down.
Two bowls of tea sobered her up enough to ask Which of the young ladies room was that?
So elegant and beautiful!
I thought I was in heaven.
That?
Xiren smiled.
Thats Master Baos bedroom.
Granny Liu was too shocked to utter another word.
Xiren took her out the front way to find the rest of the party.
Granny Liu fell asleep on the grass was all she told them.
Now Ive brought her back.
Then the others thought no more of the matter, and there it rested.
To know what the sequel was, read the next chapter.
Chapter 42 The Lady of the Alpinia Warns Against Dubious Tastes in Literature The Queen of Bamboos Quips Add to the General Enjoyment Presently the Lady Dowager awoke and the evening meal was served in Paddy-Sweet Cottage.
But the old lady, too listless to eat, had herself carried back in the small bamboo sedan-chair to her own apartments to rest.
She insisted, however, that Xifeng and the others should dine, and so they returned to the Garden.
After the meal they went their different ways.
Now Granny Liu took Baner to see Xifeng.
I must go home first thing tomorrow, she announced.
Ive not stayed here long, only two or three days, yet Ive seen things, eaten things and heard tell of things I never even knew existed.
The old lady and you, madam, as well as the young ladies and the girls in the different apartments, have all been kindness itself to a poor old woman.
Ive no way to show my gratitude when I get back except by burning incense every day and praying hard to Buddha to grant that all of you live to be a hundred.
Dont look so pleased, replied Xifeng with a smile.
All because of you, the old ladys in bed with a chill and our Dajie has caught cold too and is running a fever.
The old lady feels her age, and she isnt used to exercise, observed Granny Liu with a sigh.
Shes never been in such high spirits as yesterday, Xifeng assured her.
Though she likes a jaunt in the Garden, she usually only sits a while in one or two places before coming back.
With you here to show round yesterday, she covered more than half the Garden.
As for Dajie, Lady Wang gave her a cake while she was crying for me, and eating it in the wind has made her feverish.
I dont suppose the little dear goes much into the Garden or places she doesnt know.
Not like our children, who as soon as they can walk are scampering all over the graveyards.
She may have caught a chill in the wind, or being a clear-eyed innocent she may have met some spirit.
If I were you Id look up some book of enchantments, just so as to be on the safe side.
Acting on this advice, Xifeng asked Pinger to find The Records of the Jade Casket and told Caiming to look up the relevant passage.
After leafing through it Caiming read, On the twenty-fifth of the eighth month, illness may be caused in the southeast by meeting a flower spirit.
The cure is to carry forty coloured paper coins forty paces southeast, offering one at each step.
There you are!
exclaimed Xifeng.
There must be flower spirits in the Garden.
Probably the old lady has run into one too.
She sent for two lots of paper money and two servants to exorcise these spirits for the Lady Dowager and her own small daughter.
Then sure enough Dajie fell into a sound sleep.
Yes, after all, its the old who are the most experienced, observed Xifeng.
Can you tell me, granny, why our Dajie is always ailing?
Its natural enough.
The children of wealthy families are too delicate to stand any rough handling.
Being too pampered isnt good for kiddies either.
Shell do better, madam, if you dont spoil her too much.
I think youre right, agreed Xifeng.
By the way, she has no name yet.
You give her one so that she can share your good fortune and live as long as you.
Besides I hope you wont mind my saying this you country folk arent so well off, and a name given by someone poor like you should act as a counterbalance.
When was she born?
asked Granny Liu after some thought.
Thats the trouble the seventh of the seventh month.
Why, thats good!
Call her Qiaoge 1 then.
This is what is known as fighting poison with poison and fire with fire.
If you agree to this name, madam, shes sure to live to a ripe old age.
And when she grows up and has her own family, if anything untoward happens, her bad luck will turn into good all because of this happy coincidence in her name.
Xifeng was naturally pleased and said gratefully, I hope it will turn out for her as you say.
She called Pinger then and told her, Tomorrow well most likely be busy.
Sort out our presents for granny now that youre free, so that she can leave as early as suits her tomorrow.
You mustnt spend any more on me, protested Granny Liu.
Ive imposed on you for several days already, and if I take presents too I shall feel even worse.
Its nothing much, nothing special, replied Xifeng.
But good or bad you must take it.
That will look better to your neighbours youll have something to show for your trip to town.
Just then Pinger returned and said, Come and have a look, granny.
She led the old woman to the other bedroom, where the kang was half covered with things.
Pinger picked them up one by one to show them to her.
This is the green gauze you admired yesterday, she said.
And here is some pale grey gauze from our mistress for a lining.
These two rolls of raw silk would do well for tunics or skirts, and the two lengths of silk in this wrapping will make clothes for New Year.
Heres a hamper of all sorts of cakes from the Imperial kitchen some youve tasted, others you havent theyre better to offer to visitors than any you can buy outside.
One of these two sacks you brought vegetables in has two pecks of rice in it from the Imperial fields, which makes an excellent porridge the other is full of fruit and nuts from our Garden.
In this packet are eight taels of silver.
All these are presents from our mistress.
These two packets of fifty taels each, a hundred in all, are a present from Lady Wang who wants you to start a small business or buy some land with it, so that in future you dont have to appeal to friends for help.
Then, smiling, she said in a low voice, These two tunics and this skirt, four headscarfs and packet of embroidery silks are from me, granny.
The clothes may not be new, but they havent been worn much.
Still, if you turn up your nose at them, I shant complain.
Granny Liu had exclaimed Gracious Buddha!
at each item mentioned, until she must have invoked Buddha hundreds of times.
Now, finding Pinger so generous and so modest too, she protested with a smile How can you say such a thing, miss?
Who am I to turn up my nose at such fine things?
Things money wouldnt buy, even if I had any.
I just feel ashamed to take so much, and yet since youre so generous, miss, I must.
Dont talk as if we were strangers, chuckled Pinger.
I wouldnt presume like this if we werent good friends.
So dont have any scruples about accepting.
Ive a favour to ask you too.
Next New Year I want you to bring us some of your dried vegetables cabbage, string-beans, lentil, egg-plant and gourds.
All of us here, high and low, enjoy such things.
Thatll be quite enough, dont trouble to bring anything else.
Granny Liu agreed to this with a thousand thanks.
Off to bed with you now, Pinger urged her.
Ill pack everything up for you and put it here.
First thing tomorrow Ill get some boys to order a carriage and load this on for you, so that you dont have to worry about a thing.
More grateful than ever, Granny Liu went back to thank Xifeng effusively and take her leave of her.
She spent the night in the Lady Dowagers apartments, meaning to say goodbye to the old lady as soon as she was up the next day.
But since the Lady Dowager was unwell, the whole family came the next morning to ask after her health, and a doctor was sent for.
Soon a maid announced his arrival and an old nurse stepped forward to draw the bed-curtains.
Im an old woman, said the Lady Dowager.
Old enough to be his mother.
Why should I be afraid of his laughing at me?
Leave the curtains as they are, he can see me like this.
The maids moved a small table up to the bed, put a tiny cushion on it and sent to invite the doctor in.
Presently ha Zhen, Jia Lian and Jia Rong led Doctor Wang over.
Not presuming to walk up the central ramp, he took the side steps up the terrace behind Jia Zhen.
Two serving-women had the portiere raised and two others ushered him in, while Baoyu came out to greet him.
The Lady Dowager in a blue silk tunic lined with a curly sheepskin was seated on the couch.
On either side stood two short-haired young maids holding whisks, rinse-bowls and the like, while ranged beside them were half a dozen old nurses and behind the green gauze screen the doctor glimpsed other figures wearing gay silks and trinkets set with precious stones and pearls.
Lowering his head, he advanced to pay his respects.
The Lady Dowager saw from his robes of the sixth official rank that this was one of the Imperial physicians.
With a smile she greeted him, then asked Jia Zhen What is this gentlemans honourable name?
Wang.
In the old days, she said, the director of the Academy of Imperial Physicians.
Wang Junxiao, was an excellent diagnostician.
Wang bowed and, his head lowered, rejoined with a smile, He was my great-uncle.
So our families are old friends.
With these words she slowly placed one hand on the cushion.
An old nurse put a low stool slightly to one side of the table and Doctor Wang, sitting respectfully on the edge of the stool, bent one knee to lean over the couch.
He felt both her pulses in turn for some length of time, his head inclined meditatively, after which he rose with a bow, his head lowered, to take his leave.
Thank you for your trouble, said the Lady Dowager.
Zhen, take the doctor to the study and see that he gets some tea.
Jia Zhen and Jia Lian, quick to obey her instructions, conducted the doctor to the study outside.
There he told them, There is nothing wrong with the old lady except a slight chill.
She need not take any medicine.
A light diet and keeping warm will put her right.
However, Ill make out a prescription and if she likes the old lady can take one dose.
If she feels disinclined, its of no consequence.
He sipped some tea then and wrote out the prescription.
Just as he was about to leave, Dajies nurse carried her in and asked with a smile Will Doctor Wang look at us too?
The doctor at once stood up.
Supporting the childs hand with his own left hand as she nestled in the nurses arms, with his right hand he felt her pulse.
Then he felt her forehead and made her show him her tongue.
This young lady may scold me for what Im going to say, he told them with a smile.
She will be all right if she just goes without two meals.
Theres no need to dose her with medicine.
Ill bring some pills for her to take dissolved in ginger-water before sleeping.
With that he left, seen off by Jia Zhen and the others.
They went back to report his diagnosis to the Lady Dowager, then laid the prescription on her desk and withdrew.
Lady Wang and the younger women and girls had emerged from behind the screen once the doctor had gone, and Lady Wang sat there a little longer before returning to her own apartments.
When Granny Liu knew that the old lady was free, she came in to say goodbye.
The Lady Dowager urged her to come again and told Yuanyang See Granny Liu out.
Im not well enough to see her off myself.
Then with final thanks Granny Liu took her leave and withdrew with Yuanyang to the maids room.
Yuanyang pointed at a bundle on the kang.
Those are two sets of clothes given to the old lady on previous birthdays, she said.
She never wears anything made outside, and its a pity to keep them stored away, but shes never once put them on.
Yesterday she told me to choose two sets for you to take back you can either give them away or wear them at home.
In this hamper are the pastries you asked for.
In this packet the medicines plum-blossom powder, purple -gold pills, tonic for the blood and restorative pills, each kind wrapped up with directions for its use.
Here are two embroidered pouches you can wear for fun.
She loosened the strings of these and took out two silver ingots.
Showing her the device May your wishes come true, she suggested with a smile, You take the pouches, granny, and leave these to me.
Granny Liu, in such raptures already that she had invoked Buddha several hundred times, at once agreed, Of course, you keep them, miss.
Yuanyang smiled to see that the old woman thought her in earnest.
Replacing the ingots she said, I was only teasing.
Ive plenty of these.
Keep them to give the children at New Year.
And now a young maid stepped forward to hand Granny Liu a porcelain bowl made in the Cheng Hua period.
This is a present from Master Bao, she announced.
Well, imagine that!
cried Granny Liu, taking the bowl.
I must have done good deeds in some past life to have all this happen today.
Those clothes you changed into when I asked you to have a bath the other day were mine, Yuanyang told her.
If theyre any use to you keep them, and here are a few others.
As Granny Liu hastily thanked her, she produced two more sets of clothing and wrapped them up for her.
The old woman wanted to go to the Garden to say goodbye to Baoyu, the young ladies and Lady Wang, but Yuanyang prevented her.
Theres no need.
They dont see people at this hour.
Ill tell them later.
You must come again when youve time.
An old serving-woman was dispatched to get a boy from the inner gate to help Granny Liu with her things.
Then they went to Xifengs apartments to fetch the gifts there, which the page carried out through the side gate and loaded on to the carriage they had hired.
Finally, the old serving-woman escorted Granny Liu to the carriage and saw her off.
After breakfast, Baoyu and the others paid their respects again to the Lady Dowager, after which they returned to the Garden.
Where their ways parted Baochai said to Daiyu Come with me.
Ive something to ask you.
So Daiyu accompanied her to Alpinia Court.
As soon as they arrived, Baochai sat down and announced teasingly, You must kneel down.
Im going to try you.
The girl must be mad!
exclaimed Daiyu in amazement.
What am Ito be tried for?
A fine young lady you are, a sheltered, innocent girl!
Baochai snorted.
Yet the things you say!
Confess now.
Daiyu, who had not the least idea what she meant, was amused but beginning to be worried too.
What have I said wrong?
she asked.
Youre just trying to pick fault.
Tell me what you mean.
So youre still playing the innocent.
Baochai smiled.
What were those lines you quoted yesterday when we played the drinking game?
I couldnt think where they had come from.
Daiyu remembered then that, the day before, she had been careless enough to quote two lines from The Peony Pavilion and The Western Chamber.
Her cheeks flaming, she threw her arms round Baochai and giggled Dear cousin, they slipped out inadvertently.
Now that youve scolded me, I promise not to say them again.
They were new to me but I was so struck by them Id like to know where theyre from.
Dont tell anyone, dear cousin!
I wont do it again.
She was blushing in such confusion and pleading so hard that Baochai had not the heart to question her further.
Instead she made her sit down and have some tea.
You may not believe it, but I used to be a madcap too, she said gently.
At seven and eight I was a real handful.
Our family could be considered a scholarly one, and my grandfathers chief delight was collecting books.
There were a lot of us in those days, boys and girls together, and we all hated serious books.
Some of my boy cousins liked poetry, others librettoes.
We had books like The Western Chamber.
Tale of the Lute and A Hundred Dramas of the Yuan Dynasty a whole collection of that sort.
They used to read them in secret, and so did we girls.
When the grown-ups later found out, we were beaten or scolded and the books were burnt, which put a stop to that.
So its best for girls like us not to know how to read.
Even boys, if they study to no good purpose would do better not to study at all, and thats even truer in our case.
Poetry-writing and calligraphy are not required of us, nor of boys either for that matter.
If boys learn sound principles by studying so that they can help the government to rule the people, well and good but nowadays we dont hear of many such cases reading only seems to make them worse than they were to start with.
And while study leads them astray, the books they read are debased too.
So its worse than taking up farming or trade, for in those professions they could do less damage.
As for us, we should just stick to needlework.
If we happen to have a little education we should choose proper books to read.
If we let ourselves be influenced by those unorthodox books, theres no hope for us.
Daiyu had lowered her head to sip tea during this lecture and, rather impressed by it, she now simply murmured, Yes.
Just then Suyun came in to announce, Our mistress wants you both to go and discuss some important business.
All the other young ladies are there with Master Bao.
What can this be?
wondered Baochai.
Well know when we get there, said Daiyu.
They went to Paddy-Sweet Cottage, where they found all the others assembled.
Li Wan told them gaily, Before weve got our club going, someones trying to wriggle out.
Heres Xichun asking for a whole years leave.
Thats all because the old lady told her yesterday to paint a picture of the Garden, said Daiyu.
Shes glad of the excuse to ask for leave.
You cant blame it on the old lady, countered Tanchun.
It was Granny Liu who started it.
Thats right, rejoined Daiyu promptly.
Its all owing to her.
Whose granny is she anyway?
Old Mother Locust would be a better name for her.
Everybody laughed.
Xifeng knows all the usual run of smart talk, said Baochai.
Luckily she hasnt had too much education, so all her jokes are the vulgar talk of the town.
But now our sharp-tongued Daiyu is using the method of the Spring-and-Autumn Annals 2 to condense such talk, extract its essence and colour it with metaphors so that every phrase tells.
How graphically the name Old Mother Locust conjures up everything that happened yesterday.
What a ready wit!
Your commentaries are quite up to their standard too, cried the others, laughing.
Li Wan interposed, I asked you here to decide how much leave to allow her.
I said a month, but she thinks thats too short.
What do you say?
Actually a year isnt too long, replied Daiyu.
Since this Garden took a year to build, painting it will naturally require two, what with grinding the ink, spreading out the paper, dipping the brushes in the colours and then.... Before she could finish the others, knowing that she was poking fun at Xichun, asked, And then what?
Unable to hold back her laughter, Daiyu went on, Then slowly painting the whole thing in detail.
It will surely take two years.
This sally was greeted with hilarious applause.
Marvellous!
cried Baochai.
Especially that last bit about slowly painting.
Painting is the crux of the business, isnt it?
Thats why all those jokes yesterday seemed funny at the time, not when you look back on them but when you consider what shes just said, though there seems nothing to it, its so funny in retrospect that I cant move for laughing.
Youre egging her on to show off, complained Xichun.
And at my expense this time.
Daiyu caught hold of her arm.
Tell me, are you just painting the Garden or us as well?
she asked.
The idea at first was just the Garden, said Xichun.
But yesterday the old lady objected that that would look like an architects drawing.
She told me to put everybody in, just as in a family outing.
Im no good at the details of buildings or at painting people either, but I cant very well back out now.
A fine fix Im in.
People are easy, said Daiyu.But can you paint insects?
Youre talking nonsense again, objected Li Wan.
What insects does this painting need?
A bird or two, perhaps, would be appropriate.
We can dispense with other insects, giggled Daiyu.
But the painting will have no point without yesterdays Old Mother Locust.
This produced a fresh outburst of laughter.
Shaking with mirth and pressing her hands to her heart, Daiyu cried, Do start soon.
Ive even got the title ready for you.
Call it Guzzling in the Company of the Locust.
That set them rocking backwards and forwards with laughter until something crashed to the floor.
At once all looked round.
Xiangyun had been leaning on the back of a chair and, this being none too steady, her weight on it as she laughed had toppled it over, upsetting both girl and chair.
Luckily the partition stopped her from slipping to the ground.
This sight convulsed the whole party.
Baoyu hastily helped Xiangyun up, and by degrees they regained control of themselves.
Baoyu then shot Daiyu a glance.
Taking the hint she went into the bedroom and took the cover off the mirror to have a look.
Seeing that the hair at her temples was dishevelled, she smoothed it with a hair-brush from Li Wans dressing-case, then put the brush away again and rejoined the party.
Wagging one finger at Li Wan she demanded, Are you teaching us needlework and sound principles, or are you getting us here to romp and have fun?
Just listen to her!
protested Li Wan.
She takes the lead in sending you into hysterics but puts the blame on me.
What a terror she is!
Well, I just hope, when you marry, youll get a fierce mother-in-law and several really vicious sisters-in-law.
Well see if you can go on being so cheeky then.
Daiyu, flushing, caught hold of Baochai.
Lets grant her one years leave.
Ill make a fair proposal, countered Baochai.
Listen, all of you.
What Xichuns best at is impressionistic sketches, whereas for a painting of this Garden one needs to have the whole lay-out in mind.
As a matter of fact, this Garden itself is exactly like a painting with just the right number of rocks, trees, pavilions and villas near and far, some scattered, some grouped together.
If you put all that on paper as it is, the result cant possibly please.
You must consider the spacing on the paper, how much to present in the background, how much in the foreground, what to play up and what to play down.
Certain things should be added, others left out certain things should be hidden, others revealed.
And you must study your draft carefully to produce a good composition.
The second essential thing is that in order to get the proportions of the buildings right youll have to use a ruler.
The least carelessness may result in crooked balustrades, collapsing pillars, lopsided windows and doors, steps out of line, or even tables squashed into the walls and flowerpots perched on top of screens.
Then the whole thing would be a joke.
The third thing is to make sure that the figures put in are suitably spaced and at different heights.
Then the folds of their clothes, their girdles, their fingers and the way they walk are especially important.
One slip of the brush and youll get swollen hands and deformed feet which will look worse than dirty faces or tousled hair.
So it seems to me a very difficult job.
One years leave is too long, but one month is too short.
I suggest allowing her half a year and asking Cousin Bao to help her.
Not that he can teach her anything about painting - hed only hold her up - but if she has any problems or difficulties he can help solve them by consulting those gentlemen in the study outside who are good at painting.
Thats a good idea, cried Baoyu eagerly.
Zhan Ziliang paints excellent pavilions in the meticulous style and Cheng Rixing does superb beauties.
I can go and consult them right away.
Much Ado About Nothing thats you, observed Baochai.
I say one word and off you go to consult them.
At least wait till weve reached a decision.
First lets discuss what materials well need.
Weve some big sheets of xue lang paper 3 at home which absorbs ink well, put in Baoyu.
I knew youd be no use.
Baochai smiled mockingly.
That xue lang paper absorbs the ink and gives good shading effects for calligraphy, ink sketches or landscapes of the Southern School.
But if you used it for this, the colours wouldnt stand out and would easily run.
Yond ruin the picture and simply waste the paper.
So let me make a suggestion.
When this Garden was built there was a detailed architects drawing, and though it was done by craftsmen the lay-out and directions are accurate.
Ask Lady Wang for that and Xifeng for a piece of heavy weight silk of the same size, then get the secretaries outside to have the silk prepared and make a draft according to the drawing with some additions or omissions and once youve put in the figures theres your painting.
Ask them to prepare the green and blue colours and the gold and silver too.
In addition youll need portable stoves to melt and extract the glue, as well as to heat water to clean the brushes.
A big varnished table with a felt cover will be needed too.
You havent enough paint-saucers or brushes either.
Youd better buy new sets.
I havent all that equipment, exclaimed Xichun.
I just paint with my writing-brushes.
And the only pigments I have are red-ochre, indigo, gamboge and rouge.
Apart from that, all I have is a couple of colouring brushes.
Why didnt you tell me earlier?
scolded Baochai.
Ive got all that paraphernalia, more than youd need you couldnt have used it all if Id sent it over.
Ill keep it for you, and let you have whatever you want when you need it.
But these things are only good for painting fans it would be a pity to use them on a painting this size.
Ill make out for you now a list of materials you can ask the old lady for.
In case you dont know everything thats required, Ill list them and Cousin Bao can write them down.
Baoyu, not trusting his memory, had already got brush and ink ready and at this he picked up the brush with alacrity.
Four large brushes for drawing outlines, four of the medium size and four small ones, Baochai began.
Four large colouring brushes, four medium and four small ones ten large brushes for painting fine lines and ten small ones ten beard-and-eyebrow brushes twenty large and twenty small brushes for colour washes ten brushes for painting features twenty willow brushes.
Then youll need four ounces each of arrow-head cinnabar, southern ochre, orpirnent, azurite, malachite and gamboge eight ounces of indigo four boxes of white lead ten sheets of rouge two hundred sheets each of red gold-foil and green gold-foil four ounces of glue and four ounces of pure alum thats not counting whats used to prepare the silk, but you can leave that to the secretaries when you get them to do it.
Once these pigments are properly rinsed, ground, mixed with glue and shaken, I guarantee youll have enough to play about with and last you a lifetime.
Then you must prepare four fine silk filters four sieves four feather-dusters four large and small mortars twenty large coarse bowls ten five-inch saucers twenty three-inch coarse white saucers two portable stoves four large and small earthenware cooking pots two new porcelain jars two new buckets four white cloth bags one foot long twenty catties of soft charcoal one catty of hard charcoal one chest with three drawers ten feet of plain gauze two ounces of ginger half a catty of soy sauce.... And one pan and frying-slice, put in Daiyu.
What are they for?
demanded Baochai.
Since you want things like ginger and soy sauce, I may as well get you a pan to fry those colours and eat them.
Everyone laughed.
You dont understand, rejoined Baochai with a smile.
Those coarse saucers cant stand too much heat.
The fire would crack them if you didnt first smear ginger and soy sauce on the bottom.
Yes, thats right, agreed the others.
Daiyu had another look at the list, then nudged Tanchun and whispered, Look at all the pots and chests she wants just for one painting.
She must have mixed things up and put in the list of her dowry as well.
Tanchun exploded in a fit of laughter.
Cousin Baochai!
she cried.
Why dont you pinch her lips?
Ask her what she just said about you.
I dont have to ask, retorted Baochai.
One doesnt expect ivory from a dogs mouth.
As she spoke she pushed Daiyu down on the kang to pinch her cheeks.
Forgive me, dear cousin, pleaded Daiyu giggling.
Im too young to know the right way to talk but you, dear as an elder sister to me, can teach me.
If you wont forgive me, who else can I turn to?
The others did not know what lay behind this exchange.
How pathetic she sounds, they teased.
Our hearts bleed for her.
Do let her off!
Baochai had only been joking, but catching this reference to her earlier lecture on reading improper books, she stopped teasing and let Daiyu go.
What a good girl you are, observed Daiyu.
If it had been me I shouldnt have been so forgiving.
Baochai pointed a finger at her.
No wonder the old ladys so fond of you and everybody loves you.
I declare Im growing quite fond of you myself now.
Come here and let me do your hair for you.
Daiyu, complying, turned round and Baochai arranged her dishevelled hair for her.
Baoyu, watching, decided that this way of dressing her hair was an improvement and regretted having sent her to comb her hair before the job should have been left for Baochai.
His reverie was cut short by Baochai remarking If youve finished that list, you can show it to the old lady tomorrow.
We may have the things at home if not, they can be bought.
Ill help you with the preparations.
Baoyu put the list away then and they chatted.
That evening after dinner they went as usual to pay their respects to the Lady Dowager.
As she had been suffering from nothing more serious than a slight chill caught when she was tired, a day in bed and a dose of medicine had set her right by the evening.
What happened the day after is told in the next chapter.
Chapter 43 To Kill Time Money Is Raised to Celebrate a Birthday Incense Is Burned on the Ground to Undying Love The Lady Dowager was not really ill but had simply caught a chill that day in the Garden.
Knowing that a visit from the doctor and some medicine had set her right, Lady Wang stopped worrying and sent for Xifeng whom she told to prepare some things to be taken to Jia Zheng.
While they were discussing this, the old lady summoned them and they both hurried over.
Are you feeling better, madam?
asked Lady Wang.
Much better, replied the Lady Dowager.
Just now I tried some of that quail soup you sent, and found it tasty.
I ate a few mouthfuls of the flesh too, and enjoyed it.
That was a filial offering from Xifeng, said Lady Wang.
It shows a proper respect for her elders and due gratitude for all your kindness to her.
Its good of her to be so thoughtful.
The old lady nodded.
If theres any left not yet cooked, Id like a few slices fried, because being salty it goes well with porridge.
The soup doesnt, although its good.
Xifeng promised to see to this at once and had the order passed on to the kitchen.
Meantime the Lady Dowager told Lady Wang, Ill tell you why I sent for you.
The second of next month is Xifengs birthday.
Last year and the year before that I meant to celebrate it, but each time something urgent cropped up and I let matters slide.
This year everyones here and nothings likely to happen, so lets all have some good fun.
Just what I was thinking, replied Lady Wang.
If thats what you want, madam, why not settle on it?
For birthdays in the past weve always sent our presents separately, which is stereotyped and rather formal.
Now Ive thought of a new, informal way which should be fun.
Well do whatever you think best, madam.
Well then, why dont we copy those poorer families in which everybody chips in, and however much is collected goes for a treat.
What do you say?
Wouldnt that be fun?
Very good.
But how shall we go about it?
Hearing this, the Lady Dowager in high spirits at once gave orders to invite over Aunt Xue, Lady Xing, the girls and Baoyu, as well as Jia Zhens wife Madam You from the other mansion, and the wives of the chief stewards such as Lai Da.
The maids, infected by the old ladys good humour, bustled off cheerfully to deliver her invitations and in less time than it takes for a meal the room was packed with people, old and young, high and low.
Aunt Xue and the Lady Dowager had the seats of honour Lady Xing and Lady Wang had two chairs by the door Baochai and five or six other girls sat on the kang Baoyu sat at his grandmothers knee and the rest stood, crowding the floor.
The Lady Dowager ordered stools to be fetched for Lai Das mother and a few of the older and most highly thought of nurses for it was the family custom to show more respect to domestics who had served the older generation than to the sons and daughters of the house.
Hence Madam You and Xifeng remained standing while, after a show of declining, Lai Das mother and three or four other old nurses sat down.
Then the Lady Dowager, beaming, announced her plan.
All fell in readily with the novel suggestion.
Those on good terms with Xifeng liked the idea, those afraid of her were glad of a chance to please her and since everyone could afford it they agreed with alacrity.
The Lady Dowager made the first contribution, promising to give twenty taels.
Ill follow suit, said Aunt Xue, and give twenty too.
We dare not rank ourselves with the old lady, disclaimed Lady Xing and Lady Wang laughingly.
Since were one grade lower, well give sixteen apiece.
Were naturally one grade lower still, put in Madam You and Li Wan.
Well give twelve taels each.
Youre a widow with no means of support, objected the old lady to Li Wan.
We cant milk you like this.
Ill pay your share.
Dont get carried away, madam, warned Xifeng with a chuckle.
First count the cost.
You still have two more shares to pay, yet now youre offering to give twelve taels for her.
Youre in a good mood at the moment, but presently you may regret it and complain, So much spent on that minx Xifeng!
Then youll play some clever trick to make me part unknowingly with three or four times the amount.
What do you propose then?
asked the Lady Dowager amid general laughter.
My birthday hasnt come yet, said Xifeng, but already Im quite overwhelmed.
Here I am, not paying a cent myself but imposing on all of you its really too bad.
So why not let me pay for my sister-in-law?
Then Ill eat more on that day and enjoy myself better.
Since Lady Xing and the others approved, the old lady gave her consent.
Ive something else to say, continued Xifeng.
Its quite fair, I think, for our Old Ancestress to give twenty herself plus Daiyus and Baoyus shares, and for Aunt Xue to give twenty herself plus Baochais share.
But its not very fair for the two mistresses to give less themselves, only sixteen each, and not to pay for anybody else either.
This is too hard on our Old Ancestress.
The Lady Dowager laughed heartily.
So this hussy Xifeng takes my side, and quite right too, she crowed.
Theyd have cheated me if not for you.
Just turn Baoyu and Daiyu over to them, urged Xifeng.
Make them pay one extra share each.
Yes, thats only fair, the old lady approved.
Well do that.
Lai Das mother rose to her feet in mock indignation.
This is too bad!
I cant bear to see Their Ladyships treated this way.
One is Madam Lians mother-in-law, the others her fathers sister yet instead of taking their side she sides with someone less close.
Whats become of her family feeling?
This set the whole party laughing.
Then Lai Das mother said, Twelve taels each from Madam You and Madam Zhu.
Of course were a grade lower, arent we?
No, you cant reckon that way, replied the old lady.
Its true you re one grade lower, but I know youre all rich.
Youve much more money than they have.
So though you rank lower, you must pay the same amount.
The stewards wives readily agreed to this.
As for the girls, continued the old lady, they can simply make a gesture by each giving the equivalent of her monthly allowance.
She turned then and called, Here, Yuanyang!
A few of you get together and decide on your contributions.
Yuanyang assented and went out, coming back presently with Pinger, Xiren, Caixia and a few other younger maids.
Some said they would give two taels, others one.
Why are you in on this?
the old lady asked Pinger.
Shouldnt you give your mistress something special for her birthday?
I have my own present ready, replied Pinger gaily.
But I want to give my share to the general fund too.
Thats a good girl, approved the Lady Dowager.
That accounts for everyone here, remarked Xifeng.
Just to be polite, though, wed better ask the two concubines whether theyd like to join in or not.
Otherwise they may feel slighted.
Of course.
Fancy my forgetting them!
I dont suppose theyre free to come.
Send a maid to ask them.
One of the girls went and after some time brought back the answer, Theyll give two taels each too.
The Lady Dowager was pleased.
Get a brush and ink and see how much it comes to, she ordered.
You greedy bitch, whispered Madam You to Xifeng.
So many inlaws and nurses chipping in for your birthday, yet youre still not satisfied.
You must needs drag in those two poor wretches too.
Nonsense!
Countered Xifeng softly.
Get away with you!
Who says theyre poor?
They throw their money away on other people.
We may as well take some and have a good time.
By now the contributions had been counted and they totalled just over a hundred and fifty taels.
Thats more than enough for one days theatricals and feasts, observed the Lady Dowager.
As were not inviting guests, the feasting wont cost much, remarked Madam You.
This sum should be enough for two or three days.
Besides, the theatricals wont cost anything.
We can save on that.
We must get whatever troupe Xifeng wants, insisted the old lady.
Weve heard our own actresses so many times, said Xifeng, lets spend some money and get in a troupe from outside.
Im entrusting all the arrangements to Zhens wife, announced the Lady Dowager.
We mustnt make Xifeng work.
Shes just to have fun that day.
Madam You agreed to this.
And they went on chatting till the old lady was tired, when the party slowly dispersed.
After seeing Lady Xing and Lady Wang off, Madam You called on Xifeng to discuss what arrangements to make for the party.
Dont ask me, said Xifeng.
Just watch the old ladys reactions and do whatever she wants.
You minx, you dont deserve such luck,Madam You teased.
I couldnt think what we were being summoned for.
So it was just for this.
And as if paying up werent bad enough, Ive got to go to so much trouble too.
How are you going to thank me?
Dont talk rubbish, chuckled Xifeng.
I didnt ask you to help, why should I thank you?
If you think it too much trouble, go and ask the old lady to give someone else the job.
See how this has gone to your head!
Madam You laughed.
Take my advice and be a bit more modest.
If youre so full of yourself youll spill over!
After some further conversation she left.
The next morning Madam You was still making her toilet when some silver was delivered to the Ning Mansion.
Who brought this?
she asked.
Her maids told her the wife of the steward Lin Zhixiao.
She sent to have her fetched from the maids room.
Madam You offered her a stool and still combing her hair inquired How much is there in this packet?
Its the money from the staff which weve brought over first, was the answer.
The old ladys and the mistresses isnt here yet.
At this point the maids announced, People have come with chips from Madam Xue and the mistress in the other mansion.
You wretches, scolded Madam You, smiling.
You only remember words of no consequence.
Yesterday, for fun, the old lady decided to copy the way poor families chip in to raise money but you keep solemnly repeating the word.
Bring the silver in at once.
And see that the messengers have some tea before they go.
With a cheerful assent the maids brought in two packets of silver, including the shares of Baochai and Daiyu.
Whose is still missing?
asked Madam You.
The old ladys, Lady Xings and the shares of the young ladies and their maids, replied Mrs. Lin.
How about Madam Zhu?
Youll get hers from Madam Lian when you go over there, madam.
Its all there.
Madam You, having finished her toilet, ordered her carriage and drove to the Rong Mansion.
She called first on Xifeng, who had already wrapped the silver up ready to be delivered.
Is it all here?
asked Madam You.
Yes.
Xifeng smiled.
Hurry up and take it away.
I wont be responsible if anythings lost.
I dont quite believe you.
Madam You laughed.
I must count it here in your presence.
She did so, and found that Li Wans share was missing.
I knew you were up to one of your tricks, she scolded.
Wheres your elder sister-in-laws contribution?
Havent you got enough with all the rest?
What does it matter if youre one share short?
Ill make it up later if your funds run out.
Yesterday in front of everyone you played the Lady Bountiful now you want to get out of it, but I wont let you.
Ill have to apply to the old lady now for the money.
What a terror you are, protested Xifeng, smiling.
Dont complain next time youre in trouble if I put on the screws.
So you can be frightened too!
I wouldnt let you off if you werent usually so dutiful to me.
She took out Pingers share then, saying, Here, Pinger, take this back.
Ill make it up for you if we havent enough.
Pinger understood and replied, Do keep it, madam.
If theres any left over, you can give it back to me later just the same.
So your mistress is allowed to cheat, but Im not allowed to bribe you, teased Madam You.
Then Pinger had to take the money back.
Your mistress is so thrifty, continued Madam You, I wonder what she does with all her money.
If she cant spend it all, shell have to take it and spend it when shes in her coffin.
With this she set off to pay her respects to the Lady Dowager, and after a little conversation with her adjourned to Yuanyangs room to ask her advice about the party and how best to please the old lady.
When their plans were made and she was ready to leave, Madam You returned Yuanyangs two taels with the explanation I shant be needing these.
She went on then to Lady Wangs apartments to chat, and when Lady Wang withdrew to her Buddhist shrine she gave Caiyun her share back too.
Next she took advantage of Xifengs absence to reimburse the two concubines Zhou and Zhao as well.
When they dared not take the silver she insisted Youre not well off enough to afford this.
If Xifeng hears about it, Ill take the blame.
Then the two women accepted with effusive thanks.
In no time it was the second of the ninth month.
All the inmates of the Garden knew that Madam You had arranged for a grand party with not only operas but acrobatics and blind story-tellers too, both men and women.
They were looking forward to a delightful time.
Li Wan reminded the girls again, Dont forget, today is the day for our club meeting.
I suppose Baoyus not here because hes forgotten this refined gathering in his eagerness to join in the fun.
She sent a maid to see what he was doing and ask him over.
The maid returned after some time to report, Sister Xiren says he went out first thing this morning.
Surely not!
they exclaimed in surprise.
This girls muddled up the message.
So Cuimo was sent to ask again, but on her return she confirmed that Baoyu had gone out, saying that a friend of his had died and he must go to offer condolences.
Impossible, cried Tanchun.
Nothing could have induced him to go out today.
Fetch Xiren and let me ask her.
But even as she was speaking, Xiren walked in.
Whatever business he had, he shouldnt have gone out today, said Li Wan and the others.
In the first place, how could he run off on Madam Lians birthday, when the old ladys in such good spirits and high and low in both mansions are going to join in the fun?
In the second, this is the day for our first club meeting, yet he sneaks off alone without even asking leave.
Xiren explained, Last night he told me hed important business first thing this morning and must go to the mansion of the Prince of Beijing, but hed hurry back.
I tried to dissuade him, but he wouldnt listen.
When he got up today he asked for a suit of mourning.
It looks as if some lady of consequence in the princes household has died.
If thats so, he did right to go, observed Li Wan.
Still, he should be back by now.
They discussed what to do.
Lets just go ahead with our poems, said some.
We can punish him when he comes back.
But just then the Lady Dowager sent for them, and they all went to her apartments.
The old lady was displeased when Xiren reported Baoyus absence.
She ordered him to be fetched back.
Baoyu, with something preying on his mind, the previous day had given Mingyan some instructions.
Im going out first thing tomorrow, so have two horses waiting at the back gate.
I dont want anyone else to come with us.
Tell Li Gui that Im going to call on the Prince of Beijing, and that he must stop anyone going out to look for me.
He can say Ive been kept by the prince and will soon be back anyway.
Mingyan had no idea what was afoot but had to carry out his orders.
The next morning, sure enough, he had two horses ready saddled outside the back gate of the Garden.
At dawn Baoyu, in full mourning, came out of the side gate, mounted his horse without a word and, bending low in the saddle, cantered off down the street.
Mingyan could only mount the other horse and whip it on to catch up, shouting after him Where are we going?
Where does this road lead?
Its the main road to the North Gate.
Theres nothing amusing outside, its quiet and deserted.
Baoyu nodded.
A quiet spot is what I want to find.
He whipped his horse on and after a couple of turns it sped through the city gate.
More puzzled than ever, Mingyan followed close behind.
They rode straight on for seven or eight ii until the houses were few and far between.
Then Baoyu reined to a halt and turned to ask Can I buy some incense here?
I suppose so, said Mingyan.
What kind do you want?
Baoyu replied thoughtfully, Other kinds are no good it must be made of sandalwood, rue or laka-wood.
Those are difficult to get, Mingyan told him, grinning.
When Baoyu looked worried he asked, What do you need incense for, sir?
Ive noticed that you often carry bits of incense in your pouch.
Why dont you use that?
Thus reminded, Baoyu reached for the pouch inside his lapel and was pleased to discover two bits of eaglewood in it.
He thought, This seems a bit lacking in respect.
Still, something I have on me should be better anyway than anything I can buy.
He asked then where he could get hold of an incense-burner.
An incense-burner!
exclaimed Mingyan.
Where would we find one out in the open country?
If you wanted these things why didnt you tell me before?
I could easily have brought them.
Dont be a fool, retorted Baoyu.
I wouldnt have been riding so hard if it was so simple.
Mingyan thought for a while then suggested, I have an idea you might consider, sir.
I imagine youll be needing other things too, so why not go on another couple of ii to River Goddess Convent?
Is River Goddess Convent near here?
So much the better.
Come on, then.
With a crack of his whip Baoyu set off again, calling over his shoulder to Mingyan, The nuns in that convent often come to our house.
If we ask them for the loan of an incense-burner, theyre bound to let us have one.
Of course, were patrons of theirs.
Even in a temple we didnt know they could hardly refuse.
Only I dont understand why youre so pleased to go there today, sir.
I always thought you had a special dislike for this River Goddess Convent.
Its those vulgar fools who worship gods and build temples for no reason that I hate.
Those rich eunuchs and ignorant women who have too much money to spend hear of some god and build a temple to him without knowing the least thing about him, on the strength of some legend or romance theyve heard, which they take as the truth.
In this River Goddess Convent, for example, they worship the Goddess of the River Luo.
Thats how the convent got its name.
But of course in ancient times no such goddess existed.
Shes Cao Zijians invention.
1 Yet some fools had to make an image and worship her.
Still, this happens to suit my purpose today, so Ill make use of it.
They had now reached the convent gate.
The old abbess was as astonished by this visit as if a live dragon had swooped down from the sky.
She made haste to welcome them and told an old serving-man to see to their horses.
Baoyu, going in, did not bow to the image of the goddess but simply stared at it in admiration.
For though made of clay it really had the grace of a startled swan of drifting dragon and the charm of a lotus rising from green water or sun shining through morning mist.
2 Unwittingly, he shed tears.
When the old abbess offered him tea he asked if he might borrow an incense-burner.
She went to fetch one, finally returning with incense and sacrificial paper to burn as well, but these Baoyu declined.
He told Mingyan to find a clean spot at the back of the garden for the incense-burner.
Failing to find one, his page asked How about the coping of the well?
Baoyu nodded and went with him to the well.
Having put down the incense-burner, Mingyan stepped aside.
Baoyu produced and lit his eaglewood, bowed to it with tears in his eyes, then turned and ordered Mingyan to return the incense-burner.
The page assented, but instead of doing as he was told he fell on his knees, kowtowed several times and then prayed I, Mingyan, have served our second master for several years now and known all his affairs but he didnt tell me about todays sacrifice, and I dared not ask.
Though your name, oh spirit to whom he is sacrificing, is unknown to me, I am sure you must be a girl with no peer on earth or in heaven, of incomparable intelligence and beauty.
As my master cant tell you what it is he wants, let me pray to you in his place.
If your fragrant spirit has feeling and compassion, although separated from the world of men do come and visit our young master from time to time, since he longs for you so much.
And do help him in the nether world too, so that in his next life he may be reborn as a girl and enjoy himself with the rest of you, never again becoming a filthy man with a beard and shaggy eyebrows.
This prayer ended, he gave several more kowtows before scrambling to his feet.
While he was still holding forth, Baoyu could not help bursting out laughing.
Now he kicked him over and swore Shut up, or people will laugh.
Mingyan rose then and picked up the incense-burner.
As they walked away he said, I told the abbess youd come out without any breakfast, sir, and asked her to prepare a simple meal.
So do try to eat something.
I know youve come out to avoid the big feast and the racket at home today.
Spending a quiet day here youll have anyway observed the proprieties but it would never do if you eat nothing.
If we cut the feast, I dont mind if we have a vegetarian snack here.
Good.
But theres another thing people are bound to be worried by our absence.
If not for that, it wouldnt matter going back late.
But since theyll be worrying, you ought to start back to town soon, sir, and go home.
For one thing, that will relieve the minds of the old lady and Lady Wang for another, youve already paid sufficient respect to the dead.
Thats all there is to it.
If you go home to drink and watch the shows, it wont be because you want to but simply out of respect for your parents, sir.
If youre so set on staying here, regardless of how upset the old lady and Lady Wang are, even the spirit youve just sacrificed to will feel uncomfortable.
What do you think, sir?
I know whats on your mind.
Baoyu grinned.
Youre the only one to have come out with me, and youre afraid of a dressing-down when we get home hence all this high-sounding advice.
But Ive not been here long, and I only came to make a sacrifice before going to the feast and watching the show.
I never said Id stay out here all day.
Now that Ive done what I came for, we can hurry back and stop them worrying.
Thats best both ways, isnt it?
Thats more like it, said Mingyan.
They entered the hall where the abbess had indeed prepared a vegetarian meal for them.
Baoyu ate a little and so did Mingyan, after which they mounted their horses and rode back the way they had come.
Mingyan behind kept warning, Steady on, sir.
That horse hasnt been ridden much.
Keep a good grip on the reins.
In no time they re-entered the city and returned home through the back gate, then Baoyu hurried over to Happy Red Court.
Xiren and the other girls had gone, leaving only a few old women there in charge.
They beamed with joy at sight of Baoyu and exclaimed Amida Buddha!
Here you are at last.
You had Miss Xiren worried frantic.
The feast is just starting.
Do hurry, Master Bao.
Baoyu hastily changed his mourning for splendid robes and asked where the feasters were.
The old women told him, In the new hall in the small garden.
He headed straight for the place, hearing in the distance the faint sound of singing and fluting.
When he reached the entrance hall he saw Yuchuan sitting alone on the porch, in tears.
She stopped crying at sight of him.
Here comes the phoenix!
she cried.
Go in, quick.
If youd been any later, I cant think what would have happened.
Guess where Ive been, he said with a sheepish smile.
But she did not answer, simply wiping her eyes.
He hurried into the hall and paid his respects to his grand-mother and mother.
Everyone was as delighted as if they had indeed got hold of a phoenix.
Then Baoyu greeted Xifeng and offered his congratulations.
You must have taken leave of your senses, scolded the Lady Dowager and his mother.
How could you run off without telling anybody?
Disgraceful!
If you ever do such a thing again, we shall tell your father when he comes home and hell give you another beating.
Then the Lady Dowager rounded on the servants.
Why do you all do as he says?
she stormed.
You let him go wherever he pleases without reporting it.
And just where did you go?
she asked Baoyu.
Have you had a meal?
Did anything frighten you?
Yesterday one of the Prince of Beijings favourite concubines died, said Baoyu.
I went to offer condolences.
He was weeping so bitterly, I hadnt the heart to leave him.
So I stayed for a while.
If you go out again without letting me know, she warned, I really shall tell your father to beat you.
Baoyu promised to do as she said.
She threatened, then, to have his servants beaten but the others pleaded Dont take it to heart, madam.
Now that hes back we should stop worrying and have some fun.
As the old ladys fit of temper had been caused by anxiety, her delight at his return now restored her good humour.
She stopped reproaching Baoyu and started making much of him instead, afraid he had had a bad time, missed his breakfast or been frightened on the road.
Xiren had come to wait on him too, and they all went on watching the opera.
The opera performed that day was The Tale of the Thorn Pin, which so moved the old lady and Aunt Xue that they shed tears.
The others laughed at or cursed the characters.
If you want to know what followed, read the next chapter.
Chapter 44 Xifeng, Taken by Surprise, Gives Way to Jealousy Pinger, Unexpectedly Gratified, Makes Her Toilet Baoyu was sitting with the girls as everybody watched The Tale of the Thorn Pin.
When it came to the scene in which the hero sacrifices to his drowned wife, Daiyu remarked to Baochai What a fool this Wang Shipeng is!
Surely he could offer a sacrifice anywhere.
Why must he rush off to kneel beside the river?
The proverb says Things have their associations.
But water the whole world over in the last analysis comes from the same source.
He could have ladled out a bowl of water anywhere and wept over it to work off his feelings.
Baochai refrained from answering, while Baoyu turned away to ask for some heated wine to toast Xifeng.
As this was a special occasion, the Lady Dowager was determined that Xifeng should have a whole day of unalloyed pleasure.
Feeling unequal to joining the feasters herself, she reclined on a couch in the inner room to watch the opera from there with Aunt Xue, from time to time nibbling some of her favourite titbits set out on the teapoy beside her as they chatted.
The two tables of food prepared for her she made over to the maids and serving-women who had no share in the feast with instructions not to stand on ceremony but to sit in the verandah outside and eat and drink as much as they pleased.
Lady Wang and Lady Xing sat at the high table in the old ladys room, the girls at tables in the outer room.
The Lady Dowager reiterated to Madam You, Xifeng must take the seat of honour.
And mind you play hostess well for me to show our appreciation of her hard work all the year round.
Ill do my best, madam, promised Madam You.
But she says shes not used to sitting in the seat of honour.
She feels out of place there and wont drink anything.
If you cant make her drink, chuckled the old lady, Ill go out presently and toast her myself.
Xifeng hurried in to protest, Dont believe her, Old Ancestress.
Ive had quite a few cups already.
The old lady jokingly ordered Madam You, Drag her out quick, and force her on to her seat, then take it in turns to toast her.
If she still refuses to drink, I shall really come out.
Madam You gaily carried out these instructions and ordered a mug to be filled.
From one end of the year to the other youve been dutifully filial to the old lady, Lady Wang and me, she told Xifeng.
Ive no gift for you today, so Ill offer you a mug of wine with my own hands.
Drink up now like a good girl.
If you really want to show appreciation you must kneel down, then Ill drink, was Xifengs laughing retort.
Dont be carried away by all the compliments paid you.
I can tell you, such good luck is very rare.
Who knows if a day like this will ever come again?
So make the most of it, and now drink two cups.
Xifeng had no choice but to do as she was told.
Next, all the girls presented cups and she had to sip from each.
Then Lai Das mother, seeing the Lady Dowager in such high spirits, decided to join in the fun and led some old serving-women in to toast Xifeng, who again could not refuse them.
By the time Yuanyang and the younger maids came to drink her health, she had really had all she could take.
Good sisters, let me off, she begged.
Ill drink with you some other time.
So we have no face, is that it?
protested Yuanyang.
Why, even the mistress condescends to drink with us.
You usually show us more consideration, but now in front of all these people youre putting on the airs of a mistress.
Well, its my fault for coming.
If you wont drink, well leave you.
She turned to go.
Xifeng hastily stopped her, crying.
All right, good sister, Ill drink.
She picked up the winepot, filled her cup to the brim, and tossed it off.
Then Yuanyang withdrew with a smile.
After seating herself again, Xifeng felt the effects of the wine.
Her heart was beating so fast that she decided to go home for a rest.
As the jugglers has just come in, she asked Madam You to see about tipping them while she went and had a wash. Madam You nodded and, since no one else detained her, Xifeng left the table and slipped out the back way.
Watchful Pinger quickly followed her and took her arm.
They were just approaching the covered walk when they noticed one of their young maids standing there, but at sight of them she turned and ran.
This made Xifeng suspicious.
She called to her to stop.
At first the girl pretended not to hear, but when Pinger called to her too she had to come back.
Xifeng, more suspicious than ever now, stepped with Pinger into the entrance hall and told the maid to join them and close the partitions.
Seating herself on the steps leading to the small courtyard, she made the girl kneel down.
Get two boys from the inner gate to bring ropes and whips, she sharply ordered Pinger.
Well give this impudent little bitch a good flogging.
The girl, frightened out of her wits, burst into tears and knocked her head on the ground as she begged for mercy.
Im not a ghost, snapped Xifeng.
Why didnt you stand to attention when you saw me?
Why run away?
I didnt see you, madam, sobbed the maid.
I ran because I remembered there was no one in our apartments.
If so, why did you come here in the first place?
Even if you didnt see me, we called you at the top of our voices a dozen times, but that only made you run the faster.
We werent far off and youre not deaf.
How dare you answer back?
She slapped the girl so hard on the face that she staggered, then gave her another slap on the other side.
At once the girls cheeks began to swell up and turn purple .
Mind you dont hurt your hand, madam, urged Pinger.
Hit her for me then.
Make her say why she ran away.
If she wont, tear her lips!
The maid went on protesting her innocence until Xifeng threatened to brand her mouth with a red-hot iron.
Then she confessed with tears The masters home.
He sent me here to watch out for you and let him know as soon as I saw you coming, madam.
He didnt think you would be back so soon.
Xifeng guessed that there was more to it than this.
Why did he ask you to do that?
she demanded.
Why should he be afraid of my return?
There must have been a reason.
If you tell me straight out, Ill be good to you but if you wont talk, Ill get a knife this instant and carve you up.
She drew a pin from her hair as she spoke and jabbed viciously at the maids mouth.
Shrinking back in fright the girl sobbed, Ill tell you, madam.
But please dont let the master know that I told.
Pinger, trying to pacify Xifeng, urged the maid to hurry up.
The master came home not long ago and had a short nap, she said.
After he woke up he sent someone to see what you were doing, madam.
She reported that youd just started the feast and wouldnt be back for some time.
Then the master opened a case and took out two pieces of silver, two hairpins and two bolts of satin.
He told me to take them secretly to Bao Ers wife and ask her to come over.
She took the things and came then the master told me to watch out for you, madam.
What happened after that I dont know.
Trembling with rage, Xifeng sprang to her feet and hurried towards her compound.
Another young maid was stationed at the gate, and at sight of Xifeng she ducked back and ran.
Xifeng called her by name to stop, and this girl had more sense seeing that there was no escape, she came running out instead.
I was just coming to report to you, madam, she said with a smile.
But luckily here you are.
What were you coming to report?
Our masters back She went on to repeat the story told by the other.
Xifeng spat in disgust.
And what have you been doing all this time?
she cried.
Youre only trying to clear yourself because I caught you.
She dealt the maid a blow which made her stagger, then tiptoed into the courtyard and up to the window to listen.
She heard the woman inside say laughingly, If only that hellish wife of yours would die!
What if she did?
replied Jia Lian.
Id marry another who might be just as bad.
When she dies, you can promote Pinger and make her your wife.
She should be easier to handle.
Nowadays she wont even let me touch Pinger, said Jia Lian.
Pinger resents it too, but she dares not complain.
What a fate, being saddled with a hell-cat like her!
Xifeng was convulsed with fury, convinced by their praise of Pinger that the latter must have been complaining about her behind her back too.
By now the wine had quite gone to her head and, not stopping to think, she rounded on Pinger and slapped her.
Next she kicked open the door and burst into the room.
Without a word she caught hold of Bao Ers wife and pummelled her, then posted herself at the door to cut off Jia Lians retreat.
Dirty whore!
she cursed.
You steal your mistress husband and plot to murder your mistress.
And Pinger, you come here!
You whores and bitches have ganged up against me, yet you make such a public show of trying to please me.
With that she struck Pinger again.
Having no one to whom to complain of this injustice, Pinger holding back her tears nearly choked with rage.
Cant you wallow in the muck by yourselves without dragging me in for no reason at all?
she stormed.
She started scratching and slapping Bao Ers wife too.
Jia Lian, coming home in high spirits after drinking, had allowed himself to be caught off his guard so that when his wife burst in he was quite at a loss.
Now that Pinger was making a scene too he flew into a drunken passion.
When Xifeng beat Bao Ers wife he could only look on furiously and sheepishly, but as soon as Pinger joined in he charged forward and kicked her.
You slut!
Who are you to raise your hand against her?
Pinger fearing that he would beat her promptly left off, protesting tearfully, When you talk behind our backs, why drag me in?
Pingers fear of Jia Lian made Xifeng angrier than ever.
She rounded on her and struck her again, insisting that she go on beating Bao Ers wife.
In desperation, Pinger ran out of the room to find a knife with which to kill herself, but the serving-women and maids outside hastily stopped her and tried to dissuade her.
When Xifeng saw Pinger bent on suicide, she rammed her head against Jia Lians chest and screamed, Youve all ganged up to do me in, and when I find out you all try to frighten me.
Strangle me and have done with it!
In a towering rage Jia Lian snatched a sword from the wall.
She neednt kill herself, he bellowed.
Ive had all I can take.
Ill kill the lot of you and pay with my life.
Make a clean sweep!
This uproar was at its height when Madam You and some others arrived on the scene.
What does this mean?
they exclaimed.
A moment ago all was well.
Whats the row about?
Their presence emboldened Jia Lian, half drunk as he was, to bluster even more wildly and swear to kill Xifeng.
For her part at their arrival she had stopped storming and slipped away tearfully to enlist the support of the Lady Dowager.
By this time the opera was over.
Xifeng ran to the old lady and threw herself into her arms.
Save me, Old Ancestress!
Lian wants to kill me.
The old lady, Lady Xing and Lady Wang immediately asked what had happened.
When I went home just now to change, Xifeng sobbed, I heard him talking to someone.
Not liking to intrude if he had a guest, I listened outside the window.
It was Bao Ers wife there, and the two of them were plotting to poison me because Im a shrew and put Pinger in my place.
Angry as I was, I dared not quarrel with him I just gave Pinger a couple of slaps and asked her why she should want to murder me.
He flared up then and threatened to kill me.
The Lady Dowager and the others believed her story.
How monstrous!
exclaimed the old lady.
Bring the wretch here.
That same moment Jia Lian rushed in with his sword, followed by a crowd of people.
Counting on the Lady Dowagers usual indulgence and the helplessness of both his mother and aunt, he ranted and raged with a great show of bravado.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang angrily barred his way.
Have you gone mad, you degenerate?
they scolded.
How dare you behave like this in the old ladys presence?
He cast them a sidelong glance.
Its the old lady whos spoiled her, he retorted.
So now she even has the nerve to swear at me.
Lady Xing wrathfully snatched away his sword and ordered him out of the room.
But he simply went on blustering and storming.
I know you have no respect for us, snapped the Lady Dowager.
Send someone to fetch his father, and see if hell go then.
Then Jia Lian slunk off.
Too angry to go home, he went to his outside study.
Meanwhile Lady Xing and Lady Wang had been remonstrating with Xifeng.
Dont take it so seriously, said the old lady, smiling.
Hes only a boy and as greedy as a cat.
This sort of thing cant be helped.
All young men go through such stages.
Its my fault for making Xifeng drink so much -- the wines turned to vinegar.
At this everybody laughed.
Dont worry, the old lady told Xifeng.
Tomorrow Ill make him come here to apologize to you.
Dont go back today to embarrass him.
As for that wretch Pinger, I thought she was a good girl how could she turn out so sly?
Pingers not to blame, put in Madam You soothingly.
Xifeng was just making a whipping-boy of her.
Husband and wife couldnt very well fight each other, so both worked off their temper on her.
Pinger feels most terribly wronged.
Dont you go blaming her too, madam!
So thats how it is, said the Lady Dowager.
Yes, I never thought the child was one of those vamps.
Well then, poor thing, her mistress stormed at her for no reason.
Here, Hupo!
Go and tell Pinger from me I know shes been unfairly treated and tomorrow Ill get Xifeng to apologize but she mustnt make a scene today because its her mistress birthday.
Long before this Li Wan had led Pinger into Grand View Garden, but she was still sobbing too much to speak.
Youre an intelligent girl, reasoned Baochai.
You know how well Xifengs always treated you.
Today she just happened to have too much to drink and whom could she vent her anger on if not you?
People are laughing at her for getting drunk.
If you go on taking it so much to heart, itll look as if all your good qualities are a pretence.
Just then Hupo arrived with the Lady Dowagers message which vindicated Pinger and made her feel rather better.
She did not go back, however, to Xifengs apartments.
After resting for a while, Baochai and the others rejoined the Lady Dowager and Xifeng.
Then Baoyu invited Pinger to Happy Red Court, where Xiren came out to welcome her with a smile.
I was going to ask you over, she remarked, but Madam Zhu and the young ladies got in first.
Pinger thanked her with a smile.
This storm sprang up out of the blue , she said.
Id done nothing, nothing at all, to deserve such treatment.
Madam Lians usually very good to you.
Today she just happened to fly into a temper.
I dont hold it against my mistress, answered Pinger.
But that bitch had to drag me in, to amuse herself at my expense, and our fool of a master beat me instead of her.
The thought of this injustice brought on a fresh fit of weeping.
Dont be so upset, dear sister, urged Baoyu.
Let me apologize for them.
What has it to do with you?
asked Pinger, smiling.
Were all cousins alike, so when they offend anybody I ought to apologize.
Then he added, What a pity youve dirtied your new clothes too.
Why dont you change into some of Xirens so that yours can be sprayed with spirits and pressed?
Youd better comb your hair too.
He ordered some young maids to bring water and heat a flat-iron.
Now Pinger knew only by hearsay how attentive Baoyu was to girls.
For as she was Jia Lians favourite concubine and Xifengs confidante he had always steered clear of her, much though he regretted not being able to pay her more attention.
Secretly impressed today by his behaviour she told herself, Yes, he lives up to his reputation.
He shows real consideration.
Now Xiren specially opened a case to take out some clothes she seldom wore to lend her, and Pinger hastily changed and washed her face.
Put on some rouge and powder too, coaxed Baoyu who was watching.
Otherwise it will look as if youre still angry with Xifeng.
After all, today is her birthday and the old lady did send someone to comfort you.
Pinger felt the truth of this and looked round for some powder, but could not see any.
At once Baoyu went to the dressing-table and opened a porcelain casket made in the Xuan De period 1 containing ten sticks of four-oclock-seed powder.
He handed one to her.
This isnt white lead.
Its made of the seeds of purple four-oclock ground fine and mixed with aromatics.
Pinger holding it on her palm found it light, pink y white and fragrant, delightful in every respect.
Brushed over her cheek it was easy to spread smoothly and felt moist, having much finer grains than the usual powder which was bluish-white and sticky.
The rouge too, in its small white-jade box, she observed, was not in the usual sheets but looked more like rose salve.
The rouge sold in the market isnt clean, and the colours faint, explained Baoyu.
This is made from the essence of the very best safflower, which is steamed after all impurities have been extracted and attar added.
You need only take a little on a pin, rub it on the palm of your hand, then dilute it with a drop of water and apply it to your lips.
Whats left on your palm will be enough for your cheeks.
Pinger carried out his instructions and did indeed find the rouge extraordinarily vivid and fragrant.
Then, with a pair of bamboo scissors, Baoyu cut a spray of double autumn flowering orchid that was growing in a pot for her to pin on her hair.
Just then, however, Li Wan sent a maid to fetch her, and Pinger hastily left.
It distressed Baoyu that he had never shown much attention to Pinger before, though she was such an intelligent, good-looking girl, altogether superior to the common run of stupid, vulgar creatures.
He had been grieving all day because this was Jinchuans birthday, till this chance to show Pinger some attention a chance he had never expected in a lifetime had brought him a quite unlooked-for happiness.
He therefore curled up on his bed feeling very pleased with himself.
Jia Lians only interested in sex but has no consideration for girls, he reflected.
Heres Pinger, all alone, with no parents, brothers or sisters, waiting on Jia Lian and Xifeng and coping so well with his vulgarity and her vindictiveness yet she still gets into this dreadful trouble today.
How unkind fate is to her!
Shes even worse off than Daiyu.
These reflections upset him again, reducing him to tears, and as Xiren and the others had left the room he indulged in a fit of weeping.
Noticing that the alcohol sprayed on Pingers clothes was now almost dry, he pressed the clothes with the iron and folded them neatly.
He saw she had forgotten her handkerchief.
As it was still stained with tears, he washed it in the basin and hung it up to dry in a mood of pleasurable melancholy.
Then, growing bored, he went off to Paddy-Sweet Cottage to chat with the others until it was time to light the lanterns and part.
Pinger spent the night with Li Wan and Xifeng with the Lady Dowager.
Thus Jia Lian, going home that evening, found the place uncannily quiet.
But since he could hardly fetch them he had to spend that night alone.
The next morning, too late, he regretted the scene he had made.
So when Lady Xing came over early, distressed by his drunken behaviour the previous day, he accompanied her to the old ladys apartments.
Going in sheepishly, he fell on his knees before the Lady Dowager.
Well?
she asked.
With an apologetic smile he said, Yesterday I drank too much and disturbed you, madam.
Ive come now to be punished.
She spat in disgust and swore, You degenerate!
After swigging you might at least stretch out on your bed quietly like a corpse instead of beating your wife.
Xifengs a regular saucebox and likes to lord it over everyone, but how you frightened the poor thing yesterday!
If not for me you might have killed her.
What do you intend to do now?
Jia Lian had to accept this reproach, much as it rankled, and did not venture to vindicate himself.
Arent Xifeng and Pinger both beauties?
Arent they enough for you?
the old lady demanded.
You never stop philandering, dragging every stinking bit of filth to your room.
Fancy beating your own wife and concubine for a whore like that!
How can the son of a good family behave so disgracefully?
If youve any respect for me, get up.
Ill forgive you on condition that you apologize to your wife and take her home.
Thats the way to please me.
Otherwise just take yourself off, I wont have you kneeling to me.
During this lecture Jia Lian saw Xifeng standing there, not in her usual finery but with her eyes swollen from weeping, her pale face unpainted and unpowdered, looking more pathetic and lovely than ever before.
He thought, I may as well apologize and make it up.
That will please the old lady too.
He therefore replied with a smile, To hear is to obey, madam.
But Im afraid this will only make her more headstrong.
Nonsense, retorted the Lady Dowager.
She has the strongest sense of whats fitting, I know, and wont burst out like this again.
If she offends you in future, of course Ill give you permission to make her submit to your authority.
Jia Lian rose to his feet then and bowed to Xifeng.
It was my fault, madam, he said.
Please forgive me.
At that the whole company laughed.
Dont make a scene now, Xifeng, said the old lady smiling.
If you do, I shall be cross.
Next she sent for Pinger and ordered Jia Lian and Xifeng to make their peace with her.
This Jia Lian was very ready to do.
He promptly stepped forward and said Im the one to blame for the unjust way you were treated yesterday, miss, and because of me your mistress wronged you too.
So let me apologize for myself as well as for your mistress.
With that he bowed again, making the Lady Dowager and Xifeng laugh.
Then the old lady told Xifeng it was her turn, but already Pinger had kowtowed to her mistress.
I deserve death, madam, she said, for offending you on your birthday.
Xifeng was thoroughly ashamed of having drunk so much the previous day that she had forgotten their long friendship and lost her temper, humiliating Pinger quite groundlessly just because of something a third party had said.
Seeing the maid kowtow now, she hastily raised her to her feet, shedding tears of contrition and distress.
Pinger was weeping too.
In all the years Ive served you, madam, youve never laid a finger upon me, she said.
I dont blame you for striking me yesterday.
It was all the fault of that bitch.
How could you help being angry?
The Lady Dowager ordered attendants to escort the three of them to their own apartments.
If anyone raises the subject again, she said, report it to me at once.
And no matter who it is, Ill take my cane and give him a good beating.
The three of them, having kowtowed once more to the old lady, Lady Xing and Lady Wang, were seen back by some old nurses.
As soon as they were alone Xifeng demanded, Just why am I hellish?
A hell-cat?
When that bitch cursed me and wished me dead, you joined in.
In a thousand and one days I must be good at least one day yet it seems, after all this time, Im less to you than a whore.
How can I have the face to go on living now?
By now she was weeping again.
What more do you want?
cried her husband.
Just think a bit who was most to blame yesterday?
Yet today it was I who knelt down and begged your pardon in front of all those people.
Youve got quite enough face, so stop nagging now.
Do you expect me to kneel to you again?
Its no good going too far.
This silenced Xifeng and she giggled.
Thats better.
He grinned.
I honestly dont know how to cope with you.
Just then a serving-woman came in to report that Bao Ers wife had hanged herself.
They were both shocked to hear this.
But after her initial fright Xifeng put on a bold face.
If shes dead, shes dead, she retorted.
Whats all the fuss about?
Presently, however, Lin Zhixiaos wife came in and whispered to her, Bao Ers wife has hanged herself, madam.
And her people are threatening to sue you.
Thats fine.
Xifeng gave a scornful laugh.
Ive been waiting for a chance to go to court.
Weve all been trying to talk or frighten them out of it, said Mrs. Lin.
Theyre willing to drop the matter if youll give them a few strings of cash.
I havent a cent, and I wouldnt give it to them if I had.
Let them go ahead and arraign me.
Dont try to talk them round or scare them away.
Just let them go ahead.
But if they lose their case I shall sue them for blackmail.
Mrs. Lin was in a quandary when Jia Lian glanced at her significantly and, catching on, she withdrew to wait outside.
Ill go and see what can be done, he told Xifeng.
Youre not to pay them anything, she warned.
He went to talk the business over with Lin Zhixiao, then sent people to negotiate and finally hushed the matter up by paying two hundred taels.
To give them no chance to change their minds, however, Jia Lian also sent stewards to ask Wang Ziteng for some runners and sergeants to help with the funeral.
When the dead womans family knew this, they dared make no further move but simply had to swallow their resentment.
Jia Lian also told Lin Zhixiao to deduct the two hundred taels from their housekeeping funds, under cover of various items in their daily expenditure.
In addition he gave Bao Er some money too, and promised to find him a good wife later on.
Bao Er raised no objection, naturally, having received both money and consideration.
He continued in Jia Lians service as before.
As for Xifeng, although inwardly uneasy she pretended outwardly to be unconcerned.
When no one else was about she took Pingers hand and said gently Yesterday I was drunk.
You mustnt hold it against me.
Where did I hurt you?
Let me have a look.
Its nothing, Pinger answered.
You didnt hit hard.
Then someone outside announced, Madam Zhu and the young ladies have come.
To know the reason for their visit, read on.
Chapter 45 Two Girls Pledge Friendship After a Heart-to-Heart Talk A Plaintive Poem Is Written One Windy, Rainy Evening As Xifeng was comforting Pinger the young people called.
They were offered seats and Pinger handed round tea.
Well, youve come in force, chuckled Xifeng.
Anyone would think wed issued invitations.
Weve come about two things, Tanchun announced.
One is Xichuns business and weve also brought you a message from the old lady.
What is it thats so urgent?
demanded Xifeng.
Weve started a poetry club, Tanchun explained, but not even the first meeting was fully attended all because were too soft to keep order.
So it occurred to me that we must rope you in too as our supervisor we need someone strict and impartial.
Then Xichun needs more materials of every kind for her painting of the Garden.
We told the old lady, and she says there may be some left-over materials in the downstairs store-room at the back, which we can have if we can find them.
If not, we can send out to buy more.
Im no hand at versifying, Xifeng answered.
All I can do is come and join in the eating.
You wouldnt have to write anything, said Tanchun.
Your job would simply be to watch out for truants or slackers and punish the offenders as you think fit.
Dont try to fool me.
Xifeng laughed.
I can guess what youre after.
Its obviously not a supervisor you want but a mint-master to supply you with cash.
You must take it in turns to play host in this club of yours, and because your monthly allowances arent enough youve thought up this scheme to rope me in so that you can milk me.
Isnt that the idea?
The others laughed.
Theres true perspicacity for you!
cried Li Wan.
What an elder sister-in-law you are!
scolded Xifeng.
Youre supposed to be in charge of these girls studies and of teaching them good manners and needlework.
If they do wrong you ought to remonstrate with them.
Now theyve started this poetry club which shouldnt cost much, but you refuse to take charge.
The old lady and Lady Wang have their titled status of course, but your ten taels a month is twice as much as we get, and yet the old lady and mistress still pity you as a poor widow with no means of support.
So you get an extra ten taels for your son, which means getting as much as they do, and on top of that youve been given land in the Garden farm and are paid rent, apart from the largest share in the annual bonuses.
There are less than ten in your household, counting the servants, and your food and clothing still come from the common fund.
Your income adds up to four or five hundred taels a year.
Then why not use one or two hundred a year to keep these girls amused?
After all, it wont be for long.
When they marry, you wont be the one to provide their dowries.
Yet here you are, so afraid of spending a cent, youve put them up to coming to pester me.
Ive a good mind not to take the hint but just go and eat up everything youve got.
Listen to her!
cried Li Wan laughingly.
I say one word and the crazy thing spews out two cartloads of shameless talk like a real dirty swindler and tight-fisted money-grubber.
This creature was lucky enough to be born the daughter of a family of scholar-officials and to marry into a family like that too, yet she still carries on in this way.
If shed been the son of a poor family, theres no knowing what dirty language shed have used.
Shed have tried to swindle everyone on earth.
How could you strike even Pinger yesterday?
For shame!
You behaved like a dog drunk on yellow wine.
I was so furious, Id have taken up the cudgels for Pinger if not for the fact that it was the dogs birthday and I didnt want to upset the old lady either.
But Im still simmering with indignation.
And now youre challenging me!
You arent good enough to pick up Pingers shoes.
The two of you ought to change places.
The girls burst out laughing.
I see, Xifeng retorted.
You honoured me with this visit, not because of your poetry club or the painting either, but simply to avenge Pinger.
I didnt know she had such a champion.
If Id known, I should never have struck her not even if some devil were forcing my hand.
Here, Miss Pinger, let me apologize to you in front of Madam Zhu and the young ladies for my wild behaviour in my cups.
The others laughed again.
Li Wan asked Pinger, Well?
Didnt I promise to help you get your own back?
Its all very well for you ladies to have your fun, but I cant take it, was Pingers reply.
Nonsense, said Li Wan.
Ill back you up.
Hurry up and fetch the key now, and ask your mistress to open the storeroom for us.
My dear sister-in-law, put in Xifeng, do take these girls back to the Garden first.
I was just going to check this rice account, and then Ive got to see Lady Xing who sent for me on some business, and give instructions for the clothes everyone needs for New Year.
Never mind those other things, rejoined Li Wan.
Just settle my business first so that I can go home and rest and these young ladies will stop bothering me.
Give me a little time, dear sister, countered Xifeng.
Why should you, who are usually so good to me, be so hard on me today just because of Pinger?
You used to say, However busy you are, you must take good care of your health and find time to rest.
Yet now you want to kill me with overwork!
Besides, it doesnt matter if other peoples clothes are late, but youre responsible for these young ladies being ready on time.
If theyre not, the old lady will scold you for not seeing to it or at least reminding me.
Id rather take the blame myself than get you into trouble.
Listen, the rest of you, to this fine talk!
Li Wan smiled.
What a clever tongue!
Tell me, are you going to take charge of our club or not?
What do you think?
If I dont join your club and fork out some money, Ill be looked on as a traitor to Grand View Garden.
How could I go on living here then?
First thing tomorrow I shall proceed to my post, respectfully accept the seal of office, and then straightway give you fifty silver taels to spread over for several months for your clubs refreshments.
And as I cant write poems or essays being just completely cause of your poetry club or the painting either, but simply to avenge Pinger.
I didnt know she had such a champion.
If Id known, I should never have struck her not even if some devil were forcing my hand.
Here, Miss Pinger, let me apologize to you in front of Madam Zhu and the young ladies for my wild behaviour in my cups.
The others laughed again.
Li Wan asked Pinger, Well?
Didnt I promise to help you get your own back?
Its all very well for you ladies to have your fun, but I cant take it, was Pingers reply.
Nonsense, said Li Wan.
Ill back you up.
Hurry up and fetch the key now, and ask your mistress to open the storeroom for us.
My dear sister-in-law, put in Xifeng, do take these girls back to the Garden first.
I was just going to check this rice account, and then Ive got to see Lady Xing who sent for me on some business, and give instructions for the clothes everyone needs for New Year.
Never mind those other things, rejoined Li Wan.
Just settle my business first so that I can go home and rest and these young ladies will stop bothering me.
Give me a little time, dear sister, countered Xifeng.
Why should you, who are usually so good to me, be so hard on me today just because of Pinger?
You used to say, However busy you are, you must take good care of your health and find time to rest.
Yet now you want to kill me with overwork!
Besides, it doesnt matter if other peoples clothes are late, but youre responsible for these young ladies being ready on time.
If theyre not, the old lady will scold you for not seeing to it or at least reminding me.
Id rather take the blame myself than get you into trouble.
Listen, the rest of you, to this fine talk!
Li Wan smiled.
What a clever tongue!
Tell me, are you going to take charge of our club or not?
What do you think?
If I dont join your club and fork out some money, Ill be looked on as a traitor to Grand View Garden.
How could I go on living here then?
First thing tomorrow I shall proceed to my post, respectfully accept the seal of office, and then straightway give you fifty silver taels to spread over for several months for your clubs refreshments.
And as I cant write poems or essays being just completely vulgar whether you call me supervisor or not, a few days after Ive paid up you can still drive me away.
Amid general laughter she went on, Ill open the storeroom presently and tell them to fetch out all the painting materials for your inspection.
If theres anything of use to you, you can have it and if youll make out a list of whats still missing, Ill send people to buy it.
Ill supply you with the silk for the painting too.
The drawing of the Garden isnt with the mistress, Lord Zhen still has it.
Im telling you this to save you a trip for nothing.
Ill have it fetched and sent with the silk for the secretaries to work on.
How about that?
Li Wan nodded.
Thank you.
If youll really do that Ill let bygones be bygones.
All right, lets go.
If she doesnt send the things, we can come and pester her again.
As she started off with the girls Xifeng remarked, Theres only one person who could have put you up to all this, and thats Baoyu.
Li Wan turned back with a smile.
Oh yes!
Id forgotten.
It was Baoyu we came about.
He was the one who didnt turn up at our first meeting but we were too soft with him.
What should his punishment be?
After a seconds thought, Xifeng replied, The only thing I can think of is to make him sweep all your floors for you.
They approved laughingly and were on the point of leaving when Granny Lai came in, leaning on a young maids arm.
Xifeng and the others hastily rose, urged her to sit down and offered her congratulations.
Seating herself on the edge of the kang she said Our masters and mistresses are rejoicing over our good fortune, and we owe it all to your kindness.
Yesterday when you sent Caiming over with presents too, madam, my grandson kowtowed his thanks at the gate.
Li Wan asked, When will he be leaving to take up his post?
Granny Lai sighed.
I pay no attention to their affairs, they do just as they please.
When he kowtowed to me at home the other day, I gave him apiece of my mind.
I said, Child, dont start throwing your weight about now that youre an official.
Youre thirty this year and, though you were born in bondage, our masters were kind enough to give you your freedom the moment you came out of your mothers womb.
Thanks to the generosity of your masters above as well as your parents below, you were able to study like a young gentleman, cossetted by maids and nurses as if you were a phoenix.
Though youve reached this age I doubt if you even know how the word slave is written.
All you know is how to enjoy yourself.
It doesnt occur to you, I said, that you owe your present position to the generations of hardship your grandfather and father had to go through.
Youve had one trouble after another since you were a boy, and the money weve spent on you would make a silver statue bigger than you are.
When you were twenty our masters were kind enough to help you purchase an official post, although plenty of real gentlefolk go hungry.
You were born a slave, so watch out dont tempt fortune too far.
After having an easy life of it for ten years you managed somehow -- Heaven only know how -- to get our masters to have you selected for this post.
A district magistrate may not rank too high yet he has a lot of work to do as the father and mother of everyone in the district.
If you dont behave properly as a loyal servant of the state to be worthy of your masters kindness, Heaven and Earth will surely condemn you.
You worry too much, Li Wan and Xifeng told her with a smile.
Were sure he will do all right.
He called occasionally some years ago but hasnt been here for quite a few years now we only saw his visiting-card at New Year or on birthdays.
The other day, though, when he came to kowtow to the old lady and Lady Wang we caught a glimpse of him in the old ladys compound.
He cut quite an impressive figure in his new official robes, and seemed to have put on weight too.
You should be pleased by his appointment instead of worrying like this.
If he doesnt do well, thats his parents look-out you should just concentrate on enjoying yourself.
When youve time you must come by sedan-chair for a day of card-playing or a chat with the old lady.
No one would dream of treating you shabbily.
Youve fine big buildings at home too, where of course everybody must respect you like a lady of quality.
Pinger brought in tea at this point and at once Granny Lai stood up to take it.
You should have let one of the younger girls do this, miss, she said.
Youre doing me too much honour.
Sipping the tea she continued, You dont understand, madam, all children need a firm hand.
Even then, the way they still make trouble on the sly causes us endless worry.
Those who know us say Boys will be boys.
Those who dont may talk of our relying on wealth and influence to bully other people, and that would damage even the masters reputation.
When I get too provoked, I often call in his father and give him a good dressing-down, to make them behave a bit better for a while.
She pointed then at Baoyu.
You wont like what Im going to say, but your father isnt strict enough with you, and the old lady always shields you.
Who didnt see, in the old days, how your grandfather beat your father when he was a boy, though he never ran wild the way you do, fearing neither Heaven nor Earth.
And Lord She in the east courtyard, though he was naughty, never buried himself at home the way you do yet he got beaten every day.
As for your cousin Zhens grandfather in the East Mansion, he had such a fiery temper hed flare up at a word, grilling his son as if he were a brigand.
From all Ive seen and heard, Lord Zhen seems to follow his grandfathers method of disciplining his son, only hes erratic.
And as he doesnt mind how he behaves himself, you cant blame his cousins and nephews for not being afraid of him.
If youve any sense, you should be glad of this warning.
If not, you may not like to say anything but I dare say youre cursing me in your heart.
Lai Das wife came in just then followed by the wives of Zhou Rui and Lin Zhixiao to make their reports.
Xifeng remarked with a smile, The daughter-in-law has come for her mother-in-law.
Thats not why I came, said Lai Das wife, but to ask if you ladies would honour us with your presence.
How stupid of me to forget what I really came for and just to maunder on!
exclaimed Granny Lai.
Now that my grandsons appointed to this post, weve got to give a feast at home for all the relatives and friends who want to congratulate him.
I didnt want to invite some people, not others.
Besides, I thought, its sharing our masters good fortune thats brought us this undreamed-of honour, so I dont mind even if it bankrupts us.
Thats why I told his father to make it a three-day affair.
The first day we shall have a few tables of guests and an opera in our humble garden, and invite the old lady, the mistresses, and all you other ladies and young ladies to come and have some fun at the same time well ask the gentlemen to honour us with their presence at another feast with an opera in the hall outside.
On the second day, well entertain relatives and friends on the third, our fellow servants from these two mansions.
This will be a great occasion for us, these three days of excitement, and we owe it all to our masters.
When is it to be?
asked Li Wan and Xifeng.
Well certainly come, and quite likely the old lady will be happy to come too, but we cant say for sure.
Weve chosen the fourteenth, said Lai Das wife promptly, Do give mother face by coming.
I cant answer for the others, but I promise to come, said Xifeng.
First let me warn you, though, Ive no presents or tips to bring, so mind you dont laugh at me if after eating I just up and leave.
What a thing to say, madam!
Lai Das wife smiled.
Why, if you felt like it, you could give us twenty or thirty thousand taels.
Granny Lai put in, Just now I went to invite the old lady, and shes promised to come too, so it seems I really have face.
After pressing the invitations she was rising to leave when the sight of Zhou Ruis wife reminded her of something.
Oh, theres something else, madam, she said to Xifeng.
What has Mrs. Zhous son done wrong that you want to dismiss him?
Yes, I meant to tell your daughter-in-law, but I was so busy I forgot, said Xifeng.
When you go home, Mrs. Lai, tell your husband that neither mansion is to keep Zhou Ruis son.
He must go.
While Mrs. Lai had to agree to this, Zhou Ruis wife fell on her knees to beg her son off.
What happened?
asked Granny Lai.
Tell me what he did, and Ill be judge for you.
On my birthday yesterday, he got drunk before the feasting even started, said Xifeng.
And instead of seeing to the presents my parents family sent, he sat there swearing and wouldnt bring them in.
Only after the two serving-women delivering the things came in themselves did he at last get some pages to help him carry them in.
The boys did all right, but he went and dropped a hamper so that dumplings started rolling all over the courtyard.
After the two women had gone, I sent Caiming to tell him off, and he had the nerve to swear at him.
How can we keep on such an insolent, lawless young bastard?
Is that all?
Granny Lai smiled.
I thought it was something serious.
Take my advice, madam, and if hes done wrong, beat him, reprimand him and make him mend his ways, but dont dismiss him that would never do.
He cant be treated like one of our children, as his mother came here with the mistress at the time of her marriage so dismissing him would reflect badly on Her Ladyship.
Keep him on, I say, madam, and give him a good beating to teach him a lesson.
If youve no consideration for his mother, at least have some for Lady Wang.
Xifeng turned to Lai Das wife.
In that case give him forty strokes, and see to it that he doesnt get drunk again.
Lai Das wife assented and Zhou Ruis wife kowtowed her thanks.
She would have kowtowed to Granny Lai too, but Lai Das wife stopped her.
Then these three women left and Li Wan and the girls returned to the Garden.
That evening Xifeng was as good as her word.
She had servants get out all the painting material in the storeroom and send it to the Garden.
Baochai and the rest went through it and found only half what they wanted.
They made out a list of the other things they needed for Xifeng to purchase.
But no more of this.
Soon the silk had been sized with alum outside, and the draft drawing was delivered.
Baoyu went to help Xichun every day, while Tanchun, Li Wan, Yingchun and Baochai often forgathered there to watch her painting and to be together.
As the weather was chilly now and the nights were lengthening, Baochai asked her mother for some sewing to do.
Every day she paid two courtesy calls on the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang, and could not but keep them company for a while if they seemed so inclined and from time to time she felt obliged to drop in for a chat with the girls in the Garden thus her days were so fully occupied that she sewed every night by lamplight, not going to bed till the third watch.
Daiyu, who suffered from a bad cough around every spring and autumn solstice, had overtaxed her strength this year by going not more than usual, because of the Lady Dowagers good spirits, and had recently started coughing again worse than ever.
She therefore stayed in her own rooms to rest.
Sometimes she grew bored and wished the girls would drop in for a chat to while away the time yet when Baochai and the rest called to see how she was, a short conversation was enough to exhaust her.
Knowing how delicate and hypersensitive she was, they all made allowances for her, overlooking any lack of hospitality and courtesy.
Today Baochai came to visit her and turned the conversation to her illness.
Though the doctors who come here arent bad, their prescriptions dont seem to be doing you much good, said Baochai.
Why dont you ask a real authority to come and examine you and see if he cant cure you?
You cant go on like this, having trouble every spring and summer.
After all, youre not an old woman or a child.
Its no use, was Daiyus reply.
I have a hunch I shall never get over this.
You know how poorly I am at the best of times, let alone when Im ill. Thats true.
Baochai nodded.
The ancients said, Food is life, yet what you normally eat doesnt give you energy or strength, and thats a bad sign.
Life and death are determined by fate, rank and riches decreed by Heaven, quoted Daiyu with a sigh.
Its beyond the power of man to alter fate.
It seems to me my illness is worse this year.
This short speech had been punctuated by several bouts of coughing.
I saw your prescription yesterday, said Baochai.
It struck me there was too much ginseng and cinnamon in it.
Although they stimulate the vital forces, you shouldnt have anything too hot either.
To my mind, the first essential is to calm your liver and improve your digestion.
Once the fire in your liver is quelled so that it cant overcome the earth element your digestion will be better and youll be able to assimilate your food.
When you get up each morning, you should take an ounce of the best quality birds-nest boiled into a gruel with half an ounce of crystal sugar in a silver pot.
Taken regularly, this is a better tonic than any medicine.
How good you always are to others!
Daiyu exclaimed with a sigh.
Im so touchy that I used to suspect your motives.
I really began to appreciate you that day when you warned me against indiscriminate reading and gave me such good advice.
I can see now Id misjudged you all along.
My mother died early and Ive no sisters or brothers so, come to think of it, in all my fifteen years no one ever advised me as you did the other day.
No wonder Xiangyun speaks so highly of you.
I used to be sceptical when she sang your praises, but not after my own recent experience.
For instance, when you said anything I always answered back, but instead of taking offence you offered me good advice.
That showed that Id been wrong.
If I hadnt realized this the other day, I wouldnt be confiding in you now.
You just said I should eat birds-nest.
Birds-nest is easy to buy, but my health is so poor that I fall ill every year and while its nothing serious Ive already caused plenty of trouble, what with sending for doctors and preparing medicine with ginseng and cinnamon.
If I started demanding birds-nest now, the old lady, Lady Wang and Xifeng wouldnt say anything, but those below would be bound to think me too pernickety.
Look how jealous these people are and how much gossip there is here because the old lady favours Baoyu and Xifeng.
In my case, theyd resent it even more.
After all, Im not a daughter of the house, Im here because Ive nowhere else to go.
They resent me enough as it is.
If I should push myself forward, theyd all start cursing me.
Well, in that case Im in the same position as you.
How can you compare yourself with me?
You have your mother and your brother too you have shops and land here as well, not to mention all your property at home.
Youre just staying here to be close to your relatives, not spending a cent of their money on anything, free to leave whenever you please.
But I have nothing.
Yet all I eat, wear and use, down to the least blade of grass or sheet of paper, is the same as their own girls get.
Naturally those petty-minded people dislike me.
It only means providing one extra dowry in future, Baochai chuckled.
And its too early to worry about that yet.
Daiyu flushed red.
I confide my troubles to you, thinking youll take them seriously, she said, but instead you make fun of me.
I was only joking, but its quite true.
Dont worry.
As long as Im here I shall keep you company.
Just tell me any complaints or troubles you have, and Ill help as far as I can.
As for my brother, though, you know what hes like.
My only advantage over you is that I have a mother.
Fellow-sufferers can sympathize with each other.
Why should an intelligent girl like you lament your lack of a brother?
Of course, you were right just now in saying that its better not to put people to too much trouble.
Tomorrow when I go home, Ill ask my mother for some of the birds-nest I fancy we still have, and bring you a few ounces.
You can get your maids to prepare some every day.
It wont cost anything and youll not be putting anybody out.
Its a small thing, but I appreciate your kindness, said Daiyu gratefully.
Its not worth mentioning.
Im afraid Im often lacking in consideration.
Well, you must be tired, Ill go now.
Do drop in again this evening for a chat.
Baochai promised to do this and left.
Daiyu sipped two mouthfuls of rice gruel, then lay down to rest again.
The weather changed unexpectedly before sunset and it began to drizzle.
Autumn is a capricious season of many showers and as dusk fell it grew very dark, while the rain pattering on the bamboo leaves made the place seem unusually lonely.
Knowing that Baochai would not come out in this weather, Daiyu picked up a book at random under the lamp.
It was an anthology of Yue-fu, containing lyrics such as Autumn Sorrow in a Girl - Chamber and The Pain of Parting.
Daiyu was moved to write a poem about separation herself entitled A Windy Rainy Evening by the Autumn Window in the style of A Night of Flowers and Moonlight by the Spring River.
This was her poem -718 Sad the autumn flowers, sear the autumn grass, Autumn lamps flicker through the long autumn night Unendurably desolate by the autumn window, In the wind and rain autumn seems infinite.
The wind and rain speed autumn on its way, By the window shattering her autumn dream And the girl with autumn in her heart cannot sleep But trims the candle by her autumn screen.
Guttering on its stick, the candle sheds tears of wax, Evoking the grief of separation, its pain, As through each autumn courtyard gusts the wind And on each autumn window beats the rain.
The autumn wind, through silken quilts strikes chill, Her water-clock the autumn rain spurs on.
All night the pelting rain and soughing wind Accompany her tears for one now gone.
Chill mist enwraps the court in loneliness, Bamboos drip by the lattice without pause None can tell when the wind and rain will cease, But already tears have soaked her windows gauze.
Having read this through, she had just put down her brush and was about to go to bed when Baoyu was announced.
And in he walked, in a large hat of plaited bamboo leaves and a coir cape.
Where does this fisherman come from?
she greet him laughing.
Do you feel better today?
Have you taken your medicine?
How is your appetite?
As he made these inquiries he took off his cape and hat and picked up the lamp, shading it with one hand, to examine her face intently.
You look a little better today, was his verdict.
She saw that he was wearing a red silk coat, no longer new, with a green girdle, green silk trousers embroidered with flowers, cotton socks embroidered with gold thread, and slippers with butterfly and flower designs.
Why did you only protect your head and clothes from the rain, not your footwear?
she asked.
Not that your shoes and socks are dirty either.
Ive got a complete set of rain-wear, he told her gaily.
I came here in pyrus-wood pattens, which I left outside on the verandah.
She noticed then that his cape and hat were not the usual sort sold in the market, but extremely finely made.
What plant are they woven of?
she asked.
You dont look like a hedgehog in that cape, for a wonder.
These three things are all presents from the Prince of Beijing.
When its raining he wears a similar outfit at home.
If you like them, Ill get you a set.
The best thing is the hat as its adjustable the crown can be detached.
So men or women alike can wear it in winter in the snow.
Ill get you one for when it snows this winter.
No thank you, Daiyu chuckled.
If I wore one of those, I should look like the fishermans wife in paintings and operas.
As these words left her lips she remembered with dismay that she had just greeted Baoyu as a fisherman.
She flushed scarlet and leaned forward over the table, coughing as if she could never stop.
Baoyu, however, appeared not to have noticed.
Catching sight of the poem on the table, he picked it up, read it through, and exclaimed in involuntary admiration.
Daiyu hearing this instantly snatched the paper from him and burned it over the lamp.
Too late!
I know it by heart, he said cheerfully.
Im better now.
Thank you for coming so often to see me, even in the rain, she said.
Now its late and Id like to sleep.
Please go now.
Come again tomorrow.
At this he took from his pocket a golden watch the size of a walnut.
Its hands, he saw, showed that it was after nine.
Replacing the watch he agreed Yes, its time to turn in.
Ive disturbed you too long again.
He put on the cape and hat and took his leave, turning back at the door to ask, What would you like to eat?
Let me know and Ill tell the old lady first thing in the morning.
Im a better messenger than those old women.
Ill think about it during the night, and let you know early tomorrow.
Listen, how its pouring outside.
Youd better go quickly.
Have you anyone with you?
Two serving-women answered, Yes, theyre waiting outside with umbrellas and a lantern.
A lantern?
In this weather?
she asked in surprise.
Thats all right, said Baoyu.
Its a horn lantern, and its rainproof.
She took an ornate glass lantern from the bookcase, ordered a small candle to be lit in it, and handed it to him.
This is brighter, just the thing to use in the rain.
I have one like that too, he said.
I didnt bring it for fear they might slip and break it.
Which is more valuable, lamp or man?
Youre not used to wearing pattens, so get them to carry the horn lantern in front and take this one yourself, since its handy and bright and meant to be used in the rain.
Wouldnt that be better?
You can send it back later.
And even if you drop it, it wont matter.
Whats come over you suddenly that you want to cut open your stomach to hide a pearl.
Baoyu promptly took the lantern.
Two serving-women led the way with an umbrella and the horn lantern, while two young maids with umbrellas followed behind.
He made one of these hold the glass lantern and rested a hand on her shoulder.
Scarcely had he gone when a woman, also with an umbrella and a lantern, arrived to deliver a big package of the best quality birds-nest and a packet of fine plum-petal snow-white sugar from Alpinia Park.
This is better than any in the shops, she said.
Our young lady hopes you will use it, and when its finished shell send some more.
Daiyu thanked her and asked her to sit down in the outer room to have some tea.
I wont stay, the woman replied.
Ive got other things to do.
I know what keeps you busy, rejoined Daiyu laughingly.
Now that its turning cold and the nights are long, this is the time for evening gambling parties.
Ill confess, miss, my luck has been very good this year, said the woman with a smile.
There are always a few of us on night duty, and we mustnt sleep during our watch so gaming helps to keep us awake and pass the time pleasantly.
Tonight its my turn to be banker.
Now that the Garden gates are closed its time to start.
Thank you very much for bringing these things in the rain.
Im sorry if Ive kept you from making more money.
She ordered her maids to give the woman a few hundred cash for wine to keep out the chill.
Thank you, miss, for treating me again.
The woman kowtowed and, having gone to the outer room to take the money, went off with her umbrella.
Zijuan put away the packages, moved aside the lamp and lowered the curtains, then helped her mistress to bed.
Daiyus thoughts turned to Baochai as she lay on her pillow, and again she envied her for having a mother and a brother.
Then she reflected that, good as Baoyu was to her, there was still a certain distance between them.
Moreover, the rain drumming steadily down on the bamboos and plantains outside wafted a chill through her curtains and made her shed tears again.
Only towards the end of the fourth watch did she finally fall asleep.
If you want to know the sequence, read the next chapter.
Chapter 46 An Old Reprobate Makes an Unseemly Proposal Yuanyang Vows Never to Marry Daiyu did not fall asleep till nearly dawn.
But let us leave her now and turn back to Xifeng, who received a mysterious summons from Lady Xing and after hastily changing her clothes went off in her carriage to the east court.
Lady Xing sent her maids away then confided to Xifeng, The Elder Master has given me a difficult task, and I am at a loss, so I want your advice as to how to handle it.
Hes taken a fancy to the old ladys maid Yuanyang and wants to make her his concubine.
Hes told me to go and ask the old lady for her.
I know this is quite commonly done, but Im afraid the old lady may not agree.
What would you advise me to do?
If I were you, I wouldnt run my head against a brick wall, replied Xifeng promptly.
The old lady cant even eat without Yuanyang how could she part with her?
Besides, when were chatting Ive often heard her remark that the Elder Master, at his advanced age, shouldnt be taking concubines left and right.
For one thing, hes spoiling those girls chances of marriage for another, hes injuring his health and neglecting his official duties by spending all the time drinking with his concubines.
You can judge from that, madam, that shes not particularly partial to the Elder Master.
Hed do better to try to avoid offending her further instead of tickling the tigers nose with a straw.
Please dont be annoyed, madam, but I havent the courage to approach her.
As far as I can see, it would be useless and just cause unpleasantness.
The Elder Masters behaviour is rather unbecoming for a gentleman getting on in years you should talk him out of it.
It wouldnt matter if he were young but when a man has such a flock of younger brothers, nephews, children and grandchildren, doesnt it look bad to go on fooling around like this?
Other noble families often have three or four concubines, so why shouldnt we?
retorted Lady Xing coldly.
I doubt if I can talk him out of it.
Even if Yuanyang is the old ladys favourite maid, when her elder son, a grey-bearded official wants her for his concubine his mother can hardly refuse him.
I invited you over simply to ask your opinion, but at once you trot out all these reasons against it.
Did you think Id send you on this errand?
I shall go myself, of course.
You blame me for not dissuading him, but surely you know your father-in-law better than that.
Hed ignore my advice and fly into a temper.
Xifeng knew that her mother-in-law was a stupid, weak-minded woman who, to save herself trouble, always humoured Jia She, finding her sole pleasure in life in amassing property and money.
All decisions great or small in their household she left to her husband but when money passed through her hands she was extraordinarily tight-fisted, alleging that she had to economize to make up for his extravagance.
Not one of her children or servants did she trust, nor would she listen to their advice.
It would be futile to reason with her now, seeing that she was so stubborn.
So with a pleasant smile Xifeng replied, Youre quite right, madam.
What can I know, young as I am?
After all, shes his mother and would surely never refuse him the rarest treasure, not to say a maid.
Whom else would she give her to if not the Elder Master?
I was silly to take what she said in private so seriously.
Even in Lians case, for instance, the master and you may threaten to beat him to death when he displeases you, but the moment you see him your anger melts away and you still give him things you treasure.
Of course, thats how the old lady will treat the Elder Master.
As shes in high spirits today, it seems to me nows the time to make this request.
Would you like me to go first to coax her into a good humour?
Then when you come Ill make some excuse to leave, taking everyone else there with me, so that you can broach the subject.
If she agrees, so much the better.
If she doesnt, no harm will be done as no one else will know.
Mollified by this, Lady Xing told her, My idea was not to approach the old lady first, for if she refused that would be the end of the matter.
I was thinking of telling Yuanyang first in private.
She may be bashful, but when Ive explained it all to her she naturally wont say anything.
And that can be taken to mean consent.
Then Ill go and ask the old lady, and shell find it difficult to refuse even though she doesnt want to part with the girl.
For as the proverb says, Theres no holding someone who wants to leave.
Its sure to work out all right.
After all, you know best, madam.
Xifeng smiled.
This is bound to work.
Every girl, not to mention Yuanyang, wants to rise in the world and become someone of importance.
Who would refuse to become a semi-mistress and remain in service instead, with no prospect but that of marrying some servant in the end?
Thats what I think, agreed Lady Xing.
Not to say Yuanyang, even those senior maids in responsible positions would jump at the chance.
All right, you go over first, but dont let a word leak out.
Ill come over after dinner.
Meanwhile Xifeng had been thinking, Yuanyang is a sharp customer.
Still she may refuse.
If I go back first and Yuanyang agrees, all right but if she refuses my mother-in-laws so suspicious shes sure to think I told her and encouraged her to hold out.
Seeing me proved right and herself made to look a fool, she may vent her temper on me and that would be no joke.
Better if the two of us go over together, for then whether Yuanyang agrees or not no suspicion can fall on me.
So she said cordially, As I set out just now, my maternal uncles house sent over two baskets of quails which I told the kitchen to have deep-fried and sent over for your dinner.
And as I came through your main gate, I saw some pages carrying off your carriage for repairs they said it was cracking up.
Why dont you come back now, madam, with me in mine?
Then we can go together.
Lady Xing called for her maids to change her clothes, assisted by Xifeng, after which they both mounted the carriage.
Then Xifeng said, If I accompany you to the old ladys place, madam, she may ask what Ive come for and that would be awkward.
Suppose you go first, and I follow after changing my clothes?
Lady Xing thought this reasonable, and went on first to call on the Lady Dowager.
After chatting with her for a while, she left on the pretext of going to see Lady Wang.
Instead, however, she slipped out through the back door to Yuanyangs bedroom.
The girl, who was sitting there doing some needlework, hastily rose to her feet at her approach.
Lady Xing asked with a smile, What are you making?
Let me have a look.
Im sure youre doing finer work than ever.
So saying she entered the room, inspected the embroidery and praised it loudly.
Putting it down then, she subjected Yuanyang to a careful scrutiny.
The maid was wearing a light purple silk tunic, none too new, a black satin sleeveless jacket with silk borders, and a pale green skirt.
She had a supple wasp-waist, slender shoulders, an oval face, glossy black hair and a finely arched nose, while her cheeks were slightly freckled.
This close inspection embarrassed and puzzled her.
What brings you here at this hour, madam?
she asked with a smile.
Lady Xing signed to her attendants to leave, then sat down and took Yuanyangs hand.
Ive come specially to congratulate you, she announced.
This gave Yuanyang some inkling of what was afoot.
She blushed and lowered her head without a word.
You know, the Elder Master has no one reliable to wait on him, Lady Xing continued.
He could buy a girl, of course, but those one gets through brokers arent clean and theres no knowing what maynt be wrong with them besides, after two or three days theyre liable to get up to monkey-tricks.
So hes been trying to choose one in our household.
At first there seemed to be no one suitable.
One was ugly, another bad-tempered, and some had certain good points but other shortcomings.
After keeping his eyes open for the past six months, hes decided that of all the girls here youre the best pretty, well-behaved, dependable and sweet-tempered.
So he wants to ask the old lady to let him take you into his chambers.
Your position will be quite different from that of a girl bought from outside, for as soon as you enter our house we shall go through the ceremonies and give you the rank of a secondary wife, treated with all respect and honour.
Besides, youre a girl with a will of your own.
As the proverb says, True gold will find its price.
Now that the Elder Master has picked you, youll be able to realize your highest ambitions, and this will stop the mouths of those who dislike you.
So come along with me to tell the old lady.
She took Yuanyangs hand to lead her out, but the girl coloured and shrank back.
Whats there to be so bashful about?
asked Lady Xing, seeing how embarrassed she was.
You wont have to say a word.
Just come with me.
Yuanyang simply hung her head and would not budge.
Dont tell me youre unwilling!
cried Lady Xing.
Youre a very silly girl if thats the case, turning down the chance to be a mistress and choosing to remain a maid instead.
All you can look forward to then is marrying some servant in two or three years time youll still be a slave.
Far better come to us.
You know Im much too good-natured to be jealous, and the Elder Master will treat you well.
In a year or so, when you give birth to a child, youll be on the same footing as me with the whole household at your beck and call.
If you let slip this chance to better yourself, youre going to regret it but then itll be too late.
Still Yuanyang simply hung her head and said nothing.
Youve always been a straightforward girl, persisted Lady Xing.
Why are you being so sticky about this?
Whats worrying you?
Just tell me, and Ill see that your wishes are met.
Yuanyang remained silent.
I suppose youre too shy to say yes yourself and would prefer to leave it to your parents, Lady Xing smiled.
Quite right and proper too.
Ill speak to them and get them to speak to you.
You can be frank with them.
This said, she went off to find Xifeng.
Xifeng had long since changed her clothes, and since no one else was in the room but Pinger she disclosed this news to her.
Pinger shook her head.
I dont see this working out, was her verdict.
From the way shes spoken when we were chatting on our own, shes not likely to consent.
But we shall soon see.
The mistress may bring Yuanyang here to discuss it.
said Xifeng.
If Yuanyangs willing, all right if not, shell be feeling put out, and it would be embarrassing for her to have you others here.
Tell the rest to go and deep-fry some quails and prepare a few other dishes to go with them.
Then you can go off and amuse yourself somewhere else till you think shell have gone.
Pinger passed on these instructions to the other servants, then sauntered off to enjoy herself in the Garden.
Meanwhile Yuanyang had guessed that Lady Xing would be going to discuss this business with Xifeng, and that other people were sure to come to sound her out again.
Thinking it wisest to make herself scarce, she told Hupo If the old lady should ask for me, tell her Im not feeling well and I had no breakfast.
Ive gone for a stroll in the Garden but shant be long.
Hupo agreed to this, and Yuanyang went out.
While walking in the Garden, to her surprise she met Pinger, who seeing that they were alone cried teasingly Here comes the new concubine!
Yuanyang flushed scarlet, So thats it!
she exclaimed.
Youre all in league against me.
Wait till I go and have this out with your mistress.
Pinger hearing this regretted her tactlessness.
Drawing Yuanyang over to sit on a rock under a maple, she told her frankly all that Xifeng had said since her return.
Still blushing, Yuanyang answered bitterly, What good friends we were, the dozen or so of us Xiren, Hupo, Suyun, Zijuan, Caixia, Yuchuan, Sheyue, Cuimo, Cuilu who went with Miss Xiangyun, Keren and Jinchuan whove died, Qianxue whos left, and the two of us.
We worked together from the time we were young and never had any secrets from each other.
Now that weve grown up weve gone our different ways, but I havent changed I dont hide anything from you.
So Ill confide something to you, but mind you dont tell Madam Lian.
Quite apart from the fact that the Elder Master only wants to make me his concubine, even if Lady Xing had died and he sent matchmakers in style to make me his principal wife, I wouldnt agree to it.
Before Pinger could reply they heard laughter behind the rock.
For shame!
someone cried.
Such talks enough to set ones teeth on edge.
Startled, they jumped to their feet to see who was there.
It was Xiren, who emerged laughingly from behind the rockery.
Whats up?
she asked.
Let me into the secret.
The three of them sat down again and Pinger retold her story.
Of course, we shouldnt say this, but what an old lecher the Elder Master is!
was Xirens comment.
He cant keep his hands off any girl whos not bad-looking.
Since youre unwilling, said Pinger, Ill tell you an easy way to fob him off.
Whats that?
asked Yuanyang.
Simply tell the old lady youve already given yourself to Master Lian, Pinger giggled.
The father can hardly take what belongs to his son., Yuanyang spat in disgust.
What rubbish!
Your mistress was raving the other day.
How can you go repeating that today?
If you dont want either of them, teased Xiren, get the old lady to tell Lord She youre already promised to Baoyu.
Then hell have to give up.
Frantic with rage and embarrassment, Yuanyang swore, You two bitches, you wont come to a good end!
I turn to you in trouble, thinking youll have the decency to help me, but instead you take it in turns to make fun of me.
You think your own futures are assured and youll both end up as secondary wives.
Im not so sure.
In this world, things dont always turn out the way you want.
So dont start counting your chickens before theyre hatched.
Seeing how frantic she was, the two others did their best to soothe her.
Dont take it the wrong way, dear sister, they cried.
Weve been like real sisters since we were small and were only having a joke among ourselves.
But, seriously, tell us your plan, so that we can stop worrying.
Plan?
What plan do I have?
I just refuse to go.
Pinger shook her head.
Then he may not give up.
You know what Lord Shes like.
Though he wont dare do anything now while youre with the old lady, you wont be in her service all your life, will you?
Some day youll be leaving.
If you fell into his clutches then, that would be worse.
Pah!
As long as the old lady lives, I shant leave this house.
If she passes away, hell have to observe three years mourning anyway he cant take a concubine the moment his mother dies.
And in those three years anything might happen.
Time enough to worry then.
If the worst comes to the worst, I can shave my hair off and become a nun.
Failing that, I can kill myself.
I dont care if I never get married.
Then life would be simpler.
What a shameless slut!
laughed Pinger.
The wild way she runs on!
Things have gone too far for modesty, Yuanyang retorted.
If you dont believe me, wait and see.
Lady Xing said just now she means to speak to my parents.
Shell have to go to Nanking for that.
Your father and mother are looking after properties in the south, said Pinger.
So even though theyre not here, they can still be found.
Besides, your elder brother and sister-in-law are here.
Its too bad youre a house-born servant.
Its worse for you than for us who are here on our own.
What difference does it make?
You cant force an ox to bend its head to drink.
Would he kill my parents if I refuse?
Just then they saw her sister-in-law approaching.
Xiren remarked, As your parents arent on the spot, they must have spoken to your sister-in law.
That whore!
swore Yuanyang.
Shes a regular camel-dealer.
She wont let slip this chance to suck up to them.
By now her sister-in-law had come up to her.
Ive been looking for you everywhere, she said smiling.
So this is where youd run off to.
Come with me.
I want to have a word with you.
Pinger and Xiren asked her to sit down.
No thank you.
Dont stir, said the woman.
I just want to have a word with my sister-in-law.
Whats the hurry?
they asked, pretending not to know.
Were guessing riddles here and making bets.
We must hear her answer to this one before she goes.
What do you want?
demanded Yuanyang.
Out with it.
Come with me, the other insisted.
Ill tell you over there.
Its good news for you, anyway.
Your mean what Lady Xing told you?
If you know, why keep putting me off?
Come along, and Ill give you the details.
Its simply the most wonderful piece of good fortune.
Yuanyang sprang up and spat hard in her face.
Pointing an accusing finger at her she swore.
Shut your foul mouth and clear off, if you know whats good for you.
Whats all this talk of good news and good fortune?
No wonder, though.
Youve always envied those families who start throwing their weight about once their daughters are concubines, as if every one of them was a concubine too.
You cant wait to pitch me into that fiery pit.
Then if I get given face you can bully people outside, calling yourselves relatives of the ha family if I lose face and land in trouble, you turtles can shrink back into your shells and leave me to my fate.
She wept and stormed while Pinger and Xiren restrained her and tried to calm her.
Her sister-in-law was goaded to retort, Whether youre willing or not, you might at least explain properly instead of slinging mud at other people.
The proverb says, One doesnt talk about midgets in front of dwarfs.
Your abuse of me I wont presume to answer.
But these girls havent offended you, why embarrass them with all this talk about concubines?
Thats no way to speak, protested the other two.
She wasnt referring to us.
Your re the one trying to drag us into this.
Which master or mistress has made us concubines?
Besides, weve no parents or brother in service here who could make use of our position to bully others.
There are people of that kind.
Let her swear at them it doesnt worry us.
I put her to shame and she didnt know how to cover up, said Yuanyang.
Thats why she tried to provoke the two of you.
Its a good thing you understand.
Being carried away, I didnt choose my words carefully enough then she saw her chance and grabbed it.
Her sister-in-law flounced off in a huff while Yuanyang went on fulminating against her.
When at last they had calmed her Pinger asked Xiren Why were you hiding there?
We didnt see you.
I went to Miss Xichuns apartment to fetch Master Bao, only to be told Id just missed him hed gone back.
I doubted that, for in that case I would have seen him.
I decided to see if he was with Miss in, but I ran into some of her people who told me he wasnt there either.
It had just occurred to me that he might have left the Garden, when you happened to come along.
I dodged out of sight, and then Yuanyang came along too.
I slipped from behind that tree to behind this rockery but you were so busy talking that even with two pairs of eyes you didnt see.
Even with two pairs of eyes they didnt see you?
Someone behind them laughed.
Even with three pairs of eyes you didnt see me!
With a start they turned and saw Baoyu approaching them.
What a chase youve led me, Xiren exclaimed with a smile.
Where have you been all this time?
After I left Xichun, I spotted you coming and guessed you were looking for me, so I hid myself to tease you.
I watched you sail straight past into the courtyard, then come out again and question everyone you met.
I was laughing up my sleeve, ready to pop out and frighten you when you reached me.
But then I saw you dodge into hiding too and knew you were playing a trick on someone else, I peeped out and saw these two.
So I crept behind you, and after you came out I hid where youd been hiding.
Wed better go and have another look in case another couples hiding there, proposed Pinger with a laugh.
No, theres no one there now, he assured her.
Aware that Baoyu must have overheard everything, Yuanyang laid her head on her arms on the rock and pretended she was dozing off.
Its cold on that stone.
Come back to my place to rest, he suggested, nudging her.
Helping her up, he invited Pinger too for a cup of tea.
Pressed by both Pinger and Xiren, Yuanyang acquiesced and the four of them went together to Happy Red Court.
The conversation Baoyu had overheard had naturally depressed him.
He simply lay down quietly on his bed, leaving the three girls to chat in the outer room.
To return to Lady Xing, she had learned from Xifeng that Yuanyangs father Jin Cai and his wife were acting as caretakers in Nanjing and seldom came up to the capital.
However, her elder brother Wenxiang was a buyer for the Lady Dowager, and her sister-in-law was chief laundress in her apartments.
Lady Xing promptly sent for Wenxiangs wife and told her what she proposed.
Young Mrs. Jin was of course only too pleased and went off jubilantly to find Yuanyang, sure that her mission would meet with instant success.
Instead, she was denounced to her face by Yuanyang and snubbed by Xiren and Pinger into the bargain.
She returned, angry and discomfited, to report to Lady Xing, Its no use, she just swore at me.
Since Xifeng was present she dared not mention Pinger, but she added, Xiren joined in her attack on me and talked a whole lot of other nonsense too, which doesnt bear repeating.
You had better persuade Lord She to buy another girl, madam.
That little bitch isnt cut out for such great fortune, nor are we for such good luck.
What has this to do with Xiren?
asked Lady Xing.
How did she come to hear of it?
Who else was there?
Miss Pinger was there too.
Xifeng promptly interposed, Why didnt you slap her face?
Every time I go out, off she goes to amuse herself.
When I got home today there was no sign of her.
I suppose she took Yuanyangs side too?
Miss Pinger wasnt there on the spot, replied Mrs. Jin.
It looked like her from a distance, but I may have been mistaken.
That was just my guess.
Xifeng ordered a servant, Go and fetch Pinger, quick.
Tell her Im back and Her Ladyship is here too.
Shes wanted for something.
Fenger hastily stepped forward to put in, Miss in sent a maid with a note several times to invite her over, so finally she went.
As soon as you came back, madam, I went to fetch her, but Miss Lin asked me to tell you shed like to keep her for a little, madam.
Every day she seems to want her for something or other, remarked Xifeng, then let the matter drop.
As there was nothing more Lady Xing could do, she went home after dinner and told her husband that evening what had happened.
Jia She thought the matter over, then summoned Jia Lian.
We have other caretakers besides the Jins in Nanjing, he said.
Send at once to have Jin Cai recalled.
According to the last letter from Nanjing, Jin Cai has had a stroke, sir, replied his son.
Money for his coffin has already been issued there, and for all we know he may already be dead.
Even if hes still living hell be in a coma, so it wouldnt be any use sending for him.
And his old wife is deaf.
Jia She swore.
You scurvy scoundrel !
he fumed.
Quite a know-all, arent you?
Get out!
In consternation Jia ian promptly withdrew.
Soon he heard the order given to fetch Jin Wenxiang.
He himself remained on call in the outside study, daring neither to go home nor to confront his father.
Presently Wenxiang arrived and some pages ushered him through the inner gate.
He was with Lord She for the space of five or six meals, and after he left Jia Lian did not venture to ask what had been said.
Not until late that evening, having ascertained that his father was asleep, did he finally go home where Xifeng cleared up the whole mystery for him.
As for Yuanyang, she passed a sleepless night.
The next day her brother came and asked the Lady Dowagers permission to take her home for a rest.
The old lady agreed and told her to go.
This was not what Yuanyang wanted but she complied reluctantly in order not to arouse the old ladys suspicions.
Her brother told her what Lord She had said and what dignity she would have as his secondary wife.
However, Yuanyang refused to consider it.
Unable to change her mind, he had to go back and report this to Jia She.
Jia She flew into a rage.
Tell your wife to tell her this from me, he fumed.
Tell her these are my own words.
From of old, young nymphs have preferred youth to age.
She must think me too old for her.
I daresay she has set her heart on one of the young masters, most likely Baoyu or possibly my son.
If thats her scheme, tell her to forget it.
For if she refuses me, who else will dare take her later?
Thats the first thing.
The second is this if shes counting on the old ladys partiality to her to find some decent husband outside, shed better think again.
For no matter whom she marries shell still be within my reach, unless she dies or remains single all her life, in which case there is nothing I can do.
Otherwise, the sooner she changes her mind the better for her.
Wenxiang had expressed agreement after each sentence of this diatribe.
Now Jia She added And dont you try to cheat me.
Tomorrow I shall send the mistress to her again.
If youve really told her and she still refuses, I wont hold you responsible.
But if when we ask her again she agrees, youll have to watch out for your head!
Jin Wenxiang agreed hastily and withdrew.
Upon his arrival home, without waiting to get his wife to pass on this message he told Yuanyang himself, reducing her to a state of speechless anger.
After some reflection she said, Well, supposing I agree, youll still have to take me back to report this to the old lady.
Her brother and his wife were overjoyed by this apparent change of heart.
Her sister-in-law at once took her to the Lady Dowager, who happened to be chatting with Lady Wang, Aunt Xue, Li Wan, Xifeng, Baochai and the other girls, as well as a few of the chief stewards wives, all of whom were doing their best to amuse the old lady.
Delighted by this opportunity, Yuanyang drew her sister-in-law forward and threw herself on her knees before her mistress.
Sobbing, she told the old lady what Lady Xing had said to her, what her sister-in-law had told her in the Garden, and how her brother had threatened her today.
Because I wouldnt agree, the Elder Master says Ive set my heart on Baoyu.
He swears Ill never escape him, not even if I marry someone outside, no, not even if I go to the ends of the earth hell have his revenge in the end.
Well, my minds made up.
Everybody here can bear witness.
I shall never marry so long as I live, neither Baoyu with his precious jade, nor someone born with silver or gold, not even a Heavenly King or Emperor!
If Your Ladyship tries to force me, Ill kill myself rather than marry.
If Im lucky, I shall die before you, madam.
Otherwise I mean to serve Your Ladyship till the end of your life then, rather than go back to my parents or to my brother, I shall commit suicide or shave my head and become a nun.
If you think Im not in earnest and this is just empty talk which Ill go back on later, may Heaven, Earth, all the deities and the Sun and Moon who are my witnesses choke me with an ulcer in my throat so that I rot away into a pulp!
Before coming in, she had hidden a pair of scissors in her sleeve, and while uttering this oath she let down her hair with her left hand and started cutting it with the scissors in her right.
Maids and serving-women hurried over to stop her.
She had cut off one lock already but, luckily, her hair being so thick, it was difficult to cut much.
They lost no time in dressing it for her again.
The Lady Dowager was trembling with rage.
The only girl left I can trust, and they want to get her away from me, she quavered.
Her eye falling on Lady Wang beside her, she cried, So youre all deceiving me, putting on a show of being dutiful but plotting against me in secret.
Whenever I have anything good you come and demand it from me.
And my best servants too.
Now Ive only this one girl left, and seeing how partial I am to her naturally infuriates you.
Youre trying to get her away from me, so as to get me under your own thumb.
Lady Wang had risen to her feet but did not venture a word in self-defence.
And Aunt Xue being her sister, could not try to shift the blame from her.
Li Wan had quietly taken the girls outside when Yuanyang began her story.
Tanchun, however, had sense enough to see that it was not for Lady Wang to clear herself of these false charges, nor for Aunt Xue to defend her sister, nor for Baochai to defend her aunt, while Li Wan, Xifeng and Baoyu were in no position to protest either.
It was now up to one of the girls to speak.
But Yingchun was too naive, Xichun too young.
So after listening for a while outside the window, she entered the room with a smile.
What has this to do with Her Ladyship?
she asked her grandmother.
Just think, madam, how could a younger sister-in-law know that her elder brother-in-law was going to get a concubine?
Even if she did, could she say anything?
At once the old lady chuckled, Im losing my wits with age, she exclaimed.
Dont laugh at me, Madam Xue.
This elder sister of yours is a very good daughter-in-law, not like my elder sons wife whos so afraid of her husband she only makes a show of compliance to me.
Yes, I was wrong to blame your sister.
Aunt Xue murmured agreement, then added, I wonder if youre not, perhaps, rather partial to the wife for your younger son, madam?
No, Im not partial, the old lady declared.
She continued, Baoyu, why didnt you point out my mistake and prevent me from blaming your mother so unfairly?
How could I stick up for my mother at the expense of my elder uncle and aunt?
he countered.
Anyway, someones done wrong and if mother here wont take the blame, who will?
I could have said it was my fault but Im sure you wouldnt have believed me.
Yes, thats right, chuckled the Lady Dowager, Now kneel to your mother and ask her not to feel hurt, but to forgive me for your sake on account of my old age.
Baoyu stepped forward and knelt to do as he was told, but his mother instantly stopped him.
Get up, she cried with a smile.
This is absurd.
How can you apologize for your grandmother?
As Baoyu rose to his feet the old lady said, And Xifeng didnt pull me up either.
I havent said a word against you, madam, retorted Xifeng laughingly, but now youre trying to put the blame on me.
All the others laughed and the old lady cried, This is strange!
Lets hear what you have to say against me.
Who told you, madam, to train your girls so well?
If you bring one up as fresh as a sprig of young parsley, you cant blame people for wanting her.
Its lucky Im a grandsons wife.
If I were a grandson Id have grabbed her long ago.
I shouldnt have waited till now.
So its all my fault, is it?
the old lady chortled.
Of course it is, agreed Xifeng.
In that case I wont keep her.
You can take her away.
Wait till Ive done enough good deeds in this life to be reborn as a man.
Then Ill marry her.
You can take her and give her to Lian.
See if that shameless father-in-law of yours still wants her then or not.
Lian doesnt deserve her, said Xifeng.
Hell have to make do with scarecrows like Pinger and me.
They were all laughing at this when Lady Xing was announced, and Lady Wang went out to greet her.
If you want to know what followed, read the next chapter.
Chapter 47 A Stupid Bully Is Beaten Up for His Amorous Advances A Cool Young Gentleman Leaves Home for Fear of Reprisals Lady Wang hurried out to greet Lady Xing who had come in the hope of news, unaware that the Lady Dowager knew all about her proposal to Yuanyang.
Only as she stepped into the courtyard was she quietly apprised of this by some serving-women but it was too late to retreat now that her arrival had been announced and Lady Wang had come out to meet her.
She had no choice but to go in and pay her respects.
The old lady received her without a word, to her great mortification.
Xifeng had already left on the pretext of some business, while Yuanyang had retired to her room to sulk.
Now Aunt Xue, Lady Wang and the others withdrew one by one to spare Lady Xing embarrassment.
She herself dared not leave, however.
Once they were alone the Lady Dowager sneered, I hear youve been doing some matchmaking for you husband.
Quite a model of wifely submission and virtue, arent you?
Only you carry this obedience too far.
You have children and grand children now, yet youre still afraid of him.
Instead of giving him a little good advice you let him carry on just as he pleases.
Blushing all over her face Lady Xing replied, I have reasoned with him several times, but he pays no attention.
You know how it is, madam.
I had no choice.
Would you commit murder too if he insisted?
Have some sense!
Your sister-in-law is a simple soul and, for all her poor health, she has to worry about high and low in this household.
Though your daughter-in-law helps her, her work is never done.
So I dont make too many demands on them, and when the two of them overlook certain things, that child Yuanyang is thoughtful enough to attend to my wants.
She sees I get what I need, and tells them in time what wants replenishing.
If not for her, in all their press of business the pair of them would be bound to forget this or that.
Do you expect me to see to everything?
To work out every day what I need to ask for?
Shes the only maid left me whos not just a child and knows something of my ways and temperament.
In the second place she gets on well with the older and younger mistresses alike here, and never tries in my name to ask this mistress for clothes or that for money.
So during the last few years the whole household old and young, starting with your sister-in-law and daughter-in-law, all trust her.
Its not just that I rely on her, she saves them trouble too.
As long as Ive someone like her, I dont have to worry about going short of anything even if my daughters-in-law or my grandsons wives forget it.
But who would you give me in her place if she left now?
Even if you managed to produce a girl of her size made of pearls but unable to talk shed still be no use to me.
I was just on the point of sending to tell your husband Ive money here for him if he wants to buy someone, and I dont care if it costs eight or even ten thousand taels but he cant have this girl.
If she can be left to wait on me for a few years, that 11 be the same as him waiting on me day and night himself like a dutiful son.
Its a good thing that youve come.
Its more fitting that he should hear this from you.
She called for her maids then and told them, Ask Madam Xue and the young ladies to come back.
We were having fun together, why have they all left?
The maids made haste to carry out her orders.
Everyone hurried back except Aunt Xue, who objected, Ive just got home, why should I go over again?
Tell her Im sleeping.
Do us a favour, dear madam, good ancestress!
pleaded the maid.
Our old ladys in a bad temper.
If you wont go, we shall never manage to soothe her.
Just do it for our sake.
If youre tired, madam, Ill carry you there on my back.
You little imp!
Aunt Xue chuckled.
Youve nothing to fear except a taste of her tongue.
None the less she felt constrained to go back with the maid.
The Lady Dowager made her sit down and suggested, What about a game of cards?
You must be rather rusty, so lets sit together to make sure that Xifeng cant cheat us.
Thats right, you must help me, madam, agreed Aunt Xue.
Shall we have a foursome or rope in one or two others?
Yes, there are just four of us, observed Lady Wang.
One more would be more fun, put in Xifeng.
Then send for Yuanyang, directed the old lady.
Tell her to sit on my left.
Your aunts eyesight isnt good she can help us both with our cards.
Xifeng sighed and remarked to Tanchun, With all your education, its too bad you havent learned to tell fortunes too.
What an odd thing to say!
exclaimed Tanchun.
Why not concentrate on winning some money from the old lady instead of thinking about fortune-telling?
I want some fortune-teller to predict how much Ill be losing today.
How can I hope to win?
Look, before the game even starts theyve laid ambushes right and left.
The Lady Dowager and Aunt Xue laughed.
Presently Yuanyang arrived and took a seat between the Lady Dowager and Xifeng.
The red felt cloth was spread and the cards were shuffled and drawn.
After the five of them had played for a while, Yuanyang noticed that the old lady needed only a two of circles to win the game, and she signalled this to Xifeng whose turn it was to discard.
Xifeng deliberately hesitated.
Im sure Aunt Xue has the card I want, She said.
If I dont play this shell never part with it.
I havent anything you want, said Aunt Xue.
I wont believe that till Ive seen your hand.
You can have a look if you like.
But first discard and lets see what that card is.
Xifeng put down the two of circles in front of Aunt Xue.
I dont want that, chuckled the latter.
Im only afraid the old lady is going out.
Ive thrown the wrong one!
cried Xifeng hastily.
But the Lady Dowager, beaming, had already laid down her hand.
Dont you dare take it back, she crowed.
Who told you to throw the wrong card?
You see why I wanted to consult a fortune-teller, said Xifeng.
But this time it was really my own fault.
Thats right.
The old lady laughed.
You should slap your own face and blame yourself.
She turned to Aunt Xue.
Its not that Im miserly and to win I play for luck.
Of course, madam, replied Aunt Xue with a smile.
Whos so foolish as not to know that?
Xifeng, who was counting out the cash she had lost, strung the coins together again on hearing this.
Thats fine, she cried with a twinkle.
If the old lady only plays for luck, not for money, I neednt count my cash in this miserly way.
Ill put it away at once.
The Lady Dowager always made Yuanyang shuffle the cards for her, but now as she chatted with Aunt Xue she noticed that the girl had made no move.
Whats the matter?
she asked.
Wont you even shuffle for me?
Yuanyang picked up the cards then, asking, Isnt Madam Lian going to pay?
Not going to pay?
Paying up will bring her better luck!
cried the old lady.
She ordered a young maid to bring Xifengs whole string of cash and put it by her pile.
The girl did as she was told.
Give that back, pleaded Xifeng.
All right, Ill pay the amount I owe.
Xifeng really is stingy, laughed Aunt Xue.
This is only a game, after all.
At this Xifeng left her seat and, taking Aunt Xue by the arm, turned and pointed at the wooden chest in which the Lady Dowager kept her money.
Look there, aunt, she said.
Goodness knows how much of my money has been swallowed up by that.
Its less than an hour since we began, and already the money in that chest has beckoned to this string of cash.
As soon as this strings gone in too we shant have to play any more, and our Old Ancestress will have got over her temper.
Then shell send me off to attend to my duties again.
The whole company was laughing uproariously when Pinger arrived with another string of cash, for fear her mistress might not have enough.
Theres no need to put that in front of me, cried Xifeng.
Just put it on the old ladys pile.
That will save the money in her chest the trouble of beckoning twice.
The Lady Dowager laughed so much at this that she scattered the cards in her hand all over the table as she nudged Yuanyang and out told her to pinch Xifengs mouth.
Pinger put the money down as she was told and, having joined in the laughter, left.
By the courtyard gate she met Jia Lian.
Wheres my mother?
he asked.
Father sent me to fetch her.
Shes been standing stock-still all this time before the old lady.
Youd better clear off, quick.
Its taken our mistress a long time to coax the old lady into a better temper.
Ive come over just to ask whether shes going to Lai Das feast on the fourteenth or not, so that I can have her sedan-chair ready, he replied.
Whats wrong with fetching my mother and pleasing the old lady at the same time?
Take my advice and steer clear, Pinger smiled.
The whole family, Lady Wang and Baoyu too, have had a dressing-down.
But here you come asking for a share in it.
Its blown over now.
Why should I have to make up for something past and done with?
Besides, this business had nothing to do with me, and my father himself ordered me to fetch my mother.
If he discovered that Id sent someone else, in the temper hes in now hed vent his anger on.
With that he walked in.
And since there was reason in what he said, Pinger followed.
Once in the hall, Jia Lian tiptoed to the door of the inner room and peeped inside.
He had just seen Lady Xing standing there when Xifeng with her sharp eyes spotted him.
She signalled to him to keep out and threw a meaning glance at Lady Xing but the latter, afraid to go without taking her leave, poured a cup of tea for the Lady Dowager.
As the old lady turned to take it, she caught sight of Jia Lian who had not stepped back in time.
Whos that in the hall?
she demanded.
It looked like some young fellow peering in.
Yes, I thought I saw someone too, said Xifeng.
Ill go and have a look.
She got up and started out.
At once Jia Lian came in with a conciliatory smile.
Ive come to ask whether the old lady means to go out on the fourteenth, he announced, so that I can have her chair ready.
Why didnt you come in, then instead of skulking outside?
asked the Lady Dowager.
I didnt like to disturb you at your game, madam.
I was hoping to get my wife to come out so that I could ask her .
Why couldnt you wait for her to go home where you can ask her all the questions you want?
Since when have you been so attentive?
Or are you spying for someone, acting in this hole-and-corner way?
You gave me quite a fright, you sneaky devil.
Your wife is playing cards with me and wont be free for some time.
Better go home and plot against her again with that wife of Zhao Ers.
Amid general laughter Yuanyang put in, Bao Ers wife, not Zhao Ers wife, Old Ancestress.
Thats right.
The old lady smiled.
How do you expect me to remember their names, whether they mean carried in the arms or on the back?
Talking of that business I cant help but be angry.
I came to this house as the bride of a great-grandson, and now I have great-granddaughters-in-law myself.
In my fifty-four years first and last here, Ive had plenty of shocks and frights and seen all manner of amazing happenings but never such scandalous carryings-on as yours.
Off with you now.
Out of my sight!
Without venturing to say a word, Jia Lian beat a hasty retreat.
Well, whispered Pinger.
standing outside the window, you wouldnt take my advice and now youve caught it.
Just then Lady Xing came out and ha Lian complained.
Its all the masters fault, but we are the ones to suffer for it, madam.
May lightning strike you, you unfilial wretch, scolded Lady Xing.
Other sons would die for their fathers but you, you start complaining just because of a little talking-to.
Youd better watch your step.
Hes in a bad mood these days mind he doesnt beat you.
Please go home quickly, madam, he urged.
Its some time now since I was sent to find you.
He then accompanied his mother out and across to the other courtyard.
When Lady Xing gave her husband an abbreviated version of what the Lady Dowager had said, Jia She felt at a loss and bitterly mortified too.
After this, on the pretext of illness he stopped calling on his mother, being actually afraid to face her, sending his wife and son instead to pay their respects every day.
None the less he made his men scout around and finally, for the sum of eight hundred taels, bought a seventeen-year-old girl called Yanhong to be his concubine.
No more of this.
The card game in the Lady Dowagers rooms went on until dinner time, and the next couple of days passed uneventfully.
Soon it was the fourteenth, and almost before it was light Lai Das wife came to invite them over.
The Lady Dowager, being in a good humour, took Lady Wang, Aunt Xue, Baoyu and the girls to spend half a day in Lai Das garden.
Although it could not compare with Grand View Garden, the grounds were extensive and neatly laid out with pleasant streams, rocks and trees, as well as some splendid lodges and fantastic pavilions.
Xue Pan, Jia Zhen, Jia Lian, Jia Rong and some other close relatives of the Rong and Ning households were entertained in the outer hall.
Their distant relatives did not come, however, and neither did Jia She.
A few officials and sons of good families had also been invited to keep them company.
Among these was a certain Liu Xianglian, whom Xue Pan had been longing to meet again ever since he first made his acquaintance for the report that Liu was fond of acting in romantic operas about young scholars and beauties had made him mistake him for a homosexual.
Eager as he was to make closer acquaintance, he was overjoyed by this chance meeting today.
The others also knew Liu Xianglians reputation, and Jia Zhen, emboldened by wine, persuaded him to perform in two operas, after which he came and sat down next to Liu, chatting with him for a while on various subjects.
Now this Liu Xianglian was the son of a good family who had lost both parents early.
No great scholar but frank, chivalrous and unconventional in his ways, he was a good spearman and swordsman addicted to gambling and drinking, fond of the company of singsong girls and quite a musician himself.
His youth and good looks led many who did not know him to mistake him for an actor but he had been invited today because he was a friend of Lai Das son Shangrong.
The other guests behaved decently enough after drinking but Xue Pan got up to his old tricks again, which so disgusted Liu that he would have slipped away had not Lai Shangrong most earnestly detained him.
Just now Master Bao told me hed noticed you as soon as he came in, but theres too much of a crowd here to talk in comfort, said Lai Shangrong.
He hopes youll stay on after the party breaks up, as he has something to ask you.
If you insist on going, let me fetch him first.
Then I shant be responsible for your leaving without having seen him.
He ordered some pages, Go in and get one of the old women to have a quiet word with Master Bao and ask him to come out.
This was done, and in less time than it would take to drink a cup of tea they were joined by Baoyu.
I leave Xianglian to you, my dear uncle, said Lai Shangrong with a smile.
I must see to our other guests.
With that he left them.
Baoyu led Liu Xianglian into a small study at one side of the hail and, when the two of them were seated, asked, Have you visited Qin Zhongs grave at all recently?
Yes, I have, Xianglian told him.
Some time ago a few of us were flying falcons near his grave.
For fear it might not have stood up to the heavy rain this summer, I rode over on my own to have a look and, sure enough, found it slightly damaged.
So after coming home I got together a few hundred cash and went out three days later with two men Id hired to repair it.
That explains it, said Baoyu.
Last month when the lotus seedpods in our pool in Grand View Garden ripened, I picked ten and sent Mingyan out to offer them at his grave.
When he came back, I also asked if the grave had been damaged by the rain but he said that on the contrary it looked in better condition than before.
I guessed, then, that some friends must recently have restored it.
My trouble is that Im cooped up at home all the time and am not my own master.
Every move I make is known, and theres always someone trying to stop me or dissuade me, so whatever I say, I cant do a thing.
Though Ive money, I cant spend it as I want.
You dont have to worry about that, Xiangiian assured him.
Ill see to anything that you cant do outside.
So long as you remember him, thats what counts.
It will soon be the first of the tenth month, and Ive put by some money to sacrifice at his grave.
You know how hard up I am, with no property of my own, and any money I get slips straight through my fingers.
It seemed better to set this sum aside so as not to be caught empty-handed when the time comes.
Thats why I was meaning to send Mingyan to look for you but youre so seldom at home, floating about free as duckweed every day, one never knows where to find you.
There was no need to look for me.
Each of us must simply do what he can.
But soon I shall be setting out on a long journey.
I dont expect to be back for three or four years.
Why should you stay away so long?
You dont know whats been on my mind.
Xianglian gave a bitter smile.
Youll find out all in good time.
Now I must take my leave.
Its so rarely we have a chance to meet, cant you stay until the party breaks up this evening?
That honourable maternal cousin of yours is up to his old tricks again.
If I stay, there may be trouble.
Id better keep out of his way.
I see, said Baoyu after a thoughtful pause.
Well, you may be right to keep out of his way, but you mustnt really go off on a long journey without letting me know beforehand.
Whatever happens, dont just slip away.
He was shedding tears as he spoke.
Of course Ill say goodbye to you, promised Xianglian.
Only dont tell anyone else.
As he stood up to leave he added, Go on in, theres no need to see me out.
He left the study and had just reached the main gate when he saw Xue Pan there bawling, Who let that lad Liu get away?
Liu Xiangiians eyes flashed with anger.
He longed to strike Xue Pan dead with one blow of his fist.
Only the thought that a drunken brawl would embarrass Lai Shangrong made him control himself.
Xue Pan catching sight of him was as overjoyed as if he had found some treasure.
Where are you going, brother?
he chortled, staggering forward to catch him by the arm.
Ill be back soon, said Xianglian.
If you go, dear fellow, it wont be any fun.
Do stay a bit longer to show you care for me.
Any pressing business you have, just leave it to me your elder brother only dont hurry off.
Do you want an official post?
Want to make money?
Your elder brother can easily fix it for you.
Angered and humiliated by this outrageous talk, Xianglian hit on a plan.
He pulled Xue Pan aside.
Do you mean that, about wanting to be my friend?
Xue Pan could hardly contain himself for excitement.
How can you ask such a question, dear brother?
he leered.
If Im not in earnest may I drop dead!
Very well, but we cant talk here.
After staying a little longer Ill leave first, and you can follow me presently to my place.
We may as well make a night of it.
Ive two marvellous boys there, absolutely virgin so theres no need for you to bring a single servant.
Ive people to wait on you.
Xue Pan was so overjoyed that he half sobered up.
Do you really mean it?
Now, come, come!
Xianglian chuckled.
Why turn sceptical when someones sincere with you?
Im no fool.
Xue Pan grinned.
I trust you.
But I dont know where you live.
If you go on ahead, how am Ito find you?
I live outside the North Gate.
Do you mind spending a night outside, away from your family?
If Ive got you, I shant miss my family.
In that case, Ill wait for you on the bridge outside the North Gate.
Now lets go back to the feast.
Once you see Im gone, you can slip out and no one will notice.
Xue Pan promptly agreed.
They went back to their table then and drank another round.
Xue Pan could hardly sit still.
As he feasted his avid eyes on Xianglian he grew more and more jubilant, until soon he was tossing off whole pots of wine without waiting to be urged.
When he was nine-tenths drunk, Xianglian rose to leave and slipped away unnoticed.
Outside the gate, he ordered his page Xinnu to go home while he paid a call out of town.
Then he mounted his horse and rode straight out of the North Gate to wait on the bridge for Xue Pan.
In less time than it takes for a meal, he saw a solitary horseman approaching.
It was Xue Pan, his mouth open, his eyes gaping, his head turning right and left like a pedlars rattle as he gazed wildly around.
So intent was he on staring into the distance that he missed what was close at hand and rode right past Xianglians horse.
Amused and disgusted, Xianglian cantered after him.
Riding on, Xue Pan observed that the houses now were few and far between.
He turned back then to make another search and was overjoyed by the sight of Liu Xianglian.
I knew youd keep your word, he chortled.
Ride on, quick, said Xianglian.
We dont want people to see us and follow us.
He spurred on his horse and Xue Pan followed close behind.
At a lonely spot near a marsh overgrown with reeds, Xianglian dismounted and tethered his horse to a tree.
Down you get, he said.
First we must take an oath.
Cursed be he who has a change of heart or betrays our secret.
Right you are!
Xue Pan slithered eagerly down from his saddle.
Having made fast his horse he fell on his knees to swear If ever I have a change of heart or betray our secret, may Heaven and Earth destroy me.... Before he had finished, wham!
He was struck from behind by what seemed like an iron hammer.
Everything went black before him, then he saw a riot of golden stars as he flopped to the ground.
Xianglian stepped forward to have a look at him and, knowing the oaf to be unused to beatings, gave him only a few light punches in the face which instantly turned all the colours of a fruit stall.
When Xue Pan tried to struggle to his feet, Xianglian tripped him with one foot a couple of times and sent him sprawling again.
We did this by mutual consent, complained Xue Pan.
If you didnt want to, you could simply have said so.
Why fool me into coming out here and then beat me up?
He let loose a flood of abuse.
You must be blind not to know your master, cried Xinglian.
Now instead of asking my pardon you insult me.
Theres no point in killing you, Ill just teach you a lesson.
He fetched his horsewhip and gave him a few dozen strokes all over his back till Xue Pan, pretty well sober now, yelped with pain.
You coward, sneered Xianglian.
I thought you could take a beating.
As he spoke he dragged him by the left leg through the mud into the reeds, bedaubing him with slime.
Now do you know who I am?
Xue Pan said nothing, just lay face downwards, groaning.
Xianglian tossed away the whip to pummel him with his fists.
Xue Pan rolled over and over frantically howling Youve broken my ribs.
I know youre straight.
I shouldnt have believed other peoples talk.
Dont drag anyone else into this.
Just stick to the point.
What more do you want me to say, except that youre straight and I was wrong?
-363 Youll have to do better than that to be let off.
Xue Pan whined, Dear younger brother... Once more Xianglian punched him.
Ouch!
he yelled.
Dear elder brother... Xianglian struck him twice again.
Mercy, kind master, spare me!
I was blind.
From now on Ill respect and fear you.
Drink two mouthfuls of that water, ordered Xianglian.
Xue Pan wrinkled his brows.
Its too foul.
How can I drink it?
Xianglian raised a threatening fist.
Ill drink it, Ill drink it.
Bending his head he lapped up a mouthful of the water at the base of the reeds but before he could swallow it, he retched and spewed up everything he had eaten.
Filthy swine!
swore Xianglian.
Lick up that vomit and Ill let you off.
Kowtowing frantically Xue Pan begged, Have a heart!
Do a good deed and let me off.
I cant stomach that, not if you kill me.
This stench is making me sick!
declared Xianglian.
With that he left Xue Pan, untethered his horse and, mounting it, rode away.
When Xue Pan saw with relief that he had gone, he regretted his blunder in mistaking his man.
He tried to struggle to his feet, but the pain was too much for him.
When the absence of the two of them from the feast was suddenly noticed by Jia Zhen and others, they searched high and low for them but could not find them.
It was rumoured, though, that they seemed to have gone out of the North Gate.
Xue Pans pages were too afraid of him to follow him against his orders Jia Zhen, however, was so worried that he sent Jia Rong with some men to track them down.
The search party rode out of the North Gate for more than two li along the road from the bridge, until they saw Xue Pans horse tethered to a tree beside the marsh.
Thank goodness!
they exclaimed.
If the horse is here, the rider cant be far off..
Going up to the horse, they heard groaning in the reeds and hurrying forward discovered Xue Pan there, his clothes tattered and torn, his face swollen and bruised, covered from head to foot with mud like a sow.
Jia Rong had a shrewd idea of what had happened.
Quickly dismounting, he ordered some men to help Xue Pan to his feet.
So today Uncle Xues pursuit of love has brought him to this swamp, he joked.
I suppose the Dragon King was so impressed by your romantic spirit that he wanted you to be his son-in-law but then you knocked into the dragons horn!
Xue Pan wished he could sink through the ground for shame.
As he could not ride, Jia Rong sent to the North Gate to hire a small chair for him, after which they all returned to the city together.
ha Rong threatened to carry him back to Lai Das feast, and Xue Pan had to plead hard not to have this business made public before he was allowed to go back home.
Then Jia Rong returned to Lai Das house to tell Jia Zhen what had happened.
Hearing of the beating Xianglian had given Xue Pan, ha Zhen observed with a laugh A lesson like this should be good for him.
After the party had broken up that evening he went to inquire after Xue Pans health, but the latter sent word from his bedroom that he was too unwell to receive anyone.
To return to the Lady Dowager and her party, after they all went back to their own quarters Aunt Xue and Baochai noticed that Xianglings eyes were swollen from weeping.
Having learned the reason they hurried in to see Xue Pan.
They found that, although badly bruised on both face and body, he had broken on bones.
Aunt Xue, torn between maternal affection and anger, abused her son and Liu Xianglian by turns.
She wanted to complain to Lady Wang and have Xianglian arrested.
This isnt all that serious, Baochai demurred.
They were simply drinking together, and drunken brawls are common enough.
A man often gets a thrashing too when hes drunk.
Besides, everyone knows how wild and headstrong Pan is.
I understand why your hearts bleeding for him, mother, and it wont be hard to get even.
In three days or five days time, when my brothers well enough to go out again, Cousin Zhen, Cousin Lian and the others over there wont let the matter drop.
Theyll invite that fellow to a feast to make a public apology to Pan.
If you make such an issue of it and spread the news, everyone will think you spoil your son and encourage him to make trouble and that once hes beaten you raise a big rumpus, relying on your powerful relatives to bully humble folk.
Youre right as usual, child, replied her mother.
I was muddled for the moment by anger.
In fact, this is all to the good, continued Baochai with a smile.
Hes not afraid of you, mother, and wont listen to other peoples advice either.
Hes growing more and more headstrong.
Coming a few croppers should cure him.
Xue Pan was still raging at Liu Xianglian from his kang, ordering his servants to go and pull down Lius house, beat him to death, or take the case to court.
Aunt Xue stopped them however, saying Liu Xianglian ran riot after a bout of drinking, but now that hes sobered up hes filled with remorse.
Hes run away for fear of the consequences.
Xue Pan, hearing this, gradually got over his rage.
To know the outcome, read on.
Chapter 48 A Rebuffed Reprobate Decides on a Journey An Aspiring Maid Racks Her Brains to Write Poetry After he was told that Liu Xianglian had fled, little by little Xue Pans anger abated.
In a few days he was over his pain and simply pretending to be ill, being ashamed to see relatives or friends till his bruises had disappeared.
In no time the tenth month arrived, and as some of their shop managers were to got home to settle their annual accounts, the Xue family had to prepare a farewell feast for them.
One of those leaving was Zhang Dehui, a man of over sixty who had managed the Xues pawnshop since he was young and was now worth two or three thousand taels.
Not wanting to return before spring he said This year sacrificial paper and aromatics are in short supply, which means that next year the price is bound to rise.
I propose to send my eldest son here to see to the shop after New Year and on my way back purchase sacrificial paper and scented fans to sell before the Dragon-Boat Festival.
After deducting taxes and expenses, we should still net a profit of several hundred percent.
When Xue Pan heard this he reflected, Since my beating Ive been ashamed to show my face, wishing I could disappear for a year or so but I have nowhere to hide.
I cant go on shamming illness indefinitely.
Besides, all these years Ive never taken to books or soldiering, and although Im in business Ive never handled a balance or abacus and know nothing either about local customs and different parts of the country.
I may as well take some capital and travel around with Zhang Dehui for a year.
It doesnt matter whether I make money or not I can at any rate hide my face for a while and enjoy some sight-seeing at the same time.
Having made up his mind to this, he took Zhang aside after the feast, explained his plan, and asked him to wait a couple of days so that they could travel together.
That evening he told his mother.
But though pleased in a sense, she was also afraid he might get into trouble outside the loss of capital was immaterial.
So she withheld her consent.
I dont worry too much so long as youre with me, She said.
And its not as if we needed you to handle business or were short of money.
If youll stay quietly at home thats worth more to me than a few hundred taels.
But Xue Pan, once his mind was made up, was stubborn.
You keep complaining every day of my lack of worldly wisdom, my ignorance and failure to learn, he protested.
Yet now that Ive resolved to stop fooling around, come to grips with life and establish myself by learning to run the business, you wont let me.
What do you expect me to do?
Im not a girl to stay cooped up at home all the time.
Youll have to let me out some day.
Besides, Zhang Dehui is well on in years, a moral character and an old family friend.
What could go wrong if Im with him?
Hell naturally point it out if I make the least blunder.
And he knows the market so well that his advice will be most useful to me.
Yet you wont let me go!
All right, Ill slip away some day without telling you, and come back next year with my fortune made.
Just wait and see if I dont!
He went off to bed in a huff.
Then Aunt Xue discussed the matter with her daughter.
If my brothers really serious about working properly, thats good, said Baochai.
But if hes just saying this to talk you round, once away from home he may slip back into his bad old ways and it will be even more difficult to restrain him.
Still, its no use worrying too much.
If he truly reforms, so much the better for him if he doesnt, theres nothing you can do about it, mother.
It depends half on what one can do for him half on his own fate.
Hes no longer a boy, and if you keep him at home this year for fear hes too inexperienced to travel or do business, itll be just the same next year.
As his arguments sound reasonable, you may as well send him off to have a try at worst it only means wasting eight hundred or a thousand taels.
After all, hell have assistants who cant very well cheat him.
Besides, once hes gone therell be no one to egg him on or to back him up, and he wont be able to throw his weight about.
If he has food, he can eat if not, hell just have to go hungry.
And for all we know, seeing that hes on his own, he may cause less trouble than at home.
Aunt Xue thought this over for a while.
Youre quite right, she said at last.
Its worth a little money if hell learn to behave himself better.
Having agreed on this they retired for the night.
The next day Aunt Xue invited Zhang Dehui to a meal in the study at which Xue Pan presided, and standing in the back corridor she urged Zhang very earnestly through the window to take good care of her son.
Zhang promised to do so.
After the meal as he took his leave he said, The fourteenth is an auspicious day to start a journey.
Please get your luggage ready, sir, and hire mules.
On the fourteenth we can make an early start.
Xue Pan was overjoyed and passed on this message to his mother, who promptly set to work with Baochai, Xiangling and two old nurses to prepare his things.
An old steward, the husband of Xue Pans wet-nurse, was to accompany him with two other experienced old bondsmen as well as two of the pages who usually attended him, making a party of six.
Three carts were hired for the luggage, and four sturdy mules.
Xue Pan himself would ride a large black mule from the family stable, in addition to which a horse was provided for him too.
When all these preparations had been made, his mother and sister went on to give him good advice and warnings which we can pass over here.
On the thirteenth, Xue Pan want to take his leave first of his maternal uncle, then of other members of the Jia family but we need not dwell on all the farewell banquets offered by Jia Zhen and the rest.
On the fourteenth, first thing in the morning, his mother and sister saw him out of the ceremonial gate and with tears in their eyes watched until he was out of sight before turning back again.
Aunt Xue had brought to the capital only four or five families of servants apart from a few old nurses and young maids.
Now that five of the men had gone with her son, only one man-servant was left.
That same day, accordingly, she had all the ornaments, curtains, and other furnishings of the study stored away and ordered the wives of two men who had accompanied Xue Pan to move into the inner quarters.
She also told Xiangling to clear up and lock her room and to share her own bedroom.
You already have quite a few people to keep you company, mother, observed Baochai.
Why not let Sister Xiangling move in with me?
Weve plenty of space in the Garden, and now that the nights are getting longer and I sew every evening, wouldnt it be better if I had one more companion?
Of course.
Her mother smiled.
That had slipped my mind or I should have suggested it.
Only the other day I was telling your brother that Wenxings too young to do much, and Yinger cant wait on you properly all on her own.
We must buy you another maid.
A girl bought outside is a dark horse, objected Baochai.
If she turns out badly the money will be wasted, but thats a small matter compared with the trouble she may cause.
Wed better take our time making inquiries, and not buy a girl until we know her record.
She urged Xiangling to pack up her bedding and toilet things, and ordered an old nurse and Zhener to take them to Alpinia Park.
Then she went back to the Garden with Xiangling.
I thought of asking our ladys permission to stay with you after your brother left, Xiangling confided.
I was afraid, though shed think I just wanted to play about.
Im so glad you suggested it.
I know how long youve admired this Garden without ever having time really to enjoy it, Baochai answered.
Theres no fun in hurried visits every day.
So if you take this chance to stay here for a year, Ill be glad of your company and youll get your wish too.
Can you take this opportunity, dear miss, to teach me to write poetry?
The more you get, the more you want!
chuckled Baochai.
As this is your first day here, I advise you to start by paying your respects to all the ladies in the different apartments outside the Gardens east gate, beginning with the old lady.
You neednt tell them specially that youve moved into the Garden but if anyone asks, just say Ive brought you to keep me company.
Then after you come back you ought to call on all the young ladies here.
Xiangling agreed and was about to set out when Pinger hurried in.
Xiangling greeted her, and Pinger returned her greeting with a strained smile.
Ive brought her here to keep me company, Baochai told Pinger.
I was just going to send someone to report it to your mistress.
What a way to talk, miss!
cried Pinger.
How do you expect me to answer?
No, this is only right.
Hostels have their hosts, abbeys their abbots.
Its a small matter, but still I should notify her so that the night-watch will know whom to expect here before locking the gates.
Will you report this for me when you go back?
Thatll save me sending someone.
Pinger agreed readily, then asked Xiangling, Why dont you call on your neighbours now that youre here?
Just what I was saying to her, remarked Baochai.
But youd better leave us out, advised Pinger.
Master Lian is at home, ill in bed.
Xiangling did as she was told, going first to call on the Lady Dowager.
As soon as she had left, Pinger took Baochais arm.
Have you heard the latest news in our family, miss?
she whispered.
Not a word, rejoined Baochai.
These last few days weve been so busy getting my brother off, Ive heard nothing of whats been happening in your apartments.
I havent even seen my cousins for a couple of days.
Then you havent heard of the beating Lord She gave Master Lian?
Its quite laid him up.
I heard something vaguely this morning but didnt believe it.
If you hadnt come, Id have gone to call on your mistress.
What did he beat him for?
Its all the fault of that upstart Jia Yucun the bastard deserves to starve to death!
fumed Pinger, grinding her teeth.
In the less than ten years that weve known him hes stirred up endless trouble.
This spring Lord She happened to see a few old fans somewhere, which made him so dissatisfied with all our best fans at home that he sent men out at once to search for better ones.
A wretched crank they call the Stone Idiot had twenty old fans as it happened, but though so poor that hed hardly a bite to eat, hed sooner die than part with them.
Master Lian had to pull a lot of strings just to meet him.
Then, after much urging, the idiot invited him home and let him have a look at a few of these fans.
According to Master Lian they were quite unique, all made of rare varieties of bamboo.
And the calligraphy and paintings on them were by genuine old masters.
When he came back and reported this, Lord She determined to buy them at any price.
But the Stone Idiot swore, Ill die of cold and hunger sooner than sell, even if you offer me a thousand taels apiece.
There was nothing Lord She could do, except storm at Master Lian every day.
Even when the fellow was promised five hundred taels in advance, he still refused.
Id sooner die than part with my fans, he insisted.
So, really, miss, what could be done?
Then that black-hearted scoundrel Jia Yucun heard about it and hatched a scheme.
He had the idiot taken to his yamen on a charge of owing the government some money, and ordered the default to be made good by the sale of his property.
So the fans were seized, paid for at the official price and brought to our house.
As for that Stone Idiot, who knows whether hes alive or dead?
Lord She, once he had the fans, asked Master Lian, How did he succeed where you failed?
Master Lian simply answered, Its nothing to boast of, if somebody is willing to ruin a family for such a trifling reason.
Then his father flew into a passion, and accused him of trying to put him in the wrong.
That was the main reason.
There were a few other things too, so insignificant that I cant remember them exactly.
Together, anyway, they got our young master a beating.
Instead of being held down and flogged with a cane or stick, he was beaten where he stood with just what, nobody knows so that his face was cut open in two places.
We heard that Aunt Xue had a cure for cuts of that kind.
Could you send for a pill now, miss, for me to take to him?
Baochai promptly despatched Yinger to fetch a pill, and handed this to Pinger, I wont call just now, under the circumstances, she said.
Please give my regards to your mistress.
Pinger assented and left.
Let us return to Xiangling, who had paid her courtesy calls.
After dinner, when Baochai had gone to see the Lady Dowager, she went to Bamboo Lodge.
And Daiyu, now in better health, was delighted to learn that she had moved into the Garden.
I shall have more free time here, remarked Xiangling.
If only youd teach me to write poems, how lucky Id count myself!
If you want to write poetry you must acknowledge me as your tutor, replied Daiyu teasingly.
Im no poet myself, but I dare say I could teach you.
Of course Ill be only too glad to be your pupil.
But you must be patient with me.
Its quite simple really.
Theres hardly anything to learn, Daiyu told her.
In regulated verse its just a matter of opening, developing, changing and concluding and the developing and changing couplets in the middle should be antithetical.
A level tone should be contrasted with a deflected one, an abstract word with a concrete one.
But if youve got a really fine line, the rules can be disregarded.
Xiangling said, No wonder, then that whenever I steal time to read a couple of old poems, I find some lines have very neat parallelisms while others have none.
And I understood there was a rule that the first, third and fifth characters of a line neednt follow the tone pattern, but the second, fourth and sixth must abide strictly by it.
Yet I found that in some old poems even the second, fourth and sixth characters break the rules.
This has always puzzled me.
From your explanation it seems one neednt bother with these rules, provided the line is fresh and original.
Thats right.
The rules of prosody are secondary, the main thing is to have original ideas.
For if theres feeling, a poem is good even if the lines are unpolished.
This is what we mean by not letting the words interfere with the sense.
Xiangling gushed, I simply love those lines by Lu You -710 The heavy hangings, unrolled, retain the scent of incense The old inkstone, slightly concave, brims with ink.
Thats so true and so quaintly put.
You mustnt on any account read poems of that kind, warned Daiyu.
Its because you dont understand poetry that you like such superficial lines when you come across them.
Once you get into that habit youll never cure yourself of it.
Now, listen to me If you really want to write poetry, take my copy of the complete poems of Wang Wei and study a hundred of his pentasyllabic poems in regulated verse until you know them well.
Then read one or two hundred of Du Fus regulated heptasyllabics, and one or two hundred of Li Bais 2 heptasyllabic qua-trains.
After digesting these and laying a foundation with these three poets, go on to read Tao Yuanming, Ying Yang, Xie Lingyun, Yuan Ji, Yu Xin and Bao Zhao.
3 In less than a years time, with your intelligence, you can count on becoming a poet.
Thats fine, miss.
Xiangling smiled.
Please give me that book then to take back with me, and Ill read a few poems tonight.
Daiyu told Zijuan to fetch Wang Weis Regular Pentasyllabics and give it to Xiangling.
Just read those Ive marked with red circles, she told her.
Read all the ones Ive chosen.
If theres anything you dont understand, ask your young lady.
Or I can explain it to you next time I see you.
Xiangling took the book back to Alpinia Park and, oblivious of all else, read poem after poem by lamplight, ignoring Baochais repeated reminders to go to bed.
Seeing her so much in earnest, Baochai finally let her be.
One morning, Daiyu had just finished her toilet when a radiant Xiangling came in to return Wang Weis poems and ask for Du Fus Regulated Verse.
How many poems have you memorized?
asked Daiyu.
Ive read all those marked with red circles.
Do you appreciate them better now?
I think so, but Im not sure.
Id like your opinion.
Go ahead.
We can only make progress by talking things over.
To my mind, the beauty of poetry lies in something that cant be put into words yet is very vivid and real when you think about it.
Again, it seems illogical, yet when you think it over it makes good sense.
Theres something in that.
But what grounds have you for saying so?
Well, take that couplet in the poem on the northern borderland -710 In the great desert a single straight plume of smoke By the long river at sunset a ball of flame.
Of course the suns round, but how can smoke be straight?
The first description seems illogical, the second trite.
But when you close the book and think, the scene rises before your eyes, and you realize it would be impossible to choose any better words.
Or take the couplet -710 As the sun sets, rivers and lakes gleam white The tide comes up and the horizon turns blue .
The adjectives white and blue seem illogical too but when you think about it no other words would be so apt, for read aloud they have all the savour of an olive weighing several thousand catties!
Again, take the lines -710 The setting sun still lingers by the ford, A single plume of smoke ascends from the village.
Its the choice of lingers and ascends that I admire.
On our way to the capital that year, our boat moored by the bank one evening.
There was nobody about, nothing but a few trees, and the smoke from some distant cottages where supper was being cooked rose up, a vivid blue , straight to the clouds.
Fancy, reading those lines last night carried me back to that place.
Meanwhile Baoyu and Tanchun had also arrived and sat down to listen to this disquisition on poetry.
Actually, you dont need to read any more poems, remarked Baoyu with a smile.
True understanding need not be sought far away.
Judging by the little Ive heard you say, youve already grasped the gist of the matter.
Daiyu put in, Youve praised that expression a single plume of smoke ascends without realizing that its taken from an earlier poet.
Have a look at this line, which is even more evocative and natural.
She found and showed her Tao Yuanmings lines -710 Misty the distant village, Smoke dawdles up from the hamlet.
Xiangling read this and nodded her appreciation.
So ascends is derived from dawdles up, she said.
Youve got it, cried Baoyu laughing.
No need for further explanations.
In fact, more might lead you astray.
Just start writing poetry yourself now, and youre bound to produce something good.
Tanchun said, Tomorrow Ill prepare some refreshments and invite you formally to join our poetry club.
Dont laugh at me, miss, cried Xiangling.
Its just out of admiration for you that Im learning this for fun.
Whos not doing it for fun?
countered Tanchun and Daiyu.
We dont write seriously either.
If we really set up as poets, people outside the Garden would split their sides laughing.
Dont be too modest, said Baoyu.
The other day, when I was discussing our painting with those secretaries outside and they heard wed started a poetry club, they begged me to show them some of our poems.
I wrote out a few for them, and they were so genuinely impressed that they copied them all out to have them printed.
Is that true?
demanded Tanchun and Daiyu.
Im not a liar like that parrot there on the perch.
You really are the limit!
they exclaimed.
In the first place they arent proper poems, and even if they were you shouldnt circulate our writings outside.
What does it matter?
he argued.
Wed never have heard of the poems by ladies of old if they hadnt been made public.
At this point Xichuns maid Ruhua arrived, and at her request Baoyu went to see her mistress.
Xiangling again urged Daiyu to lend her Du Fus poems, and begged her and Tanchun to set her a subject.
Let me try my hand and you can correct it, she said.
Last night there was a fine moon, rejoined Daiyu.
I was meaning to write a poem on it but didnt get round to it.
Take that as your subject, and choose as your rhymes any characters in the fourteenth group rhyming with han cold.
Xiangling went back in high delight with the poems.
After cudgelling her brains she wrote a few lines, then read a couple more of Du Fus Regulated Verses which she could not bear to put down.
She was so engrossed that she forgot food and sleep.
Why torture yourself?
asked Baochai.
This is all Daiyus fault.
I must settle scores with her.
You were always a bit weak in the head, and now this has crazed you completely.
Please dont distract me, begged Xiangling.
With that she finished her verse and showed it to her.
Baochai read it and commented with a smile, This isnt the way.
Dont be shy, though.
Just show it to her and see what she has to say.
So Xiangling took the poem to Daiyu, who read as follows -710 The moon hangs in mid-sky, cold is the night Round its reflection, limpid white its light, Inspiring poets to let their fancies roam, But traveller, sick at heart, cannot bear the sight.
By emerald pavilion hangs a mirror of jade, A disc of ice outside pearl screen displayed No need for silvery candles this fine night Its bright splendour lights up the painted balustrade.
Daiyu commented with a smile, Youve no lack of ideas but the language lacks elegance, because youre restricted by having read so few poems.
Scrap this one and write another.
Just let yourself go.
Xiangling went away in silence.
She did not go back to her room but strolled by the pool and under the trees, sat lost in thought on the rocks or crouched down to scribble on the ground, to the amazement of all those who passed by.
When Li Wan, Tanchun, Baochai and Baoyu heard of this, they climbed a slope some way off and stood there laughing as they watched her, now frowning, now smiling to herself.
The girls bound to go mad at this rate, giggled Baochai.
She sat up all last night muttering to herself, and didnt go to sleep till nearly dawn.
In less time than it takes for a meal it was daybreak, and I heard her get up and make a hurried toilet before rushing off to find Daiyu.
She came back to spend the whole day in a daze but since the poem she wrote was no good, now of course shes writing another.
Baoyu chuckled.
This is a case of a remarkable place producing outstanding people.
So Heaven has endowed her with more than good looks.
We were always regretting that such a girl lacked polish, but now see whats happened!
This shows there is true justice in the world.
I only wish you would work as hard.
Baochai smiled.
Then youd succeed in your studies.
Baoyu let this pass.
They now saw Xiangling set off exuberantly to find Daiyu again.
Lets follow her, suggested Tanchun.
I want to see if shes done any better this time.
So off they trooped together to Bamboo Lodge, where they found Daiyu discussing Xianglings poem with her.
Whats it like?
they asked.
A creditable effort but still poor, was Daiyus verdict.
This one is too arty.
Shell have to try again.
They asked to see the verse, which read -710 Neither silver nor liquid this chill light on the window A jade disc hangs above in the limpid sky Pale the plum-blossom steeped in fragrance, Slender the willow slips, their dew half dry.
Golden steps appear coated with powder, Marble balustrades seem lightly frosted over Waking in West Pavilion, no trace of man.
But some vestiges still behind the screen we discover.
Baochai remarked pleasantly, This doesnt read like a poem about the moon, but it would do if the subject were changed to The Colour of the Moon, for almost every line seems to deal with colour.
Never mind, all poetry starts with meaningless talk.
In a few days youll do better.
Xiangling, who had preened herself on this poem, was discouraged again by these comments.
She refused to give up, however, and once more started racking her brains.
Leaving the others to chat, she strolled into the bamboo grove before the steps and concentrated on thinking, deaf and blind to everything going on around her.
Presently Tanchun called to her through the window, Do have a rest, Xiangling!
Rest belongs to the fifteenth group of rhymes youve got the wrong rhyme, she answered absently.
Everybody laughed.
Shes really become a demoniac poet!
said Baochai.
Its all Daiyus fault for egging her on.
The Sage says tireless in teaching others, quipped Daiyu.
Since she consulted me, I had to tell her what I knew.
Lets take her to see Xichun, proposed Li wan.
Itll wake her up to look at the painting.
No sooner said than done.
They dragged Xiangling off past Lotus Fragrance Anchorage to Warm Scented Arbour, where Xichun was having a siesta on her couch.
The painting, propped against one wall, was covered by a piece of gauze.
Having woken Xichun they removed the gauze, disclosing that the painting was only about one-third finished.
Xiangling saw some beautiful girls in it.
Pointing at two of them she said with a smile This is our young lady, and thats Miss Lin.
Tanchun laughed.
If all who can write poems are to be painted there, youd better hurry up and learn.
After a few more jokes the party dispersed.
Still Xianglings whole mind was occupied by poetry.
That evening she sat up facing the lamp lost in thought, only going to bed after midnight and lying there open-eyed, not getting off to sleep till nearly dawn.
When presently day broke and Baochai woke up, she found her sleeping soundly.
Shes been tossing and turning all night, thought Baochai.
I wonder if shes finished her poem?
She must be tired out.
Id better not wake her.
Just then Xiangling laughed in her sleep and cried, Ah, now Ive got it!
Shell hardly be able to find fault with this.
Amused and touched, Baochai woke her up to ask, What have you got?
Your single-mindedness should move the gods to pity.
But you may fall ill if you cant write good poems.
Having finished her toilet she went off with the other girls to pay her respects to the Lady Dowager.
Now Xiangling had been so determined to learn to write poems, giving her whole mind to it, that although she had failed to finish this new poem the previous day she had suddenly hit on eight lines in her dreams.
As soon as she was dressed she wrote them Out.
And as she could not tell whether they were good or not, she went to find Daiyu again.
She reached Seeping Fragrance Pavilion as Li Wan and the, girls, just back from Lady Wangs apartments, were laughing at Baochais account of how Xiangling had been versifying and talking in her sleep.
When they looked up and saw her, all clamoured to see her new poem.
If you want to know what it was like, read the next chapter.
