Into the snake's eyes i looked deeply within i saw not hate or evil or any deadly sin i saw fear and terror from a creature that wanted to survive and all that it wanted to do was just to stay alive it curled itself around my arm as though ready to fight but did it do it out of anger or did it do it out of fright as the snake has been cursed since the beginning of time because of a deed of its relative and its father's past crime since that day the snake has been killed and cursed evils and sins of the snake we all have been immersed so once again i looked into that snakes deadly eyes i still couldn't see sin or evil or even a devilish disguise so i released that snake on the ground and it slithered away i wished peace upon it and then for my judging i did pray. randy l. mcclave.
A snake is there, in that cage, the snake tries to go out. the snake is my partner, my friend. but i am not there in the actions of the snake. with the snake i fear my safety. but the snake is there as it is. let the snake go, wherever it likes. but i like the snake should stay in. i believe the snake not in full and i commit the blunder. snake, my dear, come on with all comfort.
Snake of time swallowed us nine. we are nine in a house that has doors nine. we are all for public welfare as we are getting everything from public exchequer. o my dear, i am not here to disappear i am present like the sun in either the eastern or the western hemisphere. no darkness is here the time of snake is ended like the time of thieves and murders. i am not disfigured i am with the scriptures see me, i am here.
Snake bite venom strikes into your bloodstream it goes to kill you slow oh so slow watch the venom as it flows your blood it pulses your body convulses onto the floor you'll be deader than dead venom as thick as lead anger in the snake's head a poison quick the killer kiss snake venom is the way to death's slow bliss.
Hardly a sound in your world, only the repetitious "s". in your coiled strength, your sliding motion and your suddenness, the pure silk of your pink mouth, the sloughing of a whole skin, and that sparkling newness as you stretch, easy in your new length, cool and supple as a stream's dance. i hear no hiss as your tongue's black tips like a shivering nerve detect that strange warmth, nor hiss of triumph as you swallow whole your prey. hardly a sound in your world, only the echoing "s" in your bold stare belying the true shyness of a snake as you watch me from a safe distance. the "s" contains your whole being which makes you more complete than me, as i have no sound's shape.
A writer a poet a scholar a friend whose shoes are left empty, no pen in your hand. your words have been written from the love in your heart, fill the pages of history the truth they impart. early morning dew over fields of dewachen a blanket of deliverance from the hell you have lived in. let your songs be a guide for those in the dark the water snake year brings the new start that your last words in this life have left in our hearts. october 7th 2012.
The snake crept slowly through the bush until she came upon a hairy tush it was a rabbit eating his food but the snake was in a foul mood. she sniffed, tasted and coiled herself to strike but the rabbit had rehearsed how to handle this fight the snake opened her mouth but the rabbit was gone ran like there was no tomorrow this confrontation was done. c. vergara 04.20.2012.
For more than seven years we are habituated to accept the traitors as as patriot to know the made statments as truth once upon a future we would forget what actually the truth is who actually the patriots are a day would come when the history would search for a shoulder to place it's head and weep finally these lips of ours are blue not for beautification rather we kissed a snake knowingly that she could bite a nation forever she could erase our names from the blackboard of human history.
The wooden been music the snake charmer playing and the melodies breaking, haunting want i, want i to hear and the snakes dancing, swaying to the tune of the been, pumping and puffing from the mouth and rotating and rounding the instrument and the cobras swaying want i, want i to hear. the turbanned and towelled snake charmer clad in dhoti and kurta playing the music, the music of the east, of asia and the dangerous, deadly cobras hissing and dancing, swaying to the tune of the wooden been instrument dancing joyously in sheer delight and the snake charmer taking the name of the snake god and ma manansa, playing the been, pumping and puffing to break the tune, a bag pipe like.
Little garter snake, asleep in the rue, lost in your dreams so sweet. one often wonders at how you do, to cypher your thoughts would be quite a feat. tiny and toothless and without defense, from felines on the prowl. so you'll slither away beneath the fence, wary of felines, and canines, and the feathered fowl. but for now you are content, in your red clay pot, dreams of grasshoppers in your tiny head. serene and peaceful in your personal cot, as visions of six leggers run through your head.
I still have your book and you have my clip now i know why you kept asking if i always get what i want you beat me at my own game i bet on five but you rolled snake eyes thank you for reminding that one shouldn't be cocky and always expect to get what she wants but god loves a drunk and so do i thanks.
A snake in the grass. yesterday i saved a life in the long grass over near yonder lake it lay silent like moss watching us approach sensing my threat but i am old enough now to 6th sense such behaviour i live amidst all manner of felons and i move among them quickly i whistled my dog to me leave it was all i had to say leave it to its life, to its day and we did without fuss with her smiling tongue wagging and my heart peaceful and the beautiful copper creature sliding off into the lake tongue flicking sunset bound.
Beside a pond in main, high and thin sugarcane. under green canes, snake melon vines are their laced skirts. bare face and hands, thorned by its leaves. bare feet and legs, entangled by vines, still looked for melons. in a very hot day in even, searched for a big melon. found objects in a flash, ran to the pond to wash, then took home to share.
A snake is bitten by another snake it is bleeding and leaves and looks for a tree to take some sap for its own cure, a boy sees what the snake is doing waits and when the snake leaves the boy bites the tree to take the sap the boy is cured of its long sickness the tree had long been there near him but it is the snake that points to him the tree that can cure his own malady.
A snake is a snake is a snake he cannot change his scales. hypnotic eyes in a clear blue lake, or out on a rocky trail. beware the vipers, from the pit only one will sound a warning. a temporary lapse, and there's a hit it might be your last morning.
Something moves in the tall forest grass the smooth skin shines in the sun a skin with scales of both brown and yellow the snake scans the ground with lidless unblinking eyes its ears intent hidden by a piece of skin it spots something moving a small frightened mouse hiding in a clump of grass trying to avoid the stare the snake has already eaten but gives the mouse a stare the mouse runs off the snake looks on its tongue flicking in and out now and then the tired snake coils itself up like an old rope and goes to sleep.
The snake has lost his luster, as his venom now i see, though his movements remain graceful they intrigue even me i sit still beside him waiting, for what i am unsure, i could once again be bitten, but he's left me wanting more. for now though he is resting, and i watch with hoe in hand; his strike i know, is sudden but i too could take a stand. dear serpent, rest your eyes don't mind this battered hoe know for you, i've been so loyal; with peaceful sleep i pray you go.
The serpent has mingled with my blood as she devours me, i become her lover half lidded eyes closed with numbness my body tingles from her touch she has me paralyzed she has left me speechless her poison runs through my veins i can feel her all over my body she has become i and i she i can feel myself becoming dead yet alive becoming, soil, water and sky all things and none my soon to be widow lays across my bed and weeping mary, weeps as i leave her for another lover i am afraid to close my eyes.
You stole all my smiles away, there will be no more happiness for me, just tears and sadness all day. you were the snake, that slithered your way into my world, coiled around me, i felt safe in your hold. but you tricked and deceived me, your plan was to use and to leave me, but you couldn't just leave it at that, before you left, you were sure to bite poison straight into my back.
How many shades of pink are there? my fingers typed. that can't be the start of a poem i said to myself bit of a dead end that like the ends of fingers. where so many things begin and so many shades of pink.
It happened once in amazon the wooden boat set sail alone with little kids and mom and dad were jovial all together glad they sail to see another world of trees and bees yet never told the dolphins there are scarce and rare they swim and dance, yet not aware their days ahead are hard and harsh as fire and steel began the march around their scope of clean, pristine lagoons and land, all clear and fine the little boat at central point of water world, it lost the joint with real world of far away as little kids felt strong dismay they raised their eyes to dad and mom amid the loss where no bees hum and as the fear began to steer the dolphins click was near and near.
My eyes set their gaze across the horizon the sun is setting in late fall afternoon cold snap in the air as the leaves swirl about a welcoming view is the painted pink sky streaks of pale blue dotted with white have been suddenly brushed with a soft pastel the beauty is breathtaking, such natural artistry i am in awe of the painted pink sky i think of you now, how magnificent it would be to find ultimate and much needed serenity wrapped up in your strong arms in loves sweet embrace to be held by you under the painted pink sky.
Pink and delicate this rose belongs to my heart she overwhelms me. rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose rose.
When took a dip in ganga that pink sari imbibed a lot of advaitha. .glued to her skin and lost identity. became a mound of her mounds curve of her curves and dip of her dips. i knew how euphoric that pinky felt when dried up and separated from her .retained her shape.
The pink coat she put on when it was cold the pink coat that was hung up when she was home the pink coat that kept her warm the pink coat that witnessed her first cut the pink coat she wore when she was crying the pink coat that knew her plans the pink coat that saw what happened the pink coat she had on when she walked in front of that truck the pink coat that witnessed it all the pink coat had no one to keep warm, now the pink coat that wanted to tell everyone the truth about her just; the pink coat.
Now what would you think, of a party all pink, with pink iguanas, dressed in pink pyjamas? guests as big as an elephant, their size quite irrelevant, as long as they've the right hue, just remember dyes are taboo. their skin must be real, to join in our meal. the frogs can eat slugs, and all kinds of bugs, like the dragon millipede, which is dangerous indeed. would it be so shocking, when flamingoes come flocking? do you think i'm shallow, to eat only marshmallow? we'll set you a place, if you have a pink face. 'i think, ' said a dolphin called pinky, 'this is all rather stinky. we may look quite bizarre, but colour is not who we are. our skin is only one part, look at others hearts, and get to know their minds, then you'll find, that it's best to be kind. tell everyone alive, they can just arrive, with their own sort of jive. the more different their dance, the better to enhance. teach us something new, follow a different avenue. what might seem strange, can help us to change. a party for all, would be a ball. '.
A posy of pink roses stand on the alter of my church. the roses maybe artificial, but it is what they represent. there is always a welcome for anyone visiting here. they can come to the church for guidance or comfort there. they may come from everywhere and the door is always open to welcome you inside. they can pray a bit, reaching out to our lord, or they can come in for a chat about what is troubling them. for whatever reason they come the door is always open with posy of pink roses on the alter as sign they are welcome there. 9 february 2008.
Lives in thorne smiles in thorne sleeps on thorne yet never cries of her sufferings her each petal are more soft than ever in creation her aroma applaudes recites anthology of fragnance though laithful but never hides her beauty her obesance quantify her beauty morning breeze cherish to have a bathe with her tulle pollen so blows softly and cool she is indubious in all seasons in return the sun confers her his pink to make her pink to make her pink so, rose is pink.
The pink and orange hues of evening sky, are beautiful yet sad, as all goodbyes. with each breath, i can feel life's fading out, and hear myself, call out your name aloud. an inverted 'v', after a tough day's test; a formation of flock, heading to the nest. each morning glows, then grows to same old night; the reason, my heart sinks at sunset sight. the early morning flight of hope and pride, shall culminate, when tired wings alight.
Palpated her breast, a lump in the throat. the monster that mama and aunty smote. toyed with the pages of a letter she wrote, about the time, she but crossed the moat. devastated and lonely in a bustling world. to nether shores that she was hurled. a rending stream of violating pricks. a heart less journey through so many nicks. handled and mauled by alien hands, her heart and self, now held by bands. the grief and anguish of yet to come. no flames are doused by bottles of rum. just as she stood, a woman in her own. this saga of horror, was at her thrown. how she hated the pitying looks. frantically sought the net and books. with every passing day, the chances grim. no more the charmers to pander a whim. dragged like mom, to the butchers den. so broken she spoke of marcescent men. lost her spirit and her womanliness. the warmth and feel of a loving caress.
A pink bellflower dangling on her strap shouldering pain, blue veins strangling the seeds of desire it's queen heart conspiring for power and gain befitting as the drones die caught in the hem of her gold and emerald attire. mon amant de la mer, your days are martyred in my trust singing my glories to the wind and sea and the cold creatures that lurk below the smooth fluid crust do they also share in your world, in our wilderness of lust? in your folly what have you decreed as the months and years advance and with what treasures will you court your queen in the turbulence of your act? and what great victory shall you stage behind the curtain of carnal pleasure with incessant ship wrecks and delays i still await you as you loiter at your ease. loquacious.
Does not making you happy, with a snappier pink, make you excited? snap, snap.your lips did they.purse this word, or discard it.? who would not die, to scream her oinks all there life, do you fear, will these simple words, , requested.now get me arrested. new clean words, washed free, over and over again. do they really, sound quite like the others, in your mind..? blush me, i will blush you to death, i live for your blush. your blush drowns me, in seas of pink, that make you oink. did you take all my blush? please wait, it for you, will make oceans more.
There she sat, head tilted back in elegance pushed by her father in her pink plastic chariot barely two years old with golden multicultural skin a crown of silken shiny curls framed her gorgeous face of regency style, heirs and grace and she knew she was fabulous as she was whooshed past my car window off through the grey sordid concerete as a bright cheery spot pushed by her proud, proud father gracefully picking her tiny button nose.
Could my loved one ever forgive me in that sin witch i so carelessly alowed to happen i never thought that i could be so blind not even i could have seen but now it is over will she ever love me again or will she too shun my touch will she too leave me in the world alone to cry or enbrace me to be more than that shell that i am will i live to see another day with out her maybe or maybe i will love again no never could anyone replace her she is mine as i am hers for she is my annabel lee and i am her dieing poe.
The emo in pink she tries to hide how she really feels the guy she loves won't give her a chance she feels crushed sad, alone, angry she wants to cry she wants to know why she can't have a chance a single chance to love him to be with him to hold him to be loved to be held the emo in pink is misunderstood nobody understands why she cries in a corner away from the world he approaches her to find out she refuses to tell him he won't understand that she wants to be more than his friend 'i can't say' is her answer he looks at her with a puzzled look 'why not? ' she cried more 'you won't understand' 'i won't if you don't say' she took a deep breath and told him straight out 'i love you but you won't give me a chance i want to be more than friends' he finally said 'i do like you but only as a friend' he walked away his words ran through her head the rest of the day the emo in pink couldn't take it anymore she knew he'd find another girl before he gave her a chance so she figured she'd save him the trouble and be away from him he won't have to hear her say 'i love you' or 'i want to be more than friends' he wouldn't care if he ever heard her again and she'd save herself the trouble and forever end her suffering she saw a blade nobody to stop her the blade close to her wrist she couldn't do it. she was too scared she needed a new plan so she took a walk to figure it out it was dark too dark for anyone to see too dark to see the bright pink she wore she was crossing the street and a car came out of nowhere didn't see her until it was too late she was dead she got her wish she no longer suffered he found out and screamed 'why? how could this happen?
i never told her how i really feel i said i only wanted to be friends but was too scared to say i loved her i really loved her i wish i told her the truth' he saw a knife in his reach he glanced at it picked it up whispered the words 'i love you' and bled to his death he was found later with a note beside him it said 'i regret telling her telling her that i'd rather be friends in case i don't see her in heaven i wrote this note just to say i love you'.
Shell of defenselessness i rip it brutally open tearing the soft oink flesh steamy tendrils whisper sweetly i could not wait to clutch at them within held in it's meaty muscle of sweetness held tartly shut clenched against me in vein this blood i drink cutting with teeth desire is hungers appetite pushing to pull at the edges as it's now beaton sound a soft plop gives way to my sucking mouth inflamed full pink stomach pumped into mine.
The sky is pink the grass is blue up is down and so are you to run is walk when left is right hop is fly and black is white east is west the sun is green the walls above the floor between the rain goes up the dirt comes down glad is sad and smile is frown to hear is speak to see is smell down are clouds and up are wells when you are me and i am you nobody knows just what to do.
I sometimes wear shocking pink underwear. it is my act of rebellion against those who always tell me that i am too pale for bright colours. i wear it under my black dress. with no shoes and a daring glint in my eyes a rebellious spirit, according to the bible, is the same as witchcraft. maybe i am a witch, bewitching you with my black clothes, pale skin, and pink underwear maybe i am an angel, with my bare feet. running circles around your enchanted imagination.
Like a beautiful pink camellia that's how you appear to me that bloom in chilly august on it's dark green mother tree so bright and fresh and pretty in the wintery wind and rain that's how you've always looked to me and that's how you will remain. the beautiful camellia flower that blooms fresh and young today in two or three weeks if that long will have gone into decay for flowers have such a brief span they quickly fade away but in sixty years of living your beauty with you stay. i feel privileged and grateful for to have you as a friend and i will love you and respect you until my life will end you are warm and kind hearted and well loved and well known and it's due to you and to you only that into a better person i have grown. you are wise and quite intelligent and beautiful to behold and you don't have a gray hair on your head and you never will grow old and on your sixtieth birthday you still look beautiful to me like the young and pretty pink flower on the green camellia tree.
We had this priest come and talk to us on the feast day of st. joseph and so strangely he mentioned a girl would know the right guy because he'd be willing to sacrifice his dreams for hers and for god's. not only am i not a god, requiring sacrifice, but my dreams so often don't follow the path i imagine god would dream of. i suppose, at one point, it's him or me. seven deadly pink roses waiting on my windowsill; terrorized in their muted fuchsia, fiery spirit festering and still creeping slow on towards searing, greedy, hot red. as if drinking, in the darkness of lower light and conscious my sleeping breaths morphed you into a grand prophet but i am not goddess, gold idol. are you looking for your god here? i am mud and a whisper of light; without sight and rich with fear. searching for cosmic love, you kiss ornate images of starlight down dripping from heaven's favor into my bored eyes.
A beautiful dozen of pink roses were delivered to our home today. i didn't know who sent them for on the note it didn't say. it was our address, that was what i'd seen but the name for whom it was sent, was for a, mrs. irene. i read the note that was attached in it read a message of friendship, love and hope. 'i hope you 're feeling better dear friend.' this was what the senders note had wrote. i told the delivery man that there must be some mistake. for my name is not, mrs.irene that was the last home owner so here's your flowers back, to take. mrs irene didn't make it, that was what her husband said she had battled cancer, and had fought it well. but i think she sees the pink roses, maybe sent a bit too late and is enjoying the sweetness of their flowers smell.
I stand at watch, this dream caught. issued in, hers, it wiggles, in a gasp, free. disguised the hand, mediums, one portal. the finger, under lip, pinker, sleeps deeper. outside it, below, this dream, flows, reflected from one quick rush, windows paine projector.
Feather light wings that float softly through the air tickled by specks of dust. bright white light inflamed with pink and laced with gold. raising flowers, changing seasons, singing in high pitched voices that only children can hear. little tiny people in little tiny clothes. pink, white and baby blue, only innocent eyes can see. pink nail varnish, pink lipstick, pink eye shadow, pink blusher, pink clothes that reveal too much pink skin. standing on street corners innocent eyes forgotten. long ago were the days when fairies were believed in. lost memories and lost dreams, innocence killed, for a life of nightmares and love ripped at the seams.
Pink flower is beautiful always so much of anything playfully and never dull as it is inside spring tenderly moments to bring on to every summer night until its blossom is gone with beautiful pinkish bright pink flower is like you with all your loving touch so much to make and do if you are in love so much nothing is all like this on to the blue light dark with new spring dawn bliss shades of the petal spark fragrances in the air full of new summer high touching blossom everywhere in the hours going by just like a love to come when love touches heart flowering passion blossom now in these days will start.
I grew even pinker, with each passing verb, she tossed and slung at me. they were bar bless, this crown of thorns, upon her head she tried to wear so well. i bled, but i could not show the harm, flirting is so dangerous, exciting in all honesty, never boring. so pretty misses, if the vines start to bulge, and you turn red instead of pink, stop and please try and reconsider, all the mail, returned to sender as a tease, from all the males.
I sit on the bed. waiting to finally meet you.. my heart's racing.. i cannot hide my excitement. thoughts fill my mind, of how the night will turn out. you knock, once, then enter the room. everythings still as we take in eachother. you hold your arms out.. and i walk into your embrace. wrapping my arms around your neck. you whisper in my mouth i love you my kay. i love you too, love. i smile. as you gently undress me.. i stare into your eyes, offering you no help, but encouraging more. you look at me as if to ask 'are you sure? ' i bite my lip and whisper ' whatever you want.' you gently but eagerly push me back to the bed. taking care of me.. devouring my love box.. our legs around eachothers neck. i do the same. tending to your wand. i'm yours. i whisper. teach me. i learn the secrets of your life.of your love and we share this special night together. i awake. alone. remembering the things my love has taught me in my sleep.
Two years ago. a spritely human angel in a little pale pink nighty and slippers lean't over the sofa end and kissed my forehead gently whispering 'night kazy, see you in the morning' there was not many mornings left i miss that gentle kiss.
Red lips, are one plan and the fires they light burn too hot..pink lips, cause me too shiver. when seen through transparent windows, and coiled and fresh like the oyster, they are. and black lips shake me too my core, and say things, that i need you to hear me say. front or back, in between they all set me up. and they move me like rain back and forth. the tounge brings me down and your hand brings me up from my knees. that privilege of full lips is not lost on me, it's a simple matter of my pride.
I wish the rain pours out today like the way it did on a summer day, cold as it was, dark as it can be, i will not fear a thing cause your with me. i hope to see the sky tonight, when the moon and the stars are bright. i'll lay my soul and mind at ease, with thoughts of you my heart's at peace. i've prayed that tomorrow, i will see you, when you finally have your dreams come true, when sorrows and tears are only yesterday, and the pink moon grandly rising up in may. i wished to be a wind, to fly you away, yet there's nothing i can do, if you want to stay, you may not understand just how i feel, but i want you to know that i am real.
I wash my hands, in your ink, fast between a valley, it clings to me, lives in me, my pen. and waves, that run, i float on, the rose and hand, and the sun on my face, this rose a tender bud. i cannot share my forest, only you may know your face, and rose petals find new lips, alive in silk. pink full lips glow red and they flood my scents with folded secrets, and this nose, this tounge burn. orchestras, arrangements, notes that seize a score of music cleft with bars, and pink, red and sun shine. pink is always, never one to leave you on your own, to find your way that is your home, out side, and rush. pink words are royal words to some, it is rare, to know another forum and compromise, this norm, why is to tired. i am the male, i will wear her pink, it is my crown. roses are never found confined, when i can make her proud.
Like a beautiful pink rose she is in prime to bulldoze where ever she goes is well taken by those who know the grace and spirit which is ready to establish writ by being always fit with full force she can hit sublimity is her grace which determines her race she has the graceful pace innocence plays on her face i am victim just to see only on love plea where ever i happen to be i am lost she is she col muhammad khalid khan copyright 2014 golden glow.
My lust for you is like a fire all it does is burn it burns everything in sight my lust for you is intense all i do is think about you the way you smell the way you look all i do is think about you that's my lust for you.
She wont eat and she can't sleep lonley nights horrid fights pain wahses over but scars don't heal what you give me is what i feel come and hold what you can't catch want to know who is best? i will show you what to see all you have to do is trust me three words of passion dont mean much when all you want isnt love dont use me or bruise me whats mine is mine and im willing to let it shine with what i have and what i need it's ok when you have speed a few times you won't rememeber tonight or tomorrow let go of your sorrow.
You glance over and smile, a smile just for me, i return it. but i wish yours, meant the same as mine. there's a hidden passion, i can't let out. i have to hold back, my body screams for you, i can't get you off my mind. i wanna be more than friends, i wanna be everything for you, but i don't know how you feel. so i've got to keep it, to myself, my secret lust.
Lust is a passionate desire. when i lust i cant to be tamed you think sex but i think life.nobody can stop you from lust more you lust life more you become he who is untamed not worrying about the opinion of others but only of your own. for you are your own worst enemy, and i am that enemy that will stop at no end to defeat my offenders. spadez.
A love so secret, veiled and dark, hidden deep within my heart. yet i think i may be wrong about my heart, my love, my song; is it naught but lustful yearning? a base desire my heart is learning? is it love or is it lust? to find the truth i think i must; search my black and tattered soul, and make the truth my one true goal, until at last my colours show. but, i guess, till then i'll never know.
I have seen the fullness of the glory of the front i am awed my mouth gaped my saliva flowed the heart has no words to say there is marvel in every nerve barbaric in some places setting aside wisdom embracing the moment loving each minute lusting that may last for hours thirst that never satisfies itself with water the hunger that cannot be filled with the wheatness of bread i ask you to make the the turn so i can see the past the fullness of your back the smoothness of that hidden skin the curves that have given me the sense of danger but all these, beauty and desire must prevail there is glory everywhere there are songs in every corner a poem found in every slit there are treasures shown by the maps of every wanting always insatiable always unbearable.
Sweetheart. come. we are alone now. finally we are. come and close the door. i have many things to tell. and have many desires for you. come let me undress you all. and hold you between my arms. to hug you to my chest so strong. and to start kissing you. kissing you with my thirsty lips. which missed you soo. to start from your neck and then down. down till i reach the holy place where you care about. to give you a happiness which you missed from a long time. and to start the great love. the love which we created for. come, , my room calling you. my warm bed missing you soo. please give me the gift which god gave you. so come to me sweetheart. to let your body heal. open up every thing you have. breathe the good you feel. breathe in joy and feel the warm from me. to get from each one the lust. the lust which we need to.
As a lad i set my eyes upon girls with radiant faces. for a kiss? as a youth i cast my eyes on damsels, who had robust busts. for a grab? in my manhood, i was excited by women with sturdy waist. for a bind? growing old, still i was drawn to their smartness and maturity. for a rest? even in my senescence, women matter by vision, voice and words. for a diffusion? birth to death, ever lust persists with the man to feed on women on many phases. 23.07097.
There is no love or lust it is body hunger and must there is nothing like love or attachment it is pure mechanism for adjustment who can define it as pure lust? can any one claim its purest form when he or she is not readily informed? it is purely need that is legally transformed i wish to condemn all on that name we can definitely over come it and rename love or lust grows with time and age we are simply bonded in cage it is fine name given by literary world we simply blow hot and cold let there be open soul search? no one may come forward with his research it is purest form of love if we can understand it may mushroom in any form with wife or husband how do you over come some short comings? that is fine phase with new innings life is nothing new but a bad or good phase we love to play it and still face all possible criticism with no fun fare no one is possible cautious or aware let us not wrap it in beautiful cover it existed before and may remain forever no one has escaped and may not do so in future this fact must be realized for sure we are human beings and may react strongly this is wrost represntation with face so ugly it is pity we ignore the universal fact it may remain forever as matter of fact we may strongly disprove we may try nice point to prove the world may take note of it but remain unmoved the misgivings must at any cost be removed.
Discontented heart and a restless soul, unaware i was of my goals. alcohol, cocaine, hashish and grass transformed me to a creature crass. they pervaded the blood in my veins squandered me to world obscure, where enlightenment was feign. there, euphoria didn't differ from pain. a drizzle felt like deluge, a whisper like roar. where the breeze was a storm, it was a world with no rules no norms. when the monsters exited my veins, my blood burned with fire, bringing me down the spiral melting me into an uninsurable mess. the hallucinatory clouds quickly dissipated bringing to me, numbness i hardly anticipated. such felt the lights glare, i hid from its flair, surrendered myself to darkness and gloom. grappling with questions, i gave in to the temptation. they took me to a world so high far from grievances and sighs. little did i know, my ship struggling to dropp anchor drifted me away from the shore of my life. being a recluse was no longer an excuse. empathy, loath, rebuke, resentment in keeping me company, were all redundant. from my eyes fell tears of blood, for i was drowning in a flood. helpless one day, i found myself on bed. my mother's palm gently stroking my forehead. i was surrounded by moist eyes all of them wearing an honest disguise, making me feel i would still find my light, that my future was shining bright. such intense was my lust for life, then. death was waiting to stake it's claim on my life, when.
The lust we fought for in now just a pile of ash. the lust we fought for was a lie to it's very last. the lust we fought for burns in my memory every night. the kust we fought for wasn't worth it's own right. the lust we fought for seemed so out of control. the lust we fought for only needed us to grab ahold. so the lust we fought for wasn't lust at all. indeed it was love that made our great fall. the lust we fought for keeps me crying at night. the lust we fought for has me praying to turn it right. the lust we fought for makes me miss you more. the lust we fought for broke my heart to it's core. the lust we fought for brings out a million tears. the lust we fought for challenged all of my fears. so the lust we fought for was the pain i deserved to face. indeed it was love from that magically beautiful place. the lust we fought for is now gone up in flames. because i now know that the lust we fought for was real all the same.
Entranced by the jewels of youth when mischief rules our minds, and hormones raging, so uncouth, our eyes upon behinds, i fell for you, in tender storms that swelled, beyond the fly, a promise of what might be, resting on the thigh, and yet as you raised your staff upward, towards the sky, the dawning of my vision cleared, and now i merely question. what was i thinking?.
Eyes the color of gold there is a story that must be told a passionate soul that is true could i be the one for you? within the darkness of night there is a secret i must hide could you be the holder of my pride? through the paleness of life, you will never let me bring down my knife with you buy my side i may never die because i make you form a gentle sigh. you tell me i have no strife but what is the point of immortality if you deny your self the simple pleasures in life the immortality i declare is not the answer so beware.
Each shall have a room, as they are distinct as love is blind, lust has eyes wide open for its games as love is day, lust is the night at the bar as love speaks the truth, lust can just lay silent looking for the tasty froth love need not be beautiful but lust makes it a requisite love may abstain, but lust cannot by its nature it thrives in banquets love is pure but lust goes to mud in all wild wrestling for what it desires i can love you without lust but you may not like it after all i love and lust you and in you love and lust shall hold hands, kiss tight, hiss all the night love and lust the two becoming one to both of us so this union may last this communion of souls.
In my mind i capture and seduce you with the inevitable blashphemy dreams of sex lust at our sight dominating our control of the prudent mind, it's so clear of what this can lead to next your eyes gazing at me lost at the sight of my plush red lips overcomining ethic mentality and you kiss me, a kiss of greed, of wanting to endure the feeling of wanting more, grasping the lust out of me oh, you kiss me your kisses like streams flowing to my neck then to the anatomy of my breast oh, your kisses like winter snow in mid december descending with the rythum of my heart and am unable to breathe my pulse unable to rest you want me but not completly just the love of my physical body the nudity, the fire that burns between my legs the lurid world hidden in my runic thoughts so your monster can run wild with lust then you'll leave, pretending this ever happened this sight, this sacred dream now of lucid exsistance with a secret scilence of a meer memory of my breathing left unbroken.
Wake me up from this dream, nothings ever as it seems. this secret gift we do not share, leaves me wondering if you'll always be there. you bring me up when i am down. you make me smile when you see a frown. being with you is our own perfect world. a great escape from our reality that leaves us bored. i am yours as you are mine. a special love thats so devine. through the years there will be tears. lots of laughter and conquering of fears. i give you my body my mind and my soul, your love completes me, it makes me whole. you are so perfect in every single way. i can't live without you not even a day.
Lust means luxuria, lechery, lasciviousness and sensuality. lust means intensive desire for sexual pleasure, a taboo of the sixth commandments. lust is nothing but power, most aphrodisiacal. lust is carrying women in thought. lust is substituting prostitutes. lust is marrying and sustaining a family, putting up with children crying, overdoing themselves in explanation of lapses, looking at women they like to move around, buying expensive clothes for themselves, gifting valuables to women they have crush on, paying attention to woman other than their wives to make up what was missing without knowing what it is. in a nut shell, lust is in every action. 16.04.2007.
Feeling restless, feeling high this aching heat, it will never die it consumes me so, from the inside wanting escape, release, be on fire. i need to hear you breathlessly curse and moan and sigh my name to taste the salty sheen on your skin, and feel every nuance of your passionate embrace tell me with your body how much you need me, tell me with each thrust how desperate you are i want to hear your crazy erratic heartbeat to slowly melt in your heat as you feel me to taste our sinful essence on your tongue entangled in my mouth like you can't get enough. throw me on the bed of lust, consume me, i want you to make me lose myself completely.
Love or lust.? i did everything i could to take away ur frown love or lust.? u got wat u wanted even tho it brought me down love or lust.? i stayed by ur side thought good nd bad times love or lust.? u left me for the next best thing love or lust.? i never took u for granted no1 other then u was on my mind love or lust.? every other girl other then me was on ur mind love or lust.? to me the sex ment something love or lust.? to u it was just sex or u wouldnt of left me for another hoe love or lust.? when i told u i loved u i looked u in the eye nd ment it love or lust.? when utold me u loved me it was a joke juss ta get wat u wanted love or lust. ?.
Today i realised lust is not lust i must not be fussed with lust because i have a big bust lust isnt what it seems a hierarchy of beems what does it deem to be? not what it seems i had lust at my breast through that meaty chest i did my best but lust took my breast under the breast lies thy heart lust has to wonder along that part it broke my heart i siezed the day.
The lust for power consumes men blinds the mind and pollutes reason diverts good purposes and then corrupts the character's condition. the lust for power is seductive erodes the noble and benign ignores all truth, it's so destructive insatiable hunger is there assigned. a dragon of three heads set free devours all who would come near lust for power grows greedily claws in position, breeding fear. it lacks all sense of decency and by callous ardor will try to hold the power it gained deceitfully ignoring justice and truth foretold. copyright cynthia buhain april 14,2010.
Tequila breath, death, sex, your face. little dirty secrets and your young taste. never too scared to try what the public hates. showing me your naked body with no haste. i can see the eagerness in your eye's. i can feel the trembling in your thighs. you'll just tell your parents lies. no one knows the sinful lust you tried. you stick your tongue deep inside my mouth. exhilerated, youve become what makes you proud. a little piece of death inside my eye's. lets lock the door and make angels cry. sinful lust in the nude you trust. inner beauty, our privates our most fun. dont be scared, youve done it before. so its okay, were both filthy whores. but on the outside we seem so clean. sometimes things arent as they seem. dirty secrets for eternity. well wear our masks for the world to see.
The lust for power is an addiction the government their own praises do sing and rubbish their main opposition as to government they try to cling the voters bombarded with propaganda right up until election day the true fact of all politicians is they seldom do mean what they say the winners take all of the glory and the winners they do celebrate the prize it is great and worth lying for that's how they feel those who wish to rule the state the lust for power is an addiction and not a harmless addiction 'twould seem without such power some people feel worthless and suffer of low self esteem some people become so power hungry that power to their egos is fuel they feel it is their right to govern that they have been born to rule the opposition as bad as the government they too want power in the worst way any respect to their political opponents they have no desire for to pay it is all about power and their egos power to them is the best thing of all their pride to them is all that matter though pride it can come before a fall.
Orange slice inside my mouth zesty juicy and squirting sweetness from inside out feeding me more succulent dreams streaming out from luscious imaginations hidden behind invisible lovers teasing my heart till invading sparkles sit on the tip of my tongue with ripe bright oranges i slowly lap up for more of the same reviving delicious self pleasing enjoyment on eating a fruit as deep as the ocean of lust.
In loving someone, i cannot tell, the thought of lust, a continous bell, kissing and touching, is this really love? could we live without it? is it something we're above? do we need the touch of another, the caress of his lips, those warm arms around us, when the cold winter nips? could we deny pleasure, or is that all we are? and if we went slower, would we really go far? would we hold on forever, and never let go? or aren't you here forever? these questions i must know. for if you're here for love, i'll love you till i die, but if your here for only lust, im sorry, goodbye.
Trecking in from the wind, is a beauty so joyful, she begins to sing, also very playful, my babe is under my wing. we fly away when the time is necessary, rain or shine we glide so high, feeling safe which is a necessity, no one can deny or intefere which is why, we float in extacy, bleeding through our veins, running deep in our blood, is more we could gain, with a added bonus for a lust for love.
What is it really? is it within you? ..is it your lips wrapped around it? is it in the head? is it in the moon? venus really is it? is it always fault of mars.. is it always to soon? if it's touched..once is it lust..ing..? if it's touched over and over like book shelves is it dusting? what if it's touched just to hear it make it's noise that wet noisy? can lust make it feint? if streams damn a lake runs to rivers in currents ocean is flavor is it lust? is lust like dusting, out so call the maid, ring for the butler, man it is armed. over maid being dusted? what is it, is it lust..? is it very sweet musk? is it lust to touch one smile into another two smiles just to cover all the smiles? what is lust..is it need or is it simply thick seed running, into wells never filling, a truth? is lust yours simply unsealed, mounted, covered and filled?.
Lust destroyed my love lust pushed away my one lust made me weak lust took the one love lust killed my happiness lust is a sin i committed lust, i shouldn't had done lust got my suffocating lust made light turn into darkness lust made me miss my wife lust, my innocent girl is hurt lust i hurt myself too lust i miss my family i built lust, you were my biggest mistake.
The lust for power and money to corruption lead and some cheat and lie to satisfy their greed and big corporations do not have a soul the avarice that afflicts them their thinking control. the distribution of wealth as ever seems so unfair and thousands grow poorer for every new millionaire oil tycoons and arms dealers make millions every day whilst thousands are dying of hunger like flowers in decay. to be born of poor parents is their only crime and they look thin, old and gray though only in their prime in refugee camps they are forced to reside in a land ravaged by drought and by war men destroyed. 'tis true power can be a corruptible thing of the wealthy and famous some poets only sing why laud people who have far more than enough when millions are homeless and have to sleep rough. the lust for power seems to be thriving of late and only the wealthy and famous the media celebrate whilst each day thousands die of hunger doesn''t life seem unfair in a world where empathy and compassion are rare.
He's just too 'touchy feely' he gets too close to me he gets a kiss from all the girls from six to eighty three but i don't think he likes me he avoids all my advances 'cos deep down it would be a thrill to get a priest's romances i'm really not that jealous though he never meets my gaze perhaps he's hoping my desire is just a passing phase perhaps i should leave well alone as a christian woman oughta instead i'll try to fix him up with my unmarried daughter.
My heart beats faster as i almost expect you to be there, as i look for you for, for your eyes, for your lips, for your touch. my skin yearns for you, for your fingers to linger across my chest. my lips need your soft tender kiss. i can't keep doing this i can't stop doing this, i need this, i need you. i.. need.. you. this thing, this yearning, this lust, i need.
Sail with me on my boat to the sea your breasts my paddles my pelvis your floor sail with me in the ocean of desire lust with me on this little leak of my boat to the sea sink with me to the deepest thoughts of the sea learn with me the meaning of love the true meaning of true love death of desire rising at the end to the greater joys of foam at the surface the sun, the moon and then the stars.
Blood dripping from the fangs that bite clothed within the dark of night discarded prey dropped out of sight the vampire stood nightly ventures from his lair cruel dark eyes that hold and stare tempting humans unaware the vampire waits shadowed by the trailing leaves an unsuspecting victim weaves the living heartbeat soon to grieve the vampire stalks under the cold dark waning moon one maiden's blood has made him swoon though undead sleep will claim him soon the vampire feasts cursing his old immortal soul he dreams and wishes he were whole even in death, life takes its toll the vampire sleeps sunset comes in the blink of an eye announcing an already menacing sky savouring the mortal about to die the vampire wakes.
I was lost 6 months ago it was lust that drove my soul i couldn't controll. what happened that night what a loss i say to you it wasn't love but why not try something new? why judge someone you don't know? just open your mind and go with the flow but no. you had left so many words unspoken i have questions, but your mind still isn't open what a loss i say to you.
Under the moonlight together we'll lie held tightly in your arms together you and i alone together at last how did i ever go on without you in my past each moment sweet kiss i simply can't resist everytime you touch me i feel comeplete when our eyes meet my hand is yours together walking along these shores we're perfect for each other a heavenly pair we're just two people whose lives we can share.
When i see the world, for you when you became the world to me a rainbow arched beyond the storms to green pastures of destiny where our paths converge as if god himself determined that this was the time that we had walked enough alone on those sad and winding roads when i see the world, for you by you, this is now a beautiful place in the sun that parts the darkened clouds in the presence of his grace your hand in my hand, together we face the uncharted horizon of hope, of promise, of love that god's gift of time is ours to share as we walk by the calm and shimmering sea down the glorious road now set before us onward to eternity.
We'll have a get together for to welcome the new year and jill will bring some sausages and john a slab of beer and david will bring lamb chops and jean a kilo of sirloin steaks or two and we will have a sing song around the barbecue. and jan will bring some dessert for to have with our tea and ian will bring his guitar for to lead in the revelry and carol she will bring her voice she has the gift of song and we'll all join in the chorus and with her sing along. we'll have a get together come rain or hail or shine and around the smoky barby we'll sing for auld lang syne the grub and grog won't cost us that much and the entertainment's free and joe will make us all laugh with his jocularity. we'll have a get together and jenny will be there and the beautiful belinda with blue eyes and golden hair and foxy haired jimmy rucker one quite fond of his beer a twenty year old who enjoys the party atmosphere. and fiveways dave a happy sort now showing his years in gray will join our get together for to welcome new year's day and we'll eat drink and make merry around the barbecue and sing farewell to the old and welcome in the new.
That beach where we sit together beside the sea where our hands stretch out to be held again like yesterday is actually a vow, a promise that never shall again the sea and the earth part like two lovers taking opposite ways the sea licks the thighs of the earth and the earth surrenders in utter pleasure.
I hung the decorations and i trimmed the christmas tree. what really means the most of all is that you're here with me. you make the season special without spending lots of dough. your neverending friendship means more than you could know. i can't say what it means to me to share this special time. i thank god for another year that he's let you be mine. let's deck the halls and celebrate with family and friends. but, lets take time for you and me before the season ends.
Family comes together for always and forever in sickness and in health in poverty or in wealth family comes together for always and forever without any reason anytime or any season family comes together for always and forever in death or in life in happiness or in strife family comes together for always and forever in anger or in kindness whether all seeing or in blindness family comes together for always and forever whether for work or for play they somehow find a way for family to come together because families are forever.
I could never be without you in our lives, because you are our life. we are on a long voyage, a journey, a path that is uncharted. there are hills that will tire us and valleys that will amaze us, cliffs that will frighten us and oceans that will almost overwhelm us, there will be times for resting and healing our wounds and time for working to just make it through, we will ache and face sorrows, as well as celebrate triumphs, some nights will be dark with nothing to guide us, others bright, as the moon will shine on us, days that are frigid that chill our deep bones, followed by afternoon breezes that warm our souls, we will take turns, one can lead and one can follow filling the other when hopes seem so hollow. mount everest is a beast but well worth the climb as life is a tower, we must follow time. today may not be the same as tomorrow, it may bring us hope or it may bring us sorrow. but one thing i know that i can assure you, i promise you this, i never will leave you, i may fall behind, or get far ahead, but i will always wait, or catch up instead. we are partners traveling together. even if we get lost we will still be in good company.
My inability to fluctuate causes me to dissipate transient in nature but stolid in form panic unleashed, i hyperventilate moorings are broken, stability torn from deep in a hole these changes accelerate blending and blurring the pieces within no safe haven for me to extrapolate no end in sight, nowhere to begin i bow down to unity and flee from my sanity consciousness shared is one never lost striping me of my valued humanity solace in union at very high cost.
I am not like you, and you are just like that. how can you demand, when i've asked from you something? i don't think i should command. or expect respect. that should be given. of that i do not neglect. and you expect it? when you neglect it? i am not like you, and you are just like that. i try to be hospitable. i don't welcome with attacks. to bite and then regret. to greet and meet to leave upset. i am not like you. i welcome not condescend. nor do i solicit attention, to be focused on me. using that as a forum, to exploit me on the scene. i am not like you. i could never be like that. but i can be quite indignant, when i learn i've been scandalized. behind my back, by you. i am not like you, and you are just like that. bitter. and unable to forgive. baiting to become the center of attention. and using me as the subject, of your sorrows. i am not you, but you are just like that. and that is why you and i, have no tomorrows. to await for apologies to soothe. with alibis and excuses too. i am not you, but you are just like that. and that is why you and i, could never experience another forever, ever together, again.
Together we await the storm this storm of love where the possiblitys are so great our love can take us any where together we await the storm the love we have can last for ever together we share our souls as one together we await the storm together we await the storm together we await the storm tonight will be our night together we await the storm tonight will be the night together we await the storm the night of our love storm.
We go out together into the staring town and buy cheese and bread and little jugs with flowered labels everywhere is a tent where we put on our whirling show a great deal has been said of the handless serpents which war has set loose in the gay milk of our heads but because you braid your hair and taste like honey of heaven we go together into town to buy wine and yellow candles.
I am bored with love and it's passionless limbs that drape over my bed in a lethargic state of impotence while wearing the same red heart my soul picked up hitchhiking off highway now here we are alone in togetherness trying to build dreams with two by fours and glue but even a home won't tie us together when our hearts live alone poetic vows clinched into nothingness like all words do eventually and we allowed our bodies to become another pair of hollow shadows that make love to a wall instead of each other and we wonder why the roses are dying.
The old, oak tree stands firm, so full of historical memories that only can be expressed fully by the documented words in diaries. beside a tarnished statue it stands, its stiff old branches pointed upward toward the puffy, white clouds in the sky, and some of its limbs hung downward above the statue's bowing head as though they would protect it from the weather elements, and the caretaker's gross neglect. many years of tribulation have gone by, but the tarnished statue and the old, oak tree remember together the vast suffering of the bloody conflict that used to be.
His eyes are fixated on her soul her scent lingers on his clothes her lips want nothing more than a kiss his hands want nothing else but her with nothing to say is every word they're meant to be forever entwined no matter the scene no matter the world t'was love at first sight no plan no time the beauty inside is for eyes he holds behind his looks what her heart desires only had he ever lusted and dreamt until this day she's in his arms didn't want her for lust or her sight he wanted her heart he knew t'was right he questioned not once on how he felt he knew t'was love and nothing else so pure and so gentle he'd never pick fights unless t'was for his lover his wife met young and grew old together hand in hand they found their love in a grain of sand it came out of nothing though some may say it came from the stars where the moon doth lay it came from their life their love in their hearts apassion in soul a love in an art together and always soulmates forever monday 22nd september 2008.
That exciting moment was finally here, we didn't have to wait any more it's a girl i heard the doctor say, the joy in my heart cannot be described we held each other close as we cried with joy till we realized it was quiet as we turned to look at the doctors they were looking at us in a sad way i'm sorry to tell you this but your daughter has a few problems in her body she probably won't live to be but a few days old if she makes it that long i'm so sorry, but you can hold her for as long as you would like to for now they said she didn't have any eyes and she would never be able to see she didn't have a brain so her body wouldn't be able to function properly these were only a few of the problems that my daughter was born with we only had the joy of having her in our life for about one month then the lord took her home so that he could make her whole i can't wait until the day when i see the miracles that were performed and i'll feel that joy all over again just like the day that she was born but this time we'll be together forever in eternity never to face any tears.
The hour is falling free into the reflections of going mood purpose and work about for you and for me river of words life's food everything coming to go passions of feelings loss enormous ways you'll know getting day's music across the times of being here in our answers to find about the thoughts we give and share through the echoes where we together are entwined.
I plunk at a beach, silence herein, i am, bit by bit, shredded by winds i pause all alone, nowhere to go, as if i were lost, in a crossroad fall on my knees, and it is you i see dancing gracefully in a place i can't be flash before me, our memories, i close my eyes and it's i perceive, but, piece by piece, those memories, fading away, leaving me at a bay silence hurts me, tears me apiece but inside my heart, there goes a story won't ever last, though my body is torn apiece by winds before me. 'all of our trance, won't ever end until we can dance, together again'.
You have my heart and i have yours i dream about you and you dream about me too. promise me will stay together promise me will be together forever. tell me that you love me tell me that you need me but most of all promise me. promise me will always be together. lets always be together forever i need you and i think you need me too. we love eachother while we care for one another so promise me will always be together.
Long back when you were you and i was i we walked together side by side trying to keep our thoughts hand in hand fumbling for sameness and painting for an abstract future we walked together awake or in slumber holding the thought of togetherness in the midst of a vortex then we walked together step in step when i became you and you became me we walked miles together having together a sip of life even if it was sweet or elixir bitter or with venom tasting each other's tears imaging inner souls and flying high and falling down to hell we walked together suddenly a thought of teasing you vanish as a dewdropp but still we walk together it's not for others but i feel your touch holding my little finger to transfer unseen strength to complete the journey we walk together my slow steps in your long strides my tired soul getting consoled in your unseen hands my feathery body leaning on your shoulder we walk together day and night till the twilight of life we walk together.
Let us you and me be together living in happiness and nothing would disturb us whatsover. let us run away from this society and live our life without worry let us get rid of this anxiety and make a lovely story. nobody would keep you away from me cause i will endlessly weep till the tears turn to a sea that would drown everything deep. i wish our dreams come true and one day be together the only one that i love is you and you will stay in my heart forever.
Alone together in the darkness i can hear your heart beat alone together in the darkness i would ask for your heat alone together in the darkness i don't want you to retreat alone together in the darkness may your touch always be sweet.
I saw a butterfly i saw him well the tears were in his eyes they burned like hell he looked like just the strongest one in this world but if you touched him he could die this lovely butterfly who dreamed of life as he spread his wings to fly beyond the skies he wished the world would see him for who he is a lovely butterfly, not an eagle the butterfly i saw.
Butterfly, butterfly; so awsome and free, spread your wings and fly to me, ever so gracefull and full of love, you shine like the sun above, butterfly, butterly, so awsome and free , i wishfor the true love you, d bring me to see, butterfly, butterfly, so full of color and chear, when i see you, i feel you so near, butterfly, butterfly, you lighten my day, and hope in my life you will stay.
Went down to the garden and see a caterppilar crawling struggling on the earth in reality she is a butterfly working out for her rebirth, and after her rebirth, she's going to fly. she is going to shed that heavy coat and bounded chain and take on her new wings. and fly high above the sky. if we are a worm covered with the dust, trying hard to please but afraid to fail and feel like having nailed. remember we are a butterfly inside. and he is going to shed the coat and his nailed had set us free. if we hang in there you'll see, we are a butterfly we are going to shed the coat and someday reach, reach for the sky. 6. january 2008.
Long, long ago, there was a tale of a blue butterfly, that live in a silvery cage, up at the cold attic, silhouetted against the wall, surrounded by eerie silent, lost in the unknown time. it flapped its wings hopelessly, around the dusty cage, its magnificent colour getting paler and fader, under the screened window, and its spirit slipped away, inch by inch into the thin air. but i do not know, the ending of this tale, and only the blue butterfly, and he who know it to the very end.
Sweet, bide with me and let my love be an enduring tether; oh, wanton not from spot to spot, but let us dwell together. you've come each morn to sip the sweets with which you found me dripping, yet never knew it was not dew but tears that you were sipping. you gambol over honey meads where siren bees are humming; but mine the fate to watch and wait for my beloved's coming. the sunshine that delights you now shall fade to darkness gloomy; you should not fear if, biding here, you nestled closer to me. so rest you, love, and be my love, that my enraptured blooming may fill your sight with tender light, your wings with sweet perfuming. or, if you will not bide with me upon this quiet heather, oh, give me wing, thou beauteous thing, that we may soar together.
Butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you hide in the shadows? spread wide your wings, let your heart sing and come dance with me in the meadow butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you fear? you'll never stray, i'll lead the way just follow the path, i'll be near butterfly, oh butterfly, have you no hope? drink of the sun, our life's just begun thro time's hills and valleys we'll lope butterfly, oh butterfly, dare you to dream? on our hearts we depend, shall we follow the wind and consign to the fates grander scheme?.
The butterfly was young her vibrant wings of delicate lace such grace such poise a hcarming butterfly the cricket was slick thicket moving quick but swift yet smart somewhat wise proud of his chirp hopping through the grass butterfly fluttered by till upon a rose spreading her wings a dainty show slowly sipping sweet hopping skipping cricket saw butterfly glanced the cricket saw butterfly the butterfly looked yonder cricket hopped and chirped a jumpety crickety song butterfly sighed and rolled her eyes cricket hopped closer butterfly laughed silly cricket trying hard butterfly cared less poor cricket hopped and hopped butterfly sipping nectar sweet cricket sang sonfter sweeter butterfly stopped a song so sweet too lovely than nectar cricket hopped upon a rose butterfly jumped almost to fly away cricket song too lovely to fly away butterfly in a trance fluttering her wings lovely too charming too tempting crickect sang butterfly in a spell too late to break lovers forever strange couple though yet lovely yet happy suave cricket, princess butterfly flutterby, flutterby.
There in the sky you see a butterfly fly little one fly if is beautiful with a purple and black color would you do me a favor bring me my butterfly into my heart i want to make it into art i don't think god think's butterflys are bad if he did then thats sad i wish that they did not have sixs dots i like them lots i hate hannha monntana she give's butterflys a bad name she's not the same butterfly might tell your future in your life maybe become husband and wife butterfly is beautiful i wish it had eight dots very lots.
Butterfly; butterfly fly away, teach me how to be as free as free can be. butterfly; butterfly i see you there, its beautiful the way your wings caress the air. butterfly; butterfly go as high as you can go, show me the things that i don't yet know. butterfly; butterfly fly into the sky, dropp down and land yourself by my side. butterfly; butterfly i see you kiss a flower, my eyes fill and i begin to ponder. butterfly; butterfly your beauty soars, i see the beauty in you and i see the beauty within me. butterfly; butterfly show me the way, for beauty is beautiful but there's more to me. butterfly; butterfly show yourself, i see your colors and i see your shimmer, is there anything else? butterfly; butterfly what is the matter? can't you give me an answer for the questions i desire? butterfly; butterfly i see you dying, life is far too short to sit around crying. butterfly; butterfly don't you go, for your goal has not yet been accomplished. butterfly; butterfly let me lift you, i peer into your eyes and see that there's a secret inside. butterfly; butterfly let it out, your secret could hold great things, give me the secret to life. butterfly; butterfly let me know, before you take your last breath; show me what you hold. butterfly; butterfly there you go. you twitch away letting me that the secret to life is having the courage. to just let go.
Hoping to catch your eye circling around you, oh my butterfly, butterfly, come into the light oh, what a beautiful sight flying so gracefully into the sky, the butterfly trying to catch a butterfly fly, fly, fly, butterfly there he sets upon the mums i'm having so much fun here's another on the sill your standing so still you go to touch him there he goes, the butterfly i hear a tapping on the window it's the butterfly, fly, fly, fly there he goes into the sky flying so high, the butterfly i'll see you another day butterfly, butterfly, away.
Butterfly wings. dancing, shimmering lights. they are the northern lights of the south during the day. beautiful lime green. flash and flutter. dancing upon the walls. making such a clutter. those butterfly wings. a light periwinkle blue. as blue as the ocean. mysterious as the moon. reminds me of that sky, full of clouds. those butterfly wings. a deep blood red. so vibrant and full of life. a deep, swirling crimson. so loyal and true. those butterfly wings. a sparkling sunny yellow. so bright and cheerful. almost like a lighter gold. so friendly and caring. those butterfly wings. those wings hold character. opposites they hold as well as mystery. so dark but light and sure. are those butterfly wings.
I captured a butterfly in a jar i danced around in the grass for hours chasing it down stumbling falling laughing making the chase the most rewarding i captured a butterfly in a jar there it was for me to hold and keep forever anytime i wanted to relish in the joy of life there it was for me to look upon i captured a butterfly in a jar time eroded on and all things change the butterfly became just another bug trapped in a glass cage i captured a butterfly in a jar and saw how sad it truly was a prisoner and i the jailer i had to let it go i captured a butterfly in a jar i opened that lid and allowed it to go and it flew away far from me it left me yearning for that summer day i captured a butterfly in a jar but maybe it captured me because ever since that butterfly flew away i have never again felt free.
I know, that you always asked about me. and know that, to my talks you missed. do you know..? ? ? that you owned me..? ? and waiting you with a thirst. and miss your missing to me. and my ear loving your whispers.. read me, . and write me, . as i am a white butterfly in your hands. and draw me, .. and give me a nicest colors.. which you have. and in your heart hug me. love you more, .. when you remembered me.. love you, even when you forgot me, . i forgot my soul, between your hands.. and come down to you, .. to let me fly again from your hands.
Vulnerable, soft and fragile delicate to the touch dodging, ducking, evading every attempt to clutch indian lore has told me a butterfly can grant a wish but first it must be captured and my desire whispered to it for the whisper to be granted the butterfly must be set free a difficult choice i ponder will my butterfly come back me?.
Spring butterfly that drunken dance spring too much for you? spring butterfly the only time that matches up to your colours spring butterly this party, such a colourful spread i would too be drunken spring butterfly every colourful cup a drink from heaven.
The little wings, bearing the colors, moving around the flower, charming her, kissing the petals, taking all the honeys, again forget her, leave her alone, take shelter of another, again making love, the consequences are same, may be he is the beauty, but he is the fortune hunter, the little butterfly.
Nobody knows this little butterfly, who wanders and roams who seeks for the senses of love, nobody knows her, so tender so pure, little butterfly, her colors are baby pastels like new souls and holy spirits of bliss. every petal touched by her caterpillars become an essences to the touch, her ultraviolet sight that only she can posses, the wonder of her unique little body and sense, nobody knows her, nobody sees the beauty in her. only the blissful only the lovers of love, nobody knows her, nobody sees her, because those who see are blind to her colors and soul, i am a butterfly.
I'm a bleeding butterfly. my wings are made of glass but are strong enough to carry me. my spirit glides like the summer breeze.. fragile yet untouched. i'm a bleeding butterfly, i will leave a rainbow in your sky with a trail of tears behind me. to love me is fatal, to feel me is toxic. to touch me would break me. the thought is too much.
You're pathetically ugly, thats what they all say. as they frolic together, in the summer and play. and i'm all alone, all by myself. here in my tree, with nobody else. but the jokes on them, and soon they will see. all of this beauty, that lives inside me. for my time will come, and some day real soon. when i step outside, of my self woven room. in my beautiful colors, so pleasing to eyes. kaleidoscopical beauty alive in the sky.k.
Butterfly, butterfly flew so high. butterfly, butterfly caught my eye. eyes were a glisten, wings winked in delight. sought such a current so as he could drift in warm summer's night. but as the days shorten he sags in the air. gracefully curves downwards, until he lies motionless so calm and fair.
As love falls down from the sky, it lands on the wings of a butterfly. the butterfly sings it's songs and rhymes, and flies through the air, no concept of time. it is the messenger of patience and change, from flower to flower, it's odd and it's strange. the butterfly can transform it's world. and give way to new beginnings, unfurled, it is the keeper of transformation, and flies on faith and imagination. the butterfly as no fear of change, it bravely escapes it's homemade cage. to change, it knows is necessary, for all the burdens we need not carry. the butterfly soars, and merrily sings, for, without change, it could never grow wings.
You are my butterfly so graceful and beautiful you are my loving butterfly i'm so glad that i have you as my butterfly i love you so much and that will never change you are my butterfly but not only are you my butterfly. you are my special mother.
In my dream i dream i am you running wolf as you run through the valleys of truth i see the dew i see the trees as though i am you i see through your eyes i feel your fears i feel your heart beating i see indians dancing round fires of peace i see the fears of what the white man brings i see peace and harmony and a place for me running wolf one of truth why is there a place for me because my light and soul i am the reincarnation of you.
Deciding to come out of hiding, to run away. from what's inside, kept still denied. but then. why does one keep believing, running from something. frees. deciding to come out of hiding, to run away. from what's inside, kept still denied. but then. why does one keep believing, running from something. frees. so many do it thinking. running from something frees. and keep a pace believed. a running from something frees. to only feel defeated, by a running with no relief. so many do it thinking. running from something frees. and keep a pace believed. a running from something frees. to only feel defeated, by a running with no relief. deciding to come out of hiding, to run away. from what's inside, kept still denied. but then. why does one keep believing, running from something. frees. so many do it thinking. running from something frees. and keep a pace believed. a running from something frees. to only feel defeated, by a running with no relief. so many do it thinking. running from something frees. and keep a pace believed. a running from something frees. to only feel defeated, by a running with no relief. it's hard to stop it but. a running away doesn't free. those who have stop it know. a running away doesn't free. believe or not. whatever isn't dropped, will continue to come knocking. oh. a running away doesn't free. those who have stop it know. a running away doesn't free. believe or not. whatever isn't dropped, will continue to come knocking. oh. a running away doesn't free. no. no. no. a running away doesn't free. there is no doubt about it. running away doesn't free.
Running running away from my tears away from my pain away from my fears away from my shame away from my peers running running ill be with you there ill make you happy ill be your right pair rnning running i wish i was gay i wish for that happiness i wish? must i may? running running im running so fast away from my family away from my past running running i am so ashamed i am so embarrassed im a bottle of pain.
Running, running there is nothing lef to do. running. away from my tears away from my pen running to know who i, am. running but you, don't know what, you're, running from. running in circles going nowhere. i'm saying goodbye i am running away. never stop running words running throught, my mind. running away, like the coward, like him horrible words i am running and running, for you. i m running but to where? i can't believe that i've put up with you lies. im running from the past.. running out the pain. running with out you.
I'm running from my tears, and i'm running from my cries. i'm running from my friends, and i'm running from my life. everyone i've hurt, and everyone whose cared. everyone whose tried, and everyone whose dared. everything i've done, and every time i've tried. everything i've said, and every time i've cried. as i run into the dark, as i run from the light. who will guide me through? and who will make this right? why should i stop? why should i slow down? when all that waits for me, is a lonely heart that's drowned. so who am i? what have i become? but a stranger in the night, a man who is on the run. who will care? and who will try? who will understand? and who will just walk by? as the rain rolls in, and every ones in bed, i'm out on this road, and i'm walking straight ahead.
I run barefoot and cold wanting to go where nobody has ever gone to the moon or maybe even the stars they all seem so far but i'll find the right place where i'll sit and wait and hope and pray that all these bad thoughts will go away but i highly doubt it, because these memories are here to stay, untill they go black and fade away.
Could there be a more perfect reason for a great guy like you to possibly like me back or even love me to attract people from my outside and make them run from what i seem to hold within me i never seem, to get them to stay you look at me with wantings eyes wanting me to let you in i let you see pieces and letting you think that you are completly in but are you? are you willing to stay when things get roough? and hold me when things fall apart? to be there to whipe my tears? so many questions, so many doughts will you run like so many befroe? i love you with all of my heart do you?.
Running away isn't as easy as it seems. there's no deserted mountain waiting when you come, no peaceful fountain to drink from. the stars won't be convenient at night, they won't lead you down by the river to rest. the hanging moon won't be fluoresced. no, running away is no means of escape, it will only bring you closer to fear and failure. those who want to get away from their problems must never run away, but learn to endure.
Running away that's what i'll do run away, away from you i'll run a million miles and sail the ocean blue i'll do anything to get away from you i'll battle a rattle snake i'll stab it with this stake i'll do whatever it takes i'll be out on the street with nothing to eat i'll end up probably dead with an injury on my head it doesn't matter because you'll be far away from me.
Deep as my love runs so runs yours too. caught at the point of the centre, our hearts, beating deep, retreat further as true love and devotion merge. no more apart, our souls meld, then reappear, fired as one. we are the same, identical aims run along a joined vein of life. desires become cemented in needs of the other. some days the pulsing of you fills my spirit with rivers of longing. when will you come and claim what's your own? i must inhibit the joy of that day, but as summer shone bright over my clouded life then, so rain your love deep, flood me with sunshine again.
Running away from honesty not touching anything not touched too by anyone you keep on running and running away? no one is reached no one reaches for you you keep on running and running away from no one but yourself because what you touch bites you and what you love is always a stone thrown at you and so you keep on running and running away from honesty and having gained speed you have become the fastest lie that even the winds of the northern seas cannot catch even a glimpse of who you are.
Why do you why, never bending, over it? could you not simply, as you would and should with it? and comes the blame, does it not often help lay windblown there, some where, lost in the middle of it? whisper then each kiss, and moreover it wading after running out of water.
Time is running short and i have to be on time at god's house god doesn't like when i arrive late for the service i try to be on time but i always fail on that that is something that i need to work on.
Time is running out tell me now before i leave time is running out what i have is what you need time is running out for you to tell me how you feel time is running out for you but not for me to heal.
At least he's not causing pollution of him that would be fair to say he runs to the work yard in the morning and back home at the end of the day a distance of some twelve kilometres that is six kilometres each way a fitness fanatic and a hard working fellow for him never an easy pay. wearing running road shoes and shorts and a light vest he carries his working gear in his backpack he runs to the work yard every morning and after work to home runs back a man in his thirties with a wife and teenage daughters he is a few years past his prime he never does work at the weekends and he never does work overtime. one who has run in many marathons and he always finishes his race his last marathon was his best finish just beaten by the winner into second place still he is one i do not envy and him i've no wish to emulate i could not push myself like he does i have no desire to be great. just before daybreak in the morning he is one you are bound to meet he runs to his workplace in the suburbs on the sidewalk from street to street to running he does seem addicted he works hard and he runs every day whilst others in their their beds are sleeping through the suburbs to works he jogs his way.
Running circles in the dark wanting nothing but the pain to stop wishing my life would depart i scream but no one hears me like no one can see wishing some one could try and help me but no one likes me so how can they try and love me i mean who esle can i be so ill stay here forever running circles in the dark with my life falling apart im in a place where the pain will never stop running circles in the dark.
Running away like a cat trying to catch its own tail, keep on running try catching a shadow keep on running sweat out the feeling of air and breeze and smoke and fog all whipped up by this wind keep running pursue the reasons why one must keep running does it really help you cope up with what you are leaving?.
Strike me right to the heart. why am i feeling so insecure.. pieces on the wall, start to tear. puzzle pieces, no longer there. thoughts continue to scare.. is it still there? if you ask me.. i kno my part is.. i'm feeling like running.. should've started packing.. no more falling.. i stand, watching the time go by.. with every second.. you remain in my mind. mixed thoughts, heart starts shaking. hands trembling.. eyes resting.. theres only one.. just one.. no one else.. but you.. insecure with the thoughts that remain.. feeling like running, should've started packing.. but i dont feel like leaving.. for that.. i am staying.. i'll watch it blow up in my face.. i'll watch it rejuvenate.. whatever it is.. theres no running away.
Running in a race, but not the same past, i wish i could go faster, but my body wont let me, like im tied in chains, and the pain is to insane, running till i fly, but my wings wont let me, like a bird with dislodged wings, running in place, even though im comming in late, and i bit to much on the plate.
When you are running through the streets there is no hope for you you have got to pick yourself up isn't there something better for you to do there is nothing but trouble if you continue to stay within the vicinity if you do not make this move now no one will show you any sympathy.
I'm burning all my bridges and i'm running out of time if i'd had just one more minute i could have somehow made you mine, but as it is, im broken and im falling to the ground, im weightless, empty, and nothing i say makes a sound. baby please tell me that you want me so maybe this writers block will ease. there was a time i would have told you that without you i cant breathe. oh but darling my ego is fragile and its only getting worse. these easy words and my cruel detachment is my long suffered curse.
My soul wants to fly away riding on a brilliant ray to a land of oblivion where im known by no one just live my life in peace no one to hurt no one to please away from the complexities that this life brings to its crease but then i think why run away the road does get rough in its way but it also streteches out in a straight road it may be long but you do reach your abode as long as you dont hurt anyone knowingly absorb the ride, its highs and lows in totality pain is a part of the road and will make you realize feel it, endure it and it will help you rise.
Forever through the darkness. wind whipping like pain through your heart, unable to stand, unable to sit. you keep running on and on and on. silent footsteps trace your route through the darkness you're running on foot. silently floating the followers are. they know why you're running and they know where you are. you've ran so far yet you've ran so little. you'll never escape so don't even try. the followers know where your planning to hide. bury them deep but they will come back. the longer you ignore them the harder they'll track; along the roads to follow you, floating around you in everything you do. yet i'm still running in the darkness running through the night. running out the pain running without a light.
Running water on the river despite the boulders it finds itself its way to where all the waters meet in that destination of everything and everyone running restless souls towards the same destination it is not divergence it is convergence it is the oneness of all rivers of all souls i run and flow i become everything and everyone at the end from this flow on this journey towards everything and everyone i am gone i am found i am lost i am the drop becoming a part of the ocean's universe.
What is kiss.? kiss is love.? kiss is a sex. kiss is.. gift. kiss is funney. kiss is a body smile. kiss is wonder. kiss is what.? what is kiss.? kissing thing. kisser thing. that's all for kiss. you wanted kiss. you kiss another one. ok. kiss it. or kiss me. with kiss.
One must not take love wrongly a kiss may mean anything emotion gets physical in different ways if planted on the head think of me always is a likely import for a kiss planted on the cheeks it calls for fraternity even in strain on the back of the hand what other meaning than adoration for the one beloved or on the feet unreserved worship indeed it is only when a man kisses his wife full on the lips that romance is exclusively expressed they lock in passionate embrace tumbling to the floor in throes of devouring passion making bashful sounds they will disdain in the somberness of morning it is not so i feel for my best friend with him every touch is only a call to truer fraternity that one heart may sincerely love the other as unto itself.
The waters rippled on an incoming tide the shimmering finger of the moon danced on the small waves a hiss of rolling stones broke the silence as waves invaded and retreated on the shore they walked oblivious to it all the silent whispers from their eyes told the age old story as they strolled beneath the heavens with its millions of eyes no voices broke the stillness of their evening bliss the smiles etched on their faces only spoke of a stolen kiss.
When i daydream what do i see you, waiting for me you ask me how i feel with you it feels real we sit and talk and on the beach we walk you compliment me as we watch the deep blue sea i look at your eyes and you start to watch mines i move close to your face too see how a kiss taste.
The woman full. the sun it burns. the earth when wet which scented smells. between the collums, where you stood, i am. rising from the mud. the squelch of sound is of. the seaweed it is dark it grasps my feet. released divine all knowledge, of some lighter secret? pulsing, pulsed it's forced, as it pours out. do you as other people touch that feeling? what kind of sight, first night? the love of wind is travelling through the air, and the northern star, the rainstorm, where the water it is sharp. two bodies which become. each depending on the others single sweetness. kissing you, i kiss the sky, and by your kiss, i slip once more into the night.
I will kiss you good night good morning good day when you open your eyes when you close them again i will kiss you lips exploring textures untested new tastes, new temptation probing, delicious and sweet dancing, delighting teasing i will kiss you as you feast upon my love as you consume my body let me fill you with my joy then, i will kiss you again.
Sounds very simple to do, to kiss me quick but your love must be true and to catch me, is the trick when our lips do meet i know it will be such a treat for me as well as you nice and wet like the morning dew lips twisting and turning for more defiantly yearning and i'll probably want a lot once i have been caught.
With an energy of love between our hands, fingers laced between the other. that first touch of fire reveals the power starting to burst and starting to smother, tingling tightening, to squeeze off your air, blood rushes off to southern most parts, your scalp is alive with bumps in your hair, your face is reddened with a pounding heart, then he pulls you close and you feel the strength, of encircling arms around your waist, gently he presses, and kisses at length. then you look into his rugged soft face, and smiling and giggling, at all this, you try and savor your very first kiss.
Closed eyes can see, lips upon lips. thoughts empty of resistence, bodies filled with urgency. hunger turns into a beast, without hesitation. closer than close, lips brush lips. electricity surges, lightning strikes the sky. tongues seductively dance, harmonous with the sounds of lust. passion consumes, lips tasting, feeling, teasing, yearning, urgent to satisfy the starvation of time. tongues gently licking wet lips, sucking. bodies are alive, buring with heat. all reason cast aside. the sheer pleasure of a oneness, feverish, passionate, wanting more. more pleasure, more hot steamy, wet tongues flickering. slowly parting gazing eye to eye, the purist truths exposed. nothing hidden in the instant that we first kissed.
Brunette lady with dark mysterious eyes, you even mesmerize the moonlight falling softly upon you with love. in a midnight garden, roses sleep like happy angels, but you walk with a man kissing the nape of your neck, running his hand beneath your blouse to touch your stomach in ecstasy. the heavens are breathing romance, amorous gods and goddesses are disrobing, the world is becoming intoxicated with the wine of desire, and you alone surpass them all with your supple body of captivating dreams, with the slightest movements of your breasts making every gazing man tremulous, setting off lovely eruptions. it is impossible to possess you, but i would repeatedly kiss the pillow that has cradled and caressed your head while you peacefully slept and left the world anxiously waiting to see your magnificent vision again.
He dances with his shadow like a youthful fred astaire, such symbiotic harmony, they make a perfect pair. no footfalls can be heard around about them as they move, through empty evening streets, they waltz to beats of true love's groove. they float upon a vapour trail which carries them aloft on mem'ries of the sweetest touch of tender lips, so soft. he laughs at shadow's antics as his mind's consumed with bliss and the treasure she bestowed him with that magical first kiss. a moment that he carries even to this very day, though many years have pass'd them by, they both still feel that way. the passion that ignited in the fuel of youthful lust, became so much more to them, through their love, respect and trust.
Let me kiss that special kiss the one that's more than touch that gentle pressing of the lips persuading blood to rush the kiss that makes you tremble and makes your legs go weak a moist embrace of tenderness that takes you to your peak with a heady scent of passion it makes your body sway the kiss that penetrates your soul and takes your breath away it lingers for a lifetime you never will forget the bursting of your senses when our emotions met.
It was a late november night i remember it well we went to the movies in russelville my parents drove and in the back we cuddled when we dropped you off and i walked you to the door we kissed it was a shy awkward kiss but one that i'll remember because in it i felt a promise from god to me that you and i will always be together since then theres been other kisses some more passionate and loving some more meaningful and romantic but nothing can beat that first time when our two lips met it was one second of our time but it'll last for eternity.
There's a kiss to say i love you, there's a kiss to say i care. there's a kiss to prove our friendship, there's a kiss for us to share. there's a kiss to say it's true but the kiss i love the most, is the kiss i get from you.
Golden slumbers kiss your eyes, smiles awake you when you rise ; sleep, pretty wantons, do not cry, and i will sing a lullaby, rock them, rock them, lullaby. care is heavy, therefore sleep you, you are care, and care must keep you ; sleep, pretty wantons, do not cry, and i will sing a lullaby, rock them, rock them, lullaby.
The kiss was two hearts in the warmth. the kiss was two hearts enjoyed each other. the kiss was fate in the love. the kiss was love fire. the kiss completed the life. you kissed because of the love. i kissed because of the longing. the kiss was two speaking hearts mutually. kiss.please i'want to kissed. the kiss planed the love in the love. the kiss described all the colours of the rainbow in the heart. the kiss maintained loyalty. the kiss escaped from the sadness. the kiss was the friend in solitude. the kiss was to introduce us in the belief. the kiss mixed all the feelings. the kiss decorated the world. did you want to feel the kiss to be perfect? the perfect kiss must with the love. the perfect kiss must with the sincerity. the perfect kiss must with the wish. the perfect kiss must despise the belief on the love. the perfect kiss must with the prayer. the perfect kiss god bless you.
A room no music nobody within i am out when i am back music no room square of music and tears square of fear, erected laugh and murder the kiss i could see the dagger and the lightning of fear glinted on it a dropp of tear i heard the hiss. a stream of blood i remember a kiss.
The soft plump faded pink lips the green eyes looking deep within the soul. friends for a year, memories that would last a life time. drooping my face towards the stiff grey concrete. angles of today that are, unheard of. never been kissed, as the wet lips subside, on there own. lonely and loosing love, crackling the red heart within. pain as it deteriates. i want to take the heart beats from your body. fill in the gaps of the dried out heart. catch you when you fall, and be there when you need someone to love youthe most. your first wet smile, to make yours greater in size. the kiss you will remember and hold on to, never letting go. as i say i love you you slip away from me once and for all.
That kiss, that kiss. that kiss, that i do miss. that love, that love. prettier than a dove. that heart, that heart. that heart, that shone like art. her hair, her hair. it floated on the air. that lie, that lie. that lie, that made her cry. the fool, the fool. i was, to think it cool. the knife, the knife. that ended my life.
The words i say today make the world fall away the ring on your finger means your here to stay the smile on your face lets me know you love me when i wake up your the first thing i want to see the look in your eyes make the world go away the words we say makes my heart skip a beat the bliss in this kiss is ever so sweet with your hand in mine its not hard to find my very own piece of heaven were the angels fly happy and free there i find you circled by these angles that sing they sing a song a melody of bliss in a kiss your kiss.
A kiss down by the riverside, when the waterspouts comes to life and across the evergreen glide. a kiss with your mouth open wide, with noses nuzzling and lying on a foliage mattress with nothing to hide. a kiss beneath the harvest moon, in the wheat and the rye, when pixies spiral to an eventide rune 'til the morning phoenix soars by. a kiss during a fiery noon in the fields of midday bloom and so sings the loon while petals rise from the gloom. a kiss, for birds to sing, for the winter to turn to spring an exchange of bliss, a kiss, to melt a world of snow in one breath of warm mist.
They were a soft kiss that he felt on his lips. the kiss was gentle and made him fell warm. the kiss made him fell safe and secure. just for the special seconds he had her in his arms. even then this angel who kiss him disappeared. he knows that deep in his heart. he had a kiss of an angel in his heart.
To these i turn, in these i trust; brother lead and sister steel. to his blind power i make appeal; i guard her beauty clean from rust. he spins and burns and loves the air, and splits a skull to win my praise; but up the nobly marching days she glitters naked, cold and fair. sweet sister, grant your soldier this; that in good fury he may feel the body where he sets his heel quail from your downward darting kiss.
Poets today in what so ever land can be agent to inspire anybody that today we need to understand, changes changed us into mediocrity. our good values of sharing a hand to those who need our sympathy, like the poor and needy of the land who never had behold the beauty of living a life without strife upon had turn into a deaf advocacy. useless war against humanity, erred by poverty across every land, and the burning fire of other's tyranny, besets nations to remain us one need to be stop to save humanity. in our own little way, we can be agent of change with a conviction that by the power of our poetry we can bring peace, love and union across every land in our world today.
Near to the ocean close to my heart calm one day cyclone another the waves with regularity crash break spraying spray day after day near to the ocean close to my heart "welcome" change. but then everything resumes its course.
Time or fate may separate friends, lovers, but friendship or love that's true will ever thenceforth continue to live forever, true love conquers the odd with its power. as time passes by, things change with the time, every moment, hour, day, month, and year, all things have their turn to change with the time, life, time, and events change with the years. everyone, everything, have a time and day, a time to change, end, begin a new day, change is life, the course of life everyday, all things change, and we change with them all days. only the eternal one is constant, all things in the universe, inconstant, but despite it all, love is important, the world may change, but true love is constant.
The fireworks have flown, the wishes have been welcomed, the booze has reached the brain, yet everything still seems the same, alhtough one year has bid us farewell, and a new year has arrived. on the acid crystal drops of the rain. a heavy head greets my morning, just as it has always done, as sure as the sky and the sun, the coffee still tastes as bitter as i, like it did last year, and the year before, the car refuses to wake from its mechanical sleep, the radio showers my ears with static, just as it did last year. the date may have changed, but life's enduring pains, simply move with the years.
Change, when change comes, it should enlighten the eye change is sometimes painful and especially when without warning, leaving one wondering and questioning just why? regarding of the nature of a matter, in time change shall surely come most of the times there's a significant purpose in change, a long tough battle won.
Why change after so long we had thought we have been made for each other? yes, you can go to your new heart i will beat my old one the path you walk i pray will be strewn with roses the ones you sent at the first valentine you got me my heart i would have done anything for you for your happiness why change? if it is that is what you have chosen with full blessing i let you walk your path but remember my love still accompanies each of your steps my tears each of my fingers inspired by 'it will not change' it will not change now after so many years; life has not broken it with parting or tears; death will not alter it, it will live on in all my songs for you when i am gone. sarah teasdale.
The wind of change blows through our days sometimes can leave our minds with haze when thinks do not go as expected it is easy to feel quite dejected if we live with love inside and never faith we compromise we can bring our dreams to reality transform that haze into clarity wind of change can be uplifting promising and also gifting a chance for love and new beginnings when you believe you end up winning.
To everything there is a season, a time of gladness, grief and cheer, smiles of laughter, sadness of tears, for every sunset there's a sunrise, there is no rainbow without the rain, no summer time without the spring, golden days and frosty nights, icy winds thoughout the days, with winters newly fallen snows, whose years are like the seasons, let the future hold no doubt, there'll come a change of scene, with rain bound skies of hope and love, i have seen your different faces, life is like the changing seasons, upward always climb, as the seasons change as we.
It's creeping slowly into my blood this feeling of desolation and madness swirling inside my voids when i look at you confused as to why my mind is fantasizing why my body is materializing why my emotions are stabilizing. has this been here all along or just began? have i always longed for you or only now? did i wish for this forever or did it start today? was i supposed to take this forbidden step over you make that fateful choice into the unknown open myself to breaking completely again with you i have no ideas no where to run to no place to hide. so maybe i'll just lay my head on your shoulder or whisper that i'm looking at you in a light that only now appeared to my eyes and it's beautiful.
When i was younger i wanted to go out like morrison. life lived at break neck speed debauched high dead in paris at age 28. nowadays i just want to be tom waits sat on a porch with a glass of wine in my hand and my cat's asleep at my feet. it's funny, as each passing year drags you one step closer to death your priorities seem to change.
The autumn morn' awakes leaves vibrantly cloth himself taking chance upon winds searching for new breath in the journey unto the winds of chance each touch then flow apart then touch again yet in each touch something new something old something peculiar never the same each time the winds of chance blows a leaf from it's branch has a dance then takes it's prance life has a kiss.
Change can happen when you get the chance change can happen without a passing glance change can change everything in your path change is the resistance to the things in the past change is what people have to do to make theyre lives good.
1 i shall not wonder more, then, 2 but i shall know. 3 leaves change, and birds, flowers, 4 and after years are still the same. 5 the sea's breast heaves in sighs to the moon, 6 but they are moon and sea forever. 7 as in other times the trees stand tense and lonely, 8 and spread a hollow moan of other times. 9 you will be you yourself, 10 i'll find you more, not else, 11 for vintage of the woeful years. 12 the sea breathes, or broods, or loudens, 13 is bright or is mist and the end of the world; 14 and the sea is constant to change. 15 i shall not wonder more, then, 16 but i shall know.
You cannot change the past 'tis gone forever and worrying only turns your hair to gray and remember 'tis the future's all that matter for we cannot change what happened yesterday. don't harbour grudges for grudges only harm you for a grudge like a cancer only grow ill feeling on you can become a burden and you'll feel happier when you leave your grudges go. karma will take care of all wrongdoers and all of those who harm others in any way will one day for their mistakes feel regretful when to karma they will have a price to pay. you cannot change the past what's done is over before we walked we had to learn to crawl and from the book of life we're always learning and the future's all that matter after all. the past is gone and the past is past changing and let bygones be bygones so it has been said and put more of your thought energy into your future for your happier days for you might be ahead.
I wish it would change. the urge to cut my self. i wish it would change. this pain that is felt. i wish it would change. so i write it all down. i wish it would change. wearing my blank lifeless frown. i wish it would change. crying everyday. i wish it would change. not having any thing to say. i wish it would change. so i don't have to write poems. i wish it would change. and wish everbody knew them. i wish it would change. i'm just trying to fight it. i wish it would change. everyday trying to hide it. i wish it would change. my sorrow, my pain. i wish it would change. it's getting worst everday.
Thoughts broke down from my dreams demise as i shut my dreaming eyes stars flickered out my wish lost truth as i cried in a phone booth the string untied memories faded away i cried all night and i cried all day missing you and you haven't even left me missing who you used to be i'm missing you and i wish that you'd leave me, just wish that you'd leave me alone knowledge broke through hope lost touch i cried too much just thinking of you the pain came down my smile turned to frown and i wish i could walk away i just with that i could walk away missing you and you haven't even left me missing who you used to be i'm missing you and i wish that you'd leave me, just wish that you'd leave me alone.
Oh, how i love it when i have a change of address and i have to tell everybody that i have just moved and you have to leave the friends that you have but, you do find new ones at your new address.
Autumnal winds caress my face as summer's heated breeze expires. the years have quickened in their pace, foregoing my misplaced desires. as winter lurks not far ahead my memory drifts to warmer days, where on a greener grass i tread absorbing love's adoring rays. beneath the august moon we'd dance, embracing 'til the blaze of dawn, but violent gusts would steal my chance and whisk away the dreams i'd drawn. through fallen leaves of yesteryears i sift for blades of thriving hope, to help me cool these caustic tears and find the strength and will to cope. for in the autumn of my life is when i'll gain a peace within, discarding weights of pain and strife and letting reigns of joy begin. then when the days of fall conclude and winter takes its turn on stage, i know my soul will be renewed as life records my final page.
Change shall accustom me in after years to kingdom's builded on life's overthrow; onward with other poets i shall go, unpraised of thee. though praised of all my peers, until the vine that thou hast quckened, bears its fruit in others' hands; until i grow so different from myself i shall not know this poor young desperate heart, nor these wild tears. but though i change, thou shalt not change with me, thy shrine shall stand unaltered and unmoved, and if we meet again i shall but see the features of a stranger, thou wilt be wholly what once thou wert to me, beloved and not what time and men have made of thee.
I walk in clothes you don't like, i hangout with friends you don't like, why can't you just excpet the way i am, i can't not change, its who i am, this is who i am, the person i am growing up to be, don't you understand, i am who i want to be, can't you just let it go, because this is who i am, you can't change a thing. you let her walk in skimpy clothes, when all i want to wear is black, she goes and dates older men, when i only date guys my age and you still won't let it go. you don't have to worry, don't you want me to be happy? if you do then let it be. this is who i am, the person i am growing up to be, don't you understand, i am who i want to be, can't you just let it go, because this is who i am, you can't change a thing.
Open your life and accept change; its like a flower in midst fo a mountain range. blooming and shining unconditionally; spreading its fragrance and hue in the valley. changes teach us that there is more to life, it shows us our goals and the way to strive. its like a dropp of golden sun in the darkness illuminating the thoughts and directing it to harness. accelarating and enlightening as it comes; failures and sucess all it sums. providing an intermediary betwixt past disappointments and future aspirations; welcoming change is the only way to reach the life's destination. life and its ways are truly very strange; the key is to accept what you cannot change.
You have changed and it's not for the better all of the sudden your different and it's no good. what's with you lately i know you want to fit in or impress a girl but please dont change. not for her. standing from the outside i can see it. you're different, not the same, i'm not too sure about this new person please change back.
Keep your change for a rainy day because when it is raining outside you won't like to walk outside because you will get wet if you walk ouside and if you have some money in your pocket you will be able to ride on the bus without geting wet.
I dreamed i grew a money tree outside in my yard. my job was to care for it and i worked very hard. i saw that it was watered. it grew so straight and tall and when the money ripened i picked it in the fall. the flowers were green dollar bills, the seeds inside were coins, and others grew and glittered where all the branches joined. on windy days i stood below and held a great big bucket. other days i climbed right up to find one ripe and pluck it. people say that money doesn't really grow on trees. i know. i only wish it did just like in my dreams.
Children love, they laugh, they care. children, bless them, they know how to share. children try hard to be what you want, sometimes they can't and they start to cry, that's when a hug or a kiss is the tool, no not a spanking that's not the rule. children do good and children do bad, children are happy and children are sad. children must walk before they can run, all of us wake to the bright morning sun. so cherish the children these treasures from god, for without them the earth would be nothing but water and sod.
I know sometimes that clouds bring rain, in wintertime it's snow, and spring is good because it makes the pretty flowers grow. i know that god is everywhere and angels all have wings, that dogs can't talk and bunnies hop i know so many things. but why do daddies go away? it makes kids and mommies sad. are there windows up in heaven? did i do something bad? my mommy said it's not like that. that children all are good. sometimes daddies just can't stay even though we wish they could. she said daddy loves me most of all, not to think he doesn't care . and he sees me from the windows. god just needs him more up there.
There's an angel in my pocket who is watching over me, just a little voice down deep inside that i can hear, not see. i wish that i could let her out so that everyone could see 'cause we have the greatest secrets, many things she shares with me. she whispers little things to do to make my parents glad and tells me when there's something that i want to do that's bad. oh i wish that i could see her not just hear her talk to me. it's just a little voice down deep inside that i can hear, not see.
I like words like 'yes' and 'no' they mean just what they say. they either mean you can or can't do what you want today. other words like 'maybe' or even like 'we'll see' make me feel like crying 'cause that isn't answering me. 'someday' isn't too bad 'cause it still means we will. but 'later' is even better 'cause it's waiting just until.
All things within this fading world hath end, adversity doth still our joys attend; no ties so strong, no friends so dear and sweet, but with death's parting blow are sure to meet. the sentence past is most irrevocable, a common thing, yet oh, inevitable. how soon, my dear, death may my steps attend, how soon't may be thy lot to lose thy friend, we both are ignorant, yet love bids me these farewell lines to recommend to thee, that when the knot's untied that made us one, i may seem thine, who in effect am none. and if i see not half my days that's due, what nature would, god grant to yours and you; the many faults that well you know i have let be interred in my oblivious grave; if any worth or virtue were in me, let that live freshly in thy memory and when thou feel'st no grief, as i no harmes, yet love thy dead, who long lay in thine arms, and when thy loss shall be repaid with gains look to my little babes, my dear remains. and if thou love thyself, or loved'st me, these o protect from stepdame's injury. and if chance to thine eyes shall bring this verse, with some sad sighs honor my absent hearse; and kiss this paper for thy dear love's sake, who with salt tears this last farewell did take.
Snow was flaking all around then gently piling on the ground. just tiny puffs when floating free, but stuck together, i could see it's like one voice that singing for us or a lot, like in a chorus. i rolled some up and stacked it high to make a happy snowman guy. i'm glad it's that way just with snow and that's not how we children grow, 'cause on a warm and sunny day, my snowman slowly melts away. as he melts, he gets so thin. i wish, like me, that he had skin.
Our fathers wrung their bread from stocks and stones and fenced their gardens with the redmen's bones; embarking from the nether land of holland, pilgrims unhouseled by geneva's night, they planted here the serpent's seeds of light; and here the pivoting searchlights probe to shock the riotous glass houses built on rock, and candles gutter by an empty altar, and light is where the landless blood of cain is burning, burning the unburied grain.
The day the circus came to town, my favorite was the circus clown with his great big shoes and funny clothes, a painted face, and a big red nose. a giant smile was painted there, with children laughing, everywhere. i wondered as i looked at him, was he frowning 'neath his painted grin? now when i am feeling down, i think about that circus clown with his great big shoes and funny clothes, a painted face, and big red nose. i put a smile on, anyway and soon, my frown just fades away like the day the circus came to town and i learned it watching the circus clown.
I don't have a little brother. i don't have a sister, too. it's just me and mom and daddy but there's lots of things to do. sometimes we go on picnics and play ball until it's dark. sometimes we play on slides and swings when we go to the park. we can go and see a movie, other days go to the beach where i can get sand dollars and daddy helps when i can't reach. i wish i had a brother. i'd like a sister, too, but it's me and mom and daddy and there's lots of things to do.
My brother's in a wheelchair and he can't jump or run but i can throw a ball to him to catch and we have fun. he can't do a lot of things that other kids can do. he needs help getting dressed and he can't tie his shoes. mommy told me it's called 'special' when a child is born that way. i said i could have told her that. my brother's special every day.
Today i found some scissors by my mommy's sewing chair. i learned scissors can cut paper and scissors can cut hair. i learned scissors can cut many things, lots of things you shouldn't oughta. but the best thing that i learned today is scissors can't cut water.
Give love to the children children need love everyday give love to the children guide them on their way love's like a burning flame consumes all that stands in the way love is the only power on earth to take all the hatred away give love to the children set the children free to make their own decisions then they will clearly see love is the sun the moon and the stars love is a golden ring love is the one thing the whole world desires be it beggar or king give love to the children youth has not long to stay love is a long term investment the best you will find any day love like the rising sun takes all the darkness away our children will tell their children and their childrens children will say give love to the children they are our crock of gold and if perchance they ever stray they will come back to the fold give love to the children the children of today give love to the children and love will come to stay.
So, this is christmas morning. everyone is here. i don't really understand it cause it isn't very clear, but mom and dad are happy, there's pretty ribbons everywhere, lots of things that they call presents and even paper i can tear. they keep showing me this new stuff, balls and books and even soxes. they don't seem to know how fun it is just playing with these boxes.
There's a lighthouse on an island built on boulders in the sea. a home to no one anymore, and it's beautiful to me. the waves come crashing, sending spray. their salty drops rain down blessing me and other people and the buildings in the town. the lighthouse wakes at evening time and its beacon comes around protecting all the ships out there so they don't run aground. i sit and send my wishes way up high on seagull wings and then pretend that they'll come true on notes the lighthouse sings. that lighthouse must be magic. i hear it call to me from its bed of boulders on an island in the sea.
On the unbreathing sides of hills they play, a specklike girl and boy, alone, but near a specklike house. the sun's suspended eye blinks casually, and then they wade gigantic waves of light and shade. a dancing yellow spot, a pup, attends them. clouds are piling up; a storm piles up behind the house. the children play at digging holes. the ground is hard; they try to use one of their father's tools, a mattock with a broken haft the two of them can scarcely lift. it drops and clangs. their laughter spreads effulgence in the thunderheads, weak flashes of inquiry direct as is the puppy's bark. but to their little, soluble, unwarrantable ark, apparently the rain's reply consists of echolalia, and mother's voice, ugly as sin, keeps calling to them to come in. children, the threshold of the storm has slid beneath your muddy shoes; wet and beguiled, you stand among the mansions you may choose out of a bigger house than yours, whose lawfulness endures. it's soggy documents retain your rights in rooms of falling rain.
Listen to the music of love, that seeps in from everywhere. the rhythm of two hearts, beating as one. the murmurs of passion, that consumes us all, from time to time. listen to the music of love, as it fills the air everywhere.
When there is a song about love then the music does become a soul of my heart when i hug the melody of music then i feel the spirit of words, traveling with me when the voice of music passes in the air then my ears are listening to its harmony when i close my eyes and feel the rhythm of its music then i dream an angel of its music goes around me melody is my love and the eternal music is my life the music has its own story that plays with amazing emotions and i can hear its beautiful song with touching rhythms let it be symphony, classic, jazz or hard rock but everyone loves music which has only one language in this universe that has known as sound of music. anyone who has no interest themselves in music is nothing but dead bodies on the ground. because music is my eternal life.
Music is a door, an escape to a different world. a world you make and controll in your mind. music is a hero, one to cheer your spirits when you are down. music is an enemy, sometimes the lyrics bring you down. music is your personality, expressed through song. the music player, is you, the one holding it all together. music is an awakening to the real world. its lyrics are real and true. music is a best friend, one to give advice when you need it. music is what you think of it. its starts off empty and colorless, and escalates to something more, your own world.
Wait mister. which way is home? they turned the light out and the dark is moving in the corner. there are no sign posts in this room, four ladies, over eighty, in diapers every one of them. la la la, oh music swims back to me and i can feel the tune they played the night they left me in this private institution on a hill. imagine it. a radio playing and everyone here was crazy. i liked it and danced in a circle. music pours over the sense and in a funny way music sees more than i. i mean it remembers better; remembers the first night here. it was the strangled cold of november; even the stars were strapped in the sky and that moon too bright forking through the bars to stick me with a singing in the head. i have forgotten all the rest. they lock me in this chair at eight a.m. and there are no signs to tell the way, just the radio beating to itself and the song that remembers more than i. oh, la la la, this music swims back to me. the night i came i danced a circle and was not afraid. mister?.
Play life's music sweetly, play life's music low as demons once awaken come, in fast and low play life's music gently, let sleeping dragons lie play life's music slowly, be gentle on yourself life's music can be restful, life's music can be nice listen with an open heart and let sleeping monsters lie.
Begin to charm, and as thou strok'st mine ears with thine enchantment, melt me into tears. then let thy active hand scud o'er thy lyre, and make my spirits frantic with the fire; that done, sink down into a silvery strain, and make me smooth as balm and oil again.
I hear the music of the heavenly angels coming softly through the blue sky from above blending with the music from on the mountain tops bringing to all earth's people messages of love. the song birds are singing to the angels' music telling us to hear the words of truth very clear, "all of earth's people are more alike than different and to help each other will leave no room for fear". come listen to the music of quiet gentle breezes and music from wild flowers growing on the hill whispering softly to awaken our spirits saying, "only listen and let your hearts be still, so to hear the music from the living waters that can bring abundance wherever there is need, can heal all broken hearts burdened with sorrow, and can free the people caught by their fears and greed". listen to music from the world's throbbing heartbeat commanding its people to live in true harmony by hearing the voices of heavenly angels singing love, joy, and peace can be our destiny. listen to the music in kind smiling faces and the music of a child laughing gleefully both creating music with notes of "just caring". won't you please come listen to this music with me?.
Music, when soft voices die, vibrates in the memory; odours, when sweet violets sicken, live within the sense they quicken. rose leaves, when the rose is dead, are heaped for the beloved's bed; and so thy thoughts, when thou art gone, love itself shall slumber on.
My heart starts to beat like drum my mind sings music of love and words overflows from my lips music flows in my viens and it reaches every part of me love spreads and heart rejoices it heals my body and my mind upbeat music reaches my brain it lift up my mood boost my body and nature hums along with me it's the time to tap my toes dance in rhythm with my love.
I hear the music the music is playing the music is soft the music is now fading the music is gone which means so is my life no music means no life the music is gone come back to me music the music is begining i have a life the music is pretty the music is wonderful oh no the music is fading again i love the music the music is gone good bye music.
Do you hear it its the pounding of your heart the thump of your foot hitting the pavement its the rythym its the song in your head that tune your whistling the jingle on the tv its the music its the rap kicking with the subs the rock that show you how to stick it to the man the blues with that soul its the music what is it its the music the heartbeat of the world the rythym that brings us together the only universally understood language its the happiness the sorrow, the guidance, the inspiration its the music it lives in us all its the music the power the life.
Queen of every moving measure, sweetest source of purest pleasure, music; why thy powers employ only for the sons of joy? only for the smiling guests at natal or at nuptial feasts? rather thy lenient numbers pour on those whom secret griefs devour; bid be still the throbbing hearts of those, whom death, or absence parts, and, with some softly whisper'd air, smooth the brow of dumb despair.
Music isn't just music, it's a way of life. music is more than life. it's a work of art. music is like a cumulous cloud on a stormy day. it brings joy to the people who love it. music is like a catelpillar hatching out of its chrysalis its spreds its wings at a slow part dramactic part then takes flight in the entergetic parts. music is more than life. it's an inspiration.
You sing i will be the mountain and hold your voice deep inside you feel i will be the earth and keep your vibrations in my core you cry i will be the ocean keeping your sacred drops alive you chant i will be the holy hymn, we shall soar you fly i will be the sky, always holding you high you dance i will be the music that you wore.
Take me by the hand; it's so easy for you, angel, for you are the road even while being immobile. you see, i'm scared no one here will look for me again; i couldn't make use of whatever was given, so they abandoned me. at first the solitude charmed me like a prelude, but so much music wounded me. translated by a. poulin.
Where thoughts are about fear where stress becomes routine the anger, lust, revenge and vices tries to conquer human heart complains and asks stop stop and make things easy it depends upon my health the human heart, its performance you makes it dangerous to sustain you makes it feel disturbed when you opt for foolish struggles the heart says you are in danger hear, the wonderful organ highly sensitive to emotions keep the emotions less stressful where your speed must control otherwise heart will call it to stop the journey itself.
Can we deselect stupidity? coral blanches in the warming seas, the arctic cap recedes, and indifference breeds an expanding waist of greed. this is no greek tragedy. this is not great sophocles, not oedipus destroying mother earth. that was accidental. this far worse as the white faced clown is chosen from the chorus, merely an apprentice, plucked for the task, by the call of avarice.
Beating throbs of desire stirring inside aching to hold and caress to plant new seeds of life thoughts rushing in at the sight of you deepening as we embrace oh the hunger starving through lent as we abstained craving your body close to melt together as one unions of fiery explosions hot steamy breath intermingling mouths attached together seamlessly hands wandering exploring without direction every valley every crevice no taboos tingling sweating skin wanting everything needing only you tracing along your every curve lips lightly kissing nibbling for effect squirming this body beneath erotically moving in time rhythmically the urgency of animal lust boiling higher magma of bodies mixed peaking to exhaustion breathing deeply, holding one another slowly descending passions frenzied path resting interlocked warm bodies touching, sweat mingling to sleep.
The sea knows how to dream and dream it will still dream about a jellyfish a flesh of a jelly fish, and it will sleep and think about this dream of more flesh and sting and fling its salt like the tentacles of the jellyfish to the fish and the sea urchins and starfish begin their journey to the shores where desire stops but does not end i am the sea and i dream about her tentacles her flesh and the pain in my skin the needles of the urchin and the hardness of the starfish and the shore where i lay to desires that do not end to loves lost to wishes that it may regain again sea dreams sea pains sea urchins the boat on fire and the captain drowning.
I wish we understand the voices of the birds as they give their views on the dazzling look of the earth from the sky maybe we know how privileged we are to have dominion over it. if only we understand the roars of the lions as they praise the splendid look of the forest we will stop cuting and plant more trees. if only we could listen to our hearts as it praise the seductive, moves of the of the fishes we will show our waters more respect..
One can build a molecule as such to match the structure just as much as if equaled element compose within its varied electron rows thus the simplified combined to have the same effect on mind as the elemental tract to which the mind must counteract.
When sounds the trumpet at the judgment day, and when forever all things earthly die, we must a full and true account supply of ev'ry useless word we dropp'd in play. but what effect will all the words convey wherein with eager zeal and lovingly, that i might win thy favour, labour'd i, if on thine ear alone they die away? therefore, sweet love, thy conscience bear in mind, remember well how long thou hast delay'd, so that the world such sufferings may not know. if i must reckon, and excuses find for all things useless i to thee have said, to a full year the judgment day will grow.
I'll smash your back i'll weaken your bones i'll bury your lovers to rot in the earth i'll take your sons where they cannot be reached i'll make your daughter rip her knickers down i'll leave you alone to collect memories then i'll take them too and i'll be what's left.
Got colds today warning my body the i have less immunity, i will take rest and drink plenty of fluids there is a rush for being again healthy lots of work to do lots of deadlines to meet for the meantime i need sleep but this i cannot miss another poem for me and for you.
When i am an old woman i shall wear purple with a red hat which doesn't go, and doesn't suit me. and i shall spend my pension on brandy and summer gloves and satin sandals, and say we've no money for butter. i shall sit down on the pavement when i'm tired and gobble up samples in shops and press alarm bells and run my stick along the public railings and make up for the sobriety of my youth. i shall go out in my slippers in the rain and pick flowers in other people's gardens and learn to spit. you can wear terrible shirts and grow more fat and eat three pounds of sausages at a go or only bread and pickle for a week and hoard pens and pencils and beermats and things in boxes. but now we must have clothes that keep us dry and pay our rent and not swear in the street and set a good example for the children. we must have friends to dinner and read the papers. but maybe i ought to practice a little now? so people who know me are not too shocked and surprised when suddenly i am old, and start to wear purple.
Behind the trees the red road leading to the end of summer we wandered by the rhododendron its purple flowers attracting your attention i watched you swat a fly something i thought you would never do and now you turn again in this perfect afternoon your swivelled head wanting me dead for no reason.
Does anyone ever wonder why the clocks tend to wander and with the passing of time days even fade to the sublime is military synchronization for wake? i often thought, it be better for naught if never the french we spake an english body, while complex and shoddy reduces the mg, ug, mcg, keyboard mistake.
Do not think me gentle because i speak in praise of gentleness, or elegant because i honor the grace that keeps this world. i am a man crude as any, gross of speech, intolerant, stubborn, angry, full of fits and furies. that i may have spoken well at times, is not natural. a wonder is what it is.
My rainbow has changed for it has faded for now it just many shades of grey some darker some lighter so worse that others for i shut down my emotions yesterday so that those who hurt be would not see me cry but now i can not seem to turn them on again it is as if my emotions are lost all expect for pain the pain never went away that i can hide bury within but where have all the colors gone will it ever return so will i stay in a state of gray for it is no longer a rainbow but a grey scale.
Through rainbow tears i see love's true colors shining bright amongst them above all others. red, green, yellow, violet and blue. all these beautiful colors i now see in you. love is my pot of gold, forever within my grasp all i need are open eyes and a map to complete this task. and the storm will come of this we know and darkness soon calls the show around me a rainbow of tears have spent. my pot of gold to you have went. and miracle is the day i found my rainbow tears scattered upon the ground my heart forever now is glad leaving room for light to replace the sad. and to the dearest most sacred spot my rainbow tears your hand has caught. in this bond we shall forever rest. two souls combined for the rainbow test. copyright 2006 a.j. mckinley.
She was like a rainbow a delight after a storm shimmering so elegantly and vibrant against the backdrop of sky everyone gazing towards her magnificence delightful and dazzling like a summer bloom but alas, gone too soon for the arc of the rainbow it slowly fades into the blue leaving us saddened, numb in the gloom. she was like a rainbow she shone so wonderfully, then faded and left us all behind. olivia, she will never be forgot.
Over the rainbow bluebirds scatter, nothing's there to really matter. a shaft of light born of love, from the womb of life pierces the axis of your being your home. no need to climb that mountain, no need for promised lands, no need to climb that fence, the shaft of light has told you, you're sitting on a golden seat, see, your eden's. lying all around your feet.
As the ruby roses blossom in the inner field of my bosom, allow my potpourri of best wishes perfume you with celestial bliss; let the rainbow of joy arch on your face. as the orange sun generously shining to give you the brightest morning, hear the birds that i sent you to sing my simplest and ordinary greeting with prayers for more blessings. celebrate like a xanthous butterfly dancing with breath of boundless sky as you blow the candles on the cake chocolate moist from heaven sweetly baked; garnished with colors of gladness on god's plate. emerald field of grasses kissed by the sun reminds me of you as your life expands growing up and working with effective hands. i'm wishing you to enlarge your territory, stretch up your hands to reach the star of victory. sapphire ocean of life is getting more deep; inviting you to take an exciting dip just to have more zestful life to live. as the countless waves bless the shore, i'm praying for you to be happy more. my pen keep jotting with indigo ink, i close my eyes, come to my mind and think of seeing you with your angelic face filled with sweetness of heaven's kiss, bathing in the pool of timeless happiness. may the purple cloud of god's bounty shower you with more days of felicity. oh sherlyn, to the world show your cream, scintillate with the lit of your heart's flame, soon you will live with your glittering dream.
The rain drops fall the sun comes out and all thats left is a beautiful rainbow people stop and stare at the unmissable sight all the colours in seven neat rows the clouds blurr the rainbow does too as it disappears it fades and fades now it has gone the noise returns we'll have to wait for the next time it rains.
At the end of the rainbow in fable 'tis told the leprechaun he hides his bronze pot of gold and if you should catch him hold on to him tight or he will quickly disappear out of your sight if he escapes from you him you may never see again whilst firmly in your grasp your eyes on him must remain until his hidden fortune to you he will show hold on to him tightly do not leave him go, he will say i will show you where my gold is hidden if you first set me free but if you do that out of sight he will flee then his pot of gold on your own you won't find in such an instance one has to be cruel to be kind but 'twould seem 'tis only a mythological story that has often been told that at rainbow's end the leprechaun hides his pot of gold.
Play with rainbow, wear the rainbow ride the rainbow high and low spread the color of rainbow wherever you go paint with rainbow, create a magnificent show share rainbow with neighbor, family and friend give the needy a helping hand, reach out and extend dance with rainbow, sing with rainbow let the rainbow shine through rainbow comes from sun shine and rain seven colors true it paints the sky with seven colors and dazzling hue it bridges the earth and the beyond for a short moment arched, end to end, never changes, same as past and present i wonder if there is rainbow in the other world where we go when we pass on is there day, night or dawn what is a rainbow, how it is born.
I love the rainbow with its shades of green and blue, i love the way the rainbow tells itself to you. i love the way the rainbow lights up a sunny sky, i love the way the rainbow tells of truths that are a lie. i love the rainbow with its every brightly coloured shade, i love the way the rainbow lights up a sunny day.
I saw a rainbow silhouette from the sky i know the reason and its purpose why god in his infinite goodness and love wanted to give this to me from above my life has its own ups and downs gazing up to the sky, the rainbow silhouette covered me down it's different colors, are colors of god's skin black, brown, yellow, red, white, everybody are his kin i saw a rainbow silhouette again tonight i can dream peacefully now and sleep tight. what about you.? i hope so.. god bless you..
Gods made me earths rainbow maker i pour the colors from his paint cans. he gives us all this beauty after a storm colorful beauty across blue skies and green land. he leaves the stars to another to dust and polish them bright. so that they adorn our evening skys stars glistening in the heavens bright. now the blue in the sky and the clouds of white are but anothers job you see. they are blessings from our lord above for all god's children to enjoy their majesty. i am god's rainbow maker so look for me after the rain. each color will always be vivid god's promise, he shall never flood earth again.
Tides have rushed in and taken the time that was given to us, it marched in and captured the very epitomy of our souls, and left us each in a well filled without the slightest hint of a light, but like our love, it withstood the fate of its endless journey time has passed and once in awhile, still, looking into not away from, and still can see beyond the the depth of our tender hearts love is, was, and always will be the number one for both of us, but not to be loved together, we have searched our lives and each has given the other the respect that we each deserve and have made that dying vow that will take us to our eternal resting rainbow.
I feel like talking telling everyone about you about the love we have both found and the rainbow across my heart that is there for all eternity i feel like walking under the bright moonlight feeling the warmth of your body close to mine and the rainbow across my heart there until the end of time i feel like listening to the music that fills the air all around me now that love has captured me leaving that rainbow across my heart there for all eternity 31 march 2007.
Seven colors of rainbow looks like a embow embow without a vow but hearts says wow by seeing colorful bow bow forms after rain rain hear means pain pain means a gain gain should not vain vain in colors of fain fain is good but not food to cross wood it spills blood like a flood floods if you rest in its colorful nest its a killing pest so live your best to clear its test its test of control so make a enrol like tank full petrol build a firing role to make life console.
Amazing lady you.. like you has never been.. like him has never seen.. and no one will know, at night at the sea.. when there you will be.. in the wind you and who, you will dance with the wind when the start never end with the waves both flow, dropp me back to the rain keep with you the love's chain then back me to the bow, the amazing one are you. water me and the buds. teach the buds how to grow, your words like the touch, your touch like the dew, keep on singing every day toward you open the way then the feeling let it glow, keep on raising rate of beats then the raising keep slow.. broken hearts i treat.. n your breathing let me live let me come, let me go.. let the sadness..me to blow, how the chance became dance.. how the arts of the parts let me see and you show.. god creation god draw, words from the heart from the feeling i will sew.. . the wondrous one are you. .
Lord when i look at the rainbow you have placed in sky so blue, it reminds me that all your promises are true your rainbow reminds me that those who believe on you are few, yet you have called us your little ewe lord when i look at the rainbow i see it's hue, it reminds me that your love for us true your rainbow in sky so blue, reminds me to keep praying through lord when i look at the rainbow it reminds me of your promise to all of your creatures some of whom are of different features your rainbow and it's many colors reminds me that it represents some whom are called colored lord when i look at your rainbow and see how it's colors are bright, it reminds me to do what is right your rainbow i have never seen at night, this reminds me to stay in the light lord when i look at your rainbow it reminds me of your grief because of our unbelief your rainbow have no pot of gold, but your wonderful story of love it has told lord when i look at your rainbow it reminds that you promised to never again destroy the world with a flood your rainbow to me is a sign of your love it represents your son's life blood.
The rainbow of colors so merry and bright each color has a purpose even black and white the rainbow is so full of radiance and gleam it sparkles and shines through every little beam after a storm a rainbow you'll see with all the glaring colors a rainbow there'll be then at the end your dream will come true a pot of gold awaiting all just for you.
If rainbow walker wonders how long? not long time now seems an eternity but it is only seems that way but you will live to be 89 and most of life is ahead you have time. patience and endurance are the lessons you have to learn now because they will be what you need when true love comes. unhappy now the longer it stays truly magnifys happiness when it finally comes; because devotion patience and belief in self are the stalwarts you need to make it happen when the opportunity comes.
Speckles of rainbow time yet flies by the shadow sun still strong by its swanky walks swampy stream yet not desiccated by the fire as i remember the last night by the passion the dream still burns me in its cruised arms and i am just half backed bone by the rays scorching sun prides beneath the lamp post night yet to come by the day when retires shadow still burns bristling by the ashes meadow when yells to dark clouds by the green breeze yet not blown by feathers swing cuckoo still in its nest by the hunger yet your whispers tells me the woes by the hope over the vale of tunes haunting the colored glow would you not come back again by the purple blue rain still in its wait by speckles of rainbow when desired.
All my life i lived in grey and black, blue and red. black was depression gray was numbness blue was sadness red was anger those were the colors of my life the emotions of my life that was my rainbow i went from one to another a back everyday i would bounce back and fourth from one color to another i did not know of any other colors i did not know there was any other colors i thought it was normal but now i know it wasn't it was far from normal i should have known i should have realized that everyone was happy but i never knew of happiness i didn't think it existed but now i know for my rainbow has grown i now have more colors yellow for joy pink for love green for happiness for now i know that other colors exists that other emotions exists i still have my old colors but the are not alone and not that strong because i have other colors other emotions to balance them.
I hear you and feel your touch on the keyboard each night. i am here for you and understand that spirit you bestow with each view and visit each encouragement you bring me with each read. this time is short time and you will soar away from bad time to good time overcome each hidden away hurt each unrecognized human trait you possess because you are me in my own early years; your faith is; has endless depth; give your self the patience and the faith and you will emerge the butterfly and you will be fine you will be alright. my hand extends herewith to your hand and offers my appreciation of you and who you are and becoming.
She woos and coos with all her secrets leaving all in her universe own opened sacred through ages and eons slowly descending like mist being swaddled across the green. when she traversed to her edges of age like silken spring showering over her glaze keeping her promises like saints and seers being curious of dives fast in the oceanic vast. as she pounces the pear and peg of her day peeping through her thrumming womb of love on the bathing platform of her living a day lovers and oomph appears impassioned. when she jitters to be lost beyond her edge running all her length half necked, half robed her mysteries move like rainbow in the moist sky caressing her newly born just crying soiled son.
Gloomy rainbow. oh how the pain doesn't seize to grow. watching the days go by. all i want to do is cry. i let our love go. even though i loved you so. the days go slower everytime i'm reminded of you. and all the things we used to do. i plead to you to take me back. but you say no because of my brutal attack. that i had to your heart. and it tore us appart. i know i was a fool. he made me think he was cool. but now i know. i love you so. please take me back to you. and i hope my love shines through to you. looking now to the sky. i wish i could forever die. unlike my love forever grows. oh what gloomy rainbows.
I cry, but the tears dont even stay by my side. sometimes i feel like i am all alone, and i have no help fighting of the cold. but lord i know you're here, what do i do to break this mold? what do i have to hold, the memories, the use to be's, or the part of me i wish to be. i thank you for the blessings on my life, thank you for a place to sleep at night. thank you for a family that cares, who tries to calm my fears. wait it is here, the warmth of the blessings on my life, the devil has lost his hold, i am no more cold. and the tears flee so that i can see the rainbow after the storm. you were there all along, 'never will i forsake you, never will i flee' christina.
Romance to bloom let me wait and watch out when the spring rains; it is now in the sky lustly curved with stunning colours just a minute it whispers a new tune of lies and glues to heart pining to see the invisible sight the embers of romance lightens up when the moist hearts warmly rain looks of spring full of perfumed wings to suckle the nectar to open up the pot of potion mesmerizing ocean bodies vanish leaving imprints we see the lovers kissing empty airs seeing life images like rainbows still printed in transparent airs.
R.ainbows in the sky reminders of you a.lways feeling sheltered with the colours shining through i.n my psyche you are here n.ever gone and always near b.ow down to the earth when the colours give their birth o.ver the sky see the stripes flutter by w.alking solitude inside the rainbow with you as my guide s.omeone to shine over me.
Rainbow curling i swear and swear me when rainbow curling in the premises of her love and life delight when tears of joy searching the redemption to quench the thirst of smiles imbecile the mist of love infallible as i do all peer sizzling across the petals of rose fragrant in the bondage yet unfazed and unflinching yet unmeasured in all dimensions surmised winds of fragrance carrying message i do love thrums me and my universe to rouse my anger that trembles along the corridor of my time tossing on colors of rainbow into realm ecstatic,.
Leaving rainbows in my sleep only vision softly creeps venus slain to rise again to share the light and quell the pain stardust shimmers like the past prisms shattered or everlast evasive whispers in my heart carves the image my soul imparts voices chime in dreams of glass the future in the hour cast immortal as time's frailty unending with mortality and in the dust the diamond makes within my heart reverie wakes alone you haunt, your essence chase with the sun the moon is chaste in the mind illusions dwell only the heart will clearly tell better my love to you before glows the morrow even more.
There's a fabulous story full of splendor and glory, that arabian legends transcends; of the wealth without measure, the coffers of treasure, at the place where the rainbow ends. oh, many have sought it, and all would have bought it, with the blood we so recklessly spend; but none has uncovered, the gold, nor discovered the spot at the rainbow's end. they have sought it in battle, and e'en where the rattle of dice with man's blasphemy blends; but howe'er persuasive, it still proves evasive, this place where the rainbow ends. i own for my pleasure, i yearn not for treasure, though gold has a power it lends; and i have a notion, to find without motion, the place where the rainbow ends. the pot may hold pottage, the place be a cottage, that a humble contentment defends, only joy fills its coffer, but spite of the scoffer, there's the place where the rainbow ends. where care shall be quiet, and love shall run riot, and i shall find wealth in my friends; then truce to the story, of riches and glory; there's the place where the rainbow ends.
Breath when sheathed by the web of ebbs i still remember the rainbow by the blue moon your ripples when slither by the resonance when you flossed into the moon by the rainbow when blurs blood when turns to tears by the fire yet the thunder crakes the earth elsewhere love when falling ruefully across the dew red of the blood yet whirls fast in the heart white when blemishes my god innate images delve deep into your dreams as blotted when i embrace blue when unabashed death when conquered by the dream as you slowly melted to mingle into the waves i keep on benign look to the mist when reflexed yet i am never alone even if lie lonely by your reminiscence from the truth as day when dies bereft of sun by the shadow night when cries out for the moon when alone yet deep dark night turns to the light the scar unflappable when sparks in me the outcry besotted may diffuse my quest the mute flow of the silence touches you nearer as you steeped in blue by the eyes in the evening still your song in allegiance promises me of my love. as the speckles of your whisper touche me ever and your sparkled eyes rebound within eternal.
If i could place a song in every rainbow so it could strum its tune in colored melody. after all the storm clouds rolled away in your life it would play softly its tune for you from me. songs of joy and hope and of laughter in bright colors, they'd take away all your worries and despair. accompanied by a thousand angels, singing in the sky they would be singing just for you too know that god and i are there. i am placing some words of love down on this paper so that you know that i will always care. that if your feelings are not where you would have them be today there is more than one person, in your life that cares. you are grown and so far away i can not hold you to kiss and wipe away each tear, like when you were very small. but when you look up at god's given colored rainbows you'll remember colored melodies of my love, are playing in them all.
Lovers who want to make successful lives always compromise i have since years gone by always said yes never no who am i to stop the freedom of the one i love even animals are blessed so love each other when you flow and let go when charms don't glow and both know very beautifully conveyed love all day and night him you may till life's last days letwater flow in the rivers of where live you may and entwined for life do stay god bless such lovers like you always.
Clear glass like water in it the swimming fish like the ideas. sometimes, it shows its beauty and sometimes, its thorns. sometimes, it goes into the abyss and sometimes, it remains afloat. no wonder, no one can predict where this fish will go..?.
Quickly anticipating melodies and their liveliness as they grab and take me with them into realms of a musical reality. watching rivers flow past, mind swimming against the tide, as it touches upon the harmony of life and it's future. always watching, nothing interfering and all of nature, human and otherwise, finds it's way in exacting measures of musical interludes.
Swimming in the crystal water is a thing of joy, there's the play of light the tricks of the sun's ray like your love. i love it but feel afraid as it may not help me float any time to get me drowned. but, i can't leave this addiction and can't stick to it. perhaps, i'll stay at the same state unless i leave this habit.
The salmon are swimming upriver in the cold gray damp of the dawn to the gravel beds of the rapids to dig out their spawning beds to spawn november is their breeding season in the cold and wet northern fall when yesterday's flood is subsiding they are answering to nature's call. the salmon are swimming upriver by nature they are duty bound they jump waterfalls on their journey to get to their high breeding ground their urge for to breed is upon them their numbers they must multiply to insure the survival of their species their natural urges they cannot deny. the salmon are swimming against the current a hundred kilometres or more to the high gravel beds of the river that journey to the atlantic shore they risk the gaff and spear of the poacher so that their species will survive and the main reason for their survival is their natural sexual drive. the salmon upriver are swimming with the chill of late fall in the air through old fields and along by hedgerows by cold winds of their foliage stripped bare they swim on against the strong currents without even one thought of fear of the fate that might even await them death by the poacher's gaff or spear.
I always believed that the russian president who achieved so much in the present would be a man with huge intelligence and a great human making a difference, but now i throw my hands in horror and all my faith yields to sorrow how can they build a nuclear reactor swimming on a boat to the pole and instead of being a protector taking business as a destruction goal why setting million lives in peril just to get fossil fuels to use where the waves might kill by the natural abuse what kind of weird driving element in a money making hand conclusion of this all the brain is small the greed is tall.
Swimming in the swimming pool is where i like to 'b,' wearing underwater goggles so that i can 'c.' yesterday, before i swam, i drank a cup of 't.' now the pool is just an 'ool' because i took a 'p. '.
Do you know swimming i am not asking as i know you are alive and by nature, you are a swimmer. now let me know whether you are swimming against the currents and if yes, let me salute your strength.
Are you swimming in a sea of tears? drenched in sorrow and clothed in fears? ocean of lifes deep regrets that you have not forgiven self of yet? swim out to shore, step on earths green of sod give your life over to the one true man this man named god. drying off with love, your salted tears bringing new life, to live for years. salt of the earth, flesh of adam's bone jesus came to earth did make short a home. he tried to teach us all how to live to love and always of mankind forgive.
You sir in your silent desire to become a millionaire alas prove my point also we are today much more poorer than then, sixty years ago when youth was happy with just 300 and one could save a tenner every month today despite the high pension they give they say one has to sell one's woman's bangles once he gave her six decades ago when they were newly married this is the whole truth poverty will for ever stay, add on to more population produce more kids add on oldies like you and me also one may but we will jump over thebpl line as we did jump a 5 foot string high jumping at 16 both you and me our spouses could never have seen they want earrings of diamonds makes plume laugh today has the spouse's mind gone astray one may wonder we have become mindless so we wander.
Tracks across the heavens, disappearing into clouds, no vehicles driving upon them, only pictures in my mind. wanting to be up there, hanging from strings which are embedded here and there within the sky. having to be content with sitting here on the ground, still wishing to be above, playing in blue heavens and swimming with the clouds.
Watching children learn how to swim, my granddaughter having done quite well through the years, on the top of her level each time. splashing, smiles, scared faces when some go off the diving board for the first time ever, afterwards all of them laughing and wanting to do it again.
I saw myself a lake of stars as i walked past the lake last night they reminded me of a thousand burning cigars as they seemed near, and were so very bright, i watched them as they shone and glimmered then out of curiosity i tossed a stone into the lake and then the stars they all shook and shimmered as then to the shore came their quake, stars of thousands i could easily see and they all were inside this small lake they brought me joy and also glee that one moment in time i will never forsake, just think that all the stars that were in the sky were now in this one small body of water and the moon as well, she was nearby as the mother is always close to her daughter, so into the lake i went in for a swim i then swam with the moon and all the stars i did it without thinking as it was just a whim and while in the lake, i swam towards mars. randy l. mcclave.
Water born species always swims no one teaches them to swim the best swimmers of rivers oceans, and waterfalls in easy. swimming the wonderful exercise for the humans a sport for fitness keeps away diseases and strengthens the mind, body, and physical structure swimming that gives great relaxation swimming that bringing enjoyment swimming that gets confident mind swim as you like in different forms, but always keep your safety in water.
She tried to warn me right from the start, she said she had a friend that had stolen her heart, even though i was warned from the very beginning i liked her so much i kept right on swimming, i know winning her over would be tough to do so, when she gave me an opening i slipped right through, now that i'm in the water seemed to have gotten deeper, i'm not so sure that she's a real keeper, i think she swims along plays her part, but she can't 'feel' because she doesn't have a heart, i've even thought about backing off so, maybe she could find the soulmate she'd lost, but i also know that she really needs me and swimming away from her isn't quite so easy, but so often i ask myself what role do i play am i just another 'fish' or am i standing in the way, i hate being confused from one day to the next, feels like i'm tangled up in a fisherman's net, a part of me would like to leave and get out of the dark but there's the other side thats madly in love with the shark.
Swim i wish to in summer not spring in sea shores nude as naked we may be i love the breeze as it kisses me thinking rosy cheeks are being kissed by him i am dim my imagination pulls him when can we swim? in no bikinis with only a smile just lover tell me would you love to swim with me?.
I went with them to the fishing hole, way back yonder in the back of the woods, . two girl's without boyfriend's, they'd never even kissed. look at the lips of her mom, leaving with them, i asked her, with lips like those, i wanna know where your taking me fishing. he grinned and then said, let's go fishing. each time it rains, it washes both holes out and sometimes the fish are easier to see and catch.
Every one can't swim in a river which experience makes some to swim the swimming a perfect exercise mind and body rejuvenating every one destined to swim across the ocean of life which experience makes them to cross the currents and depth in the way every life is entitled to swim the life that requires so much vision some may drown in ways of currents some victorious and triumphant everything depends the individual and surroundings he got the training.
In the grayness of a chilly november dawn the salmon are swimming up current to spawn of the duhallow rivers as the flood does subside the will to breed in them cannot be denied their lives are in danger at this time of year as they run the gauntlet of the poachers gaff and spear some of them do die in the act of foul play as victims of poachers which seems sad to say and only the luckiest fish do survive and make it back to the saltwater alive from the predation of humans with luck on their side in their spawning season death they have defied and will return to their birth river for to spawn next year and run the gauntlet of the poachers gaff and spear.
It was a strange day. when several honies came his way. he was a bookworm. and all of the sudden attention made him squirm. but he decided that something had changed his luck. and he will today be swimming in honies like a duck.
Butterflies, complete panic, a thrill of excitement. watching the water, pure and clear, a feeling of wanting, drilling through my mind. the race is called, my first event, i feel a shudder run up my spine. standing in a line with my competitors, my new enemies. i observe them, watch as they prepare themselves. standing on the blocks, the eerie silence of the start. i single beep and i'm flying, straight though the air, and then splash, i'm in the water. the smooth cool water is calming, but now is not the time to be clam. the chlorine sings my skin. i break the surface, hear my friends cheering. i put my head down and stroke, only four more laps. the sound of water drills in my brain, i turn my head to breathe, and see my competitor. i gain speed slightly, adding to the tension. i reach the wall and do my fastest turn, i will not let her overtake me. when i breathe i look up to see my team, to see them screaming and cheering. their support makes me put in a little more effort. then it starts, that nagging in my lungs, my legs start tiering. i push harder, striving for the finish, sensing the fear of the girl in the lane next to me, i gain speed. i relish the competition. ten meters, only 10 more, i start thinking of the finish. it only makes me want it more. i slide into the wall and finish, i watch as the timekeepers discuss my time. as they tell me my time i feel a rush of pride, a personal best. i close my eyes and listen for the results. they call them, from 3rd place to first, second. a rush of excitement and regret fills my body. but who beat me? i look around, spotting out the winner.
she looks so happy, in my mind i think she won't be as glad next time. i slip out of the pool in one smooth movement, walk back to my team with pride. receive the sarcastic comments from my friends, and the constructive critocism my coach. the as the adrenalin of the race dies down, i hear my name being called for another race.
In my head, alcohol and its pall for callousness call emboldened by froth and wrath in a show of gangrene gall in a mall to distort my faith and misquote my oath. emboldened by froth and wrath in an atmosphere teeming with terror to distort my faith and misquote my oath anger sinks into a swimming pool of error. in an atmosphere teeming with terror worsened by pomp and pretence anger sinks into a swimming pool of error snapping any semblance of competence. worsened by pomp and pretence in a show of gangrene gall in a mall snapping any semblance of competence in my head, alcohol and its pall for callousness call.
Swimming is fun you can swim in the sun yes swimming is fun. you can swim at night even though you may just need a little bit of light. you can can swim with a friend to keep a good trend just swim with a friend. when you need help look for a lifeguard they can always help. now go ahead go swimming go enjoy the water because swimming is fun.
There have been so many like u.s. trying to get into your dream's. though unlike u.s. those extraterrestrial races still alive have evolved and managed to survive. crossing infinite bridge's, bridge's built by those other's, benevolent bridge's they built and then left. i have long since theorized due to humanities self destructive way's. drone's are by them all they will risk. america has shone an affinity towards making weapon's that can kill the whole world. having conquered disease and illiminated old age they can sit back and watch u.s. on t.v. common since would dictate if we can't learn from them then there are only so many mistakes we have left. while having more money you can't spend isn't one of them. unadvised children and million's of abused adult's will never endear them to u.s. and i don't want to be exterminated by them because of your selfishness and greed. either we can evolve out into the stream the stream where it's green the dream we can choose, it is real.
My hopes are swimming to search you dear god in every direction i see i realize the wonder more. i know you favour me ever you give without urging everything is ready here only i have to work to get. hopes swim here to connect this vibrating mind tells at least to get rays light i swim in my thoughts daily. i swim for you only in love to get a bunch of affection hopes give me joy around i remain happy with you.
A walk in nature never boring in nature great beauty to see the wild birds are chirping and singing on fence wire and bush and on tree away from the street and the traffic from human made pollution and noise above the gray scrub by the river the skylark he sings as he flies. the poets have been inspired by nature and of her great beauty they sing the swallows return to their homeplace when they sense the coming of spring and the artists they paint nature's beauty the woodlands in their autumn brown and one can see the beauty of nature even in the park of your town. my stay on this planet a brief stay but mother nature will live on and the birds will be heard in the woodlands when i am forgotten and gone our lives they are not that important for our lives they are numbered in hours but mother nature is forever and she outlives her beautiful flowers. a walk in nature never boring though she hides her secrets from me her birds always chirping and singing on hedge and on bush and on tree my stay on this planet a brief stay our average span ten years with three score but mother nature is not for the reaper and she will live forever more.
The bird born in an aviary and raised in captivity can never live in nature's world amongst the wild and free even the birds of it's own species will peck it till it die so never allow your feathered pet the freedom of the sky. i am naive of the laws of mother nature and naive of nature's way and for interfering with nature there is some price to pay the bird born in captivity in a cage must remain why even it's own kind in the wilds would kill it is beyond me to explain humans try to manipulate nature and nature's creatures control but mother nature far greater than human kind her's is an eternal soul for we are like nature's seasons we come to life and go yet of our earth mother who feeds us so little we seem to know. the bird born in captivity in a cage condemned to stay for if released the other birds will kill it since this is nature's way and mother nature herself as old as father time she claims the young and she claims the old and those still in their prime.
Nature, that washed her hands in milk, and had forgot to dry them, instead of earth took snow and silk, at love's request to try them, if she a mistress could compose to please love's fancy out of those. her eyes he would should be of light, a violet breath, and lips of jelly; her hair not black, nor overbright, and of the softest down her belly; as for her inside he'd have it only of wantonness and wit. at love's entreaty such a one nature made, but with her beauty she hath framed a heart of stone; so as love, by ill destiny, must die for her whom nature gave him because her darling would not save him. but time, which nature doth despise and rudely gives her love the lie, makes hope a fool, and sorrow wise, his hands do neither wash nor dry; but being made of steel and rust, turns snow and silk and milk to dust. the light, the belly, lips, and breath, he dims, discolors, and destroys; with those he feeds but fills not death, which sometimes were the food of joys. yea, time doth dull each lively wit, and dries all wantonness with it. oh, cruel time, which takes in trust our youth, or joys, and all we have, and pays us but with age and dust; who in the dark and silent grave when we have wandered all our ways shuts up the story of our days.
Have you ever seen the offspring of a cross between a sheep and goat of the parents in the young one you can see a bit of both with the physical appearance of a goat and sheep strange as that may appear born of an act of nature and in nature of stranger things one does hear. and anything in nature is never a strange thing a cross between a starling and a myna has a pleasant song to sing but when humans tamper with nature 'tis there the wrong comes in though some with their degrees on natural science respect for their work do win. on what happens within nature humans should not have a say and leave nature to nature she does things her own way some results of nature may seem quite strange to see but what happens within nature happens naturally. humans do not tamper with nature leave nature to her own device every time we tamper with her for to pay there is some price the mad cow disease is one example when meat and bone to cows was fed just one of the many bad results of humans tampering with nature one might say enough said.
The trees were angels this morning, seeming to bend their variegated boughs to bestow benediction upon my weary brow as i walked out my front door, and driving along the hilly, back road i wanted to stop and merge forever into the misty autumn landscape, for that peace is all i could ever hope to become.
It'll be you and me up in the tree and the forest will give us the answers it'll be you and i up in the sky we'll be so high its a combination for disaster i'll be yours and you'll be mine its a law i cannot define but the fire will keep us burning for eachother it'll be us against them the current churnning again as the waves bind us together.
The bubbling brook doth leap when i come by, because my feet find measure with its call; the birds know when the friend they love is nigh, for i am known to them, both great and small. the flower that on the lonely hillside grows expects me there when spring its bloom has given; and many a tree and bush my wanderings knows, and e'en the clouds and silent stars of heaven; for he who with his maker walks aright, shall be their lord as adam was before; his ear shall catch each sound with new delight, each object wear the dress that then it wore; and he, as when erect in soul he stood, hear from his father's lips that all is good.
Theres a poem in every flower, a sonnet in every tree, a tale in every lifetime its just for you to see. theres a lyric in every brook as it rushes over rocks, theres an ode in every nuance, as loves wonder unlocks, theres rhythm in every sound, every beating of a heart, theres poetry in every union and every couple who are apart and just as there is wonder in every new life created there is sadness and regret, for the unsaid and unfeted just listen for the music that your ears cannot hear, just strain yourself for the melody thats so far and yet so near the wonder of the creator, the magic of the divine is there to feel, for all of us, to soon be yours and mine.
Nature is beautiful nature is enticing nature is fun and exciting we can only love it's wonderful diversity stunning imagery and panoramic scenery nature is god's gift which we must cherish and protect but in the name of development we demolish and destroy it nature is tolerant upto a point beyond which nature retaliates with floods, hurricanes and tsunamis if we can't live in harmony with nature we will perish for sure.
When the morning sun rises in the sky when the new day is born as beautiful when the dew drops rolls down the leaves when the garden of flowers hugs the nature and shower its fragrance and makes nature proud when the trees leaves oxygen for mankind starts dancing to the tune of wind when the birds sits on top of the trees and singing to the nature's choir with happiness when the fauna in the jungle sets free to live proudly when the stream water gurgles from the mountain and when wet earth makes barren land fertile when the farmers glorify the nature with happiness and start to cultivate food for the nations when the sun sets behind the green mountains and the moon start to light the nation when the nature forgets its vastness then the god show his creation on his earth.
I feel that i have heard enough of talk of world strife and what i need is joy and love and peace back in my life and i must refrain from listening to the radio news and watching t.v. for rumours of revenge and war is worrying to me. my god is of the female kind and she is dressed in green and she is very beautiful the finest i have seen and in these times of tension where the seed of hatred grow i turn to mother nature the only god i know. in the scrub patch across the way in the cool evening breeze the honeyeaters and wattlebirds on the banksia trees are chirping and singing and at this time of year the voices of the male birds all day long you hear. the children of mother nature my god's family in nature's wild garden living wild and free they live on the nectar of tree blossoms and flowers and their worries are little when compared to ours. on the news on the radio and the t.v. these rumours of war seem all too much for me so i turn to my god mother nature in moments like these and in her green garden i find peace and ease.
From father to son the mark of identity the y chromosome natu re nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature.
As a fond mother, when the day is o'er, leads by the hand her little child to bed, half willing, half reluctant to be led, and leave his broken playthings on the floor, still gazing at them through the open door, nor wholly reassured and comforted by promises of others in their stead, which though more splendid, may not please him more; so nature deals with us, and takes away our playthings one by one, and by the hand leads us to rest so gently, that we go scarce knowing if we wish to go or stay, being too full of sleep to understand how far the unknown transcends the what we know.
Nature baby as free as a bird nature baby not speaking a word nature baby living day by day nature baby always floating away. feeling the soil around my feet the sun rays beating down with heat my being feeling like i'm not physically here and when i look around i'm so much more aware. the energy keeps coming my way as i buzz through life and play nature baby being free nature baby that is me that is what is meant to be. nature baby gave the garden lots of love and energy and now the gardens have surrounded me with beauty and the heavenly scents from each flower in bloom as we share the space within this big room. nature baby as free as a bird nature baby not speaking a word.
The sounds of nature tells us many things. the sounds of nature are our teachers. the sounds of nature are so soothing yet they can be terrifying. how can we say what nature is? what do we really know about nature? so many questions we have asked. so many have gone unanswered. so what does the sound of nature means? we shall never know.
I love time out with nature and i love peace and quiet to walk along the gravel path in the evening sunlight when the wild birds are singing and spring is in her prime and even memories of such inspire the soul to rhyme. i love time out with nature a brief release from care for nature she is generous her gifts with all she share we drink of her clear spring waters and we breathe in her life sustaining air and nature's splendid beauty is around us everywhere. i love time out with nature the only god i know her stream from the high country down to the river flow the skylark from the rank grass in the mood for song he fly one of nature's feathered minstrels he carols in the sky. in time out with mother nature from life's cares i find ease the sounds of the leaves rustling in the freshening evening breeze and we much like the seasons to life we come and go but nature lives forever the only god i know.
The wind is trying to tell me something just softly murmuring and whispering gently touching my skin and making me tingle breathe in the freshness and let it mingle take in the new earth after its been drenched of rain ease your minds out of the painful past and all the pain sing with the wind resurfacing the music that slowly died feel the vibrations of nature's love and not your hurt pride sway with the new crop out there in the fields and not the dagger of your anger that it wields the rose has wilted but a new bud has arisen release the past and let it out from your prison life is transient and you may not be able to capture love but beauty is constant and it will always keep you above.
Full of rebellion, i would die, or fight, or travel, or deny that thou has aught to do with me. o tame my heart; it is thy highest art to captivate strong holds to thee. if thou shalt let this venom lurk, and in suggestions fume and work, my soul will turn to bubbles straight, and thence by kind vanish into a wind, making thy workmanship deceit. o smooth my rugged heart, and there engrave thy rev'rend law and fear; or make a new one, since the old is sapless grown, and a much fitter stone to hide my dust, than thee to hold.
Nature the gentlest mother is, impatient of no child, the feeblest of the waywardest. her admonition mild in forest and the hill by traveller be heard, restraining rampant squirrel or too impetuous bird. how fair her conversation a summer afternoon, her household her assembly; and when the sun go down, her voice among the aisles incite the timid prayer of the minutest cricket, the most unworthy flower. when all the children sleep, she turns as long away as will suffice tolight her lamps, then bending from the sky with infinite affection an infiniter care, her golden finger on her lip, wills silence everywhere.
I've found a friend in nature although nature could turn on me if i'm out and about in a storm and its lightning strikes me if a tidal wave sweeps me far out to sea or a poisonous snake takes a bite of me if a tornado twirls me high into the sky yes, the irony is that nature which i find so enchanting could one day cause my demise.
Your relationship with nature speaks volumes about you do you only see nature as a means to financial gain or are you one of those who love nature for her beauty and love her wildlife and her trees and her rivers, lakes and mountains and her fields and flowers and bees? your relationship with nature tells of the sort of person that you are do you see nature's protectors as those who have gone too far in their dispute with the developer in their fight for every tree if this be so you support the environmental vandals or so 'twould seem to me? your relationship with nature about you more can say than all of your friends and enemies can or so 'twould seem that way for your apathy to nature tells of your inner strife and your attitude to nature is your attitude to life. your relationship with nature says far more about you than anyone else of you can say as their words may not be true for if you love mother nature and with her live in harmony then you are working for the good of all of humanity.
The sounds of nature o, tis so sweet. who am i that would dare try to repeat the lovliness of a tweet. the flutter of its wings the tiny cute prints of a little birds feet. the sounds of nature o, how beautiful yet afar. are raindrops against the windshield of a still parked car. each little drip dropp runs caressing the mind so intensely seemingly just to play a part or perhaps for the fun of it. o, the sounds of nature sometimes deeply doth groan. when by an unwillingly nature one's heart decides to roam. how lovely is a weep who does understand the moan. when its all part of nature but who wants to be left alone.
Nature is what we dont see for instance the essence that pushes words out for this poem fated for posterity the birds that without fail chirp at first light, morn breeze the unseen clock working at the dot nature is what we dont see the nocturnal bloom, that folds itself in the day, throws its fragrance in the dead of night as lovers hide in each others' bossoms below the soft glare of the moon centimetre by centimetre it has inched forward to exhibit its full blown majestry to the world nature is what we dont see the shadow play master tilting the earth the petals for its bloom dance the successive cells here there guided towards optimal functions and that ogiasmic tremour that shuttles the world round and round nature is what you should not see the formulas, secrets kept behind everything that could get even einstein mad in unveiling, explaining them nature is what we all should not see nor equipped to see though it rambles through our every cell like the worst of storm.
Human nature, mother nature, enough of your torture. safely nature, easy nature, play your game, foolish nature, custom nature, i know your plan can you nature, would you nature, try to run away. stupid nature, poor nature. find my secret. miserable nature, faulty nature, get out of my way. it is in my nature, it is my nature, don't give me away.
Nature is beautiful nature is fun love it or hate it nature is something to love nature is god's gift to us nature nature we love wate and feed nature nature water's and feed's us god gave us nature we cant live with out it nature makes us i know nature nature is beautiful nature is about the earth nature has flower; s and weed's weed's or flower's nature is us nature.
Dark clouds had just burst into rain, i was alone, travelling in the train. it was just beginning to gain speed, i had with me sunday newspaper to read. the girl sitting opposite to me, started to complain, as her seat faced backward. i offered to exchange seats for her in return i had to accept her offer. of buying coffee for both of us, friendship with this girl began thus. i thought, she must be an american, from her accent, but she denied to be one. her father was scottish and mother hungarian but she considered herself as a proud canadian. we talked our way through the long journey on drinks, it was my turn to spend money.
Her hero's gone away, will he come back another day? she could not say. she let her soul mate run away, and something inside of her died. 'now i don't want to come out and play', the little girl cried. left all alone in such a big world, he is not there to protect her, no longer will he make her feel safe in his warm embrace. he used to love her but things have changed, the girl is alone. she let her soul mate escape, her insides hollow, the girl is left opaque.
Little girl don't you cry, everything will be ok little girl confide in me, i'll make your fears go away little girl don't lose faith, one day you will be free little girl make a wish, i swear i'll make you happy little girl i am your friend, i'll always be here for you little girl take my hand, be happy don't be blue little girl you're not alone, that will always be true little girl so sweet and coy, i'll always look after you little girl i know it's hard, but please don't you give in little girl please be strong, i will help ease your pain.
Ah, she was music in herself, a symphony of joyousness. she sang, she sang from finger tips, from every tremble of her dress. i saw sweet haunting harmony, an ecstasy, an ecstasy, in that strange curling of her lips, that happy curling of her lips. and quivering with melody those eyes i saw, that tossing head. and so i saw what music was, tho' still accursed with ears of lead.
Girl, when i look at your eyes i see all of your genuine charms i want to give you my everything including the moon and the stars you're the one that i love you're always in my heart i think of you in every way whether you are near or far girl, you know how much i love you you are my everything anything in this world, i would do for you love and tenderness is what i'll always bring i could not love no one else that's how special you are to me they say that love is blind but now we're able to see nothing could ever come between us we have a special bond we can stand on our own two feet our love for each other will continue to live on.
A girl named hate stood at heavens gate just wishing to be let in she breathed out sin and they shuned her her pain a blur she walked away to try again another day a girl named hate stood at hells gate she breathed out sin and they let her in they did not judge her they loved her for sure and there she will stay day after day that girl named hate broke away from fate she stayed were she fit in she stayed with her sin they did not hate her they befriended her things usualy turn out that way when you tell some one to go away.
My tree will know it all the tree of my childhood with the endless branches and the many whispers my tree remembers the girl with the wind in her hair the girl with the crazy laughter the girl with the fear of living the girl i used to be before in my tree everything i want to be will be in my tree i can see the world but no one can see me my tree remembers me the girl i used to be before.
In a world of barbies, implants and a size 26 waist heartache's no more prevalent than in her with a beautiful face. no more wanted for her looks than her heart her persona fades as soon as puberty starts. she screams celebrity in a small town manner in a world that passes judgement by how much you achieve she must use her 'talents' as the world perceives. as years go by her beauty's but a nuisance to the person inside made up of more substance. she screams celebrity in a small town manner there's no plastic surgery to alter your soul no place for outward beauty in the world of good will. to wed true love's but a leap of trust so she squanders her beauty as a matter of must. for small town love in true hollywood fashion.
Girl, why don't you dry those tears you have so much to live for things will not always be like this there is so much more in store i know that your boyfriend has did you wrong he has torn your poor heart in two sometimes you feel so unsure of yourself and you just don't know what to do just pick your heart up from off the floor and start again many other guys want to get that chance to meet you there are other fish in the ocean it really hurts to suffer nothing but grief and sorrow keep your head up and smile for there will always be tomorrow.

My eyes first caught her across the street she looked like someone i'd fancy to meet she was wearing a long violet dress but i was rugged and my hair was a mess you were wondering who was this cat sitting on a rotten bench in a dirty cowboy hat on his guitar he was trying to play some john denver song you laughed because half of his chords were wrong she walked up and asked if i wanted a cuppa joe i boyishly smiled and said 'i reckon so' i strolled down the dirt road with this girl in a pretty gown she said there wasn't a single paved street in town at the restaurant he informed you that he was from amarillo where the cops are awful and the democrats are yellow you smiled and said 'tha pigs are worse here, i'll bet ya' you nonetheless added 'welcome to georgia' i grinned as i stuck a marlboro in my mouth and told her it was my sixth trip down south i said i enjoyed rural towns in this part of the states where life is simple with no technological updates you somberly said you no longer find this place desirous for the city of atlanta is spreading like a virus you said your days are full of concern and strife for atlanta's threatening your way of life after coffee we took a long walk in the park it was peaceful, there were no dogs there to bark i told her i though she was very pretty and apologized that i was so dirty you bashfully accepted the compliments from this young man and said 'well ah tra to make masef as beautiful as ah can' then he kissed you, which was a bit of a surprise but you didn't mind as you closed your eyes i felt kinda guilty for kissing her quickly without reason so i told her she was obviously very smart and a good person i said she was much nicer than city slicking bitches who are materialistic, dishonest and untrustworthy snitches you looked into his weather hardened yet pretty face and offered to take you both back to your place he lowered his head and shyly agreed you were glad you didn't have to plead i awoke before her with my mind a blur but i hurriedly left a note saying i must catch a greyhound for it was san francisco where i was bound you woke up with an empty stare for he was not there you probably thought to him it was just a game and that all men are the same.
Once upon a time there was a little girl. she liked to sit outside at night and talk to the moon. everynight she kept the moon company. one night she noticed the moon seemed tired, so she climbed upon the roof, to tell the moon a secret. the old moon smiled, so she reaches up takes the moon in her hands and puts him in her pocket. then she climbs down and goes into her house, up the stairs to her room.there she takes the moon out and lets lay on her bed.for hours they talked, told secrets and giggled. then they heard people asking where the moon was. outside was so dark, they couldnt find their ways. the old moon says to the little girl 'maybe you should put me back into the sky, so the people can find their way home at night'. the little girl agreed.so she picks up the moon, puts him back into her pocket. she walks downstairs and goes outside. it was very dark, but she wasnt afraid, she had her friend the moon to help show her the way. she climbs back upon the roof, takes the moon out of her pocket. holding him with both hands she tells the moon'i love you, we will still talk every night, but you must go back give people light at nightime'. she leans over kisses the moon goodnight. then reaches back and tosses the moon hard as she could back into the nightime sky. then the little girl and the moon hear, all the people shouting and laughing. after everything quietened down the stars who were so happy the moon returned all gave the moon kisses. the little girl climbed down with the moon lighting her way went inside up to her room took 1 last peek out blowing the moon a big kiss goodnight.
So, watch this space there will be more, and, just in case others adore the one who is by way of soul in this small quiz her luscious whole. i shall reveal in time that's due. i broke the seal only for you.
The devil twinkling of an eye, the shape, the look of you, not being privy to your scent, sound of your words resound, resonating, ripples the head; sets on thinking, unthought things, base things, but natural, absolute, such as, i want to sleep inside you.
She huddles against the dirty wall hugging it ever so tight; hopeing that he will choose not to do the things, he did last night. her breathing is ever so shallow no signs of life in her. a technique she's developed with perfection, to guard her twisted world. 'maybe he will think i'm dead, ' she hopes 'for he can't see me breath, perhapes for just one night, he will turn around and leave' her wishes fade away in the night as he climb into her bed and any hopes of fooling him are replaced with anquish and dread. she knows too well the ritual, it's the same as the night before. the abuser will take what he wants from her and no words will this child implore. for she tries so hard to please him and everyone she loved. yet all of the time she cringes from their touch. while she is huddled against the wall never once looked in to he's eyes she can almost she him smiling as he rape this child of nine. this little girl holds back the tears. she knows she soon will cry she utters not a single word. as he enjoys the one he despise. and when the torment is over, he leave without a sound, and the tears that she's been holding back, fall silently to the ground.
I'm just a girl, a hopeless case. living in the world a familier place. i'm just a girl, with tears in her eyes. swimming in a pool of cold hearted lies. i'm just a girl, always second best. with sleepless nights and no time to rest i'm just a girl, with scars all around. always screaming with out a sound i'm juts a girl, giving up on life. running from my problems headed for the knife i'm just a girl, who's messed up in the head. with hope and wishes and prayers to be dead i'm just a girl, with nothing to live for. who shut out the world and fell to the floor. i'm just a girl, living in fear in the dark lonely place, flooded with tears. i'm just a girl, behind closed doors, soon to be gone and live no more.
With two white roses on her breasts, white candles at head and feet, dark madonna of the grave she rests; lord death has found her sweet. her mother pawned her wedding ring to lay her out in white; she'd be so proud she'd dance and sing to see herself tonight.
My dear, my dear, i know more than another what makes your heart beat so; not even your own mother can know it as i know, who broke my heart for her when the wild thought, that she denies and has forgot, set all her blood astir and glittered in her eyes.
She, under her big smile stows away the unhappy memories she wants to be the perfect happy person in this world and everyone would love her and she kids herself, she kids herself of what she really is and she is the empty shell waiting to be filled and she is the little los t orphan waiting to be found and she is the blank book waiting to be written in and she is hollow.
There is a girl inside. she is randy as a wolf. she will not walk away and leave these bones to an old woman. she is a green tree in a forest of kindling. she is a green girl in a used poet. she has waited patient as a nun for the second coming, when she can break through gray hairs into blossom and her lovers will harvest honey and thyme and the woods will be wild with the damn wonder of it.
How i wonder what you are. leaking oil everyday being unruly going your way. going uphills real slow don't pester me any more. am toiling as if your slave don't forget i am so brave. better leave me you dude don't fry any more my mood.
The simple joys of life are nicer a rose, a rain or a river they're natural thus beautiful uncorrupted, pristine, eternal they're the life and so pure to any mental ailing perfect cure. the cashew nut, the cigar, the car in the hands of a dictator they affiliate more. artificiality and sophistry in revival of fortunes they cause only melancholy at last beyond the influence they 're confined, socio phobic, so artificial all true pleasures, delight, happiness of life forever denied.
Every morning i have to drive towards the sun just as the sun is about to rise. you pull down the car sun visor, but it is always too short and the sun gets in your eyes. you cannot see the road ahead, just yellow blobs before your eyes. you keep blinking until they fade away. one day i wish car manufactures would road test their cars in the morning sun. they then might make the car sun visors a little larger to stop the sun getting in your eyes. 11 february 2008.
By stuffing newspaper up the exhaust of my car somebody i do not know have taken their fun too far i do not have a known enemy and i'm new to this town why is someone i do not know trying to drag me down? my car it felt sick and i rang the r a c v and what the mechanic discovered a huge surprise to me a newspaper rolled up blocked the exhaust pipe rear by some not too nice person it was pushed in there. i am not without sin i will not cast the stone but if you do not like the look of me leave my car alone you do unto others what you'd like them do to you those words not by me but those words seem so true. against the person who did this i could not hold a grudge and since i am not meant to be anyone's judge of that karma will surely take care what goes around comes around that does seem fair. some non thinking person with low self esteem could only do something like this it would seem and i would like to say to this person leave my old car be you should not harm my car if you do not like me. i am new to this town here not many i know and all i ask of anyone is a fair go i am not without sin i will not cast the stone and if you do not like the look of me leave my car alone.
Two days ago while ringo was crossing the street into the sidewalk suddenly a careless driver ran over the little kitten ringo, his mom called possy did not about that accident, but she gave birth to four little kittens in the same day ringo had that accident, possy cared about ringo, but his fate was not a matter of questioning, we all felt sorry for ringo's death, but we can not do anything, ringo rests in his tomb for ever, so no fear about him anymore.
See my car, i am driving the car ask not its name and number i have already mentioned elsewhere here. see my car, i am driving the car, controlling the steering wheel i am driving the car, giving due respect to accelerator and brake, i know here in this car there is the truth called engine, passion and action are there in fuel and i know all knowledge and everything is there in tool box provided by the company itself. see my car i am going with my car to the service center as it is not running well as it met an accident though no fault of mine, all of a sudden it met an accident with the rain and the sun.
You sit inside the car as i drive on this busy road in the city, on some dangerous intersections, and you hold your hair with your left hand leaning on the mirror seeing the flow of people on the pedestrian lane and you quip, why do you love a stupid woman like me? i focus myself on the road and it begins to rain and people are running everywhere seeking for shelter you ask, do you really love me? i am sorry putting you on this mess. i am really sorry, tears begin to roll from your eyes the rain goes heavily on the glass and i cannot clearly see the road it is dark and i turn on the front lights and drive the car slowly on the side of the road. i stop for a while, it is hazy, i said. and i just love to kiss you.
From deniliquin to jerilderie paddocks gray and bare and brown on to narrandera and west wyalong and many smaller country town, to forbes and parkes and on through dubbo, gilgandra and coonabarabran miles and miles of weary travel through the world of outback man. on to narribri and then to moree on the north bound newell highway through new south wales the country's first state on a sunny april day and we cross the queensland border just after the sun go down and we spend our first night in the sunshine state in goondiwindi town. lettered signboards along the highway 'stop and rest for to survive' from victoria to south queensland it's a long and tiring drive for to see all of australia it might take a century it's a vast and open country and a lot of land to see. miles and miles of sunburnt country here and there a patch of green flocks of sheep and herds of cattle in the brownest land i've seen, kangaroos victims of traffic ravens pecking at their eyes here and there along the highway left as fodder for the flies. this vast land of wondrous beauty is too big for man to tame it's a wild and rugged country for want of a better name just a small part of australia but the journey seems quite far if you travel from victoria to south queensland in a car. from the wooded hills of sherbrooke to echuca's border town on through new south wales and northwards though a country wild and brown on beyond south queensland border to rest after tiring day just a small part of australia but it seems a long, long way.
We came out early on that tuesday afternoon i didn't want to part just yet for you to be gone so soon a cable car ride suggested, it quickly took your mind we took a tube to greenwich and traced around o2 no sooner than we knew it we were at the ticket office and with oyster discounts in our hand and wristbands strapped on tight it was not long before we took off upon our circular flight enclosed in glass we swept up to greyed out skies the wind picked up and swayed us on our cable i hoped that one such gust would place your hand in mind but you proved to be the braver one you never moved a finger i desperately wanted to put my hand in yours but was frightened still to do it but it wasn't' the wind but love youknow that made we want to do it the moment passed with a gps joke and then onto costa coffee.
Car is taking me, whose car? i feel not necessary to know, it is not mine, i am sure. to truth, i want to go, with the car but where the truth is, that is not known to me, and the car is taking me on its own. is the car under my control? i am putting this question to myself and the car is dithering and the company is taking steps for servicing and replacing the parts damaged so far.

I was born for driven dirt race car's i'm not made for pavin long roads i ain't cut out to climb high line poles but i'm pretty good at driven my race car's i'm not the type to work in a bank i'm no good at slappin on things do have a knack for makin motors crank, no but i'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car's so give me one more lap that's what i'm here for i'm built for having a ball i love the dirt race track's 'i love my rocket race car i like it 25 laps or more i like staring way in the back it give me more time to come up fast i'm too slow for workin' too fast i don't do windows so honey don't ask but i'm pretty good at driven my race car's a go getter maybe i'm not i'm not known for doin' a lot but i do my best work out on the track i'm pretty good at driven my race car so give me one more lap that's what i'm here for i'm built for having a ball i love the dirt race track's i love my rocket race car i like it 25 laps or more i like to staring way in the back it give me more time to come up fast i was born for driven dirt race car's i'm not made for pavin long roads i aint cut out to climb high line poles but i'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car pretty good at driven my dirt race car's i wasn born for driven rocket race car's i'm not made for pavin long roads i ain't cut out to climb high line poles but i'm pretty good at driven my race car's i'm not the type to work in a bank i'm no good at slappin on things do have a knack for makin motors crank, no but i'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car's so give me one more lap that's what i'm here for i'm built for having a ball i love the dirt race track's 'i love my rocket race car i like it 25 laps or more i ain't much for mowin thick grass i'm too slow for workin' too fast but i'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car's a go getter maybe i'm not i'm not known for doin' a lot but i do my best work out on the track i'm pretty good at driven my race car so give me one more lap that's what i'm here for i'm built for having a ball i love the dirt race track's i love my rocket race car i like it 25 laps or more i was born for driven rocket race car's i'm not made for pavin long roads i aint cut out to climb high line poles but i'm pretty good at driven my rocket race car pretty good at driven dirt race car's.
Drivin' away in my automobile, taking a corner a little too fast chuckling loudly about the great deal 300 horses oh what a sweet blast. coppers are hanging on to my tail, ought to be chasin' the crooks in town, planting my foot, stay out of jail what's going up surely comes down. god gave me this daimler benz ain't my corned beef if laws of the land do not conform, i have great friends, up there in heaven where jesus blends fuel made for racing, sends it to me nothing they have will keep up the pace. i will prevail, be homebound for tea pigs of the world, give up your chase. drivin' away in my automobile writing my laws as i want them to read, no one but i would know how to steal modern fast cars, it's a definite need.
While driving my car late evening from school when the rains fall heavily on the streets looking like deserted i talk to myself unceasingly like we are very close friends and now for the first time in 20 years meet for this historic reunion i greet myself with such a warm hello ric this is ric meet ric how you have not changed for years you still look wonderful tonight and how are things doing with you? i am fine and doing well and i am at home with myself progressing in my career and happy with what i have and what i am looking forward to more excitements of my life like you do too with your life ric to ric the talk goes on and on and then the rain stops and then i finally arrive and honk my car to this house where the gate opens all too quickly with anticipation like this joy of an emotion the lights are all on brightly they shine on the glass of the car i am home at last.
I will never forget the day i bought my first new car, and had a date with a girl that lived not too far, we drove out into the suburbs and parked under a full moon, and listened to the car radio play a brand new tune, and if my neighbour would ever ask who the girl was, that was in the car, i will tell them it was my late mother who's on her way to heavenly abode, the day i bought the car.
'but do not come to daddy, crying, come monday morning expecting to pay what i offer you right here and now, so come, do sign the papers if you know what's good for you and me.' 'i want to shop around to see what deal can be arranged to suit me best, i must look out for number one, surely you know, a customer does have the right? ' 'well, once again, this deal is, to put it bluntly, for today, and not for any other time that follows. i'm in a mood to help you out, i like you, frankly and i know that you will send me all your friends, so trust me, sir, i'm doing what is best for all of us, and also, i could tell. the truth is, that you may be, so i notice a bit embarrassed with that old jalopy.' 'so what is the exact and final figure, counting the trade of cedric here, and all the costs on road and for the kaiser, insurance which you kindly offered, in other words, how much will be enough? ' 'now that's more like it, the thinking man, you know, so many of my customers are, to put it mildly, so ignorant, don't get me wrong, i like them all, but it is always such a pleasure to deal with someone who can think like you. so, i suggest we get the papers done right now, i'll call your banker with the final figures then, and you go home and celebrate the deal, no need to worry, i will handle it from here. '.
With the gift of the gab they would talk their way out of hell these used car sales people they know how to sell on their selling ability their jobs are at stake the more cars they do sell the more commission they do make on any deals they clinch they have never lost and your trust on such people can come at a cost the more cars they sell the more money they get paid a hard job to succeed in the used car trade, shy and sensitive used car sales people one might say are rare to sell one a car no effort they do spare they have to sell cars or their boss them will fire and other used car yard owners as car sales people them will not hire the more cars they sell the greater is their pay so to sell you a car they try every which way.
Have you ever tasted sorrow, i think it taste like lemons, if all feelings had a taste i think of lemons, they can be sour then can get sweet, lemons sweet or sour then comes the sorrow taste, sorrow taste of rain, sorrow taste of lemons,.
Teardrops fall down my face. the mistakes i cant replace. the days i forgot, the memories i lost. and all because i was killed inside. poisoned by youre secrets like cyanide. i lost myself forgot my friends. headed towards the dark end. and i try but the harder i try, the more i fail the more i lie. and i have to beilive than i can go on. even when everything has turned out wrong. i have to keep going in the hopes of tommorow. waiting for the day without any sorrow.
Wouldst i live with tears of sorrow fearful of what will come the morrow, yearning for past times of glee thinking back on thee. wouldst i live with sadness borrowed from the losses of life's furrows, walking forward in the past lamenting what has gone so fast. wouldst i live for a rosy future one that promises another way that will make a brighter day, and all the while i am right here living in a state of fear. leaving past to memories locker and the future not yet formed i will not; cannot follow. all that holds the gift of life is present now and free from strife, in this moment full of potential is the answer existential. giving light and holding faith never lacking; full of grace. looking back i loose my self when all that's needed is belief that this ever present moment frees me from all the causes of my grief.
I smile as the blood runs down my arm. the blood is a mixture of mine and those who have, betrayed my trust and heart. i don't care if i die for my crimes, to me it was all worth it in the end. now i know that no one will betray me again, but if they do i will kill myself instead of them. maybe, just maybe, i'll rest in peace with no fear of ever getting hurt again, but i know that's not true, you never get peace. there is no such thing in any life time.so now i know why i'm here. i'm one of those few poeple born into this world, that are priveleged to be hurt, stabbed in the back, betrayed, and most of all.unloved. that day i ran out of tears, so now i smile. i truly have no reason to. but since my tears are forever dry. i smile for its the only thing i can do.
My feelings for you had changed, i found it deep within, i'm getting well with this problem, but there's no other way. you treated me bad, what do you want me to feel? just be quiet? and feel sorry for me? . my anger for you, will surely remain, getting this bruises, mkes me wonder, why did i suffer like this? my anger for you, was like a burning fire, not seeing you, makes me feel very much happy. my anger for you, was like a hell, and this will be forever, anger and hatred in my heart.
What sorrow has befallen me no sun to light my day, these clouds yield only misery while joy has fled away, across the lands where no one goes and all do fear to tread, where only fear and silence grows and dreams are lying dead. now waves of sadness and despair do swamp my aching heart, for no one now does seem to care my life's been torn apart, regrets i shall take to my grave my tears forever flow, for all my hopes i could not save and on the winds did blow. and yet no malice do i keep nor hate towards my love, i'll dream of her within my sleep while stars do shine above, and hope that soon the dawn shall break then shine just like before, for now i know each morn i wake i'll miss her even more.
The brawling of a sparrow in the eaves, the brilliant moon and all the milky sky, and all that famous harmony of leaves, had blotted out man's image and his cry. a girl arose that had red mournful lips and seemed the greatness of the world in tears, doomed like odysseus and the labouring ships and proud as priam murdered with his peers; arose, and on the instant clamorous eaves, a climbing moon upon an empty sky, and all that lamentation of the leaves, could but compose man's image and his cry.
Red lotus incense fades on the jeweled curtain. autumn comes again. gently i open my silk dress and float alone on the orchid boat. who can take a letter beyond the clouds? only the wild geese come back and write their ideograms on the sky under the full moon that floods the west chamber. flowers, after their kind, flutter and scatter. water after its nature, when spilt, at last gathers again in one place. creatures of the same species long for each other. but we are far apart and i have grown learned in sorrow. nothing can make it dissolve and go away. one moment, it is on my eyebrows. the next, it weighs on my heart.
Joy and sorrow resolute within and beyond night seems to lie in deep sleep speckles of darkness covers her body i close my eyes by the bliss of love tonight tolls cry of innocence as we look back through lone silence audacity of hope resigns to repose rain was running in deep breath earth clenches mirth into riff of dusts thirst dissolute melting the shadow would you not comeback to fold of tonight moments still remembers tinge of snow.
Your sorrow and my sorrow are not really ours to keep. they belong to the earth, to the heart of the earth inside its beautiful bosom. let us leave them just right there, secure and honed. we are leaving now to another sphere, the one that we see in our dreams the more colored ones feel the excitement, keep yourself poised to something more lasting more divine.
My soul is cold as ice. my heart is darker then the void. nothing seems nice. all happiness devoid. i feel nothing. except that of pain. i've looked for that one something. but i just ended up crying in the rain. my tears are dry. they could fill the deepest oceans. the end seems nigh. there is only pain, no other emotions. my hope, my life.shattered. i cannot pick up the pieces. it's not like i mattered. but my sorrow increases. i have been mocked, betrayed, and destroyed. no medication can numb my hurt. all those around me seem overjoyed. when my face is shoved into the dirt. my god has left me. sitting up in his throne. i did not want to be his enemy. i'll just sit here and moan. my love has thrown me aside. like damaged goods. i wish i just would have died. in a grave unmarked in the deepest of woods. and so here i am. i am not sure if i will be alive tomorrow. i just don't give a damn. i am going to drown in my sorrow.
Tides came and washed away the empitiness inside my vacant heart, the waves came with a thrash and washed all the remains only leaving a lonley piece of driftwood, withered and set alone to endure its helpless future for someone's raging fire listening to the gulls, screeching in harmony of knowing the tides were very high with huge changes in store, i walked along the beach that fatefull day and wondered, which way to follow as night set in, calmly now, the sea once again was thrashing to and fro and leaving behind the tity bed of new sand with the moon casting its lonely shadow, it told me then, the sand is new, and now is the time for a new start in my life leaving behind the battered hinges on the door to my forsaken heart, but letting the oppourtunity to replace its barren walls of sorrow.
A day of sorrow, a day of pain, not knowing who's to blame? towers standing tall and true, destroyed by people with something to prove. millions cried and millions prayed, to save one life the heroes slaved. clearing the rubble and mounds of debris, with tears in their eyes, they worked fearlessly. stranges wept for the many and few, hoping god will pull them throught. i walk throught the valley of the shadow of death; the last words spoken before we laid them to rest. i cry with people i do not know, to see their pain it hurts me so. maybe one day our pain will end, with love and support from family and friends.
What of life as the sun rises away from the cloud of doom. is there a place that is without doom and gloom. is there a far distant land where life is full of fun, and is there a land where life does not have to look down the barral of a gun, torment and sorrow as far as we can see but life could be so different if everyone was free free from hunger, free from pain, but there is never a break it always remains the same. sex abused kids and the want for food, what is the meaning of this modern brood. can we change this perfectic world and find a life without sadness and sorrow, can it happen now or do we wait until tomorrow. tomorrow never comes as everyone knows, but the pain and sorrow just grows and grows. there is a chance that the world could live as one, but not while we are looking down the barrel of a gun. every country has it's own rule, but it's the people that live there are made to look the fool.
The bare eyes of old houses crack with sorrow, because the sun will rise again tomorrow. of all who pass by there is no dissenter, no mood exists upon this street but winter. a woman and a man walk by together, their shadows painted filigree on weather. gazing steadfastly upward beyond dying, they memorize whatever birds are flying.
Despair is in the suns that shine, and in the rains that fall, this sad forsaken soul of mine is weary of them all. they fall and shine on alien streets from those i love and know. i cannot hear amid the heats the north sea's freshening flow the people hurry up and down, like ghosts that cannot lie; and wandering through the phantom town the weariest ghost am i.
Once i heard the song of sadness, t'was full of melancholy pure. i sat and listened for what seemed to be forever, it seemed to be joy's cure. never again can you think the same, once you've heard such a song. never again can you live the same, once you know what's truly right and wrong. i fell into pieces, i lost all my hope. i whithered away, there was no way to cope. now i've joined the chior, i am not alone. i sing the song of sorrow and madness, chilling listeners to the bone.
When sunsets for night sorrow drifts in, whispering through the trees. her gown flutters through the air as she glides over me. setting quietness throughout the land, in a dangerious whisper that gave me shivers. the despair settled over me, as her calming deadly wrath, wrapped me in a blanket of sadness.
Sorrow can leave you spending in a frame with so much gulit and pain sorrow was taken as a game but it's so much more than and emotion it's a pain love brings sorrow in the game it's like a pain calling your name sometimes that come and never goes away sorrow is based on a fear sorrow is a secret you hold near sorrow can hurt based on if it's a fear but thats basically why sorrow found you here.
I'll be sorrow tomorrow i'll be sorrow tomorrow, with me myself and i. i'll be sorrow tomorrow, holding myself while i cry. i'll be sorrow tomorrow, while lying sleepless in my bed. i'll be sorrow the next day as one thought haunts my head. and when i finally rest my lids and cease my icy breath, that one thought will exist no longer, that horrible thought of death. ruby.
When i dream i dream of sorrow, my dreams are long and dark, i can hear the sond but never see the color, my dreams leave me awake some nights thinking, some dreams are more of a story, but all have sarrow and pure sadness, the trees are dead im the last alive, all my dreams end the same, a rock and a bang, the rock is the earth, more sorrow then the night before, my dreams are deep and make me wright things like this, the more i dream the more i cry, the more i cry the more i think about my own death, will a die at 90 of age or 15 from a gun, will the killing ever stop, will we ever know how the world ends, my dreams paint a dark and stormy picture, my poems paint a clear, my mind crys of dark things like this, my hart crys harder and harder, between sweet and sour, i think the end will end sour, are we to end in fire or ice, you chose i would rather end in ice,.
Yet i do remember the hoary stance of night rolling spumes away into onshore to heap of sands yet not unknown history yet records reels of fire. where are those tiding whelms from hide speckles ocean pierce into air unfailing whispering dew of roses basking in glow moon seemingly snored in valley of obscurity mystery may uncover the flings of sorrow night when chilled being chiseled of snow do we ever know the eternity by reality? rainbow is ephemeral by voyage to void.
One can hear the voice of sorrow sobbing, sobbing endlessly yet it hides in dark recesses sorrow you can never see it's a black and brooding creature with a voice that aches of pain and all of those who have met with it hope not to meet with it again. joy is always bright and breezy joy has got a laughing face and where ever joy is present you will find a happy place joy is loved by everybody the scars of grief it can repair it is such a happy creature joy is welcome everywhere. there is not one who likes sorrow you will not hear some one say i've met with sorrow this morning and meeting it has made my day at the mention of the name of sorrow people pretend not to hear but joy always bright and happy greets you with a lusty cheer. sorrow it is dark and tearful and it hides in a dark and lonely place but joy is always bright and cheerful and it greets you with a laughing face and everybody hates old sorrow as it always gives rise to woe but joy the happiest of the happy the one all people wish to know.
Rivers are like the life we share, sometimes we go fast, sometimes we go slow, my river is slow and filled with sorrow, it seems endless, never turns and always follows the same path, far from anyone or any place, alone my river stands and alone it shall stay, the sorrowful river with a path so untold, will my river of sorrow ever cross paths with one other,.
The women of your age i train my eyes on remind me of you through some resemblances and some violent contrasts now and then. nose studs and ear drops i see in the shops catch my eyes and bring to my view your face. i imagine the stud worn on your nose and with that how your nose would tempt my lips. i imagine the drops hung from your ears and with that how your ears would prompt me. when i am lonely you are in my thought; i dream of passing my hand through your hair and gazing into your eyes full of love. to bring this about, i must conquer fate as i accuse myself of cowardice. i have no courage nor propriety even to let you know my feelings. this is my sorrow that cripples my mind. this is my agony underlining. 02.11.2008.
I still remember the soft touch of your hand, as i stand here lonely in this foreign land. and can you remember how i loved you? does love still glow in those eyes of blue? sing me that song those birds sang long ago. hold me close in those arms and never let me go. don't say you are leaving as you have done before. say we will be together today and forevermore. let's walk together and talk of what has been done, and then go for a swim in the bright sun. as i get the feeling the time is drawing near, i will hug you to me and cry a sorrowed tear. the memories were special, for now they are gone, but i still recall each one with every rising dawn. one last goodbye, parting forevermore. one last kiss, more feverish than before. i cherish our love, it's tender, sweet song. and hope in my heart, this parting won't be long.
The tear of sorrow runs down my cheek friendship is what i seek i used to think i had it all but now my backs against the wall and my heart has been broken and these words are unspoken i look back at my past and wish the sorrow would end my life at last.

Its just a small story and i feel the need to say it i just couldn't take it anymore the pain he was causing me it was just too much for me to bare it was only that night which i realized that i had to do it i gave you a text message apologizing, but in the same time telling you that i had to be strong and forget you it was over i never worried about my past or future and you were my past that was the only thing which was clear to me suddenly you call me asking for an explanation i told you it was too much for me to put up with you did your best to apologize but it was all in vain there was no time for another try although a big future was awaiting the both of us you still tried to apologize but i was too stubborn to try once more all i did was close my phone and go to bed hoping that till tomorrow i would have forgotten you i feel asleep very fast because all the tears i cried had finally made their effect the next morning i woke up happily as i turned my phone on i was ready to call you but then i just froze there doing absolutely nothing remembering i could no longer be with you i went to our special place next to the pink lake under our blossom tree but i saw someone was already there it was you i started quivering you turn around to me and fake a smile but even his fake smile soon faded away apologizing once more with little hope in your heart a tear runs down my face and i run to you you open your arms widely patiently waiting for me to throw myself in them it was exactly what i did you tell me you're never going to do any mistake never again in your life i tell you that i just can't live without you it was that night i realized how much i love you how much i care for you how i'm addicted to you you're like a drug for me and i'll never check in a rehab with such a satisfactory drug like the one which is on my mind right now that drug is you now we just go on with our lives being there for each other with no fake smiles with no secrets only with a flame in both our hearts a flame which will burn forever.
Together they make a bond together they stay for life long together they walk and stand and sleep together they play, sing and weep together they stay for life long in the end they write their song and if they ever separate they make the world a bad place till they meet once more.
I stand tall as all the misery around me floats the words when i first heard of the sadness in my life but i do not budge for i am strong i walk past all who offer me a kind word to help ease my soul i decline for i let my strength shine through acceptance within my heart i say i am all right everyone watches as i walk past and comment on my strength some fear that i have no feelings others envy for they hurt so much i walk through the door of my bedroom and shut it behind me i fall to my knees and catch myself with my hands as the tears stain the floor my strength is gone and now my sorrow envelopes me my sight is blurred as the pure rain falls from my cheeks i can not breathe as i realize what happened after some time i wipe my eyes dry and walk back out with my strength for all to see.
By the river, under the sorrow tree, the universe says the bones must dance, and she, who goes out with a net to catch the spirits, returns, her hands filled only with the dark briars we have hummed these many years. the one who sees sorrow cannot staunch it, yet by her side something white announces itself. the bones are sucked clean, the one nearest the heart becomes a flute, when you blow, the dead come and behind them, the other bones in a circle the universe says loss demands birth and the two are lovers.
A time for you and a time for me, to be whatever, we choose to be; to set our sights, to reach the peak, to realize goals, we truly seek. a time to dwell. on things long past, a time to think, on things that last; on family, friends and things that matter, on things that endure and do not scatter. a time to laugh and a time to weep, a time for treasured things to keep; a time for reflection on how we feel, a time to mend and a time to heal. a time to live and a time to die, a time for joy and a time to cry; a time to smile and a time for tears, a time for god to calm our fears. a time to despose of loved ones dead, a time to get on with the day ahead; to blot out death and face the 'morrow, to clear the mind and bury sorrow.
The pain crashes to the depth of my soul just another feeling of sorrow another flinch from pain just like yesterday, it'll be there tomorrow wounds healing slowly so slow, it seems not at all i want it gone tonight but still and fast i fall where does it go from here? does it end? will it continue? when did it begin? but you don't care, do you? i don't know why i even bother you will never be what i need why should you try now to be the father? are you done hurting me? are you finished yet? you enjoy it, don't you? you have not one regret. you took away my pride, my joy, and my brother. you avoided talking of things i needed to hear such as my mother i just needed you the love of a father but i don't want it anymore because i was never your daughter.
There was a sound amongst the hills, echoing in the valley of wind, a challenge was made. dark birds flew over the grey sky fire, smoke, cloud, dust blinded the gods, all hope was lost. a man stepped up, undaunted by the demons drew his sword, with all its glory marched on.. a lake so placid, in a forest so dark god be with the soul who passes thee for he do not know what lurks beneath, riding into the forest, the land of men seemed distant, there was no turning back, the fiery horse galloped away an abyss of oblivion for those who dwell among the trees. life an eternity of sorrow. there lay the enemy, cold; with a force so tremendous that he couldnt fight, but home was far away. the winding road, to the gates of hell was gleaming in delight. despair was in the air. the sword was broken. the gods wept that day, for their loyal soldier had fallen. tears irrigating the land, for another son of the soil to rise.
Sorrow, sorrow why have you catch me so why have you left me in such a big hole sorrow, sorrow when will you leave my soul and let my heart breath so there is nowhere to go if you keep beating on my heart so sorrow, sorrow its time to go and let your heart be with your soul.
Tears fill my heart, i cry in the darkness, i cry in the shadows, i cry in the moonlight, alone and afraid. the pain engulfs me, taking me away, yet keeping me chained. my mind screams, my body aches, for these painful memories are forever etched in my heart.
My mother groaned, my father wept, into the dangerous world i leapt; helpless, naked, piping loud, like a fiend hid in a cloud. struggling in my father's hands, striving against my swaddling bands, bound and weary, i thought best to sulk upon my mother's breast.
Good morning mr magpie alone again, like me i greet you then i bless myself and hope that i shall see your lady busy in the trees up here in jagger green. the wind is soft and urgent on the pale green yorkshire hills rooks fuss in high bare branches looking down on silent mills and the magpie is a single bird up here in jagger green. i watched him as he rested in the mayday morning light then hard and low and straight there came another flash of black and white and the sun is like a woman's kiss up here in jagger green.
Come and see where it is you find dancing the sea. never find the sky loughing somewhere in the city. you find me without size and shape the rough road ahead. come and see i am missing in the gitamandir. and i am somewhere on the bank of the ganga where judge is there to pass order after the game over.
October, 1918 across a world where all men grieve and grieving strive the more, the great days range like tides and leave our dead on every shore. heavy the load we undergo, and our own hands prepare, if we have parley with the foe, the load our sons must bear.
Slaves to the powers of the external mind if your innocent or guilty they do not mind watching and waiting to make their strike they'll take you down and watch you drown as long as they get somebody to make themselves proud they won't care that your mind is not all there all over the world the powers of the external mind is watching you.
A jury sat around a tree to judge a man for treason. the foreman said 'how can it be this fellow had no reason. a patriot who, for his land stood deep in flanders' trenches, today is forced to take a stand and face justitia's benches. then tea was served and little snacks, one of the jurors fainted, she found it hard to just relax when evidence was tainted. they shot the fellow near the tree, 'twas sanctioned by the nation. they had no proof that one could see, did no investigation. it often happens in this world where imbeciles now rule, and when their ugly lies are hurled it's you who plays the fool. they put you down, just like a dog and laugh when you expire. then toast each other with their grog, it's justice they admire. the little word integrity has fallen out of favour. the tea served underneath the tree does have a modern flavour.
We can never create a single life, so we shouldn't have right to take it, but what is going on all around a society, some psychotic man have been serial killer, some are killing people for so called revenge, some are killing as a victim of a situation, intentionally and unintentionally we are killing, now any one can say that for this we have laws, but what is our law doing in the sake of justice? hanging a person, or electrocuting him on a chair, in the name of painless death injecting poisons, but are not these the way of killing a person? are not these the excuses to hide our failures? this is us, who give birth these sick murderers, this is us, who let a man to be a killer, whatever that is, so called legal or illegal, are not these both killing processes sin? are not these bot about taking a life? can we say this justice a justice, which allows to take a life empowering a badge? think man.humanity is crying in the door of justice.
Fairness and justice are just two nominal words on our earth because we completely lack them anytime and anywhere, they are just two words in shape, but we lack them totally in content, they are like you dream to get them when you need them in life, so we pay very high price when we lack them.
I am at ease to hate but tense when hated. i am at ease to love but tense when rivaled. i am at ease to seek but tense when rejected. i am at ease to cuckold but tense when cuckolded. can there be attitude for justice? 11.0.2008.
How can be a difference between peace and justice i never knew there could be a difference among these two essential points for survival our world's i always thought they complete each other humanity's world has got destroyed how can the world bear all these woes but if ill be asked to choose among those justice or the peace i would choose the peace because without peace lives stop surviving as well as the world but what's the meaning of justice it's the difference among our thoughts thoughts if neglected lives will be survived but when the peace deserts our lives no one will stay alive so for what is your justice when it will take lives.
I am, become. i am the african slave working in the deep mississippi sun; his eyes, his muscles, his back, his heart, all shouting 'freedom'. i am the college student, hanging from a tree in the sixties south, who died for his conviction. i am the minister who joined the protest for peace, dignity, and equality, his face bashed in by the officer's club, handcuffed in the back of the van. i am the turning of the seasons through prison bars, the watered down coffee, the tiny cell. i am the one ridiculed and rundown by the conservative righteous right, for standing up for individual rights. i am the young family left stranded on food stamps and unemployment checks, their future teetering. i am the illegal immigrant beaten in the arizona desert, left to die by the side of the road. i am the working poor, the honest and true, driven to desperation. i am hard and coiled, i am america crying out for justice, , , i am, become.
They say pride comes before the fall who will be there for you if there is anyone at all surely things can not go on as they have done all along where tyrants reign and justice is merely feigned don your armor and prepare your swords for the things i speak are not merely words i challenge you to fight the war the dawn is coming and soon you will see your cruelty will no longer be endured.
An innocent man lies his head down to rest not wanting to wake to the morning sun instead wanting to wake in a parallel universe where truth and justice is number one in the real world his days seem like years they eat away at his mind body and soul if a witness would lie he knows he might die before truth and justice would see the light but he's got to keep up the fight all he wants is justice with no lie so come forward and let truth and justice shine it's light.
I'm walking i'm walking i can hear the hospital talking doctor death wants to get in my head laid me on the bed put electrodes to my head blasted me till i'm nearly dead they knew i'd confessed with voices in my head now they was trying to make me dead did they think i wouldn't survive did they think i'd go and hide as the years rolled by my demons said goodbye now it's time to have justice on my side doctor death you can't hide it's justice time.
Millions of us stand on the roads, not waiting for the transports to board, just searching the peace that is lost, opportunities missed and the destiny tainted. rugs are cleaner and not with punctures, in certain place, but looking at these juncture, why are these people let to wear such attires, why aren't they cared and seen as equal? when sugar, grains and spices are procured, value their sweat to value these commodities, why do the rich want to buy these necessities, at the price of these poor countries? the beautiful blouse that we wear, the elegant shirts that covered with the coats, branded ties, meticulous belts and shoes, believe me, might have been made, with 25 cents per hour petty salary, their children are alive half empty, while our children are obese and naughty, these people do not have to go to hell, as they already live a life of hell, where they drink untreated water, frequent power cuts, clogged drains, herbal remedies, god given diseases, entertained by the music of mosquitoes.
She is passionate about fairness and equality. justice is not just a store, but rather a progressive and important social concept. rosa parks and mother teresa are role models who inspire her. she likes how february is black history month and march is women's history month, but yet she still ponders how women have only had the right to vote since 1920 in america. not even 100 years have passed and there has never been a woman president. she doubts some men would ever vote for a woman president and that makes her sad. she likes when women do not hit the glass ceiling and instead rise to positions of leadership. she thinks pay inequality based on gender is grossly unfair. she ponders how can men still be paid vastly more for the exact same job as a woman in a progressive society? she is a social justice girl.
When justice fails because the constable has blundered do not be surprised, do not even be discouraged, proceed in procurring justice still with the way how you are trained to do so, get the fingerprints of your thoughts and present the same to those who doubt and wavered, show them the intricate lines of your own determinations this is how it must be done there is still a map of this destination, when justice fails because the judge and justices have also lost their sense what justice is and how it should be dispensed like a blindfolded lady that you misunderstand with her scales on one hand and a sword on the other, do not be shaken, do not lose hope, heave a sigh and breathe the remaining clean air, there are still those who in silence still remain steadfast holding on to truth and keeping their hands clean and hearts pure and minds active to the pursuit of this eternal approximation of fairness there are still those whose eyes still daze to the glitters not of gold but of truth, beauty, and goodness, i will count you in please count me in too and how about you? i ask, please be counted we shall stand on the good side of things we shall look for the brightest star the ideal from among the blunders in the darkness of our nights let the hammer fall and let it fall everyday let those in the dark side have their houses full.
It's a troubled world we live in the world of today but love with peace and justice only decades away in fifty years or less from now there won't be mistrust and hate the war lords and the men of war will have passed their use by date. those who love peace and justice are beginning to unite and for the men who worship war their loss of power in sight soon war jets will not fly the sky under the cloak of night and those who promote harmony will be the men of might. the yearn for peace is spreading getting stronger by the day and those who are divisive will not have a part to play in the world of the future the racist and the cruel will not have any power at all only the just will rule. the children who are born today will surely live to see a world of peace and harmony and of war and hatred free for the yearn for peace is spreading and with each passing day it grow and war will be unheard of in forty years or so.
It was just another day or so i thought but madness had got me i didn't even know i was walking through the city minding my own when i saw a man hurt someone i should have known i should have turned away i should have gone another way but my mind wouldn't let me it was too far away i'm chasing i'm chasing i'm gaining but i'm losing i'm fighting but i'm not moving i'm chasing my dreams away i catch him i beat him i take the blame for him then i pay for what he done twenty years of pain justice never done.
When justice stands still only the fool hearted, will contemplate pursuing even the most just of causes, when justice stands still, the brave only will seek retribution for sins committed against them and their kinsman, can any gleamse of sovereignty exist where justice takes a tea break, and when justice decides to stand still will any sanity prevail, where justice once stood still, can any unity ever be restored once upon a time the jews were slandered and abused but they had the courage to stand up and refuse, when justice stands still, the supposed saviours become the enslavers, who then will stand up to refuse for the people when justice stands still, the law makers become peace detractors, creating laws meant not to ensure harmony, but to bring woo to the masses, when justice stands still, they will seek to devour, those they once vowed to protect, justice stands still, the eleventh plague, not just a biblical fantasy, but a present reality.
Prison dark room no light human life breathes murder charge old age innocent soul suffers justice call hard labor to work as stone cutter bones crack after days work real pain and eyes spark is this the life to suffer? is this the punishment to offer? prison sentence before trial human abuse with justice denial.
Sometimes we seethe with rage over some heinous crime committed. our voices are raised with thousands of others for justice to prevail, and then watch in disbelief as a nominal sentence is incurred. although the courts think, they decide the fate of the individual it is inside the walls of prison that really seals their fate. sex offenders and child abusers are never welcome there. the prisoners welter out their own brand of punishment for them. 14 november 2009.
Justice justice where is it in close door or in open court justice justice nowhere you can trace it out in any form anywhere justice justice speak not about it it is disgusting it is boring only push back fire rushes no smile but cries.
Loyaulte me lie echoes through history a sacred oath, a blessing a cry for truth and justice of equality and freedom that lies at the heart of kingship and of princes and men. let justice prevail in all its form let the truth be known that loyalty binds me.
For years together there were no rains we adulated you, my god, impatiently then. requesting you to allow rains to rain, for diminishing your subjects inner pain. hungry we were and in search of bread, in search of water, tears we had to shed. nothing we could do other than devotion, expiating always for all the committed sins. no one could stop the harsh man slaughter no one could bring on dry lips a laughter. then came a day, the day of your glory, every side fainted with cats and dogs raining. what is this unjust justice, i could'nt guess, oh god, do you want us only difficulties to face.
Depression is a world depression leaves you lost depression drops you into a never ending black hole you want to get help but you can't when you do you wish you didn't depression leaves you numb with fear depression leaves you no hope no ambition nothing to look forward to tears well in your eyes depression leaks out out into the open.
If you say you're upset because you're tired. at least you're not depressed. if you say you're upset because you're depressed. at least you're not in physical pain. if you're upset because you're in physical pain. at least you have your mind. if you're upset because you're tired, depressed, in physical pain, and in danger of losing your mind. at least you're alive. and, if you're upset because you're dying. at least when you're dead you won't have to worry about all of the above.
Yolinda often was depressed she then stayed home, inside her nest. to help her illness she used gin it quickly did restore her grin but alcohol's welcome effect was not expected to correct her melancholy disposition thus it required repetition. she managed thus for many years depression and some other fears. and on her deathbed she required the liquid she so much admired. it helped, this time she drank a quart before she left for god's resort.
.it's a depression so deep it finds a way into the soul, traveling through every pore of your heart. a depression so enlarged, it encompasses every bit of your reality, leaving that reality, a mere cloudy memory. a depression so dense, it compresses every will you once had, bowing you down to accept that will, as it's own. a depression so devious it takes you piece by piece, consuming, each piece, day by day. a depression so truly disheartening, it leaves you, with no other emotions. a depression so dangerous, it slaughters, everything. inside. of you.
Depression is when you are sucked into a cold lonely world where you don't have anyone to love no one by you're side you wish you could die cutting with tears you want help but no one can say anything right you're words are cold depression leads you down a broken road you keep walking forever down that road you're heart is bleeding from all the pain people has caused its a disease from people you love they hurt you so bad and they act like they care they don't know what its like being you they never dealt with anything like this depression pulls you under drowning in you're own tears and blood not even a single rose can fix whats been broken you're so alone so far away from paradise wishing that death would soon arrive depression hurts like hell.
I can't stop wondering why i sit still and cry hoping everyday i change my destructive way preventing others in but yet commiting my on sin thinking everthing is immoral because i am drowned in sorrow no one knows the tears i shed while lying in my bed every night i prey to feel better the next day but never stopping to think maybe this is my way.
I scream but there's no sound, i cry but there's no tears, is this life, or am i isolated with emotion. no one is listening, i dont think anyone cares, is this life, or hell with normal people. i try to act normal, but no one know's the thoughts inside my head, my so called life, filled with thoughts of being better off dead.
This feeling of derpression i tell you it's just this a feeling is that which never was a thought one day you'll miss this feeling of depression i tell you i'm alright now leave me be and go away lets put off this fight this feeling of depression i tell you i'm ok now close your eyes and rest your head lets wake to a brand new day this feeling of depression i tell you i control with every ounce and every bit held deep within my soul this feeling of depression will go away someday untill then i'll bide my time perhaps to god i'll pray this feeling of depression i tried to tell you, why? are you never here to hear me ever not even when i die this is a horrible attempt to remember the origonal i wrote a long time ago terribly sorry to anyone who reads this.
Depression is a fact of life for me. as much a part of life as food and air, it hovers like a dreaded entity. it scatters joys like useless stale debris, and sews the ashes of my dreams in gloom. depression is a fact of life for me. it poises like a shadowing banshee with somber wings just waiting to enshroud. it hovers like a dreaded entity, and i can almost always guarantee secreted in my spectral holidays depression is a fact of life for me. my life becomes a frequent abductee purloined by mirthless bird of prey it hovers like a dreaded entity.. a vulture pouncing when my back is turned, but hidden, and not easily discerned. depression is a fact of life for me it hovers like a dreaded entity.
Liquid depression a state of agitated depression now facing the liquid depression like a closed session needing medical attention making my agitated confession liquid depression my obsession liquid depression my only material possession years of oppression before the recession see the expression of my depression liquid depression leaving a facial impression at it's own discretion like a rapper at a rap session and a singer in a jam session or a poet at the blog talk radio session you can't forget the internal impression the repossession of my liquid depression it's a new life i'm now facing without question.
Depression isnt just something you get over eventually depression stays with you till the end depression is my best friend and sorrow my main man they never leave my side even if i want them to my world is covered in black and there is no way to see the light so might as well end it now and shove a rusty knife through my heart.
Depression is not what you want in your life depression is not the answer to your problems depression effects your mind and your thoughts depression is anger and lashing out at people depression is something you feel when no else cares about you.
Do you no who i am? i am no saint i am no lamb. i make you live in terror. this you can not sever. i live in your head. i must be fed. i need the taste of your blood. filling me like a flood. i love how it flows like a river. always making you quiver. you thought you were so stroung. but you couldnt of been any more wrong. i am your soul. i am keeping you whole. i love to watch you drool. you are nothing but a fool. i will never go. this you must know. i am your history your now and i am the futer. i am your second minute and hour. i am an insane cannibal. just like a crazed animal. i will eat you from the inside out. this you will have no doubt. do you know who i am? i am no saint i am no lamb. have you become wise? that i am the devil in diguise.
Don't want to live don't want to die sometimes i just need to cry so i get out paper and pen once again depression sneaking in i'm so lost within my soul pain from the past, trying to control darkness trying to steal my light trying to turn my day, into night got myself a brand new life need to bury the past, keep out the strife my mind i struggle with from day to day please make the bad stuff, go away they say that time heals all pain will my day come, or is it all in vain? so once more i need to write and maybe later, my day turn bright.
Depression sets in when you wanna die you're not willing to try depression sets in when you cant take it and all you wanna do is cry you're seventeen and all you can think is this life is long and hard. there's gotta be something there's gotta be a way to stay happy and never have to cry never have to be so upset where you just wanna die but nothing is like that nothing can make you happy and depression sets in.
Trapped in this field of sonic agression unable to distinquish rhythm from rhyme urban style freak contemplatin loose ends alienated in this hardcore river of trends speak louder to be friendly 2 cups of depression all he has 2 cups of depression all fake colours of expression.
Depression takes over my body. making me dizzy, sick, and sad. as i walk the halls with a blank face i'm dieing inside with so many thoughts it takes over my body. i walk the halls with tears running down my cheek. with black merky makeup running down my blank expressionless face. i woundered if anyone noticed whenever my teacher sounds my name, my heart starts to ache, surprised someone actually knows i exist. i wounder if anyone notices the depression taking over. i smile blankly but crying endlessly inside. no one knows 'me'. all those lies catch up with me. all those memories haunt me. there's just so much that time cannot erase. i wounder if it'll ever change. i pray but then what happens? depression is my disease that doesn't go away. i've tried many times to get rid of it but never did go away. so i listen to music to get the pain away.tempararily.
Dissolve the life from within me you crawl inside of my mind you want everything you took the little i had left you left me with nothing you left me feeling empty feeling used and abused you left me worse off then when you found me and the worse part is i know you will never be gone for you are just hidden in my mind wait for a perfect time to attack to take all i will have worked to gain back i hear you in the back of my mind whenever i am stressed or angry i feel you grow when is it i will finally lose control and you will rob me of it when.
A period of crying can betray the soul showing the pain that makes us whole. without pain what would happiness be? would it be there for us to see. would we not know happiness without pain how could you tell what was best? is our pain in a way needed? is it somehow misleading? trying to show us, yet we get caught, too selfish to busy with my own thought. but when you are happy think of the pain, oh think how good it is to be happy again.
Depression in so many it's always so sad to see the numbers are uncanny just take a look at me so many in pain unseen as depression numbers rise sometimes life can be so mean just look into my eyes afraid to go home don't know how to deal you're feeling so alone this is how i feel.
I fear my little child. i fear that she will not feed and grow strong and healthy, i fear that she will stop breathing when i am out of the room or selfishly asleep, i fear that she will become ill because of something i have done or did not do, i fear that she will be in pain and i will not know why. i fear that her father will reject her, i fear that her father will reject me, i fear that her father will compete for her love and that she will love him more, i fear that her father will be distant and that she will not love him enough. i fear that others will think that i am incompetent, i fear that others will assume that i am capable, i fear that others will force upon me unhelpful or unwanted advice, i fear that others will believe i can cope. i fear the loneliness of endless days without contact, i fear the emptiness of endless nights without love, i fear the weakness of endless days without proper meals, i fear the weariness of endless nights without sleep. i fear inexperience. i fear uncertainty. i fear guilt. i fear despair. i fear my little child.
Stab me with your rusty knives i don't care i've given up my quest for acceptance left my dream of peace cut me all your evil mind wants i beg you to let me die i want to lie here on the floor bleed to nothingness in the night perhaps then my soul will fly unite with the wind and muggy air feel the warmth of joy's arms so do what you want to my useless heart chop me to pieces or burn me alive if death is my only way to salvation then i want to open the darkened door now.
Depression is a fight or a flight depression is a theif that should be locked up depression steals. happiness motivation sleep your appetite it steals your view on life it steals how you view yourself sometimes it even steals your life.
Oh horid ways of emotions. all actions tryed are of no use. all actions acted are usless. no matter the action its all in vain. i cant go anywhere running is usless and of no point. i cant go no where. even if the option were open. oh depression horrible depression hold me back ever more pin me down with the force of your grace. depression my one true friend. a sad dark and lonely place. sit upon the walls. its so sad and vacant. vacant like my happy days. depression takes me more and more each day. feeding on my sadness. this is an everelasting scar a scar not to heal a scar not to mend. it will bring me to my end.
There is a rat i call depression inside me, eating at my innards. the pain goes to my throat so i am choking on my tears my tears of blood. would that i could write of something else, would that i could. and i am so very tired if i could only end it all looking at words on the page that reflect back to me my misery. and where am i?.
When you try to make it better with the truths you hold so close and the lies made up apart of you to the ones you hate the most something screams inside i'll never change when your thoughts are painted black someone chose for me to be this way. and there's only me to thank and when your heart falls in the way you think there's really no turning back and the ones you think you thought you loved could never judge the way you act you've played this part for way to long now the center stage is clear grab my wrist and hold it tight tell me nothing's left to fear. i thought words could explain the way i feel but now i know that's just a lie grab my wrist and hold it tight i'm coming home tonight when i go just leave the door unlocked i'll make it worth my while when the high gets low and my conviction stands just look at me and smile.
The unnamed feelings eating me alive, and depression is lying inside. as the thin dark ropes falling from the sky the brown knots are dancing in front of my eyes i quickly closed them and pray 'god, am i losing my mind? ' i hold my blade and cut my unloved wrist it's bleeding still but i can't feel relief yet i ran to the balcony as am looking down and wondering if the height is enough to smash my head over the floor? will it be enough to break my out through this door? the monster inside my head is calling my name and asking me to suicide. it screams inside and then orders me to die die dying. you are not alive just cut it deeper and die.you don't want to survive 'god, i'm screaming for your help i'm begging for a relief a moment of inner peace did you forget me i'm still here living in this empty shell f grief can't you remember me. ?.
I remember as a child i had a deep seeded fear of heights i would envision my demise long prior to even a possible fall once as a teenage boy i knocked a front tooth from my mouth when i jumped twenty feet into a drainage ditch next to our house my mother rushed me to the dentist with my tooth in milk he soon restored my youthful smile but did little if any at all to replace my fear of falling as i still panicked whenever i even stood close to a ledge. for the last sixty years i have managed to cope more or less always waking up before any tragedy occurred but last night upon being led to this cliff in my life i jumped and have not landed yet as i knew it was a bottomless pit i was entering.
Life is all lies borrowed for cries tears are all shy like wings that won't fly like eyes that won't see like lips that won't speak like lungs that won't breathe like freedom that's not free it won't just pass through it is really stuck on you like glue like gum on a shoe it's like an eclipse let the words pass through your lips let the tears in your eyes stick making the stress in your mind slip i know it's like being raped like all your thoughts are being taped like you have to keep your fists shaped like the tears in you have turned to rain well this whole thing is not your fault your life is not at a stop there is a way to crack this vault there is a word you could call your life is not all flat there's a chance you could catch there is a way, that is a fact depression is what caused all that.
Depression hurts when you grow old and life has passed you by no more dreams to think about or even wishes to come true you lose a friend and then another and there's no past to talk about no laughter, only tears to shed that others cannot see depression hurts no matter what you try it breaks you down till nothing matters life doesn't matter either you come or go, who cares no one that really cares too much no friend thats left to tell your troubles to no love that puts its arms around you and holds you close. why stay and sit in this old chair with nothing to do day after day smoke cigarettes, why not its too late now to care goodbye to this life i would gladly say why god won't take me now i do not know because he knows i want to go home with others that i love there's more up there than down here more love from friends in heaven no friends do i count down here depression hurts, it hurts down deep inside it breaks your heart and destroys your mind your thoughts are eratic and blown until the thoughts that used to come are gone forever, depression hurts.
Shackled to depression intertwined, amongst my veins self worth, self love are lost, within the pain anguish and shattered dreams lie embedded in my heart a glimpse of personal torture revealed, within the art a medicated mind does it offer resolution? candy coated prescriptions swallowed, without solution blind to the rising sun of opportunity, to thrive another breath inhaled without purpose, without drive shackled to depression consumed by failure, and disgrace a crying soul unseen i walk invisible, without face copyright 2007 w. bureau.
The depression of the 1930's was the time of my childhood days, there were a lot of worries and hardships in many ways. whatever time people could spare, they would help each other out, bad times also came when there was a draught. the depression of the 1930's our parents would help make quilts of all kinds, they would work long hours, day and night, it was alot on their minds. fathers would work on the w.p.a. just to make ends meet, breaking stones was very hard work, some of them fell to their feet. the depression of the 1930's there were problems about work, severe winters and war, people never know from day to day what may be in store, there were children of all ages, sick with an illness, some of them passed away with the long nights of stillness. the depression of the 1930's made it bad for all ages, work was scare, there was pay of low wages. during the depression, we all learned how to survive, a lot of people shared the hardships by showing love and being alive. the depression of the 1930's will be in my heart for the rest of my life, i, margaret l. hockenberry, now margaret l. rodkey lived in those hardships of struggle and strife my parents were loving and caring in every way, they taught me to respect people and show them we care.
I got these pills for christmas but not from santa claus i got them from the pharmacy with the greengrocer next door. they're really very nice pills i take them all the time and even when its raining i say the weather's fine. they're very cost effective about ten bucks a week and for all the good they do for me they're really very cheap. i have to say i'm nervous each time i get a scrip i whisper what i'm buying they often have to read my lips. you see i suffer from depression and i'm scared if people know they think i'm all peculiar and say 'sorry gotta go'. it's quite lonely being lonely it's lonely by myself it's lonely being a victim of imperfect mental health.
Our lives avoided tragedy simply by going on and on, without end and with little apparent meaning. oh, there were storms and small catastrophes. simply by going on and on we managed. no need for the heroic. oh, there were storms and small catastrophes. i don't remember all the particulars. we managed. no need for the heroic. there were the usual celebrations, the usual sorrows. i don't remember all the particulars. across the fence, the neighbors were our chorus. there were the usual celebrations, the usual sorrows thank god no one said anything in verse. the neighbors were our only chorus, and if we suffered we kept quiet about it. at no time did anyone say anything in verse. it was the ordinary pities and fears consumed us, and if we suffered we kept quiet about it. no audience would ever know our story. it was the ordinary pities and fears consumed us. we gathered on porches; the moon rose; we were poor. what audience would ever know our story? beyond our windows shone the actual world. we gathered on porches; the moon rose; we were poor. and time went by, drawn by slow horses. somewhere beyond our windows shone the actual world. the great depression had entered our souls like fog. and time went by, drawn by slow horses. we did not ourselves know what the end was. the great depression had entered our souls like fog. we had our flaws, perhaps a few private virtues. but we did not ourselves know what the end was. people like us simply go on. we had our flaws, perhaps a few private virtues, but it is by blind chance only that we escape tragedy. and there is no plot in that; it is devoid of poetry. anonymous submission.
Depression is raging. in the mist of its anger. it eats my happiness. fasting on my sadness. depression has its hold on me. throwing me into despair. making me more and more insane as my mind it drains. depression'll take me all the more it dosent care so long as it has its hit. it hates me every single bit. every day it kills me a bit more. it wont stop till its had its frill it wont stop till its got me dead.
Depression destroyed my life. it told me i was no good. it told me i was all bad. it told me i was not loved. it told me i didn't deserve treatment. it told me i deserved to die. depression destroyed my life. i listened to what it was saying. i told myself i was no good. i told myself i wasn't loved because i was bad. i didn't seek treatment to feel better. i tried to kill myself for his entertainment. depression destroyed me. i am left picking up the pieces. he has left me alone. he said it was to late for help now. he left me scared and confused. he is still here. he wants to keep me. and he will keep me. depression destroyed my life. all i am asking is that it does not destroy yours.
It tortures and consumes me i can not see a way out i scream and shout it dwells within me how can i stop this insanity this truly dark thinking i always end up drinking myself away or is this just some weird vanity? darkness consumes i feel used the dark hand looms depression will it ever end?.
Everyone sufers from it which makes us feel like sh.t there r different kinds some some people lose their minds some people no how to handle it and then don't think and end it people that have depression may make pain an obsession its something u can't run away from suicide is the way for some people take their lives because suicide thrives some can't take it so they take a gun im surprised it don't ruin everyone depression it hurts and the pain just exerts.
No outward sign for you to see, i try acting as normal as one can be, desperation is my call, suddenly i've had enough of it all, the tears, the moods, the ups and downs, what is happening with me, leave me alone i say, let me be, everything gets to me this misery, i must divert my thought on the good things when negativity pulls me down, i must think positive and redesign my life, yes, this is what i must do, burying my head under covers is not the way for me or you, i am aware this won't be easy, it all takes some time, but before you know it things will work out just fine.
I'm scared that i have fallen, into that rift yet once again. the black hole that i had feared, the one i rotted in as i lain. even worse to me is the thought, that i never did ever climb out. and all that i have been, is merely a voiceless shout. from a depth too far to reach, in a land too far below. a place i tried to run from, yet is a place i always go.
D is for down days e is for escaping when you want to cry p is for pressure whereever you go r is for romance which everyone finds e is for expressing to others that we need help s is for sweet dreams in our head s is for saying i love you to a partner who really cares i is for injuring yourself when you are really feeling low o is for overdose which you don't really want to do n is for nice sunny days with a smile.
Oh horid ways of emotions. all actions tryed are of no use. all actions acted are usless. no matter the action its all in vain. i cant go anywhere running is usless and of no point. i cant go no where. even if the option were open. oh depression horrible depression hold me back ever more pin me down with the force of your grace. depression my one true friend. a sad dark and lonely place. sit upon the walls. its so sad and vacant. vacant like my happy days. depression takes me more and more each day. feeding on my sadness. this is an everelasting scar a scar not to heal a scar not to mend. it will bring me to my end.
Depression is my life without you, depression is the darkness taking over the light, depression is the thoughts of suiside depression is islolation from the outside world depression is where no one loves me depression is where i have no friends depression is where every looks at me and rools there eyes depression is.
I'm worried about you you want to be like me why? don't you want to live? it's very sacred up here it controls your fear it controls your pain you'll look for help right away depression puts up a shield you'll become what i am if this is what you want join me and leave yourself behind on second thought it's crowded, stay where you are do not commit this sin think about mount depression now fall back to nowhere i never want to see your face find yourself first everything else will fall into place.
More than half a century ago, the monsoon showers had just brought relief from the sweltering summer, just when i was dreaming of playing soccer whole day outdoors, my dad decided that i have to attend an elementary school. i was dragged a mile by my older brother to my new school, it would be my favorite durga temple converted into a school, my dreams of a class with benches and chairs just vanished, as we were sitting on the floor in open partitioned classrooms of the school. i thought i would get a nice colorful uniform to wear to school, but it looked like that the dress code was a futuristic dream, at least every class had a black board bigger than my slate, the teacher had a duster whereas i had to wipe the chalk with my hand. the fear of some burly kids and nostalgia of home made me sad and homesick, i could not stop crying and asking my teacher to let me go home. i still remember the teacher with big black cane, every time i cried to go home, i got a whack on my palm with his cane, i could not stop crying, he would not stop whacking, till i was sent in a distant corner for breaking the class rule. kneeling down in the corner, i dreamt of mom and home, i found comfort in the memories of joyous durga puja days, i wished the goddess would come alive, and pierce the hands of the teacher with her big spear. finally the tiffin time heralded the temporary recess, the teacher came down and helped me open my tiffin can, he asked me to eat while he wrote something on my slate, he hoped that it would keep me interested in his school.
after i finished my food, he handed my slate, he had drawn a picture of a big smiling cat with whiskers and big tail, he asked me to draw the cat on the other side of the slate, i was so happy drawing the circles and lines whole afternoon, i forgot i had a rough first day in school.
Theres a name thats lost maybe someone i never met everyone knows them maybe they just forget theres our old home you call it high school i was the popular reject maybe a make believe fool theres that book the one i never read maybe i could've been smarter if i really used my head theres a broken mirror i recognize that face it's the kid known as vick he never forgets this place theres the blue locker it still looks the same i open the door i still see my name.
School, it is stressing at times. many times i don't even have it on my mind. school is good, and it is bad, there are times i think that i'm going to mad. it is a good thing to go to school, so that you could remember the rules. don't be shy. don't be a fool. go to school, and learn all the rules.
In old school house yard at ruby a dark brown shorthorn cow and leghorn pullets cackling beneath the cypress bough this school must hold good memories and memories live somehow here in their lunch hour children played but where are those children now? . the old school room now a tea room has undergone some change and if past pupil came back here he'd find the place quite strange where is the desk he sat at? the blackboard is not there and time has brought change to ruby as it has done elsewhere. the old school house at ruby a memory of past years here ruby children sang and laughed and shed their fledgeling tears and do those children of ruby who now live far away in dreams return to old school house and ruby childhood day? . the old school house at ruby a memory of the past and time has brought about some change and time bring change too fast this school must hold good memories and memories live somehow here in their lunch hour children played but where are those children now? .
School is fun, school is great, even if your late. in school we do math, we do art, i love that part. in social studies, we have homework buddies. pe is the best, compared to all the rest. during lunch, we will munch, and then drink grape punch. then we play, for thirty minutes of the day.
Before, vick became my name before, sad thoughts set in before, girls started to say no before, entering the party world before, the ps2 craze before, bible girl before, long work days before, the blizzard of 200 before, dvd's made my list before, my other friend before, people started to diss before, poetry was at my best before, cell phones rang before, life became a test before, my loser gang before, memories i started to miss before, days became lonely before all this you knew me from school.
In school, when i saw you i intuited i have found my lost world in you i wish i could act to be appreciated by you in school. in school, it would be too sad to narrate the ordeal i have been through i wonder if its best i had met you in the school. in school, though i had not said it there has been so many ways that i have shown it my actions had done whatever i wanted to say at school. in school, i never thought being in love could take me to madness well, it is better than leaving me in sadness in the school. in school, when i approached you i knew i was silly it was because suddenly, i forgot who i was in school in school, why do you sneer when i am near it really breaks me just tell me what to do to get a room from you in and out of school. in school, sometimes though it is hard i guess i must let go some things i wish to have though good things also could be found elsewhere as it has been in school.
This is it everything that you have gone through is now memories. all of your happy and sad times in high school have now faded. a new life has begun on your own. no more waking up dreading that this day will never get here. now the day is here and your missing everyone before they even walk through these high school doors. every memory is left unsaid. on graduation day everyone cried, i even cried. knowing that i may never get to hang with my friends ever again. hoping they'll be here for my graduation crying with me.
It now is time. i'll have to tell the world. and never did i ever mean to do this. regardless of, what peers today require, i will come out. the girl i love is no one you would know. she is the sweetest, loveliest of all. she walks around as if the world could well ignore her. i am afraid, i tell you with reluctance, that someone bigger, better, smarter comes along. and takes her on his horse to distant fields, she would forget her home, and me the fool from school. what do you think? she loves me and i love her. would all this count enough to seal our pact forever?.
I found an old country cowboy valentine that was made so very long ago. it was signed at the bottom in crayon by a young boy who's name was, buffalo joe. you could tell it was all hand made some of the glitter and bangles have fallen off. colored with bright colors so neatly better than any in a store, one could have bought. tried to picture the face that made it tried as hard as i could ever do. but for as hard as i had tried to remember i couldn't grasp that vision of you. those were the days of less worries and a childs heart now just memories. 'will ya be my valentines partner? ' in that valentines card you made for me.
Our evergreen school days will not come back again from the nursery to high school we learnt the best and the best that taught by our teachers our school life was full of cheers and lived with full of mischievous but the discipline was maintained well we sang and danced without thinking of our future. we spent money without earned them when the school start after the vacation we meet our friends happily and welcomed new friends dearly we played all the games and we won many games with out care of sun or rain many years have been gone today we live different parts of the world but the memories of our school days will live in our hearts as ever green days.
The old school gate still stands here though the school has long since gone, it stands amongst the hedgerow now and opens for no one, the school gate leads to nowhere no one passes through it now, and it remains so firmly shut yet it survived somehow. although its frame is rusting well and crumbling away, it stands there as a symbol of a long forgotten day, a small estate of houses where the classrooms used to be, the playground too has vanished now it breaks my heart to see. so many times i'd waited here so many times passed through, i close my eyes and can recall the times that i once knew, the parting and the welcoming i held my mother's hand, beside this gate in front of me that can now barely stand. so sad to see it in this state so many years gone by, yet while it lasts my dreams survive and memories will not die, the faces of the teachers and the faces of my friends, the sight of children playing there yet here is where it ends.
It was a remote village, a school teacher single, with boys of assorted age, had to manage and tackle. 'boys, inspector, any time, to inspect the school, is expected to come, be smart, ready and cool.' 'he may, perhaps, ask you, the shape of the world, my snuff box, all of you see how it is round.' 'i'll keep it on my table, for your remembrance here, one of you should be able to answer, have no fear.' suddenly on a sunday, knowing it was a holiday, he came to inspect, on his way to his own village nearby. the teacher rang the bell. the boys were puzzled. it was short of a hell, to have them assembled. boys with unkempt hair, boys with soiled dress, boys with faces poor, took their seats in the class. the teacher in a hurry, kept a square snuff box, and was feeling sorry, to miss his round box. the boys, as expected, heard the same query with their hands raised, kept the answer ready. up one of them stood, and promptly he said, 'square on all sundays and round on other days. '.
One day it was my big day all packed up but the on dear then i say my worst sight ever it was school i never went up in a smile ever again so my first day blahblahblah is i i heard i think it may be my day but lets lay down low or i could be called gay so now ill just go home.
If only you knew how much i love you if only you cared that i was alive but theres no way you would care if you knew because you don't feel near the same as i for you my love will never be shown because you won't like me for i am sure mt heart thirst for my love for you be shown but broken will it be for ever more if only you knew my love so deep my heart wouldnt ache for your love i wouldn't have to cry myself to sleep if only i could get help from above if only you knew how much i cared you might love me back but i am too scared.
It's the final day as we all take photographs and say goodbye; a thought goes through my mind. i may never see any of you again. i don't want to let go of the many memories we have made. yet i know that will not happen as the memories we have created have been engraved on my heart and left a deep impression in my mind. your kindness and caring attitude has been an inspiration and so have you, and i look forward to the future where in some distant lifetime we will meet again and relive the old times and the old memories. this is what makes me cherish the true friends i have now.
Executioner happy to explain how his wristwatch works as he shadows me on the street. i call him that because he is grim and officious and wears black. the clock on the church tower had stopped at five to eleven. the morning newspapers had no date. the gray building on the corner could've been a state pen, and then he showed up with his watch, whose gothic numerals and the absence of hands he wanted me to understand right then and there.
He made a line on the blackboard, one bold stroke from right to left diagonally downward and stood back to ask, looking as always at no one in particular, "what have i done?" from the back of the room freddie shouted, "you've broken a piece of chalk." m. degas did not smile. "what have i done?" he repeated. the most intellectual students looked down to study their desks except for gertrude bimmler, who raised her hand before she spoke. "m. degas, you have created the hypotenuse of an isosceles triangle." degas mused. everyone knew that gertrude could not be incorrect. "it is possible," louis warshowsky added precisely, "that you have begun to represent the roof of a barn." i remember that it was exactly twenty minutes past eleven, and i thought at worst this would go on another forty minutes. it was early april, the snow had all but melted on the playgrounds, the elms and maples bordering the cracked walks shivered in the new winds, and i believed that before i knew it i'd be swaggering to the candy store for a milky way. m. degas pursed his lips, and the room stilled until the long hand of the clock moved to twenty one as though in complicity with gertrude, who added confidently, "you've begun to separate the dark from the dark." i looked back for help, but now the trees bucked and quaked, and i knew this could go on forever.
Black holes or big bang gravitational forces prove you can't have both black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes black holes big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory big bang theory.
Waking up for school, getting to school going to school, i used to think school was just for fools and friends. but if you look at it now it aint just for that it helps you.and when i say help i mean helps you reach your goals. and for the one's that dropped out.bad idea cause now you don't have an education.so come on all you dropp outs go back to school and make something better of yourself. 'don't be dumb stay in school'.
Up at my school everyone is different yet we are treated like an equal everyone is always smiling or laughing so hard they start to cry that's my school a lot of people go through my school home of the blue jays to cool for school standing tall upon the hill behind all the trees stands the blue jay's school yup, that's my school each person is unique form the clothes to the hair to their personality each person is free to express themselves and be who they want that's my school whs blue jay pride that's something that can never be beat and something that we can't hide friends come and go but one thing will live on the pride we had for our team just like my school did no matter where i go or how far i leave town i'll always be proud to say whs in washmo is my school.
The freshman girl, oh, so shy, sits and watches the sophomore guy, the sophomore guy, his head in a whirl, sits and watches the junior girl, the junior girl, in her red sadan, sits and watches the senior man, but the senior man so hot and wild, secretly loves the freshman child.
It was expected to belong. a boy who has his sights aimed high, who aims to make his parents proud, will show respectability and rise above the common folks. it was the driving force that made me join the choir, a voice of mediocre quality would not disgrace the school as it was mixed into the crowd of screaming baritones, of pubescent basses and the lone and rather spindly looking pallor who, as a rarity, was an essential tenor. when teenage vocal cords perform, there is an awe that settles in the hall, or auditorium, it clings to dusty walls and rests among the cobwebs of the past. and hearts pick up their happy beat as if to shout about their sheer invincibility, each ear, as it partakes the sum of all, of loud, angelic voices oh, so pure, claims ownership of the collage of tones impressed and stirred to greater deeds, while restless eyes now roam, subdued search rows of colleagues in the amber light until they find that pair of mellow molecules, look back into the innocence of all, and tiny promises now sing a melody.
My teacher asks me to study get up early every morning time table for each day plan your things as it says as my school reopened new books and a clean slate books covered and labeled white cloth and chalk for the slate how neatly i wrote my name drew a picture in the front page wanted it to remain the same never teared a single page i was studious had an aim colourful marks i scored in test with friends we played few games in every game we were the best then as the days go by started to tear pages from the books then said the books a brief bye bye dog ears in all my books pages used for a million other things paper rockets to fly at friends wrote the names on their wings painted red at the rocket ends played in water on rainy days plastic shoes and pink raincoats prayed for fever on test days in water sailed paper boats now its time for the big exams no more playgrounds and fun days back to books to clear exams once again early rise each day.
Stay in school, don't be a fool a dropout gets left out a dropout gets pushed out show me your name, what does it mean show me your ring, you're in the scene without an education there is no beginning with education you are winning stay in school, student maintain your cool it's so hard to get a job now days without education just be on your way show me your car, what does it prove? show me youe diploma, you're in the groove you don't have to be smart to finish school but you are a square if you are not there dropout, you can start back students that are in school you are on the right track you can stand around the corner watching the school bus go by you know deep down inside you want to cry it is good to stop drinking it is good to stop smoking when you are thinking about stopping your education my friend you better start thinking.
'tis sad to think that many with power abuse it those with power who abuse it weak not strong there is nothing wrong with having power in the first place it is the abuse of it that is all wrong for the abuse of power leads to serious crimes against the powerless though power in good hands it is quite okay and good people with power never do abuse it they use it in the most constructive way some people with power are quite benign people and philanthropic one of them can say but those who abuse their power to the law may never answer though to karma there's a price they have to pay the abuse of power leads to dictatorial regimes that leads to serious crimes against humanity in the despicable crimes against women and children the wrongs of power gone wrong for all to see the people who abuse their power should never have it though to their power they desperately do cling power in the right hands an adavantage to others and power in the wrong hands is a dangerous thing there is nothing wrong with power from once 'tis used well but some with power they do abuse their rule and some with power they can become quite nasty and derive pleasure out of being cruel but power in the right hands can be a blessing and kind people with power their praise we ought sing since they have the gift of empathy within them and happiness to others they do bring.
The power of ideas are immeasurable they are the hidden treasures which lies deep within each and everyone of us when we take the time to mind them we will find that they are more precious than diamonds ideas which may seem insignificant has tremendous power within them they are the genesis the initiation the foundation of all invention and everything which is created by humankind the power of ideas are immeasurable they have got the power to move mountains to overcome any obstacle and to make the seemingly impossible possible ideas are the levers which moves and the axis on which the world revolves the power of ideas are immeasurable the power of ideas.
There is a power in taking but more power in giving there is a power in revenge but more power in forgiving there is a power in destroying but more power in letting something live there is a power in denying our true age but more power in showing that we've lived.
Pain is the feeling you endure when you are alone, it is great torture when you have no friends at all pain is the feeling you endure when you break a bone, you endure great humiliation and pain when you slip and fall however, you possess the spirit to get back on your feet, even if the path in front of you becomes too rough there will be friends along the path that you will meet, that will help make you become strong and tough also, they will help cure you when you are sick, they will be friends with you through thick and thin and they will never think about playing a mean joke nor trick, your friends will be as close to you as your own kin now i know i cannot quit during the fight, because i know my friends will help me see the light.
Three or four repetitions of a mental picture of the location as i walk toward a building from a parking lot, and i'll remember, later, where i've parked my car. it's taking considerably longer to remember where i've parked my soul.
To have power over others is something one does not need for tis only by good example that one can ever lead and many with power over others their power they do abuse and for those who abuse others there cannot be an excuse. if you wish to be a leader some sort of form of power you crave and what it takes to be a great leader is to be understanding kind and brave but leaders with such qualities to say the least seem rare to some very ordinary people they do favourably compare. for to have power over others a good person does not desire and many power hungry people are those we should not admire power over others and personal power are different from night and day we all do need some personal power for to serve survival's way. to have power over others is something one can do without and on those who desire such powers one has to cast some doubt they seem to be control freaks with darkness of the soul the lives of other people they do need to control.
O, from what power hast thou this powerful might with insufficiency my heart to sway? to make me give the lie to my true sight, and swear that brightness doth not grace the day? whence hast thou this becoming of things ill, that in the very refuse of thy deeds there is such strength and warrantise of skill that, in my mind, thy worst all best exceeds? who taught thee how to make me love thee more, the more i hear and see just cause of hate? o, though i love what others do abhor, with others thou shouldst not abhor my state. if thy unworthiness raised love in me, more worthy i to be beloved of thee.
They've got a libdo and a desire that can't be controled they've got the power to sex you in the shower and they always score no one can ever keep these rangers down the power of love sweet love is on their side oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers mighty horny power rangers they love to take their dates hard into their hands they know to always use condoms and practice safe sex no one can ever keep these rangers down the power of love sweet love is on their side oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers oh oh you mighty horny power rangers no one can ever keep these rangers down the power of love sweet love is on their side oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers oh oh you mighty horny power rangers oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers oh oh power rangers.
A bad habit they form as a young girl or boy to have power over others some people enjoy with personal power some are not satisfied their desire for top job they don't try for to hide they need more than personal power to be seen to succeed it is all about money and all about greed one might say they do have big egos to feed the more money they have the more they seem to need power and money are siblings it does seem that way and money speaks every language some are known to say the non greedy and non power hungry people one has to admire the lust for large sums of money or power over others they never desire they are not the type for to put others down or wish to be known as the best in the town.
You pray a lot and take pride that your prayers are granted and you pray some more like a monk like a priest, sometimes i think about prayerful dogs, what if their prayers are granted too bones and more bones would surely rain from the heavenly skies. oh yes, i pray, but if my prayers are not granted, i still know that god loves me he thinks my wants are not the best for me, and he reserves the rest. that really suits me best.
To have the right to dream and to follow it each day until some tiny part of it is you in every way gives zest to all of living and lets you dream some more 'til at last you are near heaven's gate as your thoughts lift up and soar. this, then, the freedom that i seek for you and all mankind the spark of real achievement capturing heart and soul and mind. to strike off lingering chains of doubt look out on a new day where freedom holds you to a task that asks your best in every way.
How the time passes by. we are unable to arrest it. how quick the people are leaving this world. we are unable to prolong our existence on this land. we therefore should not take it away as we are approaching to the end of the twentieth century. many nations of this world are racing to build their armaments. why are they doing it? to destroy this land with the people living on it. can we be proud having an atom bomb. those who have it are announcing to the world their power. without thinking of a mistake and dimensions of destruction. how funds are melting away to build them and be tested. these funds can be used for the hungry masses, to feel them and fertilize our land to make it richer. a multitude of people would be satisfied they would be happy and enormously grateful maybe that day will come. that we will together save the nature and masses of people. the bomb once thrown carries only death and destruction everything would be reduced to ashes. all living things would die, even trees. to the ones alive a bird would not sing because of the nuclear experiments people are becoming poorer lets give some thought how to conquer that evil. lets look differently on nature and perceive its beauty. this world is indeed charming, india is a mysterious and curious country. is the atom bomb for them a paradise? among the other countries it brought indignation, is it worth to change your own country into hate? atom bond will not solve problems and feed people why not anybody is thinking about it, lets use the atom for peaceful purposes lets leave the decisions to the highly developed countries, how to save the land from being fed with poison, how to fertilize, so that the masses will not be hungry, also war, but not nuclear, must be proclaimed to the element of nature. not necessarily atom weapons for destruction. it is being done with perfectionism by cataclysm, that is the real enemy of people.
we must learn hot to strive to subdue it, then we will not be the perpetrators of exterminating this beautiful globe, as is our mother earth.
When you look at your life with your trophy wife do you feel fulfilled? in your comfort zone are you bored to the bone? has your spirit been killed? do you dance in the rain? do you feel the pain that makes you know you're alive? all things work to a plan you're a corporate man for wealth and power you strive. your materialist god has an iron ruling rod no room for free thought. in the brave new world your flag is unfurled your status you've bought. all the things that you've promised have you really been honest? people's lives are your tools. and when you are wrong you then sing a new song i think 'who are the fools? ' have you ever been loved? is your handshake steel gloved? can you really unwind? have you drank to excess? is your true happiness in your business like mind? a blip in the market turns your mood very dark, it puts your nose out of joint. who do you want to be? all the best things are free you're missing the point.
Connected to god, in tune with nature, heartfelt passions spoken in a line. what better place to find serenity than in the prayer of a poet online. gathered in unity, divided in style; souls searching for perfect peace touching lives by a timely rhyme giving solace and pain's release. seeking an emissary to heaven's throne? to whisper entreaties to angels there; no better place to reach god's ear than through the power of a poet's prayer.
From them only negative stuff we do hear they tell us who to trust and tell us who to fear we want to believe the lies to us they tell they promise utopia and give us earthly hell. we want to believe every word that they say and for to cling to power they create us and they we help to create our own reality the blind in the light of day never do see. their pre election promises they never do keep we give them our power and we follow like sheep they tell us who to fear and them we believe and they laugh behind our backs and us they deceive. through false patriotism to power they do cling and the praises of war heroes they gladly do sing they cling on to power and they cheat and they lie whilst in the wars they created the innocents die.
The power of truth is in the belief the power of love in the heart the power of faith is felt in the mind with every member of your being a part yet the power of change is hard to adjust because temptation is so hopelessly strong while the power of right is substantially hard you must overcome the power of wrong but the power in you is much greater than all in you, his power is born so when the unfairness of life takes your power away remember to whom the power belongs.
The lust for power is an addiction the government their own praises do sing and rubbish their main opposition as to government they try to cling the voters bombarded with propaganda right up until election day the true fact of all politicians is they seldom do mean what they say the winners take all of the glory and the winners they do celebrate the prize it is great and worth lying for that's how they feel those who wish to rule the state the lust for power is an addiction and not a harmless addiction 'twould seem without such power some people feel worthless and suffer of low self esteem some people become so power hungry that power to their egos is fuel they feel it is their right to govern that they have been born to rule the opposition as bad as the government they too want power in the worst way any respect to their political opponents they have no desire for to pay it is all about power and their egos power to them is the best thing of all their pride to them is all that matter though pride it can come before a fall.
The sea invades the coastal cliffs, battling against its stalwart stone, devouring its surface bit by bit, and leaving it gullible and prone. the rocks hit back with warlike will, facing the churning water's rage, with ceaseless power, the ocean spars, and tries, at all times to upstage. so firm and strong the crags were formed, and tough and sheer its rock face stands, but slow erosion there will always be, as the bluff gives way to the deep's demands.
When a tiny melody catches your breath and wonderful lyrics impound your brain the clarity of a voice stirs your heart you know you've finally come home a climbing spirit bursts through the clouds sharing emotions without constraint turning the key that opens the chambers making you believe again the combination touches your soul you feel, you explode, you're soaring high how does this wonderful journey affect you so, make you live? a rare gift stirs the senses so absolutely a beautiful breeze to make you fly this my friends is how it feels it always amazes me, this ride.
They say her words were like balloons with strings i could not hold, that her love was something in a shop cheap and far too quickly sold; but the tree does not price its apples nor the sun its selling power the rain does not gossip or speak of where it goes.
The lust for power and money to corruption lead and some cheat and lie to satisfy their greed and big corporations do not have a soul the avarice that afflicts them their thinking control. the distribution of wealth as ever seems so unfair and thousands grow poorer for every new millionaire oil tycoons and arms dealers make millions every day whilst thousands are dying of hunger like flowers in decay. to be born of poor parents is their only crime and they look thin, old and gray though only in their prime in refugee camps they are forced to reside in a land ravaged by drought and by war men destroyed. 'tis true power can be a corruptible thing of the wealthy and famous some poets only sing why laud people who have far more than enough when millions are homeless and have to sleep rough. the lust for power seems to be thriving of late and only the wealthy and famous the media celebrate whilst each day thousands die of hunger doesn''t life seem unfair in a world where empathy and compassion are rare.
There cames a time when you face the tougest of figths seaching for a light i'm lost in the darkest of nights the wind blows so cold i'm standing alone befor the battles begun but deep in my soul the future unfolds is bight as the rays of the sun you got to believe in the power of love there's a light that falls from the heart it's a chian reaction there's nothing that will keep us apart stand by my side there's nothing to hide together, we will fight to the end take hold of my hand and you will understand what means to be friends you got to believe in the power of love it's what hearts are mabe of.
I must love her more than she does, the husband wants. i must love him more than he does, the wife wants. this is power of love i must hold her more than she does, the husband intends. i must hold him more than he does, the wife intends. this is love of power. power of love is breeze. love of power is storm 12.04.2008.
The power u think u have ova me, is not as strong as u think i jus let u think dat bcuz i love u. the power u think u have ova me, is not as strong as u think i jus let u do what do cuz it feels good to me. the power u think u have ova me, is not as strong as u think, i jus let touch me cuz ur touching on me. the power u think u have ova me, is not as strong as u think, i jus kiss on u to see how u feel about me. the power u think u have ova me, is not as strong as u think, i jus stayed throw the pain, cuz i thought u loved me. but u didin't.now its. the power u thought u had ova me, is nolonger there its gon like me, lived it, loved it, losted it.
Seeking the healing power of sleep, i find no respite in my dreams. sinking into slumber deep, it's not so restful as it seems. agony's relived time and again, magnified by the helplessness i feel in my dreams and then i mourn lost love and happiness i find more relief in time than sleep, although i still relive my loss, i feel the pain less acutely, still there, but not as it once was.
One second might not tell when held against an hour one hour might not count when weighed against a day one day may not matter when considering a life one word may mean little from the conversation whole one line may not be missed when stricken from the book one thought may be dismissed in comprehension of the mind one flaw might be overlooked when evaluating character one mistake means little when summing up a man one sin may be forgiven in the judgement of a soul so how is it a single glance can make one wither so?.
I never turned anyone into a pig. some people are pigs; i make them look like pigs. i'm sick of your world that lets the outside disguise the inside. your men weren't bad men; undisciplined life did that to them. as pigs, under the care of me and my ladies, they sweetened right up. then i reversed the spell, showing you my goodness as well as my power. i saw we could be happy here, as men and women are when their needs are simple. in the same breath, i foresaw your departure, your men with my help braving the crying and pounding sea. you think a few tears upset me? my friend, every sorceress is a pragmatist at heart; nobody sees essence who can't face limitation. if i wanted only to hold you i could hold you prisoner.
A word is capable of anything it is capable of changing enemies into friends. it is capable of penetrating the impenetrable. it is capable of changing the impossibility into possibilities. it is capable of uniting man and woman into husband and wife. it is capable of changing the atheist into christian. it is capable of changing illiterate into professional. it is capable of changing political crisis into independence. beginning today let us not just utter words but live by them, let your words be sweet and caring to all those around you. because we never know how far reaching something we may think, say or do today will affect the lives of millions tomorrow.
U fooled me u cheated on me u let me go u made me cry u forced me to believe your lies u tried to control me u betrayed me u did not love me u never knew me u never understood me even you have never ever tried finally, simply u left me but now all i can say is i love you because this is something i have no power upon to and i just cannot stop thinking about you because this is not something i usually do.
The little power we have to others we give away they rule our lives for us we go by what they say the media they control and only lies from them we hear they warn of terrorists and terrorism and fill our hearts with fear of people we do not know or may never even meet they even have us looking out for terrorists as we walk down the street each stranger that we meet we look on with mistrust though they may be kind of heart and they may be good and just. they are our enemy yet we see them as a friend for their political survival on our fears they do depend and those we see as our enemy their leaders are the same they instill in them a fear of us they too play the political power game. we are ruled by self centred men and us they do deceive when they tell us who to fear them we want to believe they create us and they and to conquer they divide and tell us with a smirk we have god on our side. to lie to cling to power to them is not a sin some call it propaganda and others call it spin and when our so called enemy civilians die in a bombing raid collateral damage is what they say is it right that loss of human life be dismissed in such a way? the little power we have to ourselves we never keep to the power hungry we give it away we value it as cheap they lubricate our fears to insure they cling to power in a garden full of noxious weeds you may not find a flower.
The lonliness of the night, is matched by the emptiness of my bed. the emptiness of my heart, is equalled by the absence of hope. the absence of a future, is akin to the depth of my need. the depth of my memories, is beaten only by the heat of the sun.
Come lets kiss and rejoice you.. in my ingenuity, and me, in your feeble ability to forgive such deviltry, as mine come lets play blindfolded you.. will still envision joy and me apathetic, oblivious to the tears turning red blood as wine come lets wear deaf plugs you.. can then sing along with my loud booming rythym..all the while as the moans of tattered, torn, children.. .die. just sad. marriot; islamabad; pakistan..the question is no longer why.
A poet loses his power for poetry a poet loses his power for poetry he can put down words but they no longer have poetry in them something of the feeling of what real poetry is is gone. he strives he writes again and again he puts words down in the forms and in the shapes his poems usually take but he has no poetry in him he has lost what he is and all he can do is strive again and again word after word silence after silence to hear within himself again a voice he does not have. the poet is writing poetry and it is not poetry the poet is dead and he is pretending to be alive is this a poem? is he a poet is he dead? is he alive?.
The angels promised to stay on guard. and that they did. mom realized that i was her little miracle. when i look back i realize she made a conscious decision to love, protect, and direct. and that she did. all through life she has been my greatest fan. she's been my advisor. she's been my close friend. if i had a chance to choose a mother i would choose her again and again. there's so much i plan to do for her as a token of my love and appreciation. the little things i've done for her sometimes cause her to say.. 'thank god he kept you safe within my womb.' i'm thankful too. i'm thankful she's my mom. one day in january i was born held and nourished by a lovely soul. i am because she is.
January is a new month a new start for me to learn new things to learn to let go of my anger and open up my heart and to listen to what my heart is saying it is waking up from a long painful journey of last summer i love you all the time sunsets january thanks god you are mild because i hate the cold.
On our china anniversary love goes on under the sun; from paper to crystal that has ended another new one has just begun. twenty years of living together is not a walk in the park; at times the days are sunny, sometimes the clouds are dark. but by god's loving hand we've ventured into the rough sea; able to climb the highest hill, striving hard toward victory. we've stood against all odds, braving the wind of changes; we've remained firm and steadfast, making all the right choices. as long as we have each other, we do hope for the silver's dawn; praying not only for the gold but also for the dazzling diamond. the pages of the next chapter are willed by the father's hand; a new episode shall be written till we reach the promised land. our love for one another shall achieve the higher degree; it will grow all the more on our china anniversary.
May your year be full of joy; may laughter fill your days; may morning's light bring fresh delight expelling dreary haze; may friends and loved ones ever buoy a heart weighed down by strife; and may serenity alight from the simple things in life.
It is january 1997. and so far. it has been far from heaven the skies has been dark shades of blue and gray. as i bend my knees to pray. the weather has been cold and wet. as i sat in my room and wept. as i wish to witness to see a heaven sent angel. i tried to remain stable. i strolled through the peaceful cemetery. searching for sanctuary. as i perched my depressed infested body. against an ice cold tombstone. covered with time and age. i see my life on the darkest stage. i only wish the unhappiness away. i only long to write the next play. of life that will bring hope. and colorful dreams in cinemascope.
Nothing extends a phone call more effectively than saying you're on your way out but she wants to tell you the five things she requires in a man one is intelligence he must have a brain also he must be good a term she likes because it embraces both the opposite of evil and "good in bed" and you admire the way she skillfully maneuvered the conversation to the sex lives of jazz fans who live in the village and the enduring validity of the cyrano story and so well you wish you didn't have to go.
It's one of those rare winter nights when it's not freezing cold but crazy windy weather rain poured down the whole day long lightning flashed in the sky and there is a sense of danger yes this weather really scares me i feel my heart beat faster and i long for peace and calm yet it is winter, it's to be expected the temperature is dropping like crazy and i know winter is purple pink and violet.
Sometimes at night i hear small birds lament. dark notes that seem to second moon's descent. cold is the color of a deep regret, an etude perfected by winterset. the world was music and it turned us round. stirred by the subtle atmospheric sound, you gently sketched a snowflake on my face which shall be mine till light has left this place. such solace has the power to outlast time, to lock a small bird's elegy in rhyme. somewhere beyond the january mist, the magic of our landscape still exists. copyright,2008, sandra fowler.
With numbing cold, biting at my brittle bones i feel many years giving me a wake up shake gripping my coat through the more gripping cold i feel the world has grown old. january i cried for my mom the first time she probably cried and then smiled for my tears she surely is yet smiling for my thoughts through these years for the tears that she shed were at giving me birth january is the warmest time on earth.
It was a dark night, full of fights, as if the sun will never rise the bullets were passing beside me, but i couldn't realize all the people were afraid, , i was trying to resist anywise the voice of freedom rose high in the souls of the arise the life of the oppressors, was walking anticlockwise the voice of injustice blinked away, like its form analyse the devil thought and thought, 'how could i make a plan, to stop that voice, to regain everything without complain' the birds began to sing, voice of freedom returned again to prevail the happiness again, , to resist suffering pain. the sun which we thought that it will never rise again. it rose to remove steps of a man made it without vain. the sun will keep rising and rising every day, , to bloom the flowers, to remember us, how is that light, was thanks to god and martyrs.
When the time keeps passing and the world goes round and the sea is crashing at the cliffs and the sounds erupting as the seabirds cry, you can watch the river as the time goes by and it's like it's holy and it can be hell and you feel so lonely and you fear the smell of the guns that fire then you see the light of a rainbow dawning and you realise that the river's flowing as the time goes by and you met the people and you knew them well and you said you loved them and you rang the bell in the tree of life you watched them grow and the world is turning as the river flows the earth smells good and the sky turns gold when the birds are singing and you bless the old you can kiss your woman and it feels so right as you touch the river as the time goes by as you stand barefoot upon the morning shore and you feel the centuries of death and war and the wind is biting and it tears your skin and the river's flowing where its always been and the river washes and the river's clean and the soul remembers where the river's been as you watch it tumble and you watch it flow your life's a river now you know, now you know your life's a river now you know.
Forbidden waters makes one weak a drowning man knows no peace flooding river winding down like a warden grants no release flooding river gonna take my home leave me naked and alone mean old river so unkind shows no mercy leaves nothin' behind.
Where'er the sweetest river flows i long that land to be my home, where i shall walk with my true love amongst the hills of green, and there above the sun will shine within the skies of deepest blue, and i shall never leave that place of beauty so serene. where we shall walk together through the finest meadows hand in hand, then stop to pick some daisies as we rest beneath a tree, and listen to the birds that sing within the boughs that cast their shade, and there we'll stay till evening falls and kiss so tenderly. we'll stop to watch the stars appear to share the silence of the night, then make a wish for love to last so we shall never part, we'll see the dawn then rise again above the hills that stand before, to light the way for us to go and joy shall fill my heart. where'er the sweetest river flows with waters pure i'll drink for thee, where blossom forms and flowers bloom and spring shall never end, each day we live so filled with joy but i know soon i shall awake, till then i'll rest within my dreams with you my precious friend.
I have to go back to long ago back accross misty rivers memories of so past lives to dawn on me so the way to live from the blood all do know cowling towns folk shall see into there souls with a whisper a sound misty rooms sweet scent maidend gown from he no protection could so be found very survive yon lore of past cought up in the mythes none may so pass for me to live some had to die thats why its called the river of blood.
The river does not walk on its journey struggling to get to its destination because it takes its step in a direction that has been destined for it. so my brother, like the river you would continue to flow in this life without any struggle till you reach wherever you want to end this journey of yours. did you ever see the tree attempting to end where its height should end on its journey towards the blue skies above? that is the way you would grow in life as nothing would cut short whatever height you wish to attain in life, my brother.
There is a river we all must cross, thousands will pass it tomorrow; some will go down to its waters with joy, others with anguish and sorrow. some will be welcom'd by angel bands, coming from over the river; others be borne by the current adown, where there is none to deliver. these shall land safely in eden's bow'rs, wearing the white robes of pardon; those shall be cast on a desolate shore, far from the gates of the garden. these shall have voices to join the song ever from eden ascending; those shall unite in the wailings of woe woe, that hath never an ending. over the river we all must cross, jesus may call us tomorrow; shall we go down to its waters with joy? shall we with anguish and sorrow?.
Today i met a woman who died four years ago she spoke to me for hours as though she knew my soul she took me by the hand led me along a stream where trout swam in sparkling waters under clear crystalline skies this woman shared the magic of years of circumspect living and artfully crafted writing precisely gem set words she dwells now in brightness i could but pause and glimpse through my own dark glass her poems the only light in memory of kathleen raine.
The rivers edge becomes a pledge rapids, riptides, undertows i'm diving in and letting go i'm diving in with all my sins i've gone down deep i'm thankful that i took the leap painful, purges, purity washed away entirely thankful of the lord's decree the river now runs through me.
In a dream i returned to the river of bees five orange trees by the bridge and beside two mills my house into whose courtyard a blind man followed the goats and stood singing of what was older soon it will be fifteen years he was old he will have fallen into his eyes i took my eyes a long way to the calenders room after room asking how shall i live one of the ends is made of streets one man processions carry through it empty bottles their images of hope it was offered to me by name once once and once in the same city i was born asking what shall i say he will have fallen into his mouth men think they are better than grass i return to his voice rising like a forkful of hay he was old he is not real nothing is real nor the noise of death drawing water we are the echo of the future on the door it says what to do to survive but we were not born to survive only to live.
Beside the raging river rhyme poetry florets flower with prose. scripted sweet petals grow and entwine english gardens of fragrant rose. immortalized in pantomime, the sonnet's nuance smell, intertwines with ivy vines and comely cockleshell. flowing water of endless words gather and come hither. make known your message meaningful before the blossoms wither.
I was a young man my trade was a deck hand my first love the clipper the old rosalea we sailed from the old town down by the river to bombay and shanghai we traded for tea i met a young girl down by the river she said we could marry and live on a farm i told her i'm sorry my heart's with another we kissed as we watched the sun o'er the yard arm i know when my time comes and i meet my maker i'll have no regrets i'll be happy he'll see for i'll have my ashes cast out on the river that i once supported and now supports me.
The broad river flows fierce than an ocean. in front of the longest bridge both of us at the two ends and the sign board says not allowed for pedestrians and only for heavy vehicles. our fruition is fruitless and how long we have to stand like this? forget the racism my sweetheart who made us with the same clay? we break this primitive fundamental bridge, jump to the river and swim upstream.
I watch the river flowing down towards the deep blue sea, at the end of its winding path i know you wait for me, like the mountains and the valleys and the sun up in the sky, my love for you will shine eternally and never die. for the river is the spirit that puts life into my heart, and tells me you are with me all the times we are apart, for its beauty and its splendour, its wonder and its grace, will be with me forever on this journey that i face. like the colours of the sunrise and the coming of the spring, i gaze upon this paradise and hear the birds that sing, so sweetly in the treetops while i know that far away, my home is where my heart lies where i long to be this day. for the river keeps on flowing and is acting as my guide, and leads me ever onward to the place i shall abide, hope shall live eternally and never will be gone, i know that while this river flows i'll always carry on. i pray that god will steer me through the rocks that lay ahead, and all the troubled water to a calmer place instead, where there is only sunshine and a sky so clear and blue, i know the path i follow now will lead me back to you. for the river is the reason why i need you evermore, it heads towards the place i knew so many years before, and although things may have changed i won't regret i came, for you are all i care for and i hope you feel the same.
The river led me to you though the way was hard and long, it saw me through adversity and taught me to be strong, for when the doubts beset me that you would be waiting there, at the river's end i saw you and it kept me from despair. for the river kept on flowing and its water made me brave, when i was weak and fading such encouragement it gave, following its winding path around each and every bend, until i found you waiting for me at my journey's end. i saw you in the distance there and i began to run, my weariness deserted me like life had just begun, and you stood there so lonely hoping that i would return, our loving eyes did meet again with passion that did burn. for the river kept us company when we were so alone, and we found such comfort there in every rock and stone, with waters pure we both did drink that kept us both alive, and led us to each other through the pain we had to strive. and when i held you once again it felt like yesterday, that we two were parted and we both then lost our way, but in my dreams you lingered for i never could forget, every time i heard your name i just got so upset. for the river was the lifeblood and all that i did need, to give me the courage and the power to succeed, and yet although i stumbled and so many times did fall, our love did hold the answer for our love did conquer all.
The current of time's river will carry off all human deeds and sink into oblivion all peoples, kingdoms and their kings. and if there's something that remains through sounds of horn and lyre, it too will disappear into the maw of time and not avoid the common fate.
There is a hill ahead, and death is behind the hill; i urge the horses onward, onward. there is a river here; always, there is a river just when death scents victory. white current seethes about black rocks; how fair the meadow is, after crossing the water.
Time is not a river nor a ticking clock nor an hourglass we cannot save time we cannot spend time we cannot borrow time we cannot buy time we cannot cheat time time is not a gift time is not our friend nor our enemy time is not on our side time is not ours in any sense save for the single second that holds our full attention then slips forever beyond grasp.
Upon the shaded river bank where willows weep on water's edge, and drape the sympathetic shore that to my heart shall yield, some comfort as i sit and rest and gaze across the surface calm a mirror of the august sky and pray my wounds be healed. i listen as the birds do sing upon the boughs that gently move, within the breeze that softly calls her sweet name unto me, a breath so warm with tender touch that melts the chill of lonely days, but yet i know she'll never come to end my misery. upon the shaded river bank my only thoughts to be with her, and so these tears shall never dry until i find relief, the graceful swan who swims alone and so forlornly bows her head, as she does search in vain for love i too now share her grief.
I was your lover long ago, sweet june, ere life grew hard; i am your lover still, and follow gladly to the wondrous tune you pipe on golden reeds to vale and hill. i am your lover still; to me you seem to hold the fragrance of the joys long dead, the brightness and the beauty of the dream we dreamed in youth, to hold the tears we shed, the laughter of our lips, the faith that lies back in that season dear to every heart, life's springtime, when god's earth and god's blue skies are, measured by our glance, not far apart.
I am so excited that once again it is june when the sun is bright and the birds all sing in tune winter is finally gone so no more shoveling of the snow now there are hedges to trim and also grass to mow, just think, no more slipping or freezing or falling upon the ice but, though now we must worry about the mosquitoes and the lice in my youth and in my past i once loved the snow and the cold changes though will come, as with seasons and i am getting old, the flowers they are awakening from their summer sleep we now again have gardens to tend to and also yards to keep we can now go off to the park and then off to visit the zoo at night in the yard we could light marshmallows or have a barbecue, it is the best month for parties and birthdays and marriages so in june you had better be prepared to see baby carriages and out in the yard and parks the children are eager to play only thing better than a june night, it is of course a june day, children can chase and catch lightning bugs late at night while we all can sit around the yard with only a porch light winter was long and cold and finally here comes june it again came right on time, not to late and never too soon. randy l. mcclave.
The tiny breeding frogs are singing in the roadside drain and the magpie he pipes in the wind and the rain and as shades of darkness roll across the sky the foxes are barking on the hill nearby in the chilly gloam of a gray winter's day the grey roos in the scrub they box as they play and the calls of the birds known to some as weerloo the big birds known to most as yellow tail black cockatoo, a chilly evening in june ten weeks from the spring but the grey backed magpie is not shy to sing, with it the gray fog carries a silent chill as it slowly creeps across the old stony hill, on a chilly evening not cold enough to snow harsh is the caw of the dark homing crow.
Who thinks of june's first rose today? only some child, perhaps, with shining eyes and rough bright hair will reach it down. in a green sunny lane, to us almost as far away as are the fearless stars from these veiled lamps of town. what's little june to a great broken world with eyes gone dim from too much looking on the face of grief, the face of dread? or what's the broken world to june and him of the small eager hand, the shining eyes, the rough bright head?.
.violet in june a violet caught i in repose upon a sunbathed bank. her head was bowed. do you suppose it was from life she shrank? she seemed so wilted in despair; no tear was in her eye. she languished in the torrid air and seemed resigned to die. oh little violet, you have bloomed when others fail the task; amid the hardships that have loomed there is no more we ask. although a breeze of furnace heat has robbed you of your tear, your destiny is not complete, put off your shrinking fear. oh little violet, lift your eyes above the world, up to the sun; fear not, for when the daylight dies another dew will come.
There are days in june that seem to be december. thus sometimes the substance of this room or more accurately the people in it who pray silently start up in the midst of happiness and alter, bewitched by a murmur from the calm foliage. our hearts are shifting as the winds changing, pliable as gold. see this windless sail, motionless? almost before one feels the subtle breeze, it stirs up and slips away.
Vultures meander on their bikes the gas station lights flicker i walk with quickened pace and brawn to escape their rapacious tongs' that glimmer obscenities chew centurion words bayonet looks from across the river on asphalt roads of distant concrete i escape to be their dinner.
Your memory is pushed back in my mind always getting covered with here and now. pushed back so far, where are you going? you were supposed to stay, to lay with me through night and day. you told me as i sat crying, you dying, lying in front of my face. the clock is racing around so slowly and you're going, going, gone. the con of it all you took my heart, it's mounted on a stone and i'm all alone. one second, two seconds, three seconds more, one memory is lost when the clock hits four. for so long now i have only waited, hated the thought that i can't find anyone better then you. you were perfect, i'm a wreck, your lips on my neck, a memory cold as ice. i roll the dice. isn't it true that love is like gambling? if you could have gambled for your life, would you have? to die fast and painless or be with me forever, for so long? time running, life cunning my every thought of you. i feel like i'm falling, crawling to get out of the huge hole that we both made to trap ourselves away from the world. now it's nothing and you left me here deal, i feel the pain, the strain, my whole body's trying to recover from your absence. and yet i still find myself crying, dying, lying, that you are still here with me. but you're not.
They wallowed for a stricken minute more in the blood and mud helpless they tried to stand, gagging hauled by their wrists crawling to dry sand these were the chosen for the day staggering from the killing ground to the small pond of human excretion they flopped and rubbed hands slashing the filth from their chins scrubbing it from knees and elbows they sat another minute their hands and faces dripping nothing stirred but the stench of death they knew it was their last minute, an eerie requiem went up as their skin peeled off so easily from their bone heaped now as one the howling souls turned into vapor the resident stench remained it was common the beast slept well this night as the pile was the highest yet.
daylight came too quickly the stream of condemned shooed from their pens moving slowly, almost reluctantly they stared with a sad look of relief as calm after a long journey no one could stop the babies from crying, they would be first the killing ground was silent nothing could be seen between the herd it was very dark inside between the snortings and stompings the hot breath slapped their faces in their nostrils was an odor rank and fierce and primal suddenly with a rumble and a roar the screaming agony of death tumbling backward, barking chins, dropping heads piles upon piles tripping against each other down they fell like leaves in wintry weather to rest beyond the gate as more would come peering out from the small opening in their pens their eyes blinking, sunken, adjusting to light the pile became unglued the rest remained lined up against the fence they were next they embraced the wires like long lost friends stammering and swaying, falling and crawling the horde torn down, weak with relief a faint prayer heard in hebrew they put their back to the fencepost hands held out slowly, dubiously they came making a magic ring of prayer then closed it tight, heads bowed they closed their eyes bracing and embracing each other they bumped cheeks and noses gently touching faces a minute passed deaf, blind, starving, dieing they joined in hope and fear the warm fur of their humanity they stood guard over their last minute only a minute created together a red raw sun chinned on the horizon a new day dazzled for the beast.
June sings for me, a song of a rain cloud, which has lost its way in a desert storm, haunted and chased by the conspiring rays of of a burnt up sun but found its way back to a green hill to sing again a song for me. june 11,2009.
I realized today that winter would not exist without you, father. in a world where death is confused with life, your breath crystallizes fear into snow. mounds and piles of snow. only when your breath stops will this snow ever cease.
He never loved me, though i know how hard he tried. he was a good man, sewn tight with pride. on visits in his final years he cried standing at his graveside able at last to say i know you knew how much i loved you anyway.
Oh father, my father am humbled by your ways as you sustain innate integrity of having a low profile lifestyle always patience and responsible as you stay loving mum till now oh father, my father am inspired by your manners as you hold the cool temperance of always being forgiving and caring always supportive and understanding as you are standing by for us till now oh father, my father am encourage by your humility as you practice sound principles of fatherhood and a counselor always guiding us by example as you live a clean life till now no wonder i am your son as i walk on your footsteps of being a dear good father to my beloved own family how i wish i could live on to be like you till now at 75.
He wept for his father his father who implored him to not test life, to not seek treasures unknown but his son wanted more and spent his long days slashing the darkened skies in conquest of a golden sun but the son was like a god opening his mouth to warm the coldness of the earth and his father did not bless the summers or winters of his son with the light of his departure the father turned his head away, his once strong grip, weakend, only the whitened hollows of his face did he leave him.
In the name of the father, crusaders sallied forth raping and murdering. in the name of the father, the vatican turned its back on the holocaust. in the name of the father, we assassinated gandhi, and martin luther king. in the name of the father, the irish killed one another, and the british urged them on. in the name of the father, paedophiles lurk behind dog collars and cassocks. in the name of the father, children are sold or enslaved. in the name of the father, this a father i can do without.
Mother earth and father time are walking hand in hand. they're visiting their children and checking on their land. they view the worlds destruction everywhere they turn. they fear their precious children are never going to learn. ''this earth should be their playground with joys beyond belief yet, all these children seem to know is senseless pain and grief.'' ''how do we teach our children to care for such a place? they may not get the message till we slap them in their face.'' the children are oblivious to even basic rules. that's why so many people grow up looking like such fools.
Rare can i find a father of great statue and character man of words and honor even possess good humor often a friend to many more. man of guts and practicality a respected guy in the locality law abider often a good provider never he gets angry without reason especially if one has to learn a lesson surely he'll teach anyone just soon. being my father i'm proud to be his daughter like a sheep that sheepherder feeds lavishing me with my own basic needs on certain condition that he always point never will i do him wrong or disappoint exerting much efforts my father do not rest simply because he wants to give me the best.
Father and daughter spend some quiet time together in the living room shining through the curtain is the sun and outside is the glorious afternoon father reads to his daughter the poetry she loves father and daughter enjoy each other's company father takes his daughter by the hand as they take a walk outside father cares for his daughter and always wishes the very best to happen for her.
Dear lord in heaven, this has been a very interesting week, still so much to learn and so much to be forgiven for. although lord verbally we have not offended anyone but inwardly sometimes we have feelings of jealousy or envy. these feelings truly are negative feelings and need to be dealt with. today lord i pray that you rid our minds of such thoughts and replace those thoughts with grateful thoughts. show us how to look at things in a different light, to see what is important and not to focus on the material things in life but to realize that we were all given gifts and those gifts are to be treasured, respected and shared with others. father when others copy us, let us realize that this is a compliment, which shows that we have the ability to set the trend, to take the lead and to move forward allowing others to follow and create a much brighter environment. father when others speak badly of us because they are feeling jealous of us, teach us not to react in a negative manner but to continue to hold on to the positive not allowing such words to hurt us. hold our hands a little tighter lord. father, teach us to be humble and to always put you first, always have you at the head of our tables, present in our midst, clear in our thoughts, forever under your umbrella and lord teach us to always listen to the whispers. i thank you father for all that you have done for me and i share this prayer with my brothers and sisters on poemhunter in the hope that they will find something here that may be of help to them. i ask you lord for forgiveness, i ask you to keep us out of harms way, i ask that you continue to walk with us, stand by us and to carry us when we can no longer walk. lord in the name of your son jesus, i thank you, i love you, i respect you, i know you and i will always worship you. amen.
A man had just delivered a toad from his wife's armpit. he held it by its legs and spanked it. do you love it? said his wife. it's our child, isn't it? does that mean you can't love it? she said. it's hard enough to love a toad, but when it turns out to be your own son then revulsion is without any tender inhibition, he said. do you mean you would not like to call it george jr.? she said. but we've already called the other toad that, he said. well, perhaps we could call the other one george sr., she said. but i am george sr., he said. well, perhaps if you hid in the attic, so that no one needed to call you anything, there would be no difficulty in calling both of them george, she said. yes, if no one talks to me, then what need have i for a name? he said. no, no one will talk to you for the rest of your life. and when we bury you we shall put father of toads on your tombstone.
You're standing in the doorway. your workday is all done. he waits to see you everyday, this boy that is your son. he hopes you will go fishing. he hopes you'll shoot the gun. he just wants to be with you, this boy that is your son. he is your spitting image. to him you are ''the one''. he hopes to be just like you, this boy that is your son. you show him what a man is. you teach as you have fun. you are admired as well as loved by this boy that is your son. you've got a friend forever. until the world is done. then, still you will be holding this man that is your son.
Life has many ways, of telling our age each more interesting, with each new page but in my heart, you will never grow old dear father of mine, with many stories to be told with patience and love, you guided me bringing me up, the best i could be you worked hard and long, even after i was grown thank you dear father, for the love you have shown so much to be learned, from your experience all you went through, all your endurance i will always treasure, what you have done dear father of mine, you're number one so often this child, has failed to say how much you're loved, each passing day and i thank god, he picked you to be the greatest father, ever for me.
My father was the greatest man i ever knew and loved he never judged me, never scorned me and never held a grudge if i grow old being half the man that taught me all i knew then i would lie down in my grave amongst a privileged few.
When father ranney left the states, in canada to try the fates, he settled down in dereham, then no dairyman lived near him; he was the first there to squeeze his cow's milk into good cheese, and at each provincial show his famed cheese was all the go. then long life to father ranney may he wealth and honour gain aye. he always took the first prize both for quality and size, but many of his neighbors now profit by his labors, and the ladies dress in silk from the proceeds of the milk, but those who buy their butter, how dear it is, they mutter. then long life to father ranney may he wealth and honour gain aye. now we close this glorious theme, this song of curds and rich cream, you can buy your hoops and screws, and all supplies for dairy use, milk cans and vats, all things like these in ingersoll great mart for cheese, here buyers do congregate and pay for cheese the highest rate. so we call on you again aye, to honor father ranney.
'i know where i came from and i know where i am going' because i am not alone i walk with a god all knowing he is the light of the world and when i follow he lights my way no longer in darkness i trod i have the light of life through all my days all you need to do is welcome him in he will conquer the unconquerable soul wait with an open heart my sisters and brothers he is the one to make you whole because i know where i am going 'i stand with the father'.
The father conceives his son the son grows with his father the spirit allows the heritage father, son, spirit. the father says sweet things to his son the son is a rosebud to his father the spirit remembers the instant of conception spirit, father, son. the father works, gladly the son at school, learns much the spirit, lovingly, joins them son, father, spirit the son makes his father, a good father the union of father and son, is the work of the spirit of love spirit, son, father.
Hey father death, i'm flying home hey poor man, you're all alone hey old daddy, i know where i'm going father death, don't cry any more mama's there, underneath the floor brother death, please mind the store old aunty death don't hide your bones old uncle death i hear your groans o sister death how sweet your moans o children deaths go breathe your breaths sobbing breasts'll ease your deaths pain is gone, tears take the rest genius death your art is done lover death your body's gone father death i'm coming home guru death your words are true teacher death i do thank you for inspiring me to sing this blues buddha death, i wake with you dharma death, your mind is new sangha death, we'll work it through suffering is what was born ignorance made me forlorn tearful truths i cannot scorn father breath once more farewell birth you gave was no thing ill my heart is still, as time will tell.
Wilt thou forgive that sin where i begun, which was my sin, though it were done before? wilt thou forgive that sin, through which i run, and do run still, though still i do deplore? when thou hast done, thou hast not done, for i have more. wilt thou forgive that sin which i have won others to sin, and made my sin their door? wilt thou forgive that sin which i did shun a year or two, but wallow'd in, a score? when thou hast done, thou hast not done, for i have more. i have a sin of fear, that when i have spun my last thread, i shall perish on the shore; but swear by thyself, that at my death thy son shall shine as he shines now, and heretofore; and, having done that, thou hast done; i fear no more.
Fathers hold you when you have bad dreams and they comfort you when all is lost it seems. fathers teach you to dribble a basketball and shoot a free throw and they lead you as you grow. fathers teach you how to drive a car and they try to teach you how to putt for par. fathers wipe the tears of your broken heart and they hold your hand when you don't know how to start. fathers quiz the boys who take you on a date and they scold those boys who bring you home late. fathers carry you on their shoulders when you're too small to see and they watch as you giggle when they bounce you on their knee. fathers extend their feet to you when they teach you how to dance and they always give you a second chance. fathers wait in the wings while you start your own life and they pray for a husband to make you a wife. fathers walk you down the aisle on your wedding day but fathers never really give their little girls away.
She hears me strike the board and say that she is under ban of all good men and women, being mentioned with a man that has the worst of all bad names; and thereupon replies that his hair is beautiful, cold as the march wind his eyes.
Ulcerated tooth keeps me awake, there is such pain, would have to go to the hospital to have it pulled or would bleed to death from the blood thinners, but can't leave mother, she falls and forgets her salve and her tranquilizers, her ankles swell so and her bowels are so bad, she almost had a stoppage and sometimes what she passes is green as grass.there are big holes in my thigh where my leg brace buckles the size of dimes. my head pounds from the high pressure.it is awful not to be able to get out, and i fell in the bathroom and the girl could hardly get me up at all. sure thought my back was broken, it will be next time. prostate is bad and heart has given out, feel bloated after supper. have made my peace because am just plain done for and have no doubt that the lord will come any day with my release. you say you enjoy your feeder, i don't see why you want to spend good money on grain for birds and you say you have a hundred sparrows, i'd buy poison and get rid of their diseases and turds.
My beloved father, the last time we met in company with your confidant and friend abu, we spoke of many things. most importantly the history i'd lost in the half century of not being your son. you surrendered me for expediency because you were a man of peace. the circumstances of then made me who i am, and not necessarily the son you wanted; but that's another story.
The long lines of diesels groan toward evening carrying off the breath of the living. the face of your house is black, it is your face, black and fire bombed in the first street wars, a black tooth planted in the earth of michigan and bearing nothing, and the earth is black, sick on used oils. did you look for me in that house behind the sofa where i had to be? in the basement where the shirts yellowed on hangers? in the bedroom where a woman lay her face on a locked chest? i waited at windows the rain streaked and no one told me. i found you later face torn from the history of siege, eyes turned to a public wall and gone before i turned back, mouth in mine and gone. i found you whole toward the autumn of my 43rd year in this chair beside a masonjar of dried zinnias and i turned away. i find you in these tears, few, useless and here at last. don't come back.
The memory of my father is wrapped up in white paper, like sandwiches taken for a day at work. just as a magician takes towers and rabbits out of his hat, he drew love from his small body, and the rivers of his hands overflowed with good deeds.
We are not the same human, as we get experienced, day by day non stop, and we are not stagnant, but flowing with the current, holding hand to hand, collecting memories of, new relationship, forgetting the old, hurt and be hurt, happy and let others to be happy. at certain part of our life, our sweet presence, may become unnecessary, to the loved ones, so we have to pick up, the courage and wisdom, to draw the gentle demarcation, where everyone will be the king and queen, in their own territory.
Respect is earned respect is given respect is not demanded respect is not forced to give others respect is our tradition our culture my dear, forget not as you sow so you reap go on your own trip the engine of respect you see it is auto never bother who says what you say whatever you like as freedom of speech is there .
If you respect yourself respect to others you'll show never judge a person that you do not know but your political leaders feel free to praise or to criticize since their decisions impact on you that you must realize if you so wish you can heed or ignore my advice those with only personal power leave to their own device since any personal decisions they make do not impact on you as you'd like them to treat you likewise to them do anyone if they so choose with their words can be unkind and if you look for flaws in others then flaws you will find those kind with their words to their higher selves true we receive from life what is only our due those into trash talking i for one don't condone let the one without sin come and cast the first stone.
Give respect to a woman your mother your sister your daughter are there in a woman. give respect to a woman a woman is your wife and producing your children with much difficulties and rearing them sacrificing everything giving you pleasure at life's risk. give respect to a woman a woman is a woman you men can not describe a woman being the product of a woman you just give respect and beg excuse i know wrong is with you.
No respect dude the teenager said unhappy with me for not honouring the war dead but his idea of what is respect is quite different to mine he has his opinions and that suits me fine. the making of a young soldier in some future day to fight in a war from his homeland far away for by his own admission that is all he aspires for to be the heroes to him are not heroes to me. perhaps of emulating his ancestor the teenager does dream but those he sees as heroes are not mine it does seem my heroes believe in live and let live and any perceived wrongs of the past are happy to forgive. no respect dude words from one quite young perhaps one day too his praises will be sung and though he may not survive to march in the war parade at his grave site the last post for him will be played. my advice to no respect dude is live long as you can and forget about war live to be an old man and watch your great grandchildren in the children's playground play for life is for living as some are known to say.
Lord, teach us to hace and show respect for each other each day, patience and kindness to listen to what others have to say. we all have a need to turn to others at times, teach us to have enough respect to reach out, and not act blind. teach us to respect that others can teach us things in life as we walk, teach us to respect good criticism to us as with others we talk. lord just teach us to in all things to respect and show love each day, that is what we ask you today as we pray.
If you pay respect to where respect is due and to your own higher self try to remain true and treat everyone as an equal and all as the same your's ought to live on as a remembered name. if for everyone you believe on a 'fair go' and despite their race or creed due respect to them show and never ruin anyone's character with malicious lies above the ordinary you are one who does seem to rise. if you unlike many not addicted to greed and try to help those of help who are in need and of your own human flaws you do feel aware to say the least people like you are quite rare. if you do believe in the live and let live and you are not too proud to receive and generous enough for to give and respect to the rights of all others you pay then as a person you are doing quite okay.
I am sitting in the back of the bus observing the children play with the weather just gorgeous on a very lovely day a mother of two tries to discipline her son he just would not listen he just wanted to have fun as the mother told him to sit down he raised his foot at her i couldn't believe what i saw i was left in a stare where is the respect has this boy lost his mind the situation is looking bleak as the boy's behavior is so unkind.
Respect is what you earn not command that is something some find hard to understand you earn respect if respect you do show from people in your life you've come to know of respect or lack of we do read of and hear though 'tis a thing that cannot be born of fear of somebody who has power over you in your feigned respect your feelings are not true. many may respect and admire the high achievers of the town and applaud them on their journey to renown but with the many some do disagree through different eyes we see things differently. respect is something you can only show for one that you feel privileged for to know and of any shackles true respect is free that's how it is and that's how 'twill always be.
The world will not stop turning if friends we had none the world would be a better place having a genuine one. the rain will not stop falling because we cannot trust the rain will fall as tears when a friendship has been bust. the sun will not stop shining when friends walk away the sun will shine brighter having friends with you today. the moon will always shine way up there in the sky the world will continue to turn wether friends you and i. the love thats between friends is so easily broken our trust is all we can give others in return as a token. respect and hospitality we can all try and share being there for each other showing that we really care.
We have forgotten traditional values that was owed and very much due he teachers were considered as founding stone for the future of students alone even though the basic knowledge was from home the teachers were always welcome and adored their position it was respectable transition it may be with lack of facility that student might have faced in its utility the teachers have gone all out to help in every aspect and talked about the teachers were always held in high esteem but were less paid still they have performed their duties to the help and welfare of societies we naturally held high regard and look forward for heir guidance and advice it is always full of promises.
I would love to be hated for ever reason and stand related each action being criticized and cut to size that shall give me enormous joy nice reason to feel elated and enjoy at least you near to the people for what ever cause and trouble they will call you man of vested interest try to malign motive behind and test they want simple excuse to air dissent they have actually lost civility and curtsey is absent i am sure of great respect when they will know about my act the work put behind success and providing them best window with access with such intention, any man can work freely he has the platform and vast horizon readily he can go for in and utilize the space as has good intention show class in chase.
Women need it as mark of respect we all have to think seriously and introspect when god has made it then why do we stand as suspect? has everything got relevance with cast, creed, color or sect? yes, color do attract us for certain reasons it is natural and varies from person to person but is it the only criteria to hate an individual? still we have we to fight against role called dubious or dual? i salute to those who stand against such move? they may be threatened with their live or removed yet the fight may not be over till it ends we as an human beings must change our trend we are in land of peace and liberty we are equally blessed with freedom from almighty why do we create hatred only on the basis of color? this is not simple matter but serious and major some of the people may not speak openly against but secretly they will bless and insist that struggle rages on indefinitely the people are brandished and disappear quietly it is suppression and blot on humanity it is not even today discouraged for continuity enough blood has been shed and still it remains let us do everything which is possible in our domain.
Lovely and beautiful woman can be looked upon as human she can be guide and mentor in life she can prove as good wife too she has everything in form of natural gift she is embodiment of strength with no shift she is known for her kindness always keeps smile on face her life revolves around family fully conscious of duty assigned by an almighty she sees everything in her mission and performs till lat with compassion she applies no mind but remains always kind uses emotions of heart very real and as natural art trust and respect as she holds all noble acts as sister, wife and mother she holds position better.
People stay away and pay scant respect to beggars who stay not near? but far from civilized world to have their own fold they know and blow with wind and not mind someday some change may come in with time edge who knows what may be swept away? the fortune, wealth or greedy way no world for beggars no words for poor but look backward and then think forward patience they have and silently behave too with insult and deep restraint.
A man should have respect his case may not accord him that, nor his situation yet he must feel self worth. a man must have respect he may be poor and destitute but he is a child of god. he is a spark of the spirit he is a wonder in himself he is unique the greatest of animals. a man will have respect primordiality may refuse him it but he will strive all he may to clinch it still.
Respect each and every one you are for all in this procession. the procession is for peace and you are to present with information. no need of information act you are to chalk out your program and react. action and reactions are necessary they are both sides of the same coin. accept them all they are yours as you call.
Being doing the misery i was born yes, it was i nobody else, why? cuz, life means a lot for being a plot and, then leaving why, naah, never plz, dnt do that atleast, not with me i rise above hate to teach the lesson my passion, my ideal idol, the one the only my life champ, john cena may live forever, i love his every atom, character.
I will not allow a woman or a child to be abused or disrespected in my presence. i do not think racial slurs are humorous. i'm not interested in being converted to your religion. i am not interested in your sexual preference, not interested in playing games. i dont care what you own. i will do anything i can to help you, but i wont be owned by you. i will respect your right to opinions, you will respect mine. i'm not always a good man, but i'm a hard enough man to stand my ground.
I have respect for you in so many different ways. your fire and your passion, your kindness and your love, your strength to fight through all the pain. i openly admire you for your determined honest ways. i respect you for having given me so much of your patience and precious time. the second chances when i have screwed up like a foolish child. i respect that you've taken all the time to truly get to know me. broken through and down so many walls that so many others never had the courage to even try and climb. i love and respect you for understanding why the walls were there foe such a long time. i respect and admire your rock hard perseverance in the face of hate and doubt. i truly can't tell you all the ways i respect and love you for there's too much there to count. just know that i love you dear, respect you and hold you as a hero that i so admire and who's loving dedication and confidence i look to and aspire.
Respect to it has more than a one sided way do not expect the respect of others if respect to them you don't pay you treat other people as you'd like them to treat you and in turn they will give you the respect you are due you may be the wealthiest and most powerful person in your town and you feel that you have the right for to put others down and others respect you or so to you it does appear but between feigned and true respect the difference is quite clear despotic leaders believe the masses them do revere but this sort of feigned adulation is adulation through fear to protest in such circumstance they'd be risking their own lives and the lives of their children as well as their wives if you do not respect then respect do not expect to receive just a known fact of life that one ought to believe.
Self respect is self love self respect provoke love for others self respect is god respect self respect is self norishing self respect is self control respect and love respect and praise respect and join respect and rejoyce respect and cellebrate respect and enjoy for the love of god is respect.
All the diversity groups in the world won't help any situation. one solution is getting to know one another, then deciding whether or not we like a person for who they are. it's a way to combat what some see as racism. we're not meant to like everyone we meet and that's okay. live and let live, and respect the fact that we can't all get along. that's what makes the world unique and diverse. trying to make people fit some preconceived idea of a few people is totally absurd and asinine. leave people alone, go your own way, find your own place in life and don't expect others to follow your pathway.
When sun is above the horizon and, the light it spreads reaches our eye we forget the darkness, and think ourselves be blessed sun's power to light the glory world is self respect. when rain enters our rooftop, it doesnt ask whether you are rich or poor the melody of the sweetness is for everybody you may call it the rains self respect. wonderful stars are there in our sky and they twinkle to make the sky looks like in a wedding gown and, its sweetness is preserved in the fairy tales, thats the self respect that the stars have. when i mingled to write down a poetry, thinking it to be my only work supported by my passion, the happiness i get after make people smile, thats certainly the self respect i give to myself.
It is all but relative and no way connected with me. one should learn how to respect others one should know he has no right to disrespect others. it is true i am not unselfish, to certain extend i have to compromise with the right of others. i know i am no way connected with action and with the fruits there of. but i am here, and i will be here before you, my dear and it all depends on your visual capacity. what is there to renounce that i do not know you are seeing all at this moment on the next moment all these are not here what to say about others when i am not mine here.
Those who spend decades learning about nature of nature's ways will tell you they have much to know her deepest secrets we will never learn of and our wonder of her only seem to grow one could live for a thousand years and yet not know all about her as her most precious secrets with us she will never share and yet in part due to us she does seem much the poorer as many of her life forms either extinct or rare many of her waterways by us have been polluted our factories puff up black smoke to the sky why do we try to harm the one who feeds us that is the question many have asked why without us nature would do nicely though for to live on her we do depend she supplies all of our needs for our existence though to her we are not a good friend in technology humans have come far and many human achievements are great but we've not been respectful to nature and that's something we cannot celebrate but nature she will live forever and like her seasons we come to life and die immortality for us homo sapiens has surely been based on a lie we depend on her for our very existence and our achievements to her seem so small and though we are one of her life forms we do not respect her at all.
I am a woman respected some women i need to respect few women are not respectable but i am respecting them a golden rule i am respected for i am a woman i am ought to respect other women no matter what they do they act they pose they say i have to respect them that is their rights to be respected for a woman like me and a women like them respect is essential.
Respect is something that you and me ought to have respect is something that you and me ought to show respect is something that you and me ought to give respect is something that you and me ought to learn respect is something that you and me ought to share respect is something that you and me ought to know.
Nobody gives a damn about you until you pick up a gun or strap on a bomb and kill someone with your version of kindness nobody gives a damn about you until you have a couple too many drinks get behind the wheel of your suv and kill someone with your version of having fun nobody gives a damn about you until you call someone a honky or a nigger and kill someone with your version of the truth nobody gives a damn about you until you learn to give a damn about yourself.
Respect women for they bring a lot into this world they are just more than procreators bringing in girl or a little boy. they are the caregivers, the nurturers, and have a gentle touch do respect feminine energy and honor it more than a bunch. don't abuse women no longer on this planet so dear by being disrespectful like slapping them on the rear. how disrespectful can that be? it shows the person who does it has no respect or integrity. written by christina sunrise on august 12,2013.
The 12 steps to gain respect.more or less the more you demand respect the less respect you possess the more humility you possess the less humiliation you own the more kindness you own the less penance you owe the more respect you owe the less friends you have the more friends you have the less help you need the more help you need the less arrogance you show the more arrogance you show the less love you will know the more love you know the less hate will grow the more hate you grow the less wisdom you display the more wisdom you display the less foolishness you practice the more foolishness you practice the less love you will know from jehovah the more love you know from jehovah the less respect you demand.
What to expect? dirty dust under my feet. am i a cheat? i am holding your hands i am touching your forehead i am in front of your eyes i am a flower in the garland you wear. tell me, tell me, who am i and you are in equanimity with new clothes every moment taking me upwards with and without my consent. all these are here not for the sake of show i realized and you called me loudly i want to sacrifice myself for you and you are declaring my victory at the end. what to do with that victory that i do not know and i am sure i know not the beginning and the end and in the middle i am in my life threefold.
Blue sky, blue sky. looking at you, wishing the day by. blue sky, purple sky. storm coming in, here it is, there's the eye. blue sky, grey sky. the earth is wailing, the thunder yells, and the clouds cry. blue sky, grey sky, black sky. tore away at the moon, swallowed stars, listened to the sun die. black sky green sky orange sky red sky pink and yellow and mean sky. come on and roll in; it's only in my mind.
The sky is low, the clouds are mean, a travelling flake of snow across a barn or through a rut debates if it will go. a narrow wind complains all day how some one treated him; nature, like us, is sometimes caught without her diadem.
Blue sky yesterday grey today did the blue sky go away? what is blue and sunny too? the blue sky hiding behind the grey. grey today but with blue sky waiting to come out and play. the sun is laughing at my blueness blue sky with its greyness never meant for sadness. blue sky here today but with a greyness covering all the blueness this is what i want to say.
My eyes set their gaze across the horizon the sun is setting in late fall afternoon cold snap in the air as the leaves swirl about a welcoming view is the painted pink sky streaks of pale blue dotted with white have been suddenly brushed with a soft pastel the beauty is breathtaking, such natural artistry i am in awe of the painted pink sky i think of you now, how magnificent it would be to find ultimate and much needed serenity wrapped up in your strong arms in loves sweet embrace to be held by you under the painted pink sky.
Under the gleaming stars above for we love live and laughter sweet heart both you and i your cheeks just two roses you keep a happy smile there a golden flowers shining all the while with two lovely blue eyes and four golden hair my heart keep singing as if our love be forever spring is here there is music in the air you are love by all the world is smiled upon admired by all spring touch is every where beautiful shies gold and blue the melody in your heart and the love song be forever my darling.
Though there are miles between us, though the days and the nights may seem long, look up to the stars and know, that no matter where you are, i'm there with you, no matter where you go, my love you'll have. if ever you are lonely, or think you don't belong, look up to the stars and know, that i'll be there with you, so you won't be lonely, when you think that you don't belong, i'll be around to make sure you do. whenever we're apart, always remember, look up to the stars.
My hair is light sky blue, and my eye's are deep brown. what does that say to you? , please don't look at me and frown. well, my head is in the clouds, my eye's, are focused on earth. i do not wear any shrouds, and my life is full of mirth. when my head comes back to earth, and my eye's look at the sky. i wonder about my birth, and ask a lot of questions, why? why? , is not such a blur, it's always the same answer. we are all here to learn, if not, you get another turn.
Black sails, against a midnight sky, he buried his heart on an island. some day. it won't matter when, she'll open a green bottle and find within, a scribbled map that shows just where he buried himself.in despair. it'll read, from the oceans edge first, two steps forward and quench your thirst.for i am a river, disguised as a stream.for i am life, disguised as a dream. wake me, my love, wake me, i'll give you a sign, of where you can find this heart of mine.buried deep, and buried well. and far enough away from the oceans swell, that not just any one, sailing by, would know that it was i. black sails, against a midnight sky, he buried his heart on an island. he lay there buried, for what seemed like years, the oceans edge soon mixed with tears, and he waited and waited, though she never came, and the island no longer now looks the same. time has eroded both beach and sand with no more trace upon the land of where he buried his hope, and dream, scribbled on a message within a bottle of green. black sails, against a midnight sky, he buried his heart on an island.
Im not so sure he loves me. im not so sure i do. but when im around him. my heart tells me its true. when im around this guy, i feel like i can fly. so high i can touch the sky. i get all nevous and i get all red. i start to get a little light headed. he talks to me. its like a fantasy. i dont know whats left in the world. when he is not here to have me hold.
I reach for the end of day orange, pink, lavender, gray and watch it slide out of my fingers as the sun dips behind the horizon for night to come. the nights come with blacks and grays, moon and stars and some nights clouds draw the drapes to the sky and i wonder what is up there, invisible to my eye. sometimes i wait for mornings for those colors to reappear and reach for wonderful things the sun saw while on the other side of the world as i watched the night sky.
The sun has burst the sky because i love you and the river its banks. the sea laps the great rocks because i love you and takes no heed of the moon dragging it away and saying coldly 'constancy is not for you'. the blackbird fills the air because i love you with spring and lawns and shadows falling on lawns. the people walk in the street and laugh i love you and far down the river ships sound their hooters crazy with joy because i love you.
Sun is dad spreads love and cheer with each of his rays children's laughter everywhere moon is mom watching over the earth to make sure we dont miss our way in her varying ways she cares for each and all taking in all the pain to make sure all things are fine earth, earth, earth is my lover pulling me close all the time giving me food and a perpetual shelter even when i am mere skeletons and bones.
Give to me one more kiss. impart your spirit on my memory. chill my heart with a touch. ignite me with a glance. wrap yourself around me. and stir my soul with a smile. meet me on a midnight moon. where we can laugh and fly. make a dream that soars on wings. and kiss beneath a liquid sky.
I opened a letter but i couldn't read up in the sky down on the ground i must pick my posion do i feel pain with every breath or do i live in the sky after my death normal thoughts visit at times suicide ideas still exist day and night are always mine suicide tries are on my wrist the sky is peaceful and blue but also dark and blind if i become a walking soul my pain i will not find maybe, i could be wrong up in the sky down on the ground i must pick my posion.
Across the red sky two birds flying, flying with drooping wings. silent and solitary their ominous flight. all day the triumphant sun with yellow banners warred and warred with the earth, and when she yielded stabbed her heart, gathered her blood in a chalice, spilling it over the evening sky. when the dark plumaged birds go flying, flying, quiet lies the earth wrapt in her mournful shadow, her sightless eyes turned to the red sky and the restlessly seeking birds.
The sky is pink the grass is blue up is down and so are you to run is walk when left is right hop is fly and black is white east is west the sun is green the walls above the floor between the rain goes up the dirt comes down glad is sad and smile is frown to hear is speak to see is smell down are clouds and up are wells when you are me and i am you nobody knows just what to do.
The wind was kicking up from the northwest storm clouds gathered to section off the sun intense displays of furious pyrotechnics flashed brilliantly from the mouth of the dark beyond as nature made its feelings known and i lay slowly dying from a self inflicted stab at ending my family's drought having fallen on my sword as required in human sacrifice my blood letting was to be washed clean and absorbed into the dry parched earth beneath my heavy soul and the heavens would open up to receive me for all which flows from them, so shall all be returned.
Look up to the cloudy sky i can see no stars tonight just the silver moon above there honey, please know that i really care i wish i were there with you you hug me n i kiss you look at the moon from our veranda the mars and the twinkle little six stars i am longing to be with you i miss you sweetheart, it's truely true i always have you in my heart i'm with you, you're with me, even we're apart good night to you my dearest darling wish you sing a beautiful song while i sleeping seeing you tonight in my sweet dreams 'up to the stream' singing together as we're team.
Bodies falling from the sky, like drops of dreams, like sweet lies. without wings, and only with our souls.. we are able to fly, fusing with the sky.becoming one. in my dreams, the sky is like a canvas, my soul all colors, and my body a feather brush, in the hands of a blowing child. i love life more than my own life. to die we have to live, to wake up we have to sleep, to finish we have to start, to leave we have to arrive, these are the reasons why, flying keep us alive. my new thoughts, kill my old ones, my new me, kill my old one. we must dream, to let the day die we must fly, to let our bodies disattach. souls.bodies.minds in the sky. we set them free, they never die, they just go to another dimension, like this.like there.like that.
Dance me to your beauty with a burning violin dance me through the panic 'til i'm gathered safely in lift me like an olive branch and be my homeward dove dance me to the end of love dance me to the end of love.
Sometimes we do the rumba, a foxtrot or a jive, as we dance through our life, each and every day. we dance and we dance, each day through. everyday to a different tune, just to get us through. in all our loving moments, we waltz through life, and in those complicated moments, we will twist the whole night through. for everything we do, there is a dance to get us through. for every day, we dance our life away. 17 june 2007.
At first i thought she waltzed, but then i saw the error of my observation powers. she waddled, all that blubber, garnished with shoulder pads, covert suspenders and duct tape, size called 'infinity', a wave of air preceded the mass, mostly the temperature was high but in the noise of raucous laughter it was hard to tell what happened. yes, men were at her feet, all over the dancing hall, though hardwood on a polished floor is without comfort. no one was able to keep standing, it was too much to grin and bear. majestic gestures emanated, clearly, there was confusion as to the identity and origin, was this thing human then? and, in the end it was decided that it had been good to have this episode, though fleeting pay its short visit, although the most intriguing part about the thing, consisted of its skills to speak of things that human beings hold dear, some raunchy stuff included. and all were shocked, though pretty glad when hardwood planks did give and cracked, and blubber sank to vanish through the hole, from where some devils must have grabbed to commandeer the energy, all the triglycerides, not food for thought but something quite substantial.
In twilight days of half meals we gathered weapons in, anger long stilled into vaporous ether whisked away unseen, a constant blown clear off these curled brows for it had finally been enough this unfathomable loss of us the fighting of flesh, the torn minds ripping and flailing about of limbs, acts against greater odds, desperate thoughts lingering for eternity between hot breaths sweat of common and high ranking mingled with battle fluids crushed beneath wild gaze and maiden strengths slipping about every heart, our fallen purged to the surface in anguish unblemeshed ghost fathers nagging the mete of our worth dispatched at ever more familiar foe pressing fate amid this clumsy waltz of true victory none, then weary home.
Dance with me take my hand pull me close caress my body with your warm embrace as the music plays press your lips upon mine let the music take control dance with passion as our body's become entwine feel the fire of desire that burns within move with the music let it slowly guide your hands the music controls are bodies our passions begging to be released will you dance with me.
Did she ever dance the tango on those clear and cloudless nights? did she ever wash the dishes? while i was wondering what might time have made of our new loving or was it moving out of sight? did she ever fully love you? or did she merely say she did? did she sometimes feel too tired? or did she not have any kids? did you simply just forget me? why did you let my passion die? why did you never ever let me just be me so i could fly?.
I'll dance all night i'll dance the pain away i'll dance until the morning sun graces us with day i'll dance until i'm numb until i don't feel anymore i'll dance until i'm gone and don't remember what i'm dancing for i'll dance until you love me i'll dance the rest of my life i'll dance until you return by the moon's gentle light i'll dance to the music of my shattering heart i'll dance until it doesn't hurt as you tear me apart.
Did you leave me here alone to face this world of emptiness while i wanted to have the dance of love with you did you leave me here alone to face this silence i wanted to whisper the song of love, into your ears while my hands were dancing on your skin feeling the warmth of your inside did you leave me here alone to face this dark night alone while i need the candle of hope, burning with warmth and light in our all cold and dark nights.
Dance, dance and dance dance at once if you get chance to celebrate joy with intention to enjoy keep cool even if someone calls you fool keeps you on target and tries to seal your fate loose no patience and keep silence with no reaction for alter action i am not worried and carried by simple accusation that spoils good relation be in joyous mood with nutritious food that may be simple but rich in contents for individual.
I'm thinking hard, but my mind should be empty. i practice the movements, but they come out all wrong. when i stop, and think, i concentrate, on one thing, dance. and i dance. and it's graceful, when you think. be passionate with your movements, listen to the song, the beats, the rhythyms, and flow. and dance. dance. smile. be.
Dance through life dance through time dance around the felings you don't want to be mine you are dancing through a world you don't want to see you are beating to a rhythm that doesn't lift you free from this headbang you are performing slow down your pace recollect your mind stop all the things you never wanted to find make peace with your song go ahead and dance away life find your true inside and make peace with your strife dance around those feelings dance around the world dnace straight to your heart and what you want to make yours.
A little ray of hope across a midnight sky a time for all time, a light to shine sunrise and sunset caught in one net for ever fighting to stay one. a moon and a sun wanting to be as one to set together, in a time lost in forever earth moon and stars fade together a longing that fades into forever the alpha and omega fading in and out longing to be together but always in doubt a rainbow brings hope, a new way to cope we all need thathope to stop salt filled tears from falling oiling the way for another day.
Life is every where life life is a challenge life is a gift life is a chance life is a tragedy life is lonely life is pain life is full of frustration life is a mystery life is love life is made of hurt life is not a bed of roses life is a dance for you to dance life is every state of mind what is life? life is a puzzle, solve it life is full of unexpected life is unexplainable life. maria luisa taylor. 2.2011.
Dance, my little puppets dance for me dance, my little puppets and you shall see dance, my little puppets the truth you seek dance, my little puppets the truth i will speak dance, my little puppets set your soul free dance, my little puppets dance for me dance, my little puppets the truth you find dance, my little puppets do not hide dance, my little puppets dance for me dance, my little puppets truth is a lie, cant you see dance, my little puppets dance for me dance, my little puppets dance to see dance, my little puppets start to begin dance, my little puppets this is the end.
Dance dance dance it's time for a little romance chance chance chance catch my eye and return my glance dance dance dance the music puts me in a trance do the mambo with me baby come on baby let's dance.
Like an infant in the cradle i rocked in his arms and penned this fable the sweet lucid lyrics of the song made me forget right and wrong he looked at me as if a rainbow in the sky my heart skipped a beat and i felt so shy my silky black hair acted as a veil but his one touch and i let myself sail he held me close and his lips touched mine as if a thirsty soul tasted french wine my fingers then reached his curly hair ang got entwined without care i envisioned our future in those moments so pure he is my soulmate my heart said for sure the time should stand still was my wish i know i was acting childish one last embrace and that will be all for i have to rush back before my dad's call mesmerized by the thought of that beautiful evening i am writing this while his intoxicatins smell still lingering..
You have no dance item to do barring this lungi dance, taking full air, the lungi dance is but a loafer's dance and the lungi cannot come to anyone's rescue during the chilly winter. the lungi dance, the lungi dance the loafer saying and whistling it and dancing in his go as you like style, dancing and whistling, the lungi no dress is it, but the loafer's dance.
Are you angry so you are now hermit under the guise of a crab. come out and blow your pipe to make me dance. you know, your silence, i can't withstand. come on and dance, dance with me just now. without you i can't even stand.
Ill dance 4 luv ill dance 4 pain i dance hopeing theres still luv 2 gain ill dance for them ill dance for me ill dance just to let the emotion see ill dance in rain ill dance in shine ill dance hopeing youll be mine ill dance then ask dance with me? dont go just say we'll dance on this day then you'll leave ill danc and still beilive ill dance 4 luv ill dance 4 pain ill dance hopeing theres still love 2 gain.
Our thoughts are the blooms and the wind our admirers in so many ways it blows and each time it does the petals put on a different dance into the world we dance with friends for each friend a different attire i put on to show my appreciation for every friend a different step in my dance to show my love.
Autumn. fall. leaves drop. cranberry, gold, chocolate, and rust. twitter and giggle as the wind blows them about. black birds glide through the air with a graceful ebb and flow. breathing in and out. confused, perhaps, on which way to fly. the weather, sweet mother, taunting us with warm days and cold nights. swift breezes. sweet hot cocoa kisses. gleam in the eye's of babes, tossing leaves up and out of their grasp. only to watch them glide back down to the starting position. hot teas, warm soups, crusty breads, melted butter. shawls wrapped around chilly shoulders. warm arms nestling you into love. snuggling under blankets. this is the season to fall. fall into dreams, kisses, love, and joy. hibernation begins. the season of hearty living, warm embraces and joyful awareness in ones own self. welcome autumn. welcome to the fall of life. a time when maturity has reached it's peak and spirals back down to rest before beginning again. the spiral dance has begun. we decline, to ascend. we bow down, to rise again. we ebb and flow to the rhythm of life. inhale and exhale. we all dance to this beat. we dance with quiet feet. welcome, welcome, i welcome you with warmth and gratefulness. come, and begin the dance with us. we have been waiting.
Dance, dance to the music dance, dance to the beat dance, dance to the rhythm stomp your feet dance, dance even though your tune they don't hear dance, dance for yourself have no fear dance, dance if you're alive you're doing well dance, dance and grin so the world can tell you know you've got a life to live and you're looking at the joy this world can give and you're dancing and laughing, you won't be dragged down you'd rather keep moving than wear a deep frown dance, dance til it's played to the end dance, dance with a smile my truly brave friend.
I have been touched by loves hand if but one moment in time and it's feeling wheat fields harvest can not compare in value or worth i have felt inside it's mystical spell and it's dance upon a thin line so fair if but for a moment one small stitch of time two souls reached the promise of the rainbow 'twas late august eve beneath full moon sky she placed her heart in my soulful hand to this very day somewhere deep within the magic has home to which it resides that one dreamers dance we did share long ago now holds my heart never letting go.
You walk up to me those blue oceans of yours twinkling as you take my hand and lead me towards the crowded room. as your arm goes around me i smile while we begin to drift away into our own little fantasy world that only the two of us can occupy. you slowly move in closer until you're inches away from my eyes the essence of you going through me as you softly speak into my mind. the music has ended now back to reality we stand looking at each other with a new light wondering what will happen the next time we dance.
Dance little baby, dance up high, never mind baby, mother is by; crow and caper, caper and crow, there little baby, there you go; up to the ceiling, down to the ground, backwards and forwards, round and round; dance little baby, and mother shall sing, with the merry coral, ding, ding, ding.
Today was perfect. allegro bach's oboe ribbons dancing oranges and lemons vivace feet flying faces bubbling eager arms outstretched adagio soft circle candle dancing supple bodies stretching presto in the air donkey kicks higher and higher god i love doing this.
Unwise find tempting habit learned helplessness corrodes victim souls event exposes life adverse stimuli eats wears away gnaws heart in hate reactions impaired personalities jealousy corroded characters deteriorated hearts minds endores learned helplessness review study mental states soul trapped organic organisms people displaced in bodies aversive stimuli forced to endure painful unpleasant repeat stimuli produces scare shell encased souls trauma shell shock broken victims confined upon tragedy life planes repeated horrors wears down tar set trapped souls unable unwilling to flee fear forthcoming encounters unable to avoid escape out run subsequent encounters damaging stimuli is not always avoidable escapable unwise dependency find tempting manipulation habit learned desired helplessness corrodes player victim souls dependency was acquired compassion sympathy seekers sought symbiosis learned shell cast coping techniques when tar trapped in cannot control horror situations learned helplessness is experience contracted molasses binding mental state organism was fear forced to endure aversive stimuli stimuli sizzles painful unpleasant trauma terror errodes suffering soul victim becomes unable unwilling to avoid subsequent encounters with stress inflicted stimuli even if escapable previous brutality taught victim has trauma learned it cannot control situations elephant wooden peg bound learned helplessness theory is another explaination theory let us take a prescribed view clinical depression is related to cousin mental illnesses perhaps close kissing cousins cause might be perceived absence of personal control over outcome truma situation pet clinical studies indicate organisms that have not been ineffective are less sensitive in determining consequences of their own behaviour patterns. quick give rat more buzz zaps are defined as having acquired learned helplessness syndromes but what choice did a rat caged have not being houdini escape rat artist could not escape zap test? but you human are not are not a rat test caged escape constaining bonds if you can flee adversity. what does a rat know about human feelings? i know happiness smiles can cure cancers if taken as refuse to accept stress worries as self curing healthy enlightened philosophy.
Like lightening to a bug, my world is transformed into another place. life is worn inside out, filled with doubt and insecurity. how can life go on in a trench so deep and mired with sadness? so quiet, so gently, everything turned around and no more feeling was felt. away from it all to a deserted isle within, hidden from all, attempting to follow heart's desires. silently waiting for forlorn music to end this sympathy symphony held daily within. taking notice of images, always standing within reach, contemplating their worth when life is done. all is lost, there is no more to work with. life has ended on this quiet, forlorn afternoon. and no one is the wiser for it.
A pocketful of sympathy is really rather wonderful to stop a scratch from stinging or a bruise from black and bluing a pocketful of sympathy can stop a heart from hurting or catch a tear that's falling like a raindropp down a cheek a pocketful of sympathy costs absolutely nothing it's the cheapest kind of plaster that you'll ever ever find and a pocketful of sympathy is like lindsay's magic pudding 'cos the more of it you give away the more you leave behind.
Irvan 12 april 1998 stars illuminate the darkness that night my heart amazing i still sit down and read the silence peel the skins memories that become embedded in spirit and grain flavor that started accompanying the hearts of all the senses i knew this trip would still be much longer although not as if i will survive i will keep trying to survive and survive to you my reason to survive i do not care whatever happens between us but i may know what you feel in your heart when i walked away from you my inner voice, screaming, mountain life abort and i never sleep without kissing your shadow as if longing urge you to come back again once inside, holy, eternal and sincere i love you and will always continue to love you how should i explain it to you so simple but so hard to say.
Hey what did you say, hey in which way? i called the doctor, but he told me to pay. o please tell me what does a speaker do? o please tell me what does a heater do? o please tell me what is a music? i don't know because, i am always sick. you should be happy, you can enjoy sound. because for me it, is never found.
Do you have any sympathy for god? because i have some sympathy for god do you believe in god? because i believe in god do you know who created you in his image? god created you in his image and that is not a lie.
As the television played to an empty room we fell apart in the kitchen; cups of untouched, unsuguared conversation brewed in my mouth but i said nothing. you said nothing but swallowed hard and that was the last time we spoke about love.
Can you be able to love without dream can you be able to own without understand you will never take you will never care i'm only a name you will never run you will never look around my shadow far from your heart can you be able to care but never reach should i hate to make you understand without talk without try only emotion you just say can't get it right just erase me here can you be able to promise but your heart's tired can you be able to protect without see me i realize i really know you you only hide you will never care you will never understand.
Some times we hold on somebodies.. that we feel that we care more about them. despite. that they only caused to us only a pains.. and we still long for them, in spite of that. and miss them from time to time. while they not deserve that yearning or this desire, , , even they not deserve this love which we hold inside our hearts for them..
Where is the voice in my head if any help it wants to be now would be the best these hands which flawlessly curse me perform a symphony of sympathy a one man orchestra of confusion and heartbreak where is this trust i've heard so much about but can't seem to find and to the world in which i stay don't hate me when i say 'this identical state of mind from the glass we look through can you locate the hopes of the citizens you erase you know our names and our faces but could you take one look at a blooming blue rose straight in the eye and call it ugly could you look at a hummingbird and ask for its wings to cease it's beat we are the angels of this life all we need is our wings so could you help me find mine the ones i lost some time ago.
I have no sympathy for you you took advantage of me but you want to act like you did nothing wrong you need to open your eyes and see you are your own worse enemy but you will not take responsibility i will not be your friend anymore because you have really hurt me.
We christen things we call them by their names names are famous and infamous the wind blows in different directions what should i call my sympathy? a relation, a compensation, a smart help, or a prayer to god for my anguish, scattered on the floor? it is a pillow for their heavy heads, a salty soup or a cup of confection, doesn't interest them. envy is ripe, very palpable to their tongues. they will accuse me and handcuff my wings they will take it as a nodule on the nose i dread despicable things i fear life too bereft of commiseration.
Ageing bella in the house at the corner outdoors she is not often seen she was a potential swimming olympian till a motoring accident she had at eighteen brought an end to her swimming career back in ninteen seventy three and condemned her to life in a wheelchair she does deserve great sympathy. she could not compete in the olympics and swim her way into renown and become the toast of the nation and the heroine of her hometown it robbed her of her chance of having children she has never been any man's wife one might say she was quite unlucky that accident ruined her life. she is quite an attractive woman her brown hair flecked with strands of gray she had spent years of her life in a wheelchair seven to ten years before her prime day when i meet her she smiles and says hello but sometimes she looks rather sad i can only empathize with her a terrible life she has had. thirty six of her fifty four years in a wheelchair since her widowed mum died five years ago she has lived on her own lady luck is surely against her a terrible life she has known confined to a wheelchair due to a car crash on the highway which robbed her of her chance of fame in swimming she was a young champion and for herself making a name.
As much as you want to believe it there is not sympathy in this world the only thing that god wants for us is that we die in our own pain to suffer the mistakes that we have made to feed on our blood if god has no sympathy. than who does?.
Blessed is the smile of the person which also can be gracious for the happiness of others blessed is the mouth of the person which speaks sincerely and honestly blessed are the eyes of the person which also can see the suffering of others blessed are the hands of the person which also can feel and carry the sorrow of others.
What's hell with everything that has ever happened i'll keep stepping and stepping to back i only smell your perfume and looked in the shadows of your eyes showing steps in any direction i understand its true that made me compassion because you are beautiful universe because you have wanted to own something i got and to me thou fairest nymph among all the angel who dwells in heaven when the night wind swept stars it was just me, the moon and your shadow i just do not care how crazy and be so i sat in the meadow that extend slowly i fall down my body right and i looked sharp and bright shining moon there was a gnawing loneliness night song my body feels lifted and flying towards the dark side of moon i saw you dancing in the bright light of the moon but like a dream that never real i never reach your and my body suddenly slammed hard in the mountain hard and sharp coral only i get sick and wounded why did i formerly sympathy to you? what could this something wrong with me?.
They don't have any sympathy for me because when i try to explain something it goes in in one ear and comes out the other sometimes i even wonder if they got the message at all it is even hard to say maybe they don't speak english well enough to understand me have i tought of that? no i never consider it maybe that is a fact.
I still love you, you abandoned me, when i was too young, i was taught to hate you, i could not, though i did try, i still love you, crave for your love too, you did not even tell me, why you did, what you did to me, was i wrong in being what i was to you? i still love you, i was born to you, it was your choice, to bring me in, i had not asked for it, but you still did, what you did to me, i still love you, will you ever come back to take me, i am growing up neglected, i wish i survive that wait till eternity, and you get back to me, your destiny.
Destiny where do i find you? destiny where can i look for you? destiny where are you hiding? why are you hiding from me? destiny what do you have for me? destiny what are my options? destiny which door is open for me? destiny do you have anything for me that i might want? destiny can i get any satisfaction from you? destiny are you my friend?.
Nothing better than not knowing what's going to happen, nothing better than eating chocolate to numb the pain. wishing my friends knew that i love them, wishing he knew im madly in love with him. hoping the best comes out of my mistakes, hoping i live to see tomorrow. listening to the ones i love the most, listening to the pounding heart in fear. seeing nothing but a fanasty world, seeing the truth that lies behind your eyes. tasting the truth of life, tasting the pain of unknown. living like theres no tomorrow, living without the truth. smelling the sweet revenge, smelling the destiny that lies within.
To get you to smile means the world to me i dont know where to begin through thick and thin and in between you loving me has been a dream i always wondered if dreams came true it was proved to me the day i met you i love you soo much you'll never know day by day my love for you grows love has always been a game for me but with you loving me it seems like destiny.
One day i say i love you, one day you say you love me, i was always so happy because i was loved eternally, for all time because its just you and i, like a fairytale come to life we live happily ever after you and i, for all eternity just us, you and me this is are destiny, i love you and you love me.
When i am happy, bustling with successes in life, when my dreams are fulfiiled, with love and riches i desired, i do not even think that, my destiny brought me here, i just give credit to myself. when we meet our beloved, when we start to love and miss each other, why we give all the credit to fate and destiny? we strove to get into that enchanted world, we played all the rituals of the love acts, there is no destiny, we got into it by our own free will. when we are sad, with the miseries of life and death, with broken dreams of happy life, with tormented heart in our love oasis, why we think that all of it was in our destiny? life is like an ocean wave, it has low tides, soon to be followed by the high tide, all we need is faith and determination, to get over the notion of our predetermined destiny. destiny does not shape our future, we do by our deeds and actions, i do not beleived in pre professed destiny, because i shape my own destiny.
If my destiny is already chosen. then why do i need to make it mine? if i was to live like this then why did i have to redefine the meaning of death and this drastic lose of faith.? gods are getting scarce. worshipping affinity we are distortion's the order of the day mistrust is here only to stay stitching together the images of fear destiny replacing 'curse'. gods. they are getting scarce.
Destiny hopefully knocks on our door at the right time because i know i missed the train and forgotten my ticket when it has tried to give me a chance i have become ecstatic and full of light ever since destiny came together like a puzzle i had the box and the pieces in my possession but i guess it took a little bit of time because i over think i over analyze i have this unbeatable streak of missing destiny's knock on the door well finally i answered and everything is coming together no missing pieces no bent or child manipulated pieces just a brand new box with the plastic wrapping right next to it with the steep price tag of 31 years the pieces are all out like my exposed heart everything is there everything is fastened together everything is great i apologize to myself for wasting so many years before i found my destiny.
Standing here on the threshold of a brand new dawn, we ponder over things wondering if we belong within this crazy world of ours. wondering if our destiny waits for us somewhere else. we never know the outcome until the time comes along. there is no way to change it and no reason to do it. just let the future shape our destiny whenever and wherever that might eventually be. 1 february 2008.
What determines our destiny to be? what we become, futures predestined to see. where will roads lead untill it all ends? destiny calling, live's for some predestined to spend. why do our lives, create a passion for some? and then for others, there seems to be none? struggling to be what is too far from fingers reach, never accomplishing, what it is that you have preached. dreams and hopes, they fade in the mist, grasping at life, from the dark depth of an abyss. looking back at what could, should, may have been, lacking that door of opportunity for your passion deep within. silver spoons for some placed in the mouths of their young, others dying to achieve selling you dreams with forked tongues. jokes being played an other's laughter not heard, destiny fullfilled at the bottom of a bottle at a curb.
I stood on a hill overlooking the sea, and wondered what my destiny be. would i be loved or would i be lonely? would i sail on a pirate clipper in search of some lost treasure? the wind ruffled my hair, but the sea never spoke to me. every person has a journey, for some it is long, while others it is short. no one can read our destiny; we only make it what it is to be.
My destiny is tired. the slope leads upwards, onwards, into clouds and far beyond. my destiny, like me, walks slowly mumbles softly remembers ancient rhymes. my destiny, not knowing why hardly realising that every game has it's rules has decided to try though, tired, and betrayed, a little bit frayed has decided to carry on, far beyond, with aching feet, on the winding path, the trees the boulders and rocks to avoid the torrent gushing beneath. copyright rani turton 2008.
A little plum dropped from the tree and struck a frog upon his knee. the frog did hurt and cried a lot the plum said oops, i plum forgot. which wasn't altogether true you see a plum is always blue a frog however must be green thus he can easily be seen. so, folks, it truly stands to reason that in the fall, the ripening season a bit of care would be advised that way a frog is not surprised. in any case, the knee did swell the plum just stayed right where it fell, so in an effort now to heal the frog fell for the plum appeal. he grabbed the plum and opened wide the plum prepared for its last ride. and said before it was too late a plum is to be eaten, mate. so, you can see that those that fall from trees or buildings, big and tall will usually just fail to see the maker of their destiny.
A thought leads to, a desire. a desire, leads to, an action. an action, leads to, a habit. a habit, leads to, a character. a character, leads to, a destiny. a bad thought, nip it, at its bud. a good thought, nurture it, as i said. your thought of a drink, kindles a desire, for a peg. your desire for a peg, takes you, to the bar. your visit to the bar, leads you, drink a peg. your first peg in the bar, makes you, a habitual visitor. your character, as a regular visitor, names you, a drunkard. as a drunkard you're, the day isn't far, for your rest in the grave. a thought of the lord, creates a desire, to see jesus. a desire to see jesus, leads you, to the nearest church. your visit to the church, makes you, a habitual visitor. your habitual visit to the church, converts you, a devotee of the lord. you're, as a servant of the lord, destined to his abode, on the day of judgment. now, you know the recipe, of your own destiny, to keep you ever happy.
Three roses, wan as moonlight, and weighed down each with its loveliness as with a crown, drooped in a florist's window in a town. the first a lover bought. it lay at rest, like flower on flower, that night, on beauty's breast. the second rose, as virginal and fair, shrunk in the tangles of a harlot's hair. the third, a widow, with new grief made wild, shut in the icy palm of her dead child.
Wounded by destiny, i struggle, for a life, i thought never existed, a life without his touch, a life without his shine, a life without his love, a life that was never mine stabbed by the truth of his death, i breath, an air devoid of that fragrance, fragrance of trust, so scattered, fragrance of loyalty that mattered, fragrance of faith, so divine, fragrance of love, you were never mine strangled by his thoughts, i died, in the shades of his memories, memories of the way he loved me, memories of the way he cared, memories of the times i cried, memories of the promises we made.
Agony entangles me and around my soul fire storms down on a winter night moonlight shines its glorious light signs of the battle for what witch will be right open the gates and carry away there fright through the valley of the thunder deep in stormy winter ice its time now so roll the dice is this the old mans advice suffering this agony is this the price to stand up for glorious freedom or fall down in shame you cant fly away you will have to stand up and face thus brothers of fallen swords rise tonight past agony, and despair fighting onwards but can not fight away destiny awaits thee open the gates forevermore we fight fighting for freedom till the sword frees thus open the gates as we walk through with honor for freedom we fight freedom of personal will our souls will carry out another day it will shine and raise past the universe forevermore we stay free forevermore we will fight for freedom till sword have free thus for the sword i live and by the sword i will fight to i die for eternity i'll fight onwards even if i cant fight away ill rise again for valhalla will await me and i will be immortal for destiny will come as my time to stand by odin's will come forth as i walk through the gates i walk through with honor freedom i fight to the end for now destiny lays greater then kings and hummed lands fighting onwards but can not fight away for freedom i fight for freedom i lost sight but my soul carries on for now i'm immortal as i stand side by side destiny i ride so open up the gates as i walk thought with honor oh i awaited thee the day when the sword would free so destiny could be to open the gates, and walk through with honor as i stand side by side with odin i am now immortal.
The voices of hope. screaming for lives.. were not fulfilled the truth is we can't handle the truth take me to the place. where the weather is fine all around we could live till the world is no longer exists. and remember the arts of love implies to flirtation your longing. is descriptive well painted onto the canvas of psychopath a journey without destiny. is a long lost destination only the determined would understand and nodded.
How could this happen? i found you and you found me. such an awkward thing just happened deep in my heart i know you are my destiny what a sweet thing that we are both looking in the same bright sky.. watching the star sparkles at night i really believe that you are my destiny why from the moment i saw you my heart melted so fast like ice? how could this be? i know that it just can be true that you are the one my destiny my heart is beating so fast when you are near it pumps like it never been before i know our heart beats the same way cos i know you are my destiny i really wanted someone like you the person that can really hold on me someone who can love me forever i know it is you 'cause you are my destiny maybe all we need is just to believe on each other i know we can make it through just hold my hand.. look in to my eyes love will find a way i know it would be okay my destiny i know i believe we are meant to be with all my heart and soul i will give you all my love my destiny.
There she stands with her evil hands what do i do as a tiny man against this vicious beautiful woman however good i try to be nay she says you only get what is destined from me why do i work why do i love why do i even pray when all i get is already predestined.
My destiny is to dream dream of who i want to be my destiny is to live the way i want to live in independent freedom my destiny is to love love without shame my destiny, my destiny my destiny is to live.
It was my destiny to die, and no matter how much you try, it is everyones destiny to die, no matter old or young, death will break the needle on which you're life is strung, death cares not that you're in love, death will push you death will shove, till you're life is on the edge, then death the sealer of you're destiny, will steal you're soul, and let you be, for it truly is our destiny, no matter how hard it is to see, to live to die to simply be.
Our destiny is in our own hands some have been known to say but circumstance in all of that must have some part to play if you are born on no hope street and homeless in your youth to you our destiny is in our own hands does not have a ring of truth. our destiny is in our own hands to some may well apply it may apply to you and he and her as well as i but not of course to everyone each day thousands of hunger die our destiny is in our own hands to the millions is a lie. the innocents who die in war and acts of terrorism did not create their destiny they would not wish it on themselves for to die so tragically their destiny was in others hands which often is the case they just happened at the wrong time for to be in the wrong place. that our destiny is in our own hands apply to some maybe but ninety nine per cent of street kids will die in poverty due to their circumstances of birth they are condemned to fail and some of them die of drug overdoses and some of them die in jail.
I cannot love for i will die. so much passion i keep that is only known for me inside. no one sees the grace in every tear i cry. for no one deserves the greatnes of my eye. untouchable i seem to be, but indeed i'm not. a queen of dammned souls i am love i cannot be worth of. for this is the destiny i have to live and one day leave. my soul is empty without the mother of all feelings love.
I always met people at the places i went to but one certain event i wasn't goin'to do but my destiny forced me there and i didn't have a clue why i was so determined that i was goin'to do but now i know why cuz i was to meet you on that certain day and fall in love with you and my destiny changed on that certain day too.
Though many may see it in a different way 'tis destiny in our lives that does have the say our life journey our journey to destiny to fame and to riches and to poverty. 'tis a fact that the greatest are mortals and facts never lie and from the day we are born to the day that we die destiny on our lives a huge part does play 'tis destiny decided that i pen this today. many who believe in life choices will tell you that your life journey you decide those who ignore that you need to have luck on your side they see your station in life as of your making not of circumstance and they scoff at any mention of destiny or chance. the town's wealthiest person in his fiftieth year was buried today 'twas cancer he died of in a slow painful way this was not of his choice of that most would agree a slow painful death part of his life's destiny.
If you're really so far, and in love with someone else.. how come i still feel your presence then, like you're inside me somewhere.. you said, i should try to forget you, and the dreams together we shared. so i forgot even my own image, but you're still inside my head. i cross the crowded streets, pretending you're walking beside me. i hardly stand in front of mirror, not to see the truth it would make me see. deep inside, heart knows that i'm a loner, and that's exactly what i was meant to be.. whatever you'll throw my way, i'll accept it as my fate's destiny.
My destiny haunts me day, my destiny haunts me at nights. my destiny speaks to me each morning, still i have not understood what "destiny is". my destiny keeps me up at nights pondering about "destiny", which i have heard so much about. yet i can not find the answer to my own destiny. seeing my fellow human it would appear that most of them have found the secret to this destiny. but, some like myself are still in search of our destiny. my destiny suddenly comes to light when i was near my end through the path of life. and, it was at that point i became aware that my task throughout my life was my destiny. my destiny has been visible in my actions, in my words during my life. the failer to make contact with my destiny was none other, than lack of understanding. destiny beckon at me with these words, "if you had known the meaning of the word destiny, you would not have toiled so much." that is your destiny.
We met at the pool when you were just a kid such a gentle soul, a life barely lived i had to leave for a little while you welcomed me back with that same warm smile i wanted to know you just a bit better that one night lasted almost forever i guess u dont know it yet but that night you saved me from inner death for some strange reason i felt a connection one i havent felt in 19 years life lessons as time went on we only got closer i prayed day and night for it never to be over but the past shows us nothing last forever why didnt i try to do things a bit better i became selfish, greedy and one track minded i wanted you all to myself until i was reminded that things arent always as they seem it was just all my pathetic little dream we learnt together a long time ago life without the other just wasnt the go we cant be together and cant be without i should never have opened my big mouth so here we are now trying to patch this up what brought this on so quickly, so abrupt of course thats right it was me chasing my fabricated destiny i hope we can move past this mess i know i will try my absoloute best i want, no i need you in my life who is to say wether its wrong or right time is the only judge, that will truly decide wether i should leave this place or swallow my pride because i dont want to lose you or have to leave we are destined to be just friends, i have to believe.
When the life blossoms destiny engraved in our lives when virtue and vice sway to and fro energized and driven by supernatural forces when we are grown up our lives started to face challenges when we encounter distress our lives impregnated with tears and worries that is the destiny of our lives. sometimes our lives tinged and embroilled with joys and sorrows destiny inflicting poison and evil into our lives destiny can make or mar our lives destiny inspires our lives to prosperity it can perish our prospects fortune and fate tossing each other end of lives salunated with blessings dulakshi wakista copyright 2009.
We plot our own destiny be it the path to happiness or the road to ruin. despite the highs and lows of our lives it is we and we alone who plot our own destinies. we can choose to be changed or be the agents of change we can remain chained to the taboos imposed by society or we can unchain ourselves and be free whatever we chose will finally make or mar our destiny.
I now gaze fixedly and intently upon our predetermined destiny and realize that our love is nothing but a perversion of reality, a distortion of equality, nothing but a cataclysmic consequence of infatuation. i foresee the dark ahead even as we lay enervated by our unsheathed passion and as the incandescent glow of our love begins to attenuate i realize this is our destiny our never ending legacy. i now lament that which is our destiny for it is not that of which i had envisioned for us, now i fear our destiny is sealed as the wheels of fate conspire to rob us of our eternal desire.the life we shared smolders in the ashes of our future. this is to be our destiny.
Georgia aquarium a giant stingray flaps its way over my heads georgia aquariun shadows of fishes dart around our body georgia aquarium mom tells child that's the thing that killed our steve erwin atlanta's georgia aquarium that's how you should draw the stringray mom tells child.
A 'grand' way to remember yuanshan grand hotel? a broken coffee cup and a waitress who asked for money before the guest is even done with his food yuanshan haiku yuanshan cold nostalgia fading at a forlorn corner soong may ling's smile the hotel must have been a sad memory for late soong mei ling. me too. a coffee cup broke and worse, a waitress asked for money before even i finished with my food. i just wonder how an internationally known hotel can have such 'unthinkable' service. they trained them in chiang kai shek's army? .
Yyellowstone national park over the snow, echoes of our own laughters yellowstone national park the various adventures warm up our winter yellowstone national park may not be the first winter destination that comes to mind, but it has a lot to offer. you'll quickly forget about the cold weather while snowmobiling, dog sledding, snowshoeing, ice skating, and viewing wildlife. traveling in the colder months allows you to experience the park without the hordes of tourists that crowd the roads during summer. get ready to have the stunning landscape practically to yourself.
Bayon smiles from high up a thousand year old smile preserved through the ages in the forests snarled, overgrown with shrubs, ferns to finally emerge and smile again triumphantly well, thank god, for the dim years the forest, has saved you from marauding thais, chams burmese, colonialists and world war criminals bayon, smile, smile and smile to the world in all angles.
Jim thompson house the house too misses its owner my eyes run up and down left and right for jim jim thompson house it is too waiting for owner to be back jim thompson house this emptiness that the owner will never be back jim thompson house despite the visitors the loneness in the house jim thompson house visit a bird's cheerful chirp all is up and well for him jim thompson house that forboding giant tree right in front of door jim thompson a former cia agent left all in america to live in bangkok and helped promote thai traditional silk and woven fabric to the west in the 60s he built a beautiful traditional house in a secluded part of bangkok which has become a tourist spot today. it is stocked with plentiful of thai as well as burmese antique buddhas, paintings, ceramic as well as chinese blue and white. jim went missing when holidaying in the cameron highlands in malaysia on march 26,1967. nothing was found of him. he left behind a string of mysteries about his whereabouts. but one thing is for sure, his house in bangkok is swarmed daily by tourists. jim thompson is now a popular brand in the fabric industry.
Australia touring music festival the kiwis waltz and the kangaroos jump australia touring music festival from the 'kangaroo' pauch two tickets to canberra australia's touring music festival, big day out, includes new zealand this year, kicking off at mount smart stadium on january 18 in auckland. the newly reformed rage against the machine heads the lineup, along with australian native silverchair, and indie favorites arcade fire and lcd soundsystem. after auckland, the festival moves on to the gold coast, sydney, melbourne, adelaide, and perth.
The railroad track is miles away, and the day is loud with voices speaking, yet there isn't a train goes by all day but i hear its whistle shrieking. all night there isn't a train goes by, though the night is still for sleep and dreaming, but i see its cinders red on the sky, and hear its engine steaming. my heart is warm with friends i make, and better friends i'll not be knowing; yet there isn't a train i wouldn't take, no matter where it's going.
La samanna the waitor helps put my hand on hers la samanna sweet air and jazz notes weave our romance la samanna romance thickens every inch of the way pop the bubbly or pop the question? the first may lead to the second at la samanna, a perennially perfect and romantic refuge in saint martin. this pampering, private, and luxe resort offers weeklong escape packages that include sunset cruises, couples massages, gift bathrobes, and daily breakfast. after a couple candlelit dinners on the powdery soft beach, you'll never want to go home.
I travel far and wide throughout the world to sun lazily in aqua pools in greece, picnic by the the eiffel tower, stroll white sand beaches on tropic isles, fly over glacier packed mountaintops green countrysides and floral valleys. in an instant i am transported to exotic faraway landscapes without ever leaving my own chair, my soul free to experience things it never can otherwise. truly an amazing gift. being a part of the beauty of the world through the eyes and lens of others right here on my computer screen.
Shibuya fashion centre hachiko shows loyalty a more lasting attire friendship memory picture at our back hachiko my favourite to meet best friend hachiko square admiring hachiko a young girl and her doggie taking picture in front of hachiko a girl cuddling her pet dog hachiko is japan's most famous dog which has been immortalised just outside sibuya station. the statue of the dog, known to have waited at the station for years for his master's return, has become a tourist attraction. the dog became famous after its strange behaviour was spotted by journalists and the story of his long wait for master's return from the war published throughout japan. he never gi ves up. he is still waiting there. shibuya is japan's fashion centre.
Lake tahoe the mountains and water take our love oath lake tahoe to the mountains and lake our swirling love oath lake tahoe to the mountains and water we scream our love lake tahoe he says he is the mountain and she the water lake tahoe she tells him still water runs deep john tiong chunghoo.
Mount fuji photo session she makes up her face as the mountain hides its face mount fuji photo session the newly wed couple wait for the peak to show mount fuji like soldiers the cloud rushes east mount fuji we wait for the mist to clear for pictures with fuji mount fuji the mist blocks us and fuji for the photo shot spring mount fuji our sighs as the cloud covers the peak again spring mount fuji the thick fog as we wait for peak to come out.
Saigon war museum burnt hole ridden children clothes my heart too in tatters at the war museum, there were exhibits of clothes of prisoners and even those of children killed in the vietnamese war. i remember when i went to visit the killing field in cambodia, there were also exhibits of torn clothes right below the monument where they exhibit the skulls of those killed in the war. they really put my heart in tatters.
Grenada escapade its trails take my legs and its cove my soul grenada explore grenada's lush interior, especially grand etang national park, crisscrossed by nature trails and filled with dozens of secluded coves and sandy beaches. if you're visiting on february 7, join the celebration of grenada's 33rd anniversary of independence, with a variety of festivities including ceremonies and parades.
Take a dash of light blue and let it run into two dashes of white that would come close to the enchanting milky blue water of luang prabang's magnificent kuangsi waterfall water cascades majestically down a towering cliff then spreads into numerous euphoric pools where people loosen themselves in the magical waters an afternoon serenaded by laughters that echo between splahses of joy and ecstacy.
The other day i met a tramp his hair was wet, his clothes looked damp the poor man seemed hungry and cold he must have been sixty years old. his wrinkled face showed signs of strain in his right hand was a walking cane, the memory with me will long remain of him walking in the cold november rain. this slender man of snow white hair with clothes that were the worst for wear greeted with a curt good day and slowly plodded on his way. to be frank and speak the truth i pitied one so destitute and though it may sound a little queer i had to fight to choke a tear. the winter months are harsh and long and this poor man did not seem strong i wonder will he see the spring and hear again the blackbird sing? . as i sleep in a comfortable bed this man will sleep in a draughty shed inhabited by rats and mice on hay and straw ridden with lice. he's no self respect or pride, all self respect in him has died, he lives a life of poverty and has to beg for charity. he knows about degradation about prejudice and discrimination these he meet with every day when well offs from him turn away. but on his journeys he also meet people who give him money and food to eat, his type they can understand and reach to him the helping hand vagabonds are born to roam his kind seldom have been known to take a job and settle down they like to move from town to town. i pitied him he looked so frail, his wrinkled face so wan and pale and though i hope i'm wrong it seems to me that spring time he won't live to see. time from my mind will not erase the memory of the poor tramp's face who someday soon may be found dead in a cold and draughty shed.
If to russia you have great need to go there is much more buried there than snow and hitler and napoleon both will tell casual preperation is a formula for woe if in russia you truly want success to show do not casually to mother russia go.
Don't fear death in earthly travels. don't fear enemies or friends. just listen to the words of prayers, to pass the facets of the dreads. your death will come to you, and never you shall be, else, a slave of life, just waiting for a dawn's favor, from nights of poverty and strife. she'll build with you a common law, one will of the eternal reign. and you are not condemned to slow and everlasting deadly pain.
I know that i shall meet my fate somewhere among the clouds above; those that i fight i do not hate, those that i guard i do not love; my county is kiltartan cross, my countrymen kiltartan's poor, no likely end could bring them loss or leave them happier than before. nor law, nor duty bade me fight, nor public men, nor cheering crowds, a lonely impulse of delight drove to this tumult in the clouds; i balanced all, brought all to mind, the years to come seemed waste of breath, a waste of breath the years behind in balance with this life, this death.
From my mother's sleep i fell into the state, and i hunched in its belly till my wet fur froze. six miles from earth, loosed from its dream of life, i woke to black flak and the nightmare fighters. when i died they washed me out of the turret with a hose.
Every year without knowing it i have passed the day when the last fires will wave to me and the silence will set out tireless traveller like the beam of a lightless star then i will no longer find myself in life as in a strange garment surprised at the earth and the love of one woman and the shamelessness of men as today writing after three days of rain hearing the wren sing and the falling cease and bowing not knowing to what.
Death is nothing at all. i have only slipped away to the next room. i am i and you are you. whatever we were to each other, that, we still are. call me by my old familiar name. speak to me in the easy way which you always used. put no difference into your tone. wear no forced air of solemnity or sorrow. laugh as we always laughed at the little jokes we enjoyed together. play, smile, think of me. pray for me. let my name be ever the household word that it always was. let it be spoken without effect. without the trace of a shadow on it. life means all that it ever meant. it is the same that it ever was. there is absolute unbroken continuity. why should i be out of mind because i am out of sight? i am but waiting for you. for an interval. somewhere. very near. just around the corner. all is well. nothing is past; nothing is lost. one brief moment and all will be as it was before only better, infinitely happier and forever we will all be one together with christ.

Black milk of daybreak we drink it at sundown we drink it at noon in the morning we drink it at night we drink it and drink it we dig a grave in the breezes there one lies unconfined a man lives in the house he plays with the serpents he writes he writes when dusk falls to germany your golden hair margarete he writes it and steps out of doors and the stars are flashing he whistles his pack out he whistles his jews out in earth has them dig for a grave he commands us strike up for the dance black milk of daybreak we drink you at night we drink you in the morning at noon we drink you at sundown we drink and we drink you a man lives in the house he plays with the serpents he writes he writes when dusk falls to germany your golden hair margarete your ashen hair sulamith we dig a grave in the breezes there one lies unconfined he calls out jab deeper into the earth you lot you others sing now and play he grabs at the iron in his belt he waves it his eyes are blue jab deper you lot with your spades you others play on for the dance black milk of daybreak we drink you at night we drink you at at noon in the morning we drink you at sundown we drink and we drink you a man lives in the house your golden hair margarete your ashen hair sulamith he plays with the serpents he calls out more sweetly play death death is a master from germany he calls out more darkly now stroke your strings then as smoke you will rise into air then a grave you will have in the clouds there one lies unconfined black milk of daybreak we drink you at night we drink you at noon death is a master from germany we drink you at sundown and in the morning we drink and we drink you death is a master from germany his eyes are blue he strikes you with leaden bullets his aim is true a man lives in the house your golden hair margarete he sets his pack on to us he grants us a grave in the air he plays with the serpents and daydreams death is a master from germany your golden hair margarete your ashen hair shulamith translated by michael hamburger.
Hey father death, i'm flying home hey poor man, you're all alone hey old daddy, i know where i'm going father death, don't cry any more mama's there, underneath the floor brother death, please mind the store old aunty death don't hide your bones old uncle death i hear your groans o sister death how sweet your moans o children deaths go breathe your breaths sobbing breasts'll ease your deaths pain is gone, tears take the rest genius death your art is done lover death your body's gone father death i'm coming home guru death your words are true teacher death i do thank you for inspiring me to sing this blues buddha death, i wake with you dharma death, your mind is new sangha death, we'll work it through suffering is what was born ignorance made me forlorn tearful truths i cannot scorn father breath once more farewell birth you gave was no thing ill my heart is still, as time will tell.
Perhaps if death is kind, and there can be returning, we will come back to earth some fragrant night, and take these lanes to find the sea, and bending breathe the same honeysuckle, low and white. we will come down at night to these resounding beaches and the long gentle thunder of the sea, here for a single hour in the wide starlight we shall be happy, for the dead are free. submitted by venus.
And death shall have no dominion. dead man naked they shall be one with the man in the wind and the west moon; when their bones are picked clean and the clean bones gone, they shall have stars at elbow and foot; though they go mad they shall be sane, though they sink through the sea they shall rise again; though lovers be lost love shall not; and death shall have no dominion. and death shall have no dominion. under the windings of the sea they lying long shall not die windily; twisting on racks when sinews give way, strapped to a wheel, yet they shall not break; faith in their hands shall snap in two, and the unicorn evils run them through; split all ends up they shan't crack; and death shall have no dominion. and death shall have no dominion. no more may gulls cry at their ears or waves break loud on the seashores; where blew a flower may a flower no more lift its head to the blows of the rain; though they be mad and dead as nails, heads of the characters hammer through daisies; break in the sun till the sun breaks down, and death shall have no dominion.
Shall we, too, rise forgetful from our sleep, and shall my soul that lies within your hand remember nothing, as the blowing sand forgets the palm where long blue shadows creep when winds along the darkened desert sweep? or would it still remember, tho' it spanned a thousand heavens, while the planets fanned the vacant ether with their voices deep? soul of my soul, no word shall be forgot, nor yet alone, beloved, shall we see the desolation of extinguished suns, nor fear the void wherethro' our planet runs, for still together shall we go and not fare forth alone to front eternity.
I woke in a place that was dark the air was spicy and still i was bandaged from head to foot the morning that death was killed. i rose from a mattress of stone i folded my clothes on the sill i heard the door rolling open the morning that death was killed. i walked alone in the garden the birds in the branches trilled it felt like a new beginning the morning that death was killed. mary, she came there to find me peter with wonder was filled and john came running and jumping the morning that death was killed. my friends were lost in amazement my father, i knew, was thrilled things were never the same again after the morning that death was killed.

Black milk of daybreak we drink it at nightfall we drink it at noon in the morning we drink it at night we drink it and drink it we are digging a grave in the sky it is ample to lie there a man in the house he plays with the serpents he writes he writes when the night falls to germany your golden hair margarete he writes it and walks from the house the stars glitter he whistles his dogs up he whistles his jews out and orders a grave to be dug in the earth he commands us strike up for the dance black milk of daybreak we drink you at night we drink you in the morning at noon we drink you at nightfall drink you and drink you a man in the house he plays with the serpents he writes he writes when the night falls to germany your golden hair margarete your ashen hair shulamith we are digging a grave in the sky it is ample to lie there he shouts stab deeper in earth you there and you others you sing and you play he grabs at the iron in his belt and swings it and blue are his eyes stab deeper your spades you there and you others play on for the dancing black milk of daybreak we drink you at nightfall we drink you at noon in the mornings we drink you at nightfall drink you and drink you a man in the house your golden hair margarete your ashen hair shulamith he plays with the serpents he shouts play sweeter death's music death comes as a master from germany he shouts stroke darker the strings and as smoke you shall climb to the sky then you'll have a grave in the clouds it is ample to lie there black milk of daybreak we drink you at night we drink you at noon death comes as a master from germany we drink you at nightfall and morning we drink you and drink you a master from germany death comes with eyes that are blue with a bullet of lead he will hit in the mark he will hit you a man in the house your golden hair margarete he hunts us down with his dogs in the sky he gives us a grave he plays with the serpents and dreams death comes as a master from germany your golden hair margarete your ashen hair shulamith.
I see the death everyday death in relations death in religion and faith death of man in man everyday, everywhere, every moment death, death and death. i experience the death around me millions and billions of ceremonies the smoke on maps of mankind death in temple and streets death in clubs and parties death, death and death. i foresee the death of humanity harassment, discrimination and hatred death in purity and sacredness death in broken mirrors and home death in king, death in masses death, death and death.
We shall not ever meet them bearded in heaven nor sunning themselves among the bald of hell; if anywhere, in the deserted schoolyard at twilight, forming a ring, perhaps, or joining hands in games whose very names we have forgotten. come memory, let us seek them there in the shadows.
Never until the mankind making bird beast and flower fathering and all humbling darkness tells with silence the last light breaking and the still hour is come of the sea tumbling in harness and i must enter again the round zion of the water bead and the synagogue of the ear of corn shall i let pray the shadow of a sound or sow my salt seed in the least valley of sackcloth to mourn the majesty and burning of the child's death. i shall not murder the mankind of her going with a grave truth nor blaspheme down the stations of the breath with any further elegy of innocence and youth. deep with the first dead lies london's daughter, robed in the long friends, the grains beyond age, the dark veins of her mother, secret by the unmourning water of the riding thames. after the first death, there is no other.
Now while my lips are living their words must stay unsaid, and will my soul remember to speak when i am dead? yet if my soul remembered you would not heed it, dear, for now you must not listen, and then you could not hear.
I want to sleep the dream of the apples, to withdraw from the tumult of cemetries. i want to sleep the dream of that child who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas. i don't want to hear again that the dead do not lose their blood, that the putrid mouth goes on asking for water. i don't want to learn of the tortures of the grass, nor of the moon with a serpent's mouth that labors before dawn. i want to sleep awhile, awhile, a minute, a century; but all must know that i have not died; that there is a stable of gold in my lips; that i am the small friend of the west wing; that i am the intense shadows of my tears. cover me at dawn with a veil, because dawn will throw fistfuls of ants at me, and wet with hard water my shoes so that the pincers of the scorpion slide. for i want to sleep the dream of the apples, to learn a lament that will cleanse me to earth; for i want to live with that dark child who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas.
If only i could write a beautiful love poem i would write it special and only to you if only i could write a beautiful love poem so that we will forever remain so very very true if only i could write a beautiful love poem with more than a goodness like something new if only i could write a beautiful love poem like the everlasting stay of the sky so blue if only i could write a beautiful love poem i would pray to god if only i could write a beautiful love poem i would work very hard for the lord if only i could write a beautiful love poem with happiness the remain all through the year f only i could write a beautiful love poem knowing that you will be very near if only i could write a beautiful love poem one so very very true if only i could write a beautiful love poem i would write it just for you.
My poem would eat nothing. i tried giving it water but it said no, worrying me. day after day, i held it up to the llight, turning it over, but it only pressed its lips more tightly together. it grew sullen, like a toad through with being teased. i offered it money, my clothes, my car with a full tank. but the poem stared at the floor. finally i cupped it in my hands, and carried it gently out into the soft air, into the evening traffic, wondering how to end things between us. for now it had begun breathing, putting on more and more hard rings of flesh. and the poem demanded the food, it drank up all the water, beat me and took my money, tore the faded clothes off my back, said shit, and walked slowly away, slicking its hair down. said it was going over to your place.
I think it better that in times like these a poet's mouth be silent, for in truth we have no gift to set a statesman right; he has had enough of medding who can please a young girl in the indolence of her youth, or an old man upon a winter's night.
When music is far enough away the eyelid does not often move and objects are still as lavender without breath or distant rejoinder. the cloud is then so subtly dragged away by the silver flying machine that the thought of it alone echoes unbelievably; the sound of the motor falls like a coin toward the ocean's floor and the eye does not flicker as it does when in the loud sun a coin rises and nicks the near air. now, slowly, the heart breathes to music while the coins lie in wet yellow sand.
I am offering this poem to you, since i have nothing else to give. keep it like a warm coat, when winter comes to cover you, or like a pair of thick socks the cold cannot bite through, i love you, i have nothing else to give you, so it is a pot full of yellow corn to warm your belly in the winter, it is a scarf for your head, to wear over your hair, to tie up around your face, i love you, keep it, treasure it as you would if you were lost, needing direction, in the wilderness life becomes when mature; and in the corner of your drawer, tucked away like a cabin or a hogan in dense trees, come knocking, and i will answer, give you directions, and let you warm yourself by this fire, rest by this fire, and make you feel safe, i love you, it's all i have to give, and it's all anyone needs to live, and to go on living inside, when the world outside no longer cares if you live or die; remember, i love you.
You little box, held to me escaping so that your valves should not break carried from house to house to ship from sail to train, so that my enemies might go on talking to me, near my bed, to my pain the last thing at night, the first thing in the morning, of their victories and of my cares, promise me not to go silent all of a sudden.
Backroad leafmold stonewall chipmunk underbrush grapevine woodchuck shadblow woodsmoke cowbarn honeysuckle woodpile sawhorse bucksaw outhouse wellsweep backdoor flagstone bulkhead buttermilk candlestick ragrug firedog brownbread hilltop outcrop cowbell buttercup whetstone thunderstorm pitchfork steeplebush gristmill millstone cornmeal waterwheel watercress buckwheat firefly jewelweed gravestone groundpine windbreak bedrock weathercock snowfall starlight cockcrow.
There is nothing to be afraid of, it is only the wind changing to the east, it is only your father the thunder your mother the rain in this country of water with its beige moon damp as a mushroom, its drowned stumps and long birds that swim, where the moss grows on all sides of the trees and your shadow is not your shadow but your reflection, your true parents disappear when the curtain covers your door. we are the others, the ones from under the lake who stand silently beside your bed with our heads of darkness. we have come to cover you with red wool, with our tears and distant whipers. you rock in the rain's arms the chilly ark of your sleep, while we wait, your night father and mother with our cold hands and dead flashlight, knowing we are only the wavering shadows thrown by one candle, in this echo you will hear twenty years later.
There is always something to be made of pain. your mother knits. she turns out scarves in every shade of red. they were for christmas, and they kept you warm while she married over and over, taking you along. how could it work, when all those years she stored her widowed heart as though the dead come back. no wonder you are the way you are, afraid of blood, your women like one brick wall after another.
Song made in lieu of many ornaments, with which my loue should duly haue bene dect, which cutting off through hasty accidents, ye would not stay your dew time to expect, but promist both to recompens, be vnto her a goodly ornament, and for short time an endlesse moniment.
Just past dawn, the sun stands with its heavy red head in a black stanchion of trees, waiting for someone to come with his bucket for the foamy white light, and then a long day in the pasture. i too spend my days grazing, feasting on every green moment till darkness calls, and with the others i walk away into the night, swinging the little tin bell of my name.
If there is a river more beautiful than this bright as the blood red edge of the moon if there is a river more faithful than this returning each month to the same delta if there is a river braver than this coming and coming in a surge of passion, of pain if there is a river more ancient than this daughter of eve mother of cain and of abel if there is in the universe such a river if there is some where water more powerful than this wild water pray that it flows also through animals beautiful and faithful and ancient and female and brave.
A sunny day's complete poussiniana divide it from itself. it is this or that and it is not. by metaphor you paint a thing. thus, the pineapple was a leather fruit, a fruit for pewter, thorned and palmed and blue, to be served by men of ice. the senses paint by metaphor. the juice was fragranter than wettest cinnamon. it was cribled pears dripping a morning sap. the truth must be that you do not see, you experience, you feel, that the buxom eye brings merely its element to the total thing, a shapeless giant forced upward. green were the curls upon that head.
Hate is only one of many responses true, hurt and hate go hand in hand but why be afraid of hate, it is only there think of filth, is it really awesome neither is hate don't be shy of unkindness, either it's cleansing and allows you to be direct like an arrow that feels something out and out meanness, too, lets love breathe you don't have to fight off getting in too deep you can always get out if you're not too scared an ounce of prevention's enough to poison the heart don't think of others until you have thought of yourself, are true all of these things, if you feel them will be graced by a certain reluctance and turn into gold if felt by me, will be smilingly deflected by your mysterious concern.
The poem hunter beach, exists under beech. in every young's hand, in every pal's reach. in each senile hand, in every gal's reach. if he wishes to learn, if she wishes to teach. freedom of silence, and freedom of speech. it sucks poets' blood, as an extending leech.
"let's get going hunting geese" said jack impatiently "i don't know how to use my sights" said john hopelessly "it can be lots of fun if you can use your gun" "just point and shoot up in the air" said tom aimlessly.
I am bereft of anger that has passed through rage for the empty humans that cannot share or partake in this one earth they have removed themselves from our greater ken and the union of all life they can no longer return to us, not due to being out laws but due to being outliers from the sum of our potential and better nature to know right from wrong and respect inherently the dignity of all life.
It seems like we thrive from the adrenaline flow while hunting the morning of the very first snow. for all the mornings that we practically froze when we can't feel our fingers, or the tips of our toes. yet, we still hunt day after day in anticipation of the moment we can finally say 'i got a deer' with a cheerful shout. as we jump up and down and run all about. we think it's skill, but it's mostly luck that feeling we get when we get our first buck. when we talk about the hunt, or the antler size no one knows the real truth, 'cause everyone lies. it's remembering our first hunt, as a girl or a boy when we felt the excitement with a heart full of joy. it's the fun that we have with our family and friends. it's the sharing and experience that we hope never ends. so, go deer hunting.just do it some day then you might understand what i'm trying to say. hunting deer is special to me so, try it sometime and you'll find out and see.
There ought to be a worldwide ban on whale hunting since all species of whales are becoming rare and of the justification of killing them in the name of so called science the enlightened and aware on the sensitive issue of whaling will tell you that this is all lies that killing in the name of science of marine mammals has always only been a guise for commercialism at the expense of endangered species the human record on conservation is bad the number of creatures extinct and facing extinction for to contemplate even too sad habitat destruction and killing creatures for greed of money in the world has never been more rife yet we do not own the planet we live on we too are part of it's natural life, 'tis true that extinction is forever as dead as the dodo they say and more creatures becoming extinct or facing extinction each day for centuries humans have been trying to destroy nature we pollute the rivers the land, sea and sky but nature will live on forever 'tis only ourselves we'll destroy so why not ban the needless slaughter forever of the last great mammals of the sea we must pay more respect to nature and protect her creatures the wildborn and the free.
They run for hours on end each day through grasses gray and brown race antelope to a stand still and drag big zebra down outlast the speedy wildebeest their victims die in pain those amazing cape hunting dogs the hunters of the plain. they have no sense of right or wrong they must hunt to survive and their young in den some ten miles off without fresh meat won't thrive the cape hunting dogs of africa don't have sins to forgive they risk their lives amidst flying hooves they kill so they can live. the cape hunting dogs of africa are creatures i admire they chase big game for miles and miles and never seem to tire their team work and companionship they live to serve the pack they often kill ten miles from home and trot the ten miles back. the cape hunting dogs of africa live as true family they chase big game for miles on end and work in harmony they have no choice but kill to eat if they don't eat they die and they risk their lives to serve the pack when hooves of hunted fly.
Hunting season is coming up and deer is your main prey wear bright colors, so you wont get stuck taking your life away when sitting in a tree stand or walking along with others make sure what you see is not a man waiting for deer in a gutter safety is the most important thing when hunting with a bow or a gun a terrible tragedy they can bring when using them just for fun so take my advise and play it safe hunting is not a game take your time, it's not a race the results will still be the same.
Best poets are featured their best poems nurtured branded as monumental inscribe by prolific bards posting for archive the site is poemhunter.com where everyone is welcome to share poetry and poems of various topics or themes come one and all converge now to call and inspire the world hunt poems we should.
A so called sport of the upper class that inspired the bards to rhyme fox hunting is banned in britain everything has it's time for nothing last forever it had passed it's use by date and in chasing down and killing a frightened creature what is to celebrate? john masefield's long poem 'reynard the fox' i readily can recall one of the best on fox hunting if not the best of all but that aside fox hunting was cruel or to me 'twould seem that way for to be hunted down and mauled to death by dogs not what you'd call fair play. i read in the newspapers how those for fox hunting protested long and loud but there was nothing in this so called sport of which they could feel proud for to watch a creature torn to shreds could hardly be much fun it seems a far more painful way to die than the quicker death by gun. the day is near when all blood sports will be things of the past for all things have their use by date and nothing seems to last some may see the fox as vermin but the fox warrants a fair go and empathy for wild born creatures not too much to ask to show. fox hunting is banned in britain such good news is good to hear news well worth celebrating to that i'll drink a beer to be torn to shreds by a pack of hounds seems an awful way to die and to this very cruel blood sport good riddance and goodbye.
Hunting the light travelling down the sewers of this ungrateful soul of mine as the sickness becomes a squatter taken over my body and mind. the torment that's unleashed upon the unsuspecting visitors who just happen by chance to cross paths. thrown into the abyss without a care or second glance discarded, rendered useless left to die, a lonely death. as vibrant colours dissipates as their sparkles are dying out life has lost its meaning only inner struggles remain. but, i'm sure i heard it mentioned once of a light that still remains a tunnel with an exit light i'll search for, not in vain to find this elusive tunnel. where life begins again. hunting for the light of life. by annette aitken 2017.
For years we have gone hunting. i've loved sitting next to him in his deer blind or sitting quietly in my own. now that boomer came into our lives i see all living animals as having feelings and i can't stand the thought of hunting. boomer is our bassett hound. he thinks he is human. i sometimes think so too. the way he has shown me that he feels things like we do has changed me forever. now, all i can think of is that if a dog can feel emotions like we do. can a deer? are they afraid? do they know why we are sitting there? do they hate me? i have to explain this to my husband and pray he understands why our hunting days together are over.
Gun hunting season opens tomorrow morning my husband is gathering his hunting gear around. he'll be getting up really early in the morning way before the break of dawn. he's trying his special orange hunting cap on so that he's not mistaken for a deer. us wives always worry about that you know it is one of a hunter's wifes greatest fears. the weather is suppose to be very cold and rainy my husband says that is the best weather for hunting in. because the deer are on the move much more then when it's warmer like some recent days have been. i will say a prayer to our lord above asking that he protect all hunters, on this opening day. and that they all come back with that buck or doe their after and no bullets from their guns shot go astray.
When the sun rise in the morning then you shine like a brighten lady when the moon set in the evening then you look like a beautiful lady when i go to bed in the night then you twinkle like stars when the cool breeze touches me then i take care of your love when you are under my arms then i tell you how much i love you when i say my night prayers then i thank god for giving you to me when i close my eyes to sleep then you rest your head on my chest and listen to my heart beat says you are mine.
Inner voice straining to be heard evincing what i already know to be true yet your web of lies is so beautifully spun before me that i so want to find even the tiniest glimmer of truth in those lies convincing myself that those beautiful lies originated from some beautiful truth.
We loved eachother our hearts were warm you loved me i loved you back but the sands of time made our love lack i needed you and hated you also we screamed, we yelled our mutual hatred swelled the day finally came when you handed back your token the emotion inside had finally woken my spirit was broken i became a shell wishing you would burn in hell i wanted so bad to scream and yell my mind has been set up after all i swallow my demon, and then i fall.
If i am not in your life, do not mind however, i will come in your dreams every night every night i will come and sit, in front of you touching you and feeling your soft breaths hold your hand and looking into your lake eyes you are singing and i am listening your sweet voice my head on your sky laps you rolling your fingers into my hairs you dropping your love on me as a rain moreover, i play with like a little kid games and the time is come. the moon completed his journey stars are going his home we waked up and came out of the dreams here we saw beautiful morning scene sun is red and bright birds are singing cold polite wind flow, flowers are laughing moreover, we both are thinking about this beautiful dream.
God's beautiful sky you hold the earth in place your friends surround your beautiful face your friends the clouds are your beard long the birds fly through your white fluffy hair and sing to you a song you hold the heavens above and the earth below i can see you wherever i go your friends the sun and moon are your eyes and ears the moon shines bright through the night to sooth a child's fears a tree starts as a seed and grows up really high but never get to touch their friend the sky your friends the stars above are your tokens of love that sometimes shoot across your beautiful face you can see them up in space look at the sky cause it is watching you and when you see a rainbow your wishes will come true.
Standing on the edge of nothingness the wind of regret blowing through me as my deamons dance the ring of deception that i'm becoming more tempted to join 'come, ' i hear them say as they weave 'you belong to us, don't you see? the dreams that make you scream, the dark mistress that forever stands beside you, everything that makes you who you are is nothing but a beautiful lie to keep you alive.' how do you fight a shadow when you are weak; when misery is engraved into your soul? how do you resist the urge to fade away when all your heart ever feels is pain? love has long since abanonded me happiness stopped coming to my door years ago and i have fallen from grace since the day my heart broke so with nothing to lose and nothing to gain i take my deamons' hand and dance. and the lie takes my life.
Tears are falling, from beautiful eyes. tears are falling, because of beautiful lies. tears are falling, because of what you said. tears are falling, onto a beautiful bed. tears are falling, in a beautiful stream. tears are falling, because of a beautiful dream. tears are falling, because of your lies. tears are falling, as beautiful dies.
As i walked down the steps, my eyes caught your innocence. the moisture on your lips inviting to be kissed. your firm suple breast could not make me rest; and as you walked towards me all i wanted was us to be alone. as i see you bid farewell, i wish to see you again. but in my mind you shall remain forever as my beautiful little stranger.
In a world of barbies, implants and a size 26 waist heartache's no more prevalent than in her with a beautiful face. no more wanted for her looks than her heart her persona fades as soon as puberty starts. she screams celebrity in a small town manner in a world that passes judgement by how much you achieve she must use her 'talents' as the world perceives. as years go by her beauty's but a nuisance to the person inside made up of more substance. she screams celebrity in a small town manner there's no plastic surgery to alter your soul no place for outward beauty in the world of good will. to wed true love's but a leap of trust so she squanders her beauty as a matter of must. for small town love in true hollywood fashion.
A shimmering of your hair as i glance in awe a quiver of your lips as i swallow in anticipation a flashing of your eyes as i stand near not far a movement of your hips as i watch you walk a gesture of your hand as i lower my lips a laughter in the air as i make another quip a sigh from deep within as i tell you my intent a gasp from tender breast as i look so deep within a tremble in your legs as i make you remember and you have absolutely no doubt beauty is in the making through each breath each of us are together taking.
Beautiful this world, beautiful this life. beautiful and beautiful everyth ing including the sunrise and also the sunset. beautiful and beautiful, the sky and the sea, the air and the water. beautiful this life and beautiful this earth, where we are.
Simplicity is beauty, purity, divinity; the virtue of quality excels that of quantity. beauty that pleases the sense is good, beauty and vitue are good, seek for things simple but noble, virtue alone can ennoble. true beauty is simply graceful, the graceful are beautiful, there's beauty that's deceitful, nature itself is beautiful, beauty is perfection of form, virtue and good sense conforms, beautiful things may deform, but virtue act in good form.
Blue eyes so full of life a wonder all of their own so beautiful and precious oh to see those eyes smile such a beautiful sight how i love to look into those eyes when i look into them a kind of peace comes over me beautiful blue eyes always haunting me .teasing me reminding me of what i want.can't have why do they haunt me so when will i be free of them constantly held captive by those blue eyes beautiful blue eyes always there a reminder of what i want.can't have such beautiful blue eyes beautiful blue eyes.
If only i could write a beautiful love poem i would write it special and only to you if only i could write a beautiful love poem so that we will forever remain so very very true if only i could write a beautiful love poem with more than a goodness like something new if only i could write a beautiful love poem like the everlasting stay of the sky so blue if only i could write a beautiful love poem i would pray to god if only i could write a beautiful love poem i would work very hard for the lord if only i could write a beautiful love poem with happiness the remain all through the year f only i could write a beautiful love poem knowing that you will be very near if only i could write a beautiful love poem one so very very true if only i could write a beautiful love poem i would write it just for you.
One wading a fall meadow finds on all sides the queen anne's lace lying like lilies on water; it glides so from the walker, it turns dry grass to a lake, as the slightest shade of you valleys my mind in fabulous blue lucernes. the beautiful changes as a forest is changed by a chameleon's tuning his skin to it; as a mantis, arranged on a green leaf, grows into it, makes the leaf leafier, and proves any greenness is greener than anyone knows. your hands hold roses always in a way that says they are not only yours; the beautiful changes in such kind ways, wishing ever to sunder things and thing's selves for a second finding, to lose for a moment all that it touches back to wonder.
You appear there in front of me very nearly transparent your presence looking like a reflection in a mist shrouded mirror so hazy a strong puff might blow you away like fog yet this love is not the memory of a beautiful dream. when i reach out you are there.
I woke up my body was cold i climbed off the bed i tried not to fall i couldnt see everything was a blur i remember being beat before i reached unconciesness i heard them speak they talked of blood and the next chapter to the book of shadows i felt the blade but it didnt hurt i couldnt speak maybe i couldnt even breathe all i know is right now im in the hospital laying in the bed i hear the breathing machine behind me buzz inside my head who makes the decision?.
I walked to the cliff top to watch the sunset thinking of you and the time that we met i watched as the sun drifted down from the sky a reminding reflection of light in your eyes a myriad birds flocked from over the hill returning to roost as the world stood still their fawning and waving high up in the air brought memories to me how you unfurl your hair the sea seemed to amble as if in a trance when reaching the rocks leaping into a dance its light sparking rainbows in fine misty haze a lasting encounter of how we embrace the sun kissed the horizon like i kiss your lips it was saying goodnight with its light fingertips caressing the ocean and stretching my way a beautiful end to a beautiful day.
The world energy resources depleted and the oil wells are running dry and perhaps in a decade from now the super rich will become poorer when they realize their money cannot buy gas to put into their big cars parked in their garages the people with nowhere to go to yet it is a known fact out of hardship that spirituality can grow. we are being told that this is to happen by those one might say in the know the oil reserves won't last forever we heard of that decades ago yet what did we do to conserve energy we went out and bought bigger cars and spent billions in money and wasted huge amounts of energy building rockets for research on mars what will happen when the oil wells will run dry when the super rich will realize that government bureaucracies them were deceiving and leading them on with their lies will billionaires jump off of big buildings when with financial disaster they come face to face in a decade from now the world as we know it could be a much different place. in the future the world will be different and that may not be such a bad thing for nature will live on as usual and songbirds in the morning will sing and we must go back to the pushbikes and with less pollution in the air we will be far healthier people and more spiritually and environmentally aware.
The doubt of future foes exiles my present joy, and wit me warns to shun such snares as threaten mine annoy; for falsehood now doth flow, and subjects' faith doth ebb, which should not be if reason ruled or wisdom weaved the web. but clouds of joys untried do cloak aspiring minds, which turn to rain of late repent by changed course of winds. the top of hope supposed the root upreared shall be, and fruitless all their grafted guile, as shortly ye shall see. the dazzled eyes with pride, which great ambition blinds, shall be unsealed by worthy wights whose foresight falsehood finds. the daughter of debate that discord aye doth sow shall reap no gain where former rule still peace hath taught to know. no foreign banished wight shall anchor in this port; our realm brooks not seditious sects, let them elsewhere resort. my rusty sword through rest shall first his edge employ to poll their tops that seek such change or gape for future joy.
The soul it seeks to perch and pray a tune that renders fine without a stop when started forth it hopes to sing a line with feathers wafting at its crest like hornets in its nest in storm and lightning thunderous sounds appeal to all in zest the warmth that beats within the chest is hard concealed to spin but in the cold and on the seas its surely bound to win.
Forgetting all my care soaking the night's air as i sit in the gentle breeze it almost brings me to my knees. finally seeing what allah had in store, i look and i listen at creation galore. when i think of the different types of love, it moves me to help create a solution. what will happen in ten years or more, if we pass off the problems or simply ignore? the happiness we had today will turn into sorrow, so pitch in and help for a better tomorrow.
I think about the future, and i wonder about our life. to much hate for one planet, to much fear. somehow, i missed the announcement that love had died, i missed her funeral, i hope it was nice. lost; the masses cling to faith, while the homeless cling to paper sacks, filled with empty dreams, fading, like old yellow newspapers, in the rain. in the future, there will be a day, when life will be worth more than greed; and paper sacks, are just paper sacks. i hope it comes soon.
You do not confuse me you only confound the issues. i am not taken back by your ignorance only slightly delayed by it as i struggle to understand why i should care. i am weakened by my sense of humanity not by my love for it. for my love is the one true strength that keeps you from destroying me as i pause to consider any possible method to your madness.
Tis said of every individual that they can shape their own destiny though others will tell you quite differently and with such thinking would not agree who knows what will happen tomorrow who knows what your future will bring though at present you feel a bit ordinary and none other your praises do sing. you may try to shape your own destiny without taking circumstance into account and you may have great plans for the future and to little that too can amount to if destiny does not point in that direction your destiny and circumstance does play a huge part in your future our gift of life came about by chance. who knows what will happen tomorrow you may feel sad and tearful today tonight you may win first division tattslotto and you can celebrate in a big way or tomorrow for you than today little different with your same set of worries and woes as shaw once said 'life's not meant to be easy' but such is life one must suppose. who knows what the future will bring to you despite what some say it does seem to me that we cannot look into the future such things are beyond us to see those things known as circumstance and destiny a huge part in our lives do play and these two can make us or break us for in our future they have a big say.
As mountains dwell in timeless sleep, as seasons come and go as oceans roll across the deep, as forests slowly grow an evil has been gathering, a dark age has begun all life on earth shall rue this day, the time of man has come with axe and pick that chop and chip, the land shall be stripped bare with fire and steel, that burn and deal a death to all who care with hate and greed, that fuel and feed the coming of the end into a fate consumed with hate our world will now descend as mountains wake, roar and quake, as seasons loose their sway as oceans rise to turn the tide, and forests die away a giant is awakening, a cleansing will ensue all life on earth shall rue this day; the debt of man is due with rock and flame that smash and maim, life shall be erased with flood and wave, that drowns and paves a path to deaths embrace mother earth begins again, but none remain to tell that the balance is precarious, between paradise and hell.
The past is what makes me, me the now is what i choose to be the future is what i cant see if i live in the past the now wont last the future comes fast the past was bad the now is sad the future has to be glad the past is over and gone the now is here, so i go on the future is soon to come.
Is it true? that the future is always bright in the past there was not much light the future is ours to behold but what i was told in the future you get old the future will come this is sure yours and mine one sec. at a time until the final curtain our lives uncertain what the future will bring will be exciting.
A future time, a future place here on earth or out in space the doors are open if you choose to learn the skills that you can use computers you use every day atomic medicine is here to stay a walk on the moon is a thing of the past we're on our way to the stars at long last radar, and laser, and quasar, and such, these words sound strange, but they mean so much learn these things, and many more see what wonders the world has in store don't let folly lead you away from learning the skills you need so today have fun in your life, but don't learn with sorrow that the fun of today won't feed you tomorrow be good to yourself, and study with zest, and, soon, you will find you're ahead of the rest a future time, a future place here on earth or out in space the doors are open, come on through learn the skills, it's up to you.
We stand together, united as one, forward on we go, facing friend and foe. we do not turn back for regret; we have not time for that. if we make mistakes we will repair them at a future time, we can stop to help an injured soul, for a brief moment in time as we go. our mission lies, somewhere in the future, so we cannot linger here. what our mission is, only someone else knows. we will know what it is before the final curtains close.
In this world which will someday fall to ruims dreams and hopes don't matter at all oh, because you're asleep within your heart you will never awake but feel with those hands the future that can't be changed runing from your life even if i sacrifice this life that will someday burn out drowing in my dream even if i drown a dream is only but a dream you are my starlight.
We must wait for the future to see which is the land, which is the sea? we must wait for the time to decide who are the slaves, who are the free? we must wait for the future to see is the world ours, is the world thee? we must wait for the future to see is the man peaceful, is the mind free? we must wait for the future to see i love you? do you love me? you will be mine i will be thee i can dream it, i can see.
The vanishing future the lake we swam in, as children, is now a sea of knee high thistles, in summer evenings, that had no night, we fished for trout, now i see empty tins of sardines blinking in fading sunlight i had travelled long to get here fifty years or so, my old home was an oblong square on ugly ground, but i did find a rusty spade to dig my tiny space while smoking a last cigarette or two.
Looking into your eyes, i realize. my life will never be the same. i don't want to place any blame.. but after all it is your fault. i am happy and in love, the way i smile. the way i laugh. i think i've finally forgotten about my past.
Near the shore of that eventful destiny, hold us no resentments of the past. from the mistakes of the past, let us not challenge the present and my friend, i know i hurt you and even you hurt me. for the time on which we heal the past and erase our eroded egos and i promise i cause you no further harm, from my anger on which i reacted but not intentional. calm now the seashore and i know it is not easy to forget the clouds of shadows covered on one good friendship and at the end wisdom is not a flagship label to cover the pretences of life and i feel it is time to forget and forgive in grace as life is too short to settle scores on a battlefield to dampen the creative brightness of future.. november 30,2008.
I remember when love was a stranger in a lonely life i led, then you came along, and my world changed for the better. you put sunshine into my smile, air under my shoes, made me feel ten foot tall, and filled with love this empty shell. now love walks with me, everywhere that i go. the lonely life i lead is no more. you are my soul and inspiration as into the future we go.
The bombs have caused death and destruction and the families mourn their dead but there is hope for the future for better days ahead when those for peace and world harmony will finally prevail for those who talk of waging war are surely doomed to fail. there is hope for the future though i may not live to see my dream of a better life for everyone in a world where peace will reign supreme a world free of borders and camps for refugees where the smell of death and destruction is not blowing in the breeze there is hope for the future around me not all dark i hear young children playing in the playground in the park the children are the future and they may well unite behind a peaceful leader who won't lead by power of might. there is hope for the future and all surely not lost though there won't be peace tomorrow and 'twill come at a great cost the rose of peace will bloom again though with the dead i lay and the young and enlightened leaders to peace will lead the way.
I know you're not born yet but one day you will be this is your father that one day you'll see theres things you should know things good and bad about me i'm nice, caring, and a real friend this is me until the end i'm sad, depressed, and rejected this is the bad in me i hope you're not affected just because my father never would i'll love you the best that i could i'll be there for you, bad or good i'll feel your pain, so you'll feel ok promise me, you'll go to school i can't wait for that day so i could lay down the father rule until you're born and things are such know that your father loves you very much.
Im a little confused right now so in other words im not really sure if i can slow down or even stop my past becoming my future i can see it comin a mile away what can i do? what can i say? who even cares seriously cause in all reality im not even sure that i do.. i try and try to do the right thing but it just feels like stress and more stress is all it brings now i want you to realize that this is not written and this one is off he top of my head maybe im havin a bad day and i need to vent or maybe its somethin someone said. im good though i feel better already. and thats the magic of poetry.
A memory or two returning.reappearing surprisingly entering our hearts again not the same.always rearranged haunting and intriguing living and dying pushing and pulling remembering togetherness moments of shared hearts in the midst of isolation remembering that we were not alone no longer applying such long forgotten traces of feeling and thought never again will our lives be as they were a future uncertain. with unknown duration past reflected as if present selecting each moment wondering.searching for meaning past changing.as the future takes hold of us.
Your journey starts here it starts now your future is in your hands and know one shows you how to make it, unfold, and have it turn out what you want it to be not anybody, not me talk it a step at a time even if your plans are stopped on a dime be careful, and listen, learn from your mistakes because one day you'll advance on the choices you make your future is here, your future is now but don't worry, you'll show yourself how.
I've had a good innings time has left me gray the future belongs to the youth of today allow them their passion for time hurries by as life is for to live well and for to enjoy, our biological time clocks on our lives are ticking away and though wisdom comes with ageing some are known to say and though credit should be given to whoever it's due no fool like an old fool can also be true, allow the youth their passion allow them to dream though reality in their eyes may not be what it seem in the eyes of a child one in their twenties is one who looks old we believe all we see but not all we are told and though for saying it many may say of me that i am wrong the youth to the future will always belong.
Me and you against the world. that's the way it's always been you keep my sane, you keep me happy, you keep my head above the water, always telling me to keep my chin up. the moment i heard stevie wonder i knew, it was you and me forever. 'cos i luv you, i just like the things you do, dont you change the things you do' the violins play, i smile. music means so much, memories play like a home movie, frozen stills of happy times, of smiles and jokes, of tears and heartache, of you and me. together. my cynicism has evaporated, my heart is full of happiness, i hate to sound cheesy but i want to spend my life with you, i want to grow old with you, i want to be happy with you, you are my past present and future. i want to wake up with you every monring, not just every sunday, i want your smile to be the first thing i see and the last.
My future is already set my future is finding the right person for me i plan on keeping that one forever this future tells me that i am going to have a perfect husband my future tells me that i would be doing what i love in life this future tells me to keep my dreams and opition open in my future i am going to be a great mother this future tells me already that i am going to have the man i always wanted and a babygirl named dymond the name i always wanted too. my future id just perfect. my future.
The world beyond our shameless eyes is drowning more than we can see where money is what cheating buys but never seems to grow on trees tomorrow's dreams of yesterday have dissipated in the heat of poisons and ozone decay while houses crumble in the street our lives drone on repeatedly toiling toward some unknown end forlorn attempts die feebly to fix what time itself can't mend the government is fraudulent and slightly skewed toward tyrany what they say and what they meant shout greed and mass hypocrisy and for the future we invest no questions asked, no answers raised about the past we joke and jest yet disregard the present days but who's to blame, and who's to say? why should the 'land of liberty' or any other nation pay for crimes of all humanity?.
Neither have i measured the life with coffee spoon nor did hips ever become a drum to beat, at noon cruel hunger like autumn paved the path for spring i dreamed; for empty tummy within the poverty ring. i measured life with tear full tumbler like a gambler breathe stucks up on stake and eyes and mind blur initially lord gave me poverty and then thought now held pen with pain, for you, poems, i brought. whether you read or not, poems, here on poem hunter i will write, so as to ease myself and my agony, for barter.
Profit and loss sheets are spread separated by hyperboles and conjectures upon my desktop and the poverty of my brain as i try to amass some common sense approach to what it all means to me reduced receivables don't add up and one must make the deductions for the ever rising cost of raw materials discount specials on an inventory of older dreams i seem to have forgotten my humble beginnings when i loved life and not the dollar.
Nothing wrong has been done by dana majhi of kalahandi. he has just taken away on his shoulder, the dead body of his wife. the sweetheart of dana majhi, as you know, died in tb at the hospital. but let me ask a question why you people are so much worried about the incidents? it is because something wrong is there within you, it is because you are enjoying your life, at the cost of the people and doing no welfare acts so far. remember, the summum bonum of life is situated in the loving service of the people in any set up of govt. you are seeking happiness, true, by employing your senses in the modes of materialism, and you are not satisfied. it is true, you engage yourself in various philanthropic and altruistic works and all fail to give you satisfaction. it is happening only due to your own childish innocence, you are by nature eternal servitor of the people and you are taking away everything from the common men like dana majhi, and knowingly and unknowingly not providing the basic needs.
An infectious disease spread through the air or blood. nor a dominant gene passed down from father to son. want is not traced deep in the palm of your hand. no one chooses to go out daily alive with hunger. it is a silent burglar with a sharp knife cutting away at will. leaving behind only the form, the shape, the shadows of what we are.
I over heard two fellows arguing about poverty whilst i sat in the cafe drinking coffee and in truth i could not help but overhear them as they sat at the next table to me. the older of the two a silver gray haired fellow said to rid the world of want and poverty we would need to depose every despotic leader but the younger bloke with him did not agree. he said in so called wealthy societies there's want and hunger and where affluence is poverty too abound from here you don't walk far to see poor people for poverty is everywhere around. the older bloke countered but this is a free country and those in poverty have themselves only to blame and if hungry people in our midst are living do not expect me to feel any shame the younger man again with him did differ saying want is caused by those who only care for themselves alone and their own self interest many must grow poorer for to make one millionaire. i left them there in the cafe to argue and not for me to say who is wrong or right for both of them looked well dressed and well fed fellows and they won't go to bed hungry tonight.
Not every beggar is a poor man or a poor woman anytime. not every poor man is a beggar anytime. beggars versus poor people. poor people never beg for money or anything anytime. beggary is a bad deed that makes someone behaves badly and unwisely. poverty is not beggary and beggary is not poverty anytime. beggars are mostly greedy and liars simply because they beg for their greed and not for their poverty. most poor people never beg for money and for anything else in life. poverty is not a mistake, but beggary is a grave, ugly, and bad mistake. most of those who beg don't need to beg anytime simply because they are greedy anywhere and everywhere.
At least spare a thought for the children the children of poverty street they are homeless as young teenagers and against the odds they must compete their parents serving time for robbery and narcotic offences and most of their role models in jail their circumstance of birth is a huge mark against them the poor young people destined to fail. they steal for to buy food, drugs and alcohol on poverty street life is tough too young much too young to be homeless without shelter and sleeping rough they are pushed to the social fringes the young people society disown ignored by the government bureaucracies and to the police only known. who could envy them their existence those born into cruel circumstance the gods are completely against them of success they do not stand a chance for them life is such a great battle they must battle their ghosts of despair they don't even dream of the good life to them life is very unfair. you who waffle on of life's choices with you talk is always so cheap bet you were not homeless at thirteen and on a park bench had to sleep you would not talk of life's choices if you had to steal for to eat if you felt alone and abandoned like the children of poverty street.
Their skin soaks up the heat leaving it as black as the midnight sky, their eyes wide, white, pleading begging to the passersby. they litter the street half naked bodies, red and colouring their feet searching for a entrance a door out of the circle of poverty. poverty means destruction destruction means fear behind locked doors we sit in early evening too scared to see a black face terrified of black feet crossing the threshold. but why be fearful of your slaves, those you whip and beat treating like the dirt from the doormat where you wipe your feet. role diversity causes poverty poverty destroys peace but peace minus poverty means equality should increase.
It's killing me bit by bit it enhances my frustration i'm lonely because of it girls want wealth not adoration boys are as cheap as sweetmeat but i can't change my condition oh i feel like i'm unfit like a house with no foundation like a guy of the street.
And what is poverty in which we are busy in discussing so much? is not poverty lacking of faith? has it some friend and if yes who are they? we are fully aware poverty is nothing but a mental status so long as we are telling we have brain, let the brain in its way. and we are in our world with every richness with us.
Poverty seems like a repellent stuck on the poor whose only fault lies in owning no property or asset to parade among wealth admirers and worshippers to whom poverty seems dour in contexts where ostentatious display of wealth cuts the grade that profligacy and extravagance attract robbing the poor of the dignity glitter as though on purpose fleas of poverty they contract dumping ugliness on the poor on whom fruits of affluence litter dwindling humanness and affection which wealth simpleton conflate into little human worth and warmth where spooks of poverty deflate in proportion to the increase in affluence sloth sown, grown and thrown with utter scorn to belittle abject poverty misguided affluence thinkers warn amounting to little less than spittle poverty peels off humbug and complacency exposing deeper layers of flawed humanity denuded of perspicacity and sagacity sometimes concealed in the deficit of humility that often mars circles of affluence where possession seems to epitomise human dignity mistakenly regarded as diluted influence the poor exert in extolling human unity shorn of wealth affinity and motility.
Wild horses we pricked at the wind, never to know, alas; that all the lord of our fortunes bought for us was poverty grass. poverty grass the paupered seed so sickly poor, alas; the souls of the great untamed grow weak despair on poverty grass. and you, my friend, grew sick awhile, and cried and cried, alas; while i grew fat on a flowering weed called pride and poverty grass. and when you left the field to me i almost died, alas; for i was left in a fallow field piled high in poverty grass. wild horses we pricked at the wind, never to know, alas; that all the lord of our fortunes bought for us was poverty grass. 24 january 1980.
Father, poverty is a gift ask any bird taking a rain bath. son, don't make's me laugh there's nothing but rain poverty isn't a gift there's nothing but pain. so son fastens your reigns ride for them riches today don't live by wage's daily paid only once monthly father poverty is a gift. son nothing is ever enough, just ask your mum.
Poverty poverty is a curse for human society poverty prevails there where the injustice is poverty exclaims there where the illiteracy is poverty is purely man made so it has to be eradicated from its root the society afflicted with poverty is reprehension of entire human society corruption is the source of poverty only a fearless society can be said free from all poverty where the people are dumb and discounted poverty exists there poverty shows, how many immature person rule the country poverty is the reason for all philosophical end.
Poverty and misrule wolves are same all over you need to think it over liberty and freedom go together seldom under the same name people gang up to come in power and try to rule rest all people watch them as fool poor shall suffer more as restrictions shall not be over their freedom of expression shall remain on paper they will remain free but facing starvation and hunger africa has natural sources in abundance now you have got chance rise above pretty considerations and exert pressure as an independent nation if no resistance is offered or awareness is created you shall be kept under control to face poverty and misrule.
A room i saw where the babu of poverty had been a frequent visitor few walls were stark naked as if they never wore anything and a few were shedding away the color they were draped in the room had nothing in it no furniture, nothing much to address as wearable, a small blanket was there with dust marks and small holes which seemed at least two decades old and must've at some point been the food of rats roaming around as i looked around i found a few broken, rusted kitchenware kept in a corner, a clay pot to store water which was dripping from the roof so that for drinking it can be used the room was like a cell allotted to criminals hardly you can find an entrance for the air the smoke coming out of the beedi that the man in lungi was inhaling was all it had to offer. he was coughing, spitting in the broken bucket he had there was no sign of sunshine even when it was 12 at noon on my watch, food looked like a distant visitor to his house it seemed, it liked the dustbin of a rich more than the stomach of a poor his eyes told me a story a story that i can never forget, when my eyes met his of broken bodies and shattered dreams of a frustrated soul and fractured beliefs i could easily sense his disbelief in gods not a single image of idol was there in the entire room bhagavad gita and quraan too were invisible to my eyes maybe because god didn't come to save his family when corruption ate it alive? it was then when kareem ran in saying 'chacha jaan, mla sahab has come to our slum.' but no, he didn't move an inch instead, he just blabbered something in muffled voice and then lit another beedi up, it seemed as if he knew all the tactics of these white dacoits.
he was all alone now with wrinkled face and hands that trembled, no longer could he pull a rickshaw or clean a garden, what he could only do is to count the beads of the rosary of death. written by sutputra radheye.
If i would own nothing, poverty would be my name if i would acquire wealth, with it a name now i pass by my friends of old they are as strangers, as my feelings are cold money has spoiled my heart of flesh and has relinquished the warmth that was once fresh now as i grow old and start to reflect i realize my mistakes, but can no longer connect and for this i weep, for when all has been said what i have been left, is no better than one dead.
You look at the poverty of other people romancing it like a metaphor in your poetry the color of a man's unwashed shirt with mud and blood, dried sweat, the sound of a hungry baby like the sound of thunder coming from the breasts of mountains the ignorant woman like a beautiful native naked and bathing in the river and rising like a famous nude painting their poverty to the rhythm of some blues the colors in brown, and black and violet and scarlet the trembling hands and biting lips and blank stares the blackest background ever to a future as bleak as ember to a poverty hopeless as ever.
It is true poverty is a relative thing a poor bloke buys his girlfriend a ten dollar ring but to a pauper one with ten dollars is not poor at all what to one seems big to another seems small, that poverty is a relative thing seems so true you may well be poor but many poorer than you there are millions of homeless on poverty street searching in rubbish bins to find something to eat and there are millions who lay down to rest hungry at night and sleep in the open under the starlight at least you have a roof over your head and a bed on which to lie and it will not be of malnutrition that you will die and of those down on their luck the singer may sing but poverty can be a relative thing.
An egotistical backlog of creditors waiting in line waiting to take the cloths off your back and the skin off your bones all to make money and to make you broke while the politicians who got into power laugh and smirk.
Freedom in our land not gives us enough food, freedom in our land not has enough work, freedom in our land creates the lazy cowards, freedom in our land not worth to have power of people, believe me that we are free to do anything that could, walking through the streets to find out the meaning, of acquired freedom that we have to materialize nothing. what a rush is this, human have no direction to go towards, what a mad rat race is it, that human take part in it, what a planner are these people, who neglect the people in their planning, what type of freedom is it that put, minds of people in the prison of poverty?.
Poverty is an baleful curse. a more terrible curse than the plaque. poverty hits innocent lives. tears peoples relationships. brings you into a black hole. poverty is an elixir of depression. brings on fearfulness. like a malicious dragon. poverty is ones worst adversary. hard to prevent and slay.
This animal is there, waiting with cruel claws, the teeth are sharp, always hungry and vigil, eating all our flesh, leaving us in skeletal structure, this animal likes the shout, as our cries are the lullabies, it never sleeps, but pretends to be quiet, it sucks our blood for its thirst, our sisters grow beautiful, our brothers are handsome and bold, they are disturbed by this animal, whenever they go out for survival, brains are the factories of sorrows, before we reach our rice pots, this animal regularly eat the last morsel, millions of people eat a meal a day, as long as this animal is happy and gay, where the human are careless and weak, this animal is very strong and in attack mode.
Was i so poor in those damned days that i went in the dark in torn shoes and furtiveness to steal fat ears of cattle corn from the good cows and pound them like hard maize on my worn aztec stone? i was.
Keeps away poverty make no mistakes you shall stake no claim over mishaps that shall be called slap on your face make any overture in future against our supreme creator you shall be buried further no one shall extend aid you will be laid deep below with no memory for contribution you shall be gone forever from relation bond god has created position for us to live with jubilation as life was to be called precious and all souls to be called generous owe thanks to an almighty as he is full of mercy with all powers to grant prosperity long life and keep away poverty.
We are proud to say we are poor we are telling about our poverty we are getting nowhere. we want to help the poor by eliminating them from this geography basically we know not anything. giving the poor free rice free vegetables free fruits free clothing free house and food bill what we want to do we know not, it is but to kill. know the poor know poverty all around the world come to their rescue care for the common poor people no show nothing, no hypocrisy would help anybody.
I am a proud man not because of my wealth but for my poverty which provides me lots of ideas and thoughts and helps me to delve into my life to fetch out some rich philosophies and break into a way to lead a life, contended without those banal luxury moreover i am trilled to think that in life love and peace never dependent on materials if they are in abundance or in scarcity.
Eradication of poverty all over the world a must and justice to the people poverty is not at all a curse or to blame it is surely the system's failure in sharing. poverty the most dreaded thing to experience to a thinking mind to live without food or to the barest minimum of necessities where it is denied is a cruel thing to experience blame the world of poverty and try for corrections share the resources to such an equality at least for two square meals a day and minimum necessities that humans want respect the human being and its dignity all over surely poverty is the most objectionable thing the confidence of life losing in its bottom lines the unhelpful society accuses the poverty as fate. the world is so improved in living conditions but the system in sharing is rotten and old change those inequalities in perfect peace allowing the human life more possibilities and change. life is short and human life is precious only the world order can save the humans the world is fully capable to look after if there is a perfect world with change of mind contentment, kindness, and humanity be preserved.
Water simmers on the stove grater is turning to pieces, a dry clove eyes shimmer with vapour at the door outside, enjoying with smells, a beggar inside intestine is being cut with dagger life is such a mirage with darkest craze they are fit, meadow green they graze.
The world with its people, people in different religion, religion with various festivals, festivals celebrated with joy once in a year. but people in poverty could not celebrate, some farmer's who produce food for the country, could not celebrate. but the people who buys the food from farmers enjoys the festival. the people with money, the people with tradition could only celebrate. sometimes, the poverty makes the people to go on wrong way, somewhere, the poverty had lead to suicide. what makes the poverty? controlling wastage of food in the country, may avoid poverty. controlling wastage of money in the country. sometimes, somewhere, the things which needed to reach people of poverty, doesn't reach. although some people donate, sometimes, where the donation is done for their status the people in poverty are not fulfilled. since, the poverty is abolished.
A shadow with me all day no body this is crazy, this is crazy notes of a scintillating flute no flutist this is crazy, this is crazy breathtaking verse on paper i was sleeping this is crazy, this is crazy vermilion laden sky sunrise or sunset? this is crazy, this is crazy dishevelled clothes, swollen lips you came in my dream i am crazy, i am crazy or is this the only sanity? ?.
A moment of passion so easily shared, with no fear or regret. the memories flood through my mind, a moment of passion i'll never forget. a moment of passion is like a drug, it takes me so high. needing to get another fix, a moment of passion can never lie a moment of passion when we are alone, you desire it too. unable to control it, a moment of passion shared with you.
Knocking the doors of my senses my heart soars. urgent whispers, getting crisper beckoning, calling my heart stirs. voices from past life? heart pierced by his knife my heart cries. open the door whats in store my heart roars. oh god, whats that? bolt the doors my heart combats. i cant be yours let me be. my heart implores. in peace that my plea my heart is on lease. lets open the gates to our next lifetime my heart waits.
You are like the mountain of ice and am i the summer? thawing you from your stony guise the water now trickling in the river is it the end of your long winter? in anticipation, i quiver little by little inch by inch you let me come in still a long journey ahead for the river to join the ocean we shall softly tread just enjoy the motion of the long ride i just implore to not to close yourself we shall explore the land of the elves laugh with me run with me dance with me explore with me and we shall run away with the key to happiness.
I see the passion in your eyes i feel the warmth of your embrace i see every curve and crevice in the beauty of your face. i've seen the passion in you rise to a boiling point of no return and the touch of you to my skin burn. in you is the beauty of the stars and the depth of the universe and at the same time the emptiness of space to capture you, a long frenzy race. for your beauty is far beyond compare and is something that i'm willing to share except for the love that i know is locked up inside. for when this love is finally set free you will hear all church bells ring. this love will touch every mans soul and the core of all their hearts and pull up feelings which they did not know could exist. and turn their lives into 'heavenly bliss'. this is the passion that you have within and if not reached, a downright sin,.
Swirling mysteries of my psyche come explore it with a tender hand the essence is hidden in the bark of the tree the sap is like nectar of the divine land you have to enter untying your robes layer by layer revealing the core naked in all your majestic beauty our spirits entwining, together we soar oceans part, thousands new moons appear with the energy of our combined kundalinis infinite flutes start playing music to the ears intoxicated, the beings start spinning the sun will be eclipsed with the sheer fire set ablaze the dark sky will be illumined the stars will twirl in a daze then my love, we will cease to be moving away towards infinity finally the doors will open for us our light shall always fluoresce.
I am the warp, you are the weft i am the ground, you are the step i am the lantern, you are the light i am the eyes, you are the sight i am the touch, you are the sensation i am the drum, you are the reverbration i am the mirror, you are the reflection i am the drop, you are the ocean i am the spirit, you are the soul i am the silly heart that you stole.
Flooding streams soaring wings musical dreams passion sings vivid blue sky you and i scented breeze undulating hills swaying trees height that thrills swinging high you and i dripping chocolate luscious grapes candlelight date behind the drapes clothes fly you and i sensual delights skin on skin reaching new heights deep within hoarse cries you and i.
Passion a red rose waiting to be given a light touch on the arm a cuddle close a passionate kiss under the stars a pen carefully handled to write a lover letter to a special person a dance upon a dance floor before the sea a slow walk upon the beach in the sunset passion existing in all of us, however deep.
Once in a saintly passion i cried with desperate grief, "o lord, my heart is black with guile, of sinners i am chief." then stooped my guardian angel and whispered from behind, "vanity, my little man, you're nothing of the kind. ".
Beware, my love of the thunder that we will encounter when we touch beware, my love of the rain the outpourings of the pain for the lost time beware, my love of the lightning the resurrection that it will bring of our dormant desires beware, my love of the flood the mingling of our blood when our skins dissolve beware, my love of the reverbration the resounding celebration of our eternal embrace.
When do you want our breaths to meet? when do you want our souls to touch? when do you want to feel the heat? and make me drunk on our love? when do you want our gazes to entwine? and then taste each others sweetness? when do you want our dreams to be love lined? when do you want to surrender to this madness?.
Love is a breeze of the dawn caressing our skin, passion is a fire which melts our heart. love is kindness that touch and does not get aged, passion is a volcano that blows up in eruption. love is a lasting feeling, passion is a transitory alienation. love is peace, serenity, complicity. passion is affliction, suspicion, desillusion. love is union of two human beings in communion, passion is conjunction of bodies in ecstasy and possession. .
When will the warmth of your cheek rest against mine? when will the stream of kisses gush on my ravine? when will your heartbeat rhyme with mine? when will i stop writing these verses and become thine? when will the fire of love envelop us and enshrine? when will the winter suddenly get warm with our heat combined? when will we be drunk on each other and not need any wine? when will the moon become bewitched with our embrace divine?.
Give me such passion that it knows no end let my heart grow wings and take flight again allow me such love that i feel with each embrace overwhelming fires that grow with the thrill of chase grant me such a kiss that my heart escapes my chest such a beating against my ribs that my pain tolerance is at test bestow upon me such passion that nothing else exists warm me with your arms bless me with your lips touch me with such tenderness that i cannot believe that such passion could exist inside someone like me.
Your kiss, your gaze or your breath what do i cherish more? your breath that i breathed suffusing me to the core sanctifying me. have kept it inside safely stored every breath that i breathe intermingles with it and roars ecstatic in its union electrifying me. keeping me alive.
It reasons the warmth when chilled gracious delight to know the rising sun to be shined as when quivering by the frost when intense by the wind shedding the pains the woes when alone may be flicked by yet it rocks her up by shadows as dark for all the raved up alphabets as when learned whispering the love as when rambled by the passion through latticed window the light when goes away flicking bye shadows as melting saddened by the glooms into the room of its repose as wrinkled yet in silence poised by the pretensions.
A haunting melody a lilting song invades my senses staying long a whiff of your fragrance brought by the wind permeates my skin mingling within fleeting images forever in the pond of my heart now i see your face staring at me stark are you for real or just a mirage? dreams dont come true in life's collage let me dip and drown in my own dream where you and i will fly and stream.
Taking your hand fingers touch my lips i want to love every inch of you taste every part of you to drink your love through your very pores lay down beside me feel my body crying for you i want to get lost. your sweet caresses touching my soul want me, like no other need me, like air join me to make one mind, one soul fused in the heat of passion existing in this moment.
Today i dont want to close my eyes my heart tells me that your image is going to fly from the horizon of my heart to its beyond i want to capture the image forever in the pond a sacred reflection into which i can dip when the sun is too strong and sip its drops when i want to quench my thirst when my throat is parched and i want to burst into a song.
Shivers and cries secrets of passion kisses you and lies secrets of passion floats you even higher secrets of passion crashes you into a pit o' fire secrets of passion you feel deffered secrets of passion please. just die in vain.
O gentle love, ungentle for thy deed, thou makest my heart a bloody mark with piercing shot to bleed. shoot soft, sweet love, for fear thou shoot amiss, for fear too keen thy arrows been, and hist the heart where my beloved is. too fair that fortune were, nor never i shall be so blest, among the rest, that love shall seize on her by sympathy. then since with love my prayers bear no boot, this doth remain to cease my pain, i take the wound, and die at venus' foot.
Shivering with passion shivering with passion as soon as his lips on mine lust creeps up my whole spine his large hands playing on me all inches of body aching for more keep up your powerful skill withdraw my resistance out to make me without any will just panting for him shivering with passion total body compatibility no other way of serenity let it be let lust overcome any hidden upcoming fear throw and shut it out of mind this passion is burning me blind his touching with such dexterity absolute tremendous sensuality shivering with passion for the moment nothing counts than feeling his real desire taking my body as part of his demanding responding his way waves of pleasures splashing into my very internal caves nobody ever did it so right till his soft open lips aroused mine shivering with passion when starting to wet within asking for more to be explored pit in my stomach vibrations tongues searching to restore lost sensible sensations stretching in wonderful ways whole of myself arching in pain to absolute surrender shivering with passion only once in lifetime can one find such a total flesh connection this thirst and hunger of mine to renew the encounters more and many more times how will i ever have the strength to leave this outbursting lovemaking once consumed behind i shall always shiver with a certain kind of passion when in the future surfaces sudden warm thoughts of that love making of the past.
My heart was started by a spark, burst into flames. now i am like a lamp on a hill, everyone sees me and my passion. i'm on fire, i'm burning bright. you made the spark, kindled the flame, gave this fire the passion of the night. its burning bright, through the night, its never going out or dimming. its the passion of the fire, its the passion of life. the life you gave, was meant to amaze. now with you in me, i illuminate the darkness. i'm on fire, running with the flame, the passion touching people, letting them catch the fire, catch your love. it never fades away, this passion deep in me, it'll burn till the end of day.
Last night i dreamt of you continuing what we couldnt complete our salivas intermingling lips travelling from head to feet mmm.whole body tingling bare on the sheet our souls singing. you, the hunter and i, the prey and then the prey becomes the hunter satiating our hunger but the bodies are not enough our thirst goes deep to dive into the soul to make each other complete where its pure and divine we dont feel the heat happy in our respective shrines we are floating amidst pristine white clouds thousands of angels come out and enshroud showering us with rose petals and we are endowed with their blessings.
I wish i was the morning wind gently brushing against your skin i wish i was a ray of sunlight giving you warmth that would stay through the night i wish i was a dropp of wine that mingled in your blood making it my shrine i wish i was the fragrance in the garden of love where you were a prince i wish i was the spring in your life with blossoms spreading their wings i wish i was your breath enervating you, keeping you alive.
Lost in the vortex of my thoughts seeking a vision that got lost fire consumed or a lost monsoon parched earth awaiting a boon a solitary traveller in an undulating desert that got lost. come show me the way in your light, everything is clear and its a sunny day in your absence, its all dark and queer all thoughts gone astray come show me the way in your sound, everything is music to the ears to which i dance and sway in your absence, cacophony blares all notes dark and gray come show me the way in your touch, everything is pure with a bright spark and a ray in your absence, cannot endure even my own skin, t'is like clay.
Lay down on your pillow and turn the lights down low let me take you to the garden where the passion flower grows close your eyes and enter dreams as love's emotion sets the scene and flitters through the garden where the passion flower grows touch the tender petals of the flower as she grows a tentative endeavour as your feelings overflow let me draw you to the place where ecstasy can be embraced the beauty of the garden where the passion flower grows feel your mind exploding in the heavy scented air experience the shiver as your captured unaware a little touch of heaven where imagination flows the valley in the garden where the passion flower grows.
Everytime i am near you i can feel your passionate gaze i just want to let you do whatever you want i feel helpless when i am around you your kisses are like poison they knock me senseless for hours at a time and your sweet caress is more than i can bear it all makes me feel helpless when i am around you i shouldn't be wanting you like i do i can't help it that you have me under your spell no matter how hard i try to fight it i still feel myself falling for you every time that i look at you i can feel the toxins of your passion burning through me now your passion is burning in me too your passion is like a wild fire it burns deep within your heart and soul i can feel it when you look at me i can feel it when we kiss oh how i love to see your passion burning so brightly.
I just want to keep looking at you what have you done to me, baby? your smile quenches my inner thirst the spark in your eye lights up my being i feel alive like a germinating seed after a winter freeze i feel light like a butterfly kissing the blushing blossoms i feel beautiful like the full moon getting slowly uncovered i feel complete like the parched earth after a thunderous rain i am almost afraid to touch you lest my dream come to an end.
It lies in all of us, sleeping, waiting and though unwanted, unbidden it will stir open its jaws and howl it speaks to us, guides us passion rules us all, and we obey, what other choice do we have? passion is the source of our finest moments the joy of love, the clarity of hatred, and the ecstasy of grief it hurts sometimes, more than we can bear if we could live without passion maybe we'd know some kind of peace but we would be hollow, empty rooms, meaningless lives, withiut passion we'd be truly,.
Thou shalt not laugh, thou shalt not romp, let's grimly kiss with bated breath; as quietly and solemnly as life when it is kissing death. now in the silence of the grave, my hand is squeezing that soft breast; while thou dost in such passion lie, it mocks me with its look of rest. but when the morning comes at last, and we must part, our passions cold, you'll think of some new feather, scarf to buy with my small piece of gold; and i'll be dreaming of green lanes, where little things with beating hearts hold shining eyes between the leaves, till men with horses pass, and carts.
Such is the passion the want of desire to burn in the heart with fingers of fire wet lashes wrapped up, in a sweet velvet rose to follow your heart where ever it goes such is the passion the heart strings to pull that the cup runneth over, with emotions so full to send you to heaven, the stars and above to make senses reel in the sweet dance of love such is the passion in the depths of ones soul infuses ones mind and the dreams in the role of a lovers sweet kisses, to imprint its mark of secret assignations alone in the dark such is the passion the fire inside shines forth from the eyes, with nowhere to hide yet the heart and the mind, will tumble and fall if signals mistaken, will then wither and stall.
Flames of raging lust, thoughts of fiery dust, sparkling kindled hearts blazing in the dark. arms enfolding, holding tight, bodies joining in the night, hands soft and tender, grasping, rending flesh that lithely writhes against their probing, sending mind into ecstatic states; to which you may relate. groaning, moaning cries of joy, crimson sounds on pink rustled silk. penetrating shrieks that thrill, reaching down to earth, rising up so high, and slowing to a restful glow, ambers of the heat that flowed; not anything you don't already know and most likely can relate.
My house is full of roses the fragrance seeping through my skin into my blood racing to the heart permeating and settling within i am intoxicated not by its fragrance but by your streaming presence waking, sleeping, in everything that i do your thoughts have possessed me through and through.
My head's in the clouds., i'm not sure i can last., breathing heavy., and my heart's beating fast., can it be the passion of you., the emotion of you., the warmth of you., the fire of you.? ? ? what can i do.? ? ? with the passion of you.? ? ? it's driving me mad., the passion of you.
I think and thought i hoped and wished i cried and mourned i yelled and laughed i screamed in excitement then i realised it was passion. passion is strong it is intense it is a great feelin of emotion love, hate, desire, enthusiasm, fondness, zeal, affection and ardor. a man without passion is like a man without life. yes, i pride in myself, i have life because i have passion, i know love i show affection i know what it is to be fond of i can give warmth i am full of ardor. just when i was begining to be exalted by my feelings you came into my life, i found you in my soul then i knew what i claimed was passion, was nothing compared to what you gave me. i came to realise that passion wasn't anything else but a woman.and not just any woman, it was you. then i remembered 'a man without passion is a man without life.without you i'm incomplete, without passion i have no life now i can boast of passion of love of life. because i have you.
You sing i will be the mountain and hold your voice deep inside you feel i will be the earth and keep your vibrations in my core you cry i will be the ocean keeping your sacred drops alive you chant i will be the holy hymn, we shall soar you fly i will be the sky, always holding you high you dance i will be the music that you wore.
My beast has been awakened. i shiver from its reverie. my desire raised in a breath. the beast hungers for you. candlelight flashes across your face. eyes intoxicated with lust. i want you. i can't think when you have been close. nothing is right. nothing is wrong. need overtakes me and i am a slave to it. a slave to you. my beast hungers. still. copyright 2006 a.j. mckinley.
Untie the knot for me of your deep inner secrets. give me the key of your inner fantasies where u have been drowning. let me swim in the sea of your dreams, desires and longings. let me unravel the mysteries of your mind thats made you blind thats been raging in you tormenting you spending you lusting in you bursting in you. come. touch me and feel the peace walk into your soul. the storm will cease. feel the calm like a balm. stop searching and yearning. feel my aura. embrace it if you hug me close you can share it.
Weave me into you you, the warp and i, the weft in between, no space left if anyone tried to tear will fail, because we will share a bond so strong with an amalgation of our spirits no you no me only we only we.
Passion does not have culture's or level's of studies passion comes from the heart, how one sees life from inside the soul, passion is like a savage animal, that does not understand or knows what he feels; but has inside him the passion that awakes his instinct of savage love, passion has nothing but a soul and a desire to love.
As real as air, earth and water as real as a lovers fight as real as teh laughter of a child in delight. as real as the expanse of the sea as real what lurks underneath as real as the lovers glee of an unexpected rendevous. come and touch my heart and make me real gaze into the depth of my soul make it sublime and surreal.
I wish you to unfold me i wish you to hold me i wish you to undress me i wish you to bless me i wish you to ravage me i wish you to savage me i wish you to blaze me i wish you to daze me i wish you to love me love me to death i wish you to smother me smother me with your love i wish you to inspire me inspire me to sing sing with you together where we can view and feel a garden of paradise.
Night of passion, the day of feelings, you see my smile, you see my joy you filled my dreams, you fill my empty sadness, my night with you, my day with to you your passion, my sweet passion, you wish my eternal wish, i wish your eternal wish, nights to love, those are nights of passion.
My heart is a wanderer in love may it ever remain so roaming in the pathless land in a caravan just going where the winds blow. sometimes rendered miserable blown in all directions in search of my eternal love fable inspite of all defections always singing the song of love. longing for the moon searching in the dunes will only be still when it becomes crystal that there is no breath left for me to fulfill.
Try my love song from the heart inside let it touch here through its going feel the gathering of its truest glide as it is willingly and knowing with some passion that touches me with some passion that touches me let the beauty from within come right here through the deep of the dark night with its flowing and its limits to share till all its touches become alright in the end of its limitless deep of the hours from down dark under with its dances and beats to keep as we drift though the waves asunder with some passion that touches freely with some passion that touches freely i might be in heart feeling lonely though i had my luck in its try you are touching my soul here and only filling moments with each their try with some passion that touches me with some passion that touches me try my love song from the heart inside let it touch here through its going feel the gathering of its truest glide as it is willingly and knowing with some passion that touches me with some passion that touches me with some passion that touches me.
I want to become. a dropp with no thoughts a stop that no one sought nothingness so that i can absorb empty so that i can fill until i fill you in and illuminate in your sight and i become your ray. you, my light.
I was drunk with the sobriety of my love wandering with a passion of a possessed soul swimming in the azure waters of my wonderous cove thought that i had discovered love that was whole in your light, the rays that touched me set me ablaze torching a flame in my heart, urging a song to give, to surrender, to live forever in this love haze and to live in this radiant light for as long as the fire crackled in this warm universe and the monsoon made love to this thirsty earth drenched in this ecstasy, i let the beauty dance unleashing a rapturous force that shook my soul breathing new life in me with just one of your glance words pouring out to celebrate this romance in this dawn of hope, he came with a searing kiss and woke me up from this languid dream where i had got lost in the timeless bliss now completely awake, dazzled by the sunbeams groping in the darkness of my subconscious all i remembered, t'was a dream.so sensuous.
The star of my mishap impos'd this paining, to spend the april of my years in wailing that never found my fortune but in waning, with still fresh cares my present woes assailing. yet her i blame not, though she might have blest me, but my desire's wings, so high aspiring, now melted with the sun that hath possess'd me, down do i fall from off my high desiring, and in my fall do cry for speedy speedy. no pitying eye looks back upon my mourning, no help i find when now most favor need i; th'ocean of my tears must drown me burning. and this my death shall christen her anew, and give the cruel fair her title do.
The sun is not just a special star huge balls of hot gases are stars spinning in space so big so hot and giving heat and light to the earth larger than one million earths is the shining sun in front of our face. we must never look directly at the sun cos it's not fun its brightness will damage the eyes the sun gives lives to all creatures on earth to all births, animals, human beings n natures when sun shines the stars shine all the time day and night the sun's so bright, it hides the light of the other stars with a steady light's broken up as it passes through the earth's atmosphere oh my dear, how beautiful they look, sparkle twinkle little stars. the earth spins or rotates on its axis in geographic, we have.night and day, who wonder how? the axis is an.imaginary line, going through the centre of the earth taking 24 hours at once for the earth to spin around. at night, one side of the earth moves away from the sun that part is the darkness..as the sun seems to sink below look at the horizon, the darkness is starting filling the dawn sky with the rich dark beautiful colours, changing to night time very very slow.
Once upon a shining star, i made a wish and it came true. i wished for someone for me to love, and then i was loving you. you quickly became my everything, my hopes my desires and my dreams. though we had our share of problems, they were never as bad as they seemed. but apparently they were bad enough, you decided to part and go your own way. life for me has been an empty void, since i couldn't convince you to stay. in all my life i have seen so much, i never imagined there could be more. but trying to face each day without you, is the toughest thing i've had to endure. the saddest part about you being gone, is that i no longer have my trusted friend. i guess i always thought you would stay, and we'd be together until the end. so today i'm searching for another star, one that i can wish upon once more. i'll wish for you to come back to me, to be the lover and friend i so adore. 2004.
Go and catch a falling star, get with child a mandrake root, tell me where all past years are, or who cleft the devil's foot, teach me to hear mermaids singing, or to keep off envy's stinging, and find what wind serves to advance an honest mind. if thou be'st born to strange sights, things invisible to see, ride ten thousand days and nights, till age snow white hairs on thee, thou, when thou return'st, wilt tell me, all strange wonders that befell thee, and swear, no where lives a woman true, and fair. if thou find'st one, let me know, such a pilgrimage were sweet; yet do not, i would not go, though at next door we might meet; though she were true, when you met her, and last, till you write your letter, yet she will be false, ere i come, to two, or three.
My apologies to chance for calling it necessity. my apologies to necessity if i'm mistaken, after all. please, don't be angry, happiness, that i take you as my due. may my dead be patient with the way my memories fade. my apologies to time for all the world i overlook each second. my apologies to past loves for thinking that the latest is the first. forgive me, distant wars, for bringing flowers home. forgive me, open wounds, for pricking my finger. i apologize for my record of minuets to those who cry from the depths. i apologize to those who wait in railway stations for being asleep today at five a.m. pardon me, hounded hope, for laughing from time to time. pardon me, deserts, that i don't rush to you bearing a spoonful of water. and you, falcon, unchanging year after year, always in the same cage, your gaze always fixed on the same point in space, forgive me, even if it turns out you were stuffed. my apologies to the felled tree for the table's four legs. my apologies to great questions for small answers. truth, please don't pay me much attention. dignity, please be magnanimous. bear with me, o mystery of existence, as i pluck the occasional thread from your train. soul, don't take offense that i've only got you now and then. my apologies to everything that i can't be everywhere at once. my apologies to everyone that i can't be each woman and each man. i know i won't be justified as long as i live, since i myself stand in my own way. don't bear me ill will, speech, that i borrow weighty words, then labor heavily so that they may seem light.
The star that surrounds me, the star has gone away. can we look forward to seeing it again? is it death calling for me? is it light from up above. no one knows except for me. it's hope and laughter crashing me down into the street. i need you.
I walk over to the place we used to visit, where laughter filled the rims of each cup, flowing over with desire and subdued embraces. blue flowers floating on crimson waves making its way into the enchanting waters. i reach for a petal, the beauty of it stands visible, accepting rays of golden light from the sun, extending her arms out to sprinkle kisses upon the silver sand below my feet. wind from the east brushes me with thoughts of you, and the place where you once sat lit up from a falling star, i hold on to the passion within, and close my eyes to see the light on your face, only knowing that deep inside me, you reside.
They could never understand what u set out 2 do instead they chose 2 ridicule u when u got weak they loved the sight of your dimming and flickering starlight how could they understand what was so intricate 2 be loved by so many, so intimate they wanted 2 c your lifeless corpse this way u could not alter the course of ignorance that they have set 2 make my people forget what they have done for much 2 long 2 just forget and carry on i had loved u forever because of who u r and now i mourn our fallen star.
1 whatever 'tis, whose beauty here below 2 attracts thee thus and makes thee stream and flow, 3 and wind and curl, and wink and smile, 4 shifting thy gate and guile; 5 though thy close commerce nought at all imbars 6 my present search, for eagles eye not stars, 7 and still the lesser by the best 8 and highest good is blest; 9 yet, seeing all things that subsist and be, 10 have their commissions from divinity, 11 and teach us duty, i will see 12 what man may learn from thee. 13 first, i am sure, the subject so respected 14 is well dispos'd, for bodies once infected, 15 deprav'd, or dead, can have with thee 16 no hold, nor sympathy. 17 next, there's in it a restless, pure desire 18 and longing for thy bright and vital fire, 19 desire that never will be quench'd, 20 nor can be writh'd, nor wrench'd. 21 these are the magnets which so strongly move 22 and work all night upon thy light and love, 23 as beauteous shapes, we know not why, 24 command and guide the eye. 25 for where desire, celestial, pure desire 26 hath taken root, and grows, and doth not tire, 27 there god a commerce states, and sheds 28 his secret on their heads. 29 this is the heart he craves, and who so will 30 but give it him, and grudge not, he shall feel 31 that god is true, as herbs unseen 32 put on their youth and green.
There was a red star stone, old poets feign, hung on the neck of helen, the most fair of women, the world's wonder; gathering there, dripped ever one bright drop of blood; like rain that ere it fails blows into mist again. the crimson gout melted to roseate air, and that divine white bosom, proudly bare, of all the woe it cost bore never a stain. so you, serene and beauteous lady, rove 'mid throngs of luckless ones who gaze and die. and not a tremor of heartbreak, not a sigh nor strangling sob of strong men whelmed in love avails your calm heart by one beat to move or dims the cloudless heaven of your eye.
Show me the star and i'll show you the lover for lovers they oft speak of stars and of moons passed down through the years from mother to daughter and father to son these words make a heart swoon and so it remains in this love of a game that starlight and moonlight are not something new i fear we've learned nothing but then did we have to for moonlight and starlight still do what they do.
Will you dance with me? will you set me free? will you love me true? and i'll be there for you. will you care for us? without any fuss coz im in love with you and you love me too will you stand by me? will you stay not flee will you pray at night that i'll see the light will we be forever? now we are together your my guiding star you know who you are.
This morning's passed so peacefully this morning the time has come, i must be on my way i only hope that when the fightings over i'll be able to return to you one day a long time since you kissed me with such passion it makes me feel i'd really like to stay we'll let the kids sleep on but when they waken don't say i'm off to war just gone away if the longing nights will make you sad and lonely look up into the sky and you'll be saved in the heavens there's a star with my name on it if we gaze at it then contact will be made so brush away the tears that fill your eyes now don't cry sweetheart i must be on my way in the heavens there's a star with my name on it if we gaze at it then contact will be made.
Star of the sea your home is the sea on the bottom of the sea you live the sea is clear just like a window of a house you can see through it at the sea when you look through it you can see the bottom of the sea very clear and it is also like a window star of the sea there in your home are other fish that belong in your home with you so you all have to share it star of the sea i hope nobody steal you from your home because that would be ashame in the sea is where you belong sometimes there are scuba divers diving down in your home i hope they leave you all alone let me tell you something if the sea didn't existed none of you would be around good bless you star of the sea.
As i stare upon you, evening star from the land where sorrows reign i envy you, oh star of night who never has known pain star you shine with hope and peace, for all the world to see. brightest of the stars tonight, one wish might you grant me? i do not wish for the magic of the fairies' song its sweet true tune would not survive amid our mortal throng. nor do i wish to own the power to rule the earth and sea, for power only robs a man of strength and dignity. i do not wish to love a man or another's love obtain for love upon this world of hate, can only end in pain. i dare not wish for life eternal to never age a day, to live and watch my loved ones die is a price i cannot pay. star, shining in the heavens. light and life you share this one wish i ask of you might i join you there?.
'star light star bright' eons passed by into earth's womb sunk into oceans diluted into galaxies and you're the same 'twinkle twinkle little star.' when the ancient me roamed the length and breadth of the expanding space and intriguing earth you were the one guiding me now with not much wonder left in life earth bound woes never allowing a gaze 'spent and tired' night after night i dissolve into the dark spaces you traverse before you shine 22oct2009 20.11hrs.
There is this rose, in a garden beautiful; and as life goes, with thorns cruel. among the blossoms, from earth seeds; as the life possums, and the roots concedes. like dragonflies above the trees, in knowledge and abilities; finding out each contiguities, in colored ways and poetries. the blue of world beyond, when clouds drift away; not to this earth bond, each night or new day. with profound sky around, so deep in its applique; the horizon line is found, inside all this quixote. like dragonflies above the trees, in knowledge and abilities; finding out each contiguities, in colored ways and poetries. our world is so beautiful, daydreams fading into sun; their ways quite ignitible, to break out of our ration. our spirt flies away high, to get to the gleaming stars; let your imaginations try, radio waves distance pulsars. like dragonflies above the trees, in knowledge and abilities; finding out each contiguities, in colored ways and poetries.
Speak softly; sun going down out of sight. come near me now. dear dying fall of wings as birds complain against the gathering dark. exaggerate the green blood in grass; the music of leaves scraping space; multiply the stillness by one sound; by one syllable of your name. and all that is little is soon giant, all that is rare grows in common beauty to rest with my mouth on your mouth as somewhere a star falls and the earth takes it softly, in natural love. exactly as we take each other. and go to sleep.
Your a thousand stars away. the brightest shining star in the sky. you are the glisten of the rain. and the glistening of the stars. your a thousand starlights away. but still you live in my heart. i love you still the same. if love could of saved you. you would still be here today. love lives forever so reall you did not die so i never will forget you. well untill my time. i will keep you in my heart. when my time comes. i will see you again.
Go and catch a falling star, get with child a mandrake root, tell me where all past years are, or who cleft the devil's foot, teach me to hear mermaids singing, or to keep off envy's stinging, and find what wind serves to advance an honest mind. if thou be'st born to strange sights, things invisible to see, ride ten thousand days and nights, till age snow white hairs on thee, thou, when thou return'st, wilt tell me, all strange wonders that befell thee, and swear, no where lives a woman true, and fair. if thou find'st one, let me know, such a pilgrimage were sweet; yet do not, i would not go, though at next door we might meet; though she were true, when you met her, and last, till you write your letter, yet she will be false, ere i come, to two, or three.
After dark near the south dakota border, the moon is out hunting, everywhere, delivering fire, and walking down hallways of a diamond. behind a tree, it ights on the ruins of a white city frost, frost. where are they gone who lived there? bundled away under wings and dark faces. i am sick of it, and i go on living, alone, alone, past the charred silos, past the hidden graves of chippewas and norwegians. this cold winter moon spills the inhuman fire of jewels into my hands. dead riches, dead hands, the moon darkens, and i am lost in the beautiful white ruins of america.
In the heart where lier's lay in the arms of despair where all lost souls do go i linger there moon never shines skies are black and the sun is lost where misery dwells is where you'll find me walking the path of death valley a lost soul began to be found but i am where no one will ever go even to save a very lost soul lost in the world where all lost souls go.
The time i dropped your almost body down down to meet the waters under the city and run one with the sewage to the sea what did i know about waters rushing back what did i know about drowning or being drowned you would have been born in winter in the year of the disconnected gas and no car we would have made the thin walk over the genecy hill into the canada winds to let you slip into a stranger's hands if you were here i could tell you these and some other things and if i am ever less than a mountain for your definite brothers and sisters let the rivers wash over my head let the sea take me for a spiller of seas let black men call me stranger always for your never named sake.
Another love lost, another love gone, just as the day done i know another love will come. but the love i lost i will never regain, oh how could i had been a fool. to think our love would endure so much hardship and pain. now i see that i was wrong because my love is gone.
I need to know their names those women i would have walked with jauntily the way men go in groups swinging their arms, and the ones those sweating women whom i would have joined after a hard game to chew the fat what would we have called each other laughing joking into our beer? where are my gangs, my teams, my mislaid sisters? all the women who could have known me, where in the world are their names?.
Have you ever had that feeling? that you are completely lost. your mind and senses reeling, as in a dark foreboding frost. nothing but nothing is as it seems, words like phantoms come and go. it is as if all the bizarre dreams, have turned your brain to snow. the ticking of the mantelpiece clock, cuts the silence like a knife. your mind is in a mysterious block, you ask yourself is this my life. perhaps i am just getting old, brain and body gone to pot, where are the times that i was bold, and my brain could solve every plot.
Spatial depths of being survive the birth to death recurrences of feet dancing on earth of sand; vibrations of the dance survive the sand; the sand, elect, survives the dancer. he can find no source of magic adequate to bind the sand upon his feet, his feet upon his dance, his dance upon the diamond body of his being.
I sing what was lost and dread what was won, i walk in a battle fought over again, my king a lost king, and lost soldiers my men; feet to the rising and setting may run, they always beat on the same small stone.
On many an idle day have i grieved over lost time. but it is never lost, my lord. thou hast taken every moment of my life in thine own hands. hidden in the heart of things thou art nourishing seeds into sprouts, buds into blossoms, and ripening flowers into fruitfulness. i was tired and sleeping on my idle bed and imagined all work had ceased. in the morning i woke up and found my garden full with wonders of flowers.
The cantadora came as it was custom, at night to tell about the flock abandoned. it seems the sheep had left their shepherd, not through a sense of loss or even want. they had discarded him in view of sheer neglect, he was not fit to lead, no flock be his again. he played, the cantadora did recap, with rats and other vermin of great detriment. it seems those creatures did provide sheer praise, the painful lack of which the woolies could not feel. so, for the pleasure of a short lived mozart tune embracing treason was the logic of the day. down by the creek they had assembled in the light of a full moon and to the murmur of the water. not being bright but rather fluffy and of beauty, they were unanimous at once in condemnation. 'he who can not accept the logic of a passion to fellow creatures does forfeit his right to life', thus all the sheep did nod and burped a silent baah, and with the signal that had been sent from above one million glow worms led the dance of sudden freedom.
When the desperation hit when the people cried in the streets when everything felt at loss hope stayed, even though fleaing would be easier when the eyes were full of tears. when kids and families were torn apart by that last desperate grasp hope tried when all else gave up when all else backed off when people lost all they had hope flew when they cried when the world was shocked with desperation and dispair when nothing seemed good hope worked when those four planes crashed when the buildings fell when the lives were lost hope was there hope was only a tiny glimmer hope was still there she ran to those who needed her she worked to help when all else failed hope didn't she flew through us all letting us know, we still had her we just needed to look hard enough hope was there hope remembers.
Again i am here among these lonely tides of faith roaring loudly in my ears. lost voices screaming warnings in an antique tongue. sounds like trumpets and birds. farther away peace is still alone, in the forests, in the hills. i ask the world why it mocks man. it just smiles sarcastically, and whistles.
One day when you lose the one you love the first thing you will do, is look into the sky above ask the lord why he had to take them away but you will know, you will see them someday you know that they've gone to a better place it's way up high, even further than space all you ask is that they're always happy so when you meet up, it will all be lovely when you've lost your loved one it is hard to get over it when you've lost your loved one you will never get used to it you will love them for eternity the thing you want for them, is to live their life happily ask the lord to keep them by his side and help them through, so that he is their guide in the end it doesn't really matter what's done is done as life begins to shatter all we can do now is to remember them and one day soon, we will be joined together again when you've lost you loved one it is hard to get over it when you've lost your loved one you will never get used to it.
Desolate and lone all night long on the lake where fog trails and mist creeps, the whistle of a boat calls and cries unendingly, like some lost child in tears and trouble hunting the harbor's breast and the harbor's eyes.
I'm lost in the darkness and i can't see the light i'm lost i can't find any hope all i see is the darkness in all i just want to see the light can someone help me see the light? i'm lost inside i want to get out of the darkness can someone help me see the light i just want to be free to see the light i cant seem to trust anyone they always turn their backs on me they have no hope for me to see the light im lost inside i wish someone could help me im lost in the darkness.
Anger for injustice anger for violence beside us inside us kae manungsa golek upa angkara sesingidan mawuni nggawa bandha donya mbuwang rasa agama nyingkiri sesanti ati tan wedi dosa tan eling bakal mati anger for fighting against those criminals anger for defending those beloved creatures.
Don't make a scene, refrain angry words march through the brain mouth clamped shut as not to utter quivering body, quaking shutter rushing sound in the ears eyes blinded, wet hot tears furious fists, clench and flex out of control, mind forms the text pent up, overflowing, ready to implode rapid fire has them spent, now words reload body turns to walk away conscious of the futility to stay the breath sucked in now released personal power, tenfold increased anger tries to take its toll beaten by control.
Not from this anger, anticlimax after refusal struck her loin and the lame flower bent like a beast to lap the singular floods in a land strapped by hunger shall she receive a bellyful of weeds and bear those tendril hands i touch across the agonized, two seas. behind my head a square of sky sags over the circular smile tossed from lover to lover and the golden ball spins out of the skies; not from this anger after refusal struck like a bell under water shall her smile breed that mouth, behind the mirror, that burns along my eyes.
Ur anger? wat about mi anger? wat about da fact, i h8 mah life? wat about touchin mah nerve? da fact tat i miself, from screamin out loud? wat about me seein red? wat about mi dissapointment, me, shakin mah head, sayin 'clean up ur act' bcause ur selfish, u care not 4 me, but 4 urself. wat about mah anger on tat? .
People can be so stupid but think they are all that when they're only fakes who imitate celebrities the complete perfectionists the horrible hypocrits i really dont like them they have a forked tongue they can lie 2 ur face and talk crap behind ur back i know most preps are this way and most jocks 2 but i hate sterotypes so i wont assume i'm honest as i can be and yes i've lied just believe and be urself and life wont be so bad.
Anger bestowed upon self is weight upon soul if you cannot walk with rocks tied onto your feet why then would you put so much weight onto your soul it hurts inside, and you know it it burns inside, and you feel it but you not listening to your reasoning nor paying attention to your past let go, would be easy but you hold on, like its priceless if there is anyone loosing that person would be you common, enjoy the freedom and see the people smiling if the eye, a window to the soul then anger, a veil over the eyes get those rocks off your feet lift up those veil off your eyes let your true self reveal the beauty you hold inside.
His anger is a hard summer storm, unpredictable and uncontrollable like the rain his anger falls upon countless victims. like the wind his anger lashes out upon the innocent like a summer storm his anger comes and like a summer storm his anger goes. it leaves behind destruction and kayos dismay and suffering. his anger comes and it goes and with all brings, it causes only pain.
There he was positioned in front of the reflection and through the eyes he senses the hint of anger. as he stares he yells, hands clenched and his voice booming through the walls of his room. he yells at his stupidity and his insanity, of his depression restraining him whole, he yells at the reflection that's in his way of what he really was. every word he's yelled he's inflicted on his kids, every dropp of anger led from abuse he's installed upon marks of misery on his own flesh and blood. he points a finger at this madman that stands before him pointing back, and tells him that he's nothing, that his anger is overpowering everything that he use to be, that with all the people he should blame for his unhappiness it should be him his eyes tell a story of a lonely little boy inside his depressing heart, now a grown man with kids of his own and still he yells in fright. this battle on his own is slowly wearing down, because inside he's losing what he had, that even his daughter at sixteen can't deal with his prescence being around her because he's so sad. so he looks with the anger through his eyes he's dead, but inside he's still that little kid, so when he burns all his bridges down, he's gonna be by himself instead. touchy subject but i wrote it because of my father. thank you for reading.
Here i am again having the same old pain that same old stupid thing came along and started to sting inside my room i drowned in air of gloom lost my self to the floor anger is kicking at my heart's door the urge to break anything whatever near me i'll start to swing hoping that i can drive away whatever makes sadness song play how many time did i cry? ? and hoped i could run away and fly? ? every time i spread my wings that horrible voice starts to sing and it starts to pull me in but i don't want to give in im sick of living like this taking life the way it is i don't want to lose my self anymore i have the strength to fight im sure i'll hold my fists tight i will start the fight and i will ride the chances flight.
Sometimes we get angry over the silliest of things, but it is not anger, but frustration over something we cannot do. if we could have done it, there would have been no anger there. there is no easy solution to get over it. it is part of our nature i am afraid to say. the sad thing is it will never go away. we will always suffer the frustration and the anger that goes with it. 9 may 2008.
Anger is not love anger is driking anger is killing someone anger one thing never do love, anger love not anger anger is ramming you head throug a glass door when your are man you do stupid things stupid things that are stupid when mad you dont feel nuthing anger we all have anger you cant change when mad stays stay away from everyone anger can kill because you do stupid things when mad sleep anger just anger anger.
Inexplainable is her mood undescribable is her mood no smile, no frown never up and never down she's merely a body taking up space sucking in air, never changing her face starring in plain dismay aloof whenever you look upon her face anger is what you think she doesn't smile and she doesn't shout she simply stares filled with doubt questions run through her mind am i happy or am i mad? anger is what she should feel after all she's been through instead, she's just here.
One time you want to run away to go and never look back you feel that you hate people and you hate yourself you didn't make any mistake but you want to punish yourself to broke every thing that make you happy and you want to be in the cage of sadness forever you think all these things when you are angry your brain tell you that you are wrong but your heart want to explose. but after few time you'll forget and you'll be stronger than you were and finally you realize that you learnt many things and your belief in god has increased which give you the power to fly.to reach be on the sky and you'll know that everywhere you go god will protect you just trust.
When the clouds of anger descend upon our mind things are said in haste which can hurt deeper that the thrust of any sword and will haunt us forever. no amount of sorry will ever take them back, they will just live there among our memories to haunt us when things start bothering us again.
Anger building up so close to exploding i am so close to the edge no second thoughts before knowing my body shakes with anger the line is so close slowly starting to overstep that line my eyes start to tear up softly falling down my cheeks anger invades me precisely and carefully taking over anger.anger.anger the human passion that can help or destroy me i feel like i'm alone in this small world but the anger becomes my friend my body crumbles to the ground i wake up screaming my mother comes to rock me to sleep.
I realized that you too get angry sometimes as human beings. but you should serve a substitute instead of ferocious quake. the innocents poured precious tears in their lifetime but no gratitude shown at all. i won't blame you as i know since my childhood earth is a graveyard.
This anger burns deep within, every minute the fire burns brighter, time is ticking, waiting to see who will be on the other side of this raging flame, waiting to see what will happen to people who mess with me, this fire is on raging so hot i cannot put it out, only in your preasence does it fade away, the lines in my heart break me, the fires take me, time can only tell what this great anger will cause me to do next, even the best, are no better than the rest, you can wish for it to disapear all you like, but nothing you try, will even compare to the firery anger and deep dispair, this anger inside me died today, for i died with it, it was controling me, had me under a spell, nows the time to, with compell, to release it into the pits of hell where it came from..
Your anger bursts like a thunderstorm, and torrential rain, and flashes like lightening. and when its spent and an uncanny calm descends. i feel like an uprooted tree. sharp words can hurt, deeper than a wound by a sword. it takes time before a scab forms, and you move on.
Anger spreads poison in mind destruction it leaves behind. it snatches all our senses and increases all our expenses. bloody sword in its hands it keeps and climbs up on thoughts bulky heaps. it becomes blind in its darkness hatred it can only express. it cuts and bites with nails and teeth thorns ae spread in flowery heath. it casts eclipse to sun and moon but when is punctured its baloon often it sits with head on knees and is heard saying ' please, please, please. '.
How is anger escaped? it stays deep within me. i think about what is lost, and the anger rises inside of me. every where i look, i see what should be mine. envy turns to anger, i think to myself 'who are these people? , they do not deserve such a thing i have lost' i think about what is lost, and the anger rises inside of me. it rises to such a degree, that anger turns to tears.
Anger is anger anger makes you scream anger makes you hate anger takes control anger want let go anger wants you to hurt anger wants you to sufer anger makes you mad anger makes you cry anger turns people against you anger is anger.
Any time i don't understand something or feel unhappy with the way things are going, anger steps up, 'use me; let me help' and i used to give anger a lot of free rein, till i noticed anger wasn't all that useful and generally tended to only make things worse. now i try to rely more on 'patience' as patience doesn't keep clicking that counter, adding up every resentment of the hour. besides, i can look straight into patience's face and not have one clue what patience is thinking of. you know, anger could learn something from that.
Anger builds up inside of me like a volcano ready to explode the anger inside of me grows like cancer spreading fast and destroying me but that anger has to come out some how before it kills me and builds up inside of me there are times that is not good for me to show my anger to myself and others because it is very destructive sometimes it is difficult for me to control my anger.
Listening to the storm seeing anger in your face stomping on the floor as you start to make a disgrace you fist against the wall forming cracks as you hit your temper isn't all your mind just seems to flip you become a different person a person who's unknown you make people tense whenever you come to show we would prefer to stay away not follow in your tracks your temper's not okay because your anger's in large stacks.
Incisions marked with skin of silk, i am vulnerable, true to flesh and bone, i am human, capable of making the light dissapear within my fingertips. i love and hate, as such reactions towards the darkness i look on knowing that i just won't make it. cracked up smiles and blurry faces try to escape the side of your, sweet prescence, thinking that a girl so ignorant such as she could sustain her anger much longer. she must be human for she feels what she's been taught. self pity is what she wants, so her selfishness she will get, even if her veins burn with envy, or tower over with regret. you've tried so hard to stay so strong but obviously not enough, you know you can make it through to him so act like you're tough. these burned bridges are slowly finishing it's trail, and silence will be joined at the end, until then she'll stay a ruined creation of the world, she'll live or make ammend.
There is this angry place she said that's been inside me since my earliest days. and when i need i go there for power and resistance. if ever someone hurts me i let it out to go free and kill or hurt back and allow it to take retribution. it makes me feel strong it makes me feel not so weak. only thing is it is starting to get out of control. after getting out sometimes it will not go back in it remains out and hurt some people it shouldn't. that's the thing about this anger thing i'm afraid most times now. i am not in control. it is. now it is scary anger and i blank out at times to wake up shocked to see what it has done. i need help with it.
Anger is bubbling away at me. burning a whole in my heart. making me burn with rage. i have good reason to be angry. i only wish i could make them pay. put them through what they did to me. anger is destroying me. for im hell bent on revenge.. i would love to dish out. my own justice. but i cant. anger buabbles away. like a swishing sound of the waves. like a brook babbles anger takes ahold.
Great buildings before her have toppled like dominos she made them look as fragile as a castle of sand built on the beach by children in the morning and washed out to sea when the tide floods the strand. anything humans do build cannot withstand her anger the strongest of structures from their foundations she shake compared to her we are just tiny insects there is nothing we can build that she cannot break. we who are arrogant do not respect her though in her bosom we are destined to lay there is no greater force than mother nature on life and death she has the final say. there is some price to pay for our pollutants our polluting of oceans, waterways and land little we seem to know of mother nature and little of her ways we do understand. on ourselves we invite the anger of nature she can shake to rubble our mightiest towers yet she can be gentle the one we live off of and we see her great beauty in her blossoms and flowers.
I'm not even going to say a word. my mind compels me to speak, but for what? so i can angrily express something absurd? i can deal with it on my own instead of getting my throat cut. i'm not even going to say a word. many thoughts of what to say spark here and there maybe if i try telling someone i can be heard. if i don't react some way i won't get anywhere. i'm not even going to say a word. yes, i make mistakes and i will own them and time after time i'd correct them if i could because i know anger does not make them stem. so now i'm saying this for the simple fact for myself all i need is to relax and rest so i don't hurt myself or someone else. 1993.
Anger threatens and bursts throught fast. the swelling breast stretches the sinews of all being. with strife the builds of some betrayel clings to mind, a length of memory springs bringing into combat all focuses of strength. restrained the sighing heart descends the peak, resting uneasily and declaring weak. sally plumb sally plumb.
Don't fight it don't use it with your thoughts don't amuse it don't feed it you don't need it don't keep it to the dark wells of your mind you must lead it drown it supress it don't let it come up with mud and water don't let it closer. you can't calm it you can't teach it don't warm it burn it when it hurts you hurt it reach it but don't hold it try to fold it into shapes then throw it in a jar and brake it swallow the shreds to taste it tastes better with your blood? waste it spit it out and keep it out watch it but don't touch it. you can't bear it you can't take it you can't make it weaker. it speaks for itself, speaker it eats for itself, eater catcher and coveter not seeker.
Anger is a virus that needs not even air to propagate contagion whenever it is shared. anger can't be placed in quarantine to contain its vicious spread for anger feeds upon itself and burns a flaming red. anger is all consuming anger does not desist from destroying sensibilites in that haze of its red mist.
Anger threatens to steal me away my soul burns with fire, my sanity strays my heart beats faster, one single beat my face reddens sudden from the intense heat anger came quickly as quickly as can be my thoughts think the worst just wanting to be free it came so fast i can hardly remember while my heart beats with rage and a sole burning ember anger fell upon me and tore me apart my brain fries from the burn, from the hurt, from the start i begin to wonder how much i can endure as i ball up my hands struggling to gain composure the storm swells up inside me and wears down everything like erosion i know soon it will blow like a time bomb explosion a giant volcano, about to blow up the lava spilling over, ready to erupt anger reaches over to a boiling temperature these feelings all too childish, irresponsible, immature anger threatens to take me away, my eyes now to blind everything seems red to me, the tint not all too kind anger spills out over, through every open space giving another memory, that never i can erase.
When i am full of anger i think in anger's terms part of my existing life is full of anger's germs nothing seems a perfect right most of things gone wrong i get such vengeful feelings when i carry anger along when i think of forgiveness i think in forgiveness' terms my life is held in gentle hands softly in those twists and turns very few are perfect wrongs so many things are right show me god forgiveness' face so i can live in light.
I do not express my anger i prefer to be at peace i go away from present danger and my problems begin to cease but i grieve, for it cannot last my anger refuses to be ignored painful memories from the past have become a ruler and a lord they rule over my mind with brute force i cannot help but to cry of actions they cause i have much remorse because of these crimes, i deserve to die anger trapped within has become my torture, my sorrow, my sin.
There is plenty of anger inside of me it has to stop why is there so much anger inside of me? my anger is part of my frustration i have to control it now my anger causes me plenty of trouble there is plenty of anger inside of me and what is anger do i know? anger is a strong feeling of displasure it is a grief that i have inside of me how can i control it? what triggers my anger? can i recognize it?.
My anger is angry. its pain. its frustration. its irritation. my anger is angry. my anger is confusion. my anger is past, present and future. my anger's disappointment. my anger builds up and explodes like thunder on a stormy day. its fiery red. its envy. its greed. its temptation. my anger's too angry. won't you please help me stop? i'm a blazing volcano that's ready to pop.
Anger is bubbling away at me. burning a whole in my heart. making me burn with rage. i have good reason to be angry. i only wish i could make them pay. put them through what they did to me. anger is destroying me. for im hell bent on revenge.. i would love to dish out. my own justice. but i cant. anger buabbles away. like a swishing sound of the waves. like a brook babbles anger takes ahold.
Deep, dark ocean womb vortex of secrets there lies a black pearl reflecting ominously the pure ivory of its parent oyster there in reign i lie too let me lie disturb not my watery repose for if i rise i shall swallow you whole.
Anger is a force that can never die anger is a force that lies deep within us anger is the force that can change a man life anger is the force that can create a kill anger is the force that can ruin your life anger is the thing we all fear anger is the force that will kill us all anger is the force that we shall take to are grave.
Walking 'round my yard, i just wanted to see, if any little friends wanted company.. i saw mrs. robin sitting in a tree, guarding her nest, and her children three.. she was busy at the moment, and said, ' go visit mr. squirrel.. he just broke up with his cute little girl..' i said, ' how do you do, mr. squirrel so blue, i have some nuts, i'd like to share with you..' he replied, 'keep the nuts, i don't want to be fed, i'm feeling so sad, i'm going back to bed.. i left in a hurry to catch mr. rabbit, he was hopping along, in his usual habit.. i said, 'hi mr. rabbit good to see you, he replied, good to see you too but i got a lot of work to do.. as i strolled around the house, i saw the groundhog, and the grouse.. the were both very busy, so i went to see mrs. mouse.. mrs. mouse is usually home, 'cause she rarely leaves the house.. she put a sign on the wall, that was flapping in the breeze.. it read, ' open house today, please bring your own cheese..' no one today wants to talk or play.. i guess i'll read a book.. but first let me see, if the animals are all safe.. it's worth a second look..
Day in day out i struggle i have no future none that i can see nothing hopeful nothing that can take from me this pain nothing but one death.. my life is one uncaring my life is one ungrateful my life is one neglect my life is one death its difficult for me to understand its difficult for me to recall if i had ever found out why.. my life revolves in a cage a cage of despair, death and steel yet i have it lucky luckier than most its painful to see your own die they don't care they don't regret my life consists of no more than pain helpless, hopeless pain we never wronged them we never interfered we never hurt them then why? what..what did we do? nothing. its hard to stay positive its hard to remain hopeful its hard to keep living but we still do and will do until all hope is gone its difficult to live when your life consists of nothing more than pain most days severe pain it funny to know the value of your life is nothing nothing more than a beauty product and perhaps for the lucky a cigarette. its painful to remember the days strapped to the cold cold rack while your eyes slowly melted away wht coul you do but suffer you could cry out but no one would come its tormenting to see and feel your skin shrivel away burnt and bloody as the acid ate in its painful to know that you are slowly poisoned and left to see whether you live of die all that we could do was whimper and some not even that for us there is no hope for us, no faith for us, no remorse only a slow painful death this is no modern world this is no intelligent race this is no kind people and we know as we slowly crumble the best part of it all is death.
Prevent the cruelty to animals animals are also entitled to live to enjoy the life until the last save the animals for our own sake. human beings becomes so cruel to the animals including wild ones in fact the earth is common for all rights of animals are to be protected. observe the tendency of the humans the rich history we have passed in centuries in cultures, civilizations we followed a thought of selfishness with animals. domesticated some of the animals from wild they followed the commands we gave we used them for travel, war, and milking for its skins to make ourselves comfort. denied justice in its negative health even killed without hesitation at all animals are also bound to get justice in this world of injustice sometimes. slowly and sluggishly humans accepts they makes schemes for their protection but still the road is far away to reach until there is the goal of security deserve. welfare of animals are a necessity surely for the development of human beings they were with us from the beginning do not negate their rights and issues in blind.
My children planned a visit to a zoo, they invited me, i replied with a shoo, i already have a zoo inside, within me, i cannot show and you cannot see. all the animals are present in a man, you can see them with an honest scan. both for the friends and their enemies, they have long, very long memories. like funny camels, like large elephants, whether old or youths or innocent infants. they often behave like a beast so wild, they don't hesitate to abuse a child. for many centuries they've been killing fellow men, they have misused their sword and their pen, most of their killings were in his religion and name, man was never shy of this bloody game. men cast their thinking in a too old mold. those adventurists seeking silver and gold, left footprints of animals in fact, i see in the prints many criminals in fact. on the other hand like birds they twit, under blue moons are lovely and sweet, loyal and faithful like horses and dogs, swim and jump just like the frogs, entertain the children like a dolphin or a monkey, before pretty women they flirt like a donkey, like a peacock they dance in a hall, like a sweet cuckoo, girlfriends they call. they are handsome when they love fellow men, praise them with their words and use their pen. i don't need to watch a zoo, i am a man but an animal too.
Thunder roars in the distance his sense of loneliness deepens he wishes he could feel emotion but animal knows only instinct he senses the approaching storm and with it, the wrath of god the animal tries to escape from his fury but instead is consumed in his own living hell the animal cannot stop the rampage it tries to survive but cannot it wants to end its hunger but cannot catch its prey it tries for love but feels none the clouds start to swell with the sorrow of a thousand tears she cries she feels the mist in her heart the ground at her feet her beauty is unmatched but it will not save her she turns around and sees the storm coming she knows she cannot escape her destiny for she is destiny's child the clouds roll over her they embrace her consume her from the darkness of the storm the animal appears before her and like the sun in all its fiery fury he pulls her into the storm hoping to end the hunger that consumes him into the darkness they go forevermore they sink lower and lower forevermore to the darkest region of the abyss forevermore into the heart of the storm forevermore their fates collide nevermore the animal consumes her in his wrath sorrow meets with anger she becomes part of the creature neither living, nor dying the animal knows by instinct the storm is almost over he knows and embraces it lightning flares in the sky as the animal begins to die a new life is created in the heavens dampening the wrath of god the animal senses his own destruction and finally starts to feel her emotion her sorrow and his anger fuse the beast beats upon the storm backing anger into a corner the animal beats upon the storm and starts to fade the creature beats upon the storm and the clouds shatter into rain the boy and her soul within beat upon the last remaining tendrils of the storm and reveal to the world a light brighter than the fury of "the animal".
Soon we got the answer. unable to find a man or animal the king entered the forests where only sages lived. to our ashram came the king with his full retinue in attendance father did not break his silence mother fainted in his arms. asked the king, 'you have three sons all bearing the sacred marks written in the holy scriptures that qualify them as yajnapasu. sell me one; exchange for a thousand cows for the land will perish otherwise i will be obliged to you for ever and you shall earn a place in the heavens.' in full tears father said, 'i have no sons to sell, even if it were for sacrifice in the altar of gods my heaven is where my family is.' but king and his sages preached of his duty to the king and gods but nobody dared to ask, 'what about your son, o king, is he not suited for the sacrifice? ' finally father said, 'my elder son is dear to me, whom i shall not sell' mother, provoked, spoke 'so is sunaka the youngest one, to me, shall not be sold. .that left me, the middle one. i spoke, 'when in fear of danger, child looks for protection from parents. when they disown, the king shall protect him. now, disowned by all, whom shall i appeal to? ' .i did not want to die.
Bite me i will bite in return hurt me i will hurt in return don't scare me i will fill fear in you just once challenge me i will bring you down i like some thing i will copy you taunt me i will simply deny accost me i will tremble just once challenge me i will bring you down an animal is hidden inside this drape of humane the instinct of a beast can never way out in feast let a moment trying appear restrain, humility disappear evil dances takes round revenge howls like hound trust and faith burn then goodness in turn slumbers in this ground let that child wake that hides in the rakes blow the whistle of peace hound in you can receive animal thus caged inside slowly love starts to ignite.
Some people say man is social animal he has to act liberal and mix with people he may be guided by some belief as it may be providing some relief the religion is separate thing it is personal like thing one should never discuss it in public whether idols, special items are called relic human mind has escape route he may kill person or shoot yet he may bow down before god and repent for whatever good or bad it gives some solace person should bear no double face it gives cruel impression of being bad the face lines are easily read so think whatever you feel like but never express openly your dislike it angers another person for harsh words even raising stick in air frightens the birds the love is universal it can not find immediate dismissal it is reciprocated with equal zeal as it speaks of good and senses real.
We are surely fool animal if can't sense the downfall's arrival even insects and birds sense the danger why should we commit something in anger? we can't resort to follow dangerous way addiction, if you consider, is all the way driving you away from real life to that of artificial thinking in fact taking you at the bottom and sinking consumption of alcohol can be legal some of its consequences may be illegal anything taken in excess is bad that increases frustration and makes you sad inner consciousness is real reflection that shall never allow you to for bad action but since you are made slave of desires nothing good can be accepted by you to admire it is wrong to assume about the winner the chances of coming out it becomes thinner it may certainly kill you from within what will then be loss or gain? it is time pass for pleasure certain quantities are allowed for sure if you can control and drive your desires nothing may go into flames or on fire keep it to self and master the art you are the person to have good start be not at its mercy and succumb it may otherwise make you to jump the day may end with tragic death people may lament death and lay the wreath for few days you may be remembered rest all may be the days to follow and numbered.
As the warm weather heats the ground at my feet donkeys shaking at their knees worked to death not given food to eat as they carry the load from the work day full on their backs across the mountains, all over the road the grain is off to pakistan to be sold a people lost selling their sole.
Intelligent animal monday,4th may 2020 you could have been dog, cat or rat but you were set for noble mission with the human creation so special and intelligent animal who was given third sense to control the rage, hate and prevent fall universally considered as wild animal but has enough of an opportunities to prove as good individual full life to emerge as noble man and prove as capable human beings show your worth and dare the death with full faith to have an easy and free breathe you are born free so don't flee from the responsibilities and shut the possibilities life must be over but after providing full cover to expand the vast horizon and make the life mission fully shown hasmukh mehta.
It is beautiful wish that finishes with welfare for people who daily struggle there is no end to desires which sometimes misfire? catch us on wrong foot and in misdirection shoot to wish for all and give lovely call it is sign of good soul that never smells foul let us all pray for comfortable stay and spend the rest of the journey with nice feeling of being happy let us remain earthly animals and call for good human it is need of an hour as this one is holy tour.
Let god turn his merciful eyes to make successful our tries we shall always thank for mercy from heart and shall not act dirty it is difficult to transform as weaknesses are inborn we take birth with jealousy always look around for luxury influential and rich people face no difficulty or trouble the children are brought up with care poor children stay neglected as they are he is there to look after pardon any sin that is often practiced here make path smooth even for sinner he is always here to offer we are thankless animal always claim pardon with easy dismissal we get unnatural happiness from fruitless drive keep no pure aim to sustain and survive still at an end time we openly opine curse for wrong done in past pray for reprieve at the last.
We are animals. having the same instincts as any animal. law of the jungle courses through our veins. hormones flush clouding judgement, wrecking havoc on reason and intellect. procreation, self preservation strongest of animal instincts. sex and violence dominates human culture. we think ourselves superior sophisticated. biology millions of years in the making. civilization thousands of years in the making. conflicting, struggling to peacefully coexist.
The sweet smile upon your lips smooth movement of your hips charming gaze eyes ablaze i see the animal in you the softness of your skin your ever cheeky grin killer nails crazy tales i feel the animal in you the emotion in your tone intensely rich groan harsh speech now preach i hear the animal in you the fierce in your stroll kindness of your soul heart true destined view i love the animal in you.
The animals in the zoo must be taken care of, but the zoo director who does it is not an animal. he's studied the ideal diet of every species, but he doesn't dine on hay or raw, red meat. the animals roar or pace all day in their cages. he too stays at the zoo, in his office, but he has the run of the compound, and at night goes home.
Man is basically wicked animal no one can see his ideas even if naked either before computer or before sky he will struggle with his mind and try his brain is always matching with speed so much eagerness with lots of greed no stoppage over its planning and thoughts mind struggles and so many ways are sought it will never satisfy his ego even if it requires to forgo that is the mentality and real fact it requires little restrain to act it is good to have appetite for knowledge it may then give enough time for leverage with dedication and efforts it can give result only inner urge should be controlled and remain well built the universe and nature has been unexplored it is like digging of well in small hole of the bore it may open earth's belt to give enough of water that is all we want for need to cater.
Man and animal animal, hunts, to quench his thirst and hunger, on the other hand, man hunts, for amusement after driving away the hunger, animal never runs in the materialistic race, one race never kills another, but man kills man.
Can you enjoy a meal, if it ain't your cat. is he mad as a dog, or blind as a bat. could he be chicken, doing a gig. or roars like a lion; and snorts like a pig. perhaps he's mean as a bear sly as a fox quiet as a mouse. or big as an ox. if i wonder anymore, what he might be. would he fly like a bird or sting like a bee this has probably been done, one way, or another. guess i better eat my words, before they turn to butter,.
They walk like a majestic, behave like gentle animals elephants are known as the biggest mammal on earth let it be cultural or any other ceremonies they continue to play their common role in them. raise their trunk for trumpet weg their tail and ears to chase flies and squirt water these gentle giants that tread the earth. always like to wallow in the mud and love to immerse themselves in the water for long hours they show great affection for one another and take care of their young ones very dearly not only they are sensitive animals by nature but also have a great memory although, they are useful to human in many ways but also they are killed for their priceless tusks. they are great animals in the jungle and parade like a majestic.
Love is the most beautiful thing alive.. you might not think its alive, but it is. love is a living parasite who can make huge changes in their victim. to notice infection you feel it, for example if your heart feels like clouds and if your feets feel like they want to take air. love is known for its wonderful gift of corrupting humans. it colour is red and blue. soft colours that makes you calm. there is no cure but as it is alive it also dies.
Three things to remember black and white are equal in the eyes of god created for his penchance for diversity though many would beg to differ the healthy child who fails to laugh or smile for two days shows something has gone wrong with us, not them that we are the ones to seek psychiatric care, not them the air has turned hotter from our own negligence not the vengeance of god the world would end on the hands of men, not god he only acts according to necessity inspired by three things to remember a robin redbreast in a cage, puts all heaven in a rage. a skylark wounded on the wing doth make a cherub cease to sing. he who shall hurt the little wren shall never be beloved by men. william blake.
Always remember to ignore the drawbacks that made you sad, but never ignore to remember the events that made you glad. always remember to ignore the associates that proved untrue, but never ignore to remember those that were loyal to you. always remember to ignore the worries that have faded away, but never ignore to remember the bliss that comes your way.
Remember where you came from. remember you name. remember where you have been. remember whom you have encountered. remember whom you have known, remember joyous moments. remember sorrows too. remember the choices you've chose, remember the mistakes you've made. remember all the lessons. remember the lessons you forgot. remember your father. remember mother. remember your mentor. remember to remember. remember gratitude. remember to be humble. remember your heart. remember always to love. remember this.
The river in december do you remember? when time was graying old leaves decaying? we walked by that water, that mindless water. watching two leaves in their reflection swept away without direction. we walked by that water, that mindless water. following them until we were frozen for there was no end to that way once chosen.
I remember many things about those days and you. i remember staring into brown eyes as though i couldn't get enough of them, then burning the love i saw there into a memory to keep for all time. i remember how with you, total silence could be so comfortable, and how it was the only time in my life i ever felt that to be so. i remember how safe i felt with you. even the way you said my name was different from how others said it and i remember feeling that even my name was safe in your mouth. i remember how sometimes we made love all night and stayed in bed all day, then skinny dipping to cool down all the secret places our lovemaking heated up. i remember lying in your arms in the afterglow and thinking how profound it was, the way the brain hitched a ride when the body did all the work. you were my miracle in our own short season, and it makes me remember the last time i saw you because i will never forget the pain of my loss.
I remember when you said i love you i remember when i said yeah me too i remember when you said love me i remember when you carved our names in that old oak tree i remember our first kiss and i ignored the fact that you missed i remember when you said together.always i remember when i stood in front of you dazzled and amazed i remember the sparkle in your eyes and i remember the tears you made me cry i remember when i could never be truly honest with you i remember me packing, and you asking is there anything that i can do i remember when i looked into your eyes and i remember when we said our goodbyes.
I remember the day dad, when you chased me around, to get me to hospital for the treatment of fever which i had. i remember the day dad, when you scolded me and hit me and later how you felt bad. i remember the day dad, when for the first time you took me to school leaving me there, how you felt sad. i remember the day dad, when i got into medical college and with happiness you went mad. i remember the day dad, in your village, in front of your elders how you behaved like an obedient lad. i remember the day dad, when we both felt upset as india lost a test match in trinidad. i remember the day dad, when i was feeling low and had lost all hope but you always had a word of encouragement and advise to add. i remember these entire days dad, i cherish the memories of us together to have had a father like you i am really lucky and glad. i remember each and every day, when you had so many things to do and i always learnt something from you.
I remember hiding, crying, cowering, screaming, begging god to end my life i remember my disappointment in waking each and every day and how i cursed his name, in anger i remember so many years wasted in despair as i died a little each day i remember the day i was freed badly frightened i was that there was nothing left of me i remember falling in love and finally feeling that i truly am alive i remember what i was before thankful for what i am and for oh so much more i will remember the life i have been shown that was given me by those i love it is all of you i will forever remember.
Remember how i held your hand, remember how i kissed it, remember how you fell asleep, your head upon my shoulder? i remember, i remember the warmth of your body, pressed tightly against mine, the press of your lips on my brow, i remember desire, in love was it wrapped, i remember you. am i just a face amoung many? a shadow of your past? when your brushed by a warm nights breeze, remember my whispers to you? do you remember the moments of joy? do you remember our loss? do you remember all that i gave? do you even remember my name?.
Always remember to forget the things that made you sad but never forget to remember the things that made you glad always remember to forget the friends that proved untrue but never forget to remember those that have stuck by you always remember to forget the troubles that have passed away but never forget to remember the blessings that come each day.
It was august i remember i remember when i met her she was perfect i remember in her body, mind and soul in september i remember i remember her all over she was perfect i remember in her body, mind and soul in october i remember i remember her all over we were lovers i remember in body, mind and soul in november i remember i remember lies she told me she was wilful i remember wilful to the n'th degree in december i remember i remember it was over still, she is all that i remember love forever sweet nicole.
I remember the day when i saw you walk away and i felt like i would never see you again i cried the whole way home and couldn't even say why i remember the day when i felt a little bit of my heart break i remember it like it was yesterday and you had nothing to say it was my turn to walk away i remember the day when you first told me you loved me i had waited so long to hear it even though i didn't, at first, believe it but to hear it was so relieving i remember the days of you and of me of everything we thought we'd be of everything we wanted to be and me begging you to remember me i'll always remember the day when i watch you walk away to start the next part of your life and i'll pray to one day be a part of that walk but i'll never forget that day i'll remember every day as if each moment happened yesterday.
Remember when the days seemed so long not a care in the world and all was a song sit on the front porch and smell the fresh air summertime pleasures without not a care i long for those days to came back again sharing our dreams with one special friend.
It was august i remember i remember when i met her she was perfect i remember in her body, mind and soul in september i remember i remember her all over she was perfect i remember in her body, mind and soul in october i remember i remember her all over we were lovers i remember in body, mind and soul in november i remember i remember lies she told me she was wilful i remember wilful to the n'th degree in december i remember i remember it was over still, she is all that i remember love forever sweet nicole.
There are faces, i remember. like pearls in the sand, diamonds among shells. faces i remember, the great one, and bogart, elvis and john. 'everyone dies.' but you don't miss everyone, you just miss faces. like an old pet, a first kiss, a lost love. i guess we owe them thanks, i guess we do. thanks for the memories, how sweet they are.
So many memories we've made together. as the years have slowly passed. tears may have been cried but our laughter drownedthem all out. sharing my deepest most secrets 'till one in the morning. talking forever about things until our words just ran out. but now you must leave, and i stay behind who will i call when i just need to talk. who will i lean on when my problems weigh me down? who's jokes will i laugh at? who will make me smile? ? i can't tell you the answers to the questions i have. but i want you to know i will always love you as my best friend. and when my heart is troubled i will think of you. remember the times of joy we have shared, and maybe it will make you smile. and since you can't take me with you take the memories we have made and cherish them as i always will.
She was an evil stepmother. in her old age she is slowly dying in an empty hovel. she shudders like a clutch of burnt paper. she does not remember that she was evil. but she knows that she feels cold. translated from the polish by czeslaw milosz and leonard nathan anonymous submission.
Will you remember me when im gone will you ever think of me when you are alone will you remember me on a dark rainy night will you remember our laughs and our silly fights will you remember me in the early morn will you ever think of me and our time forlorn will you remember me as me not as someone i couldnt be will you remember me when im not there will you ever miss me or do you really care.
See window sills, and laughter smiles, funny walks, when you were a child, singing songs out in the rain, the sorrow, the heartache, and the pain. such are the things of memories, times and laughters of the mind, times with you alone with me, times my mind must let me see. do you remember those times with me? do you remember? will your mind let you see? and do you ever think of me? where i am, or who i'm seeing? do you remember us by the sea? do you, can you, remember me? if not, then remember please, that i remember you.
Rewind life and remember your last bad words, your last good ones, to him. long before the cut. if you're not too relaxed, picture the last conversation and how it went. what he told you. why you didn't listen completely. try to push past all this recent history to the old school grounds. remember tripping on a shoelace. he helped you up, didn't he? remember falling off the swing. wasn't he there to show you how to hit the ground running? remember how you forgot all that. try to understand everyone's own impact. his impact. his footprint. if you're not too busy to mourn an early end, stop. remember how he touched. no matter how or when or why. just for the record, you're never going to see him again.
When you are feeling down, try to remember all the good things you have had, and i will bet you, they are many more than the bad. we tend to remember only all the bad things in our lives, and the good things get stored away for a rainy day we say. now if we remember, all the good things in our life, we would not be so unhappy when the bad things come along. 4 august 2007.
We remember our fathers they remember their sons who fought long battles and paid with their lives we remember the glories we have forgotten the pain, , of the widows and orphans, of those who will never return again. we remember the machinery with which battles were fought but the names of the fallen are all but forgot. we remember, we say with the crimson petalled poppy and silence at eleven on remembrance day but of all the boys and men who fought wars large and small paying dearly with their lives do we really remember them, at all? 9 nov 1986.
When all their backs have been turned when all your bridges have burned when you forget to teach and learn when all your tears fall down your face when all your smiles go to waste when your heart does no longer race remember, i am when you can't remember where you're from when you've forgotten about true love when you don't know which way is up when you can't seem to understand when you find you can't trust a man when your foundation is made of sand remember, i am remember i am and i always will be remember there is none like me believe in what you cannot see? believe. believe. believe in me. remember i am when you don't know who you are remember i am when someone breaks your heart remember i am when you're torn all apart remember, i am when you don't know where to start when all your dreams turn to nothing when your mouth forgets to sing and when your phone no longer rings when it seems no one does care when you find no one is there when you don't feel all that rare remember, i am.
Remember my smile remember my eyes remember my laugh remember my voice remember my bad grammer remember my random thoughts remember my love of music remember my addiction to art remember my love for you forget whatever it was that made you leave please remember me.
We share the same cabin while the rest of the passengers sleep. jack and coke for two, we spill out our lives. our love. yours lost, mine found. for the voyage we fall in love and in that cabin the stewards talk about us behind our backs. you tell me i have a special spirit, but i don't believe in such things. i tell you that you amaze me with your tenacity and drive, but you don't believe in such things. at the end you kiss my hands with tears in your eyes. no one will wait at the empire state building. the entire affair ends when we depart, never repeated except in our memories. i'll just take my ego for a walk.
Do i remember you from so many years ago? the man with a gentle touch and loving hands, the softest shoulder to cry upon. budding passion, almost lovers, undermined and rent by fate. so many miles away. the years have passed, our mirrors echo youthful faces all aglow, lives lived on tandem shores. as silent arms reach through the ages spanning years from then to now, unseen fingers ply the keyboard filling in the time between. love and memories come flooding into present from the past and i cry from just one letter. yes, i do remember you.
When you're feeling down and blue just remember i love you. when people have been mean and untrue just remember i love you. when you feel sad and depressed just remember i love you. when you're lonely and feel the pain in your chest just remember i love you. no matter what state of mood you're in just remember i love you. i hope this simple phrase gives you comfort within. just remember i will always love you.
I get a funny feeling it comes for deep in side i get all mad and angry wanting to go and hide my doctor calls it depression my dad says its just me but the thoughts and feeling no one will ever be able to see some say im psycho some say im weird its like im a different person and the old me just disappeared i get really edgy i want to die real bad then i get a headache followed by feeling sad i wish it would go away maybe if i keep praying real hard it will someday.
Isn't it funny, how the world likes to be? isn't it funny, how much you don't mean to me? isn't it funny, how much i care? it really isn't funny, when you're not there. isn't it funny, how we used to be? isn't it interesting, what you meant to me? isn't it strange, how we fell apart? isn't it great, we both miss our hearts? one last thing, before i throw this ring, wasn't it funny. to see what i'd do? isn't it laughable, how i still love you?.
Sometimes you get laugh for something that really funny sometimes you could laugh to something that doesn't intent to be funny sometimes you make laugh because everybody understand what's funny sometimes you laugh alone because you are the only one that think it's funny sometimes you try to laugh just to be looked funny sometimes you are forced to laugh despite it isn't funny sometimes you can't help to laugh even though it is not actually funny.
All the money to the last penny was found to be proxy in that country all essentials should be freely available the governance ordered which brought in this disorder who does not have a need for the essentials right from the cop to the thief had a need for it that day opened stores were looted closed one's were broke open hand in glove were they the cop and the thief a commotion in town every law broken the temples barren even the priest lost his calm a situation which would not calm down the governing body had almost broke down a let loose situation for the hooligans who does not have a need for essentials god intervened a funny situation demanded. a super power's intervention an earth quake rocked the town all looters were driven out of stores to see man made essentials crumble life the most essential.
It's funny how hello is always accompanied with goodbye it's funny how good memories can start to make you cry it's funny how forever never seems to really last it's funny how much you'd loose if you forgot about your past it's funny how friends can just leave you when you're down it's funny how when you need someone they're never around it's funny how people can change and think they're so much better it's funny how many lies can be packed in one ''love letter'' it's funny how people can forgive even though they can't forget it's funny how one night can contain so much regret it's funny how ironic life turns out to be, but the funniest part, is that none of it is funny. to me.
In the good old system, it was the usual custom, where teachers lived, their students stayed. the students, beside studies, did teachers' household duties, be it any work indoor, or it was an errand outdoor. once, ten students brainless, joined a teacher useless, in a remote village house, under the care of his spouse. they watched one day, a red hot spoon, the lady dropped in a water pool, for the spoon to cool. when one of them got fever, the rest poured cold water, to cool him down, instead, fever raised hot and red. the ten, once, crossed a river, and to check up the number, one stood outside the line, and the rest formed the line. the man outside counted nine, and searched for the tenth one. every one did the same, in turn found they were short by one. an old man heard their cry, to help the fools free from shy, asked them to stand in line, and counted right all the ten. 'a sewing needle, get me from the market, ' so ordered the spouse of their master's house. four of them went out, and a needle they bought, but how it should be carried, they disputed and argued. a plantain tree they cut, at the center pinned it, and carried the tree home, with mouth full of foam. the lady chided them all, and picked up the needle, cursing her ruling stars, that brought her such fools.
Adria moya, hmm you do not like your name to be written in the poem the problem with me is that i am hardheaded and i am the kind of boy who does what mother does not like me to do i am naughty and so here i am in all my mischief adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny?
adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? adria, adria, why are you so funny? hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha hahahaha ha do you see the train of hahahaha come let us ride on it and forget the sad things of our lives i will make another one the train of tralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralal atralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralalatralal atralalatralalatralala it is the train of dance and laughter come, come, come, let us be there, what is the use of being what they want you to be? the place is here and it must be a place of fun and laughter and something so divine later.
Exhaustion fell on this dread, like mold on these piano keys, it stunk up the place, still i had to investigate this electrical storm, untill i at least isolate this despondent dyke from killing itself, and she cries becouse the cows have no milk, or the chords have no sound, or this rain provides no drink.
Funny am i how at this point of my life that i'll ever see such as these that people find it humorous of which i don't, at least, not as much to live a life of folly. funny is it how this world evolve with things looking real when everyone knows that it isn't all there is to it wanting 'em with their life at stake wishing like nothing in carelessness. funny, but not so funny for people could think as such like no one will know of it; for people could do as such like there is no a payback for it; funny, but not so funny. funny, but not so funny when such a time comes as the world evolves so is what have been sown may not be at your lifetime but to the lives of the generation to come. funny, but not so funny when given a time to live but only not many have the thought of it living a life just to get by is not what accounted for but living under the will of god. funny, but not so funny. at least, not just yet.
Isn't life funny sometimes? the ups, the downs, the smiles, the frowns the utter beautiful confusion we find ourselves in? when doors close and others open when the rainclouds disperse and the sunshine warms your face rainbows dancing in your garden but you can't hold that pot of gold? and then there's love.. love? what is that? is it a mutual sharing a pairing of souls that 'match' a slow dance in your irises and a flash of lightning in your heart? or is it a cold, harsh thunderstorm that doesn't abate, that ultimately leads to that word, 'hate'? i don't like that word, really no hate isn't something for me but i enjoy living, and feeling even if that feeling is often hard and difficult to understand and faith, when held in your hand is so fragile, delicate and pure this tango of life, this passion that jumps into my heart and spins trips over itself, haunts me is all i ever want to feel, to be.. and i am so unashamedly thankful to everyone that has ever touched me and made me, me.. otherwise what would i be? just another lost soul walking along the road of life without ever scuffing their feet i love that my soles have blisters and that scars are worn with pride that this happy, fantastic wonderous ride is a journey i'm glad i didn't miss it is surely, utterly, bliss.
Oxymorons are 2 contradicting words, now tell me, isn't that absurd? an example of this is virtual reality, is that possible or just a casual formality? what about the living dead, am i just being a butt head? am i leading this into a fine mess? isn't this moment priceless? don't worry; the poem is nearly done, i'm just having a bit of serious fun. am i truly a big baby? well, it's a definite maybe. well i'm going to give you a practice test, tell me now, who is the second best. i thank god that i'm an atheist, also thank him that i am a cautious optimist. now i am all alone, in my office that's also my home. eating my very bland spice, wasn't this poem awfully nice?.
Its funny. when im happy i have a bad day its funny, that when i wish it was hot it snowed its funny, that when the world is finally at peace war begins its funny, when i fancy chicken my mum cooks pork its funny, when i get a new phone it breaks its funny, when i tell my friend a secret and politely ask her not to tell a soul but she does anyway its funny, when my mate does something wrong i get in trouble its funny, i want to watch a movie on t.v but theres a powercut from start to finish its funny, when i ask for a cat for my birthday, i get a fish its funny, when i say i love you you reply.i love you too and i always will.
When you are in love and you get abit older you wish you were forever young when you are shy and you get abit bolder you wish you were forever young like the rainbows that follow the rain my love for you will always be the same when we both get old and think of love we wish we were forever young.
It is not only funny but very astonishing and clumsy we all know about the holiness of boobs holy mention too can be found in books women are much more praiseworthy some may wear the ugliness gifted from almighty the deformity and unnatural growth is not in our hands the body as such will be submerged and melted at the end all nourishment and food is catered from that part our life gets shape and growth from the very start let us adore and praise the ladies for commendable job we should not denigrate their honor and rob it may be shown as world record many may take it as mere reference for looking forward any good looking natural piece deserves to be praised but wrong way of projection should also be outrightly condemned it must be taken as deformity in body it is not done for records by somebody it is really annoying for its wrong way of presentation otherwise it is not even worth for its mention the opinion and perception may vary the impression and meaning may also differently carry yet the basic concept of giving honor to ladies need not be compromised ladies deserve good comments and treatment as consciously promised.
Isn't it funny when people flick their hair and look down at you, snickering? hehehe isn't it funny when nature whips its lash and rips through the sky, thundering? roarroarr isn't it funny when machines go bezerk and leave a trail of broken pieces, destructing? crraack isn't it funny when you realize that these things are not at all funny and want to bonk yourself on the head? no, not really. but humans often find horrible things hilarious as long as they are not the source of the funniness.
I am fuuny thats who am i i am funny make u laugh n cry i am funny do funny things i am funny i like to play with strings i am funny and i don't care i look funny in my underwear it's funny that im funny thats what i like to be so lets be funny together be funny like me.
Down on the funny farm where some say i was born where laughter is the key that trips a smile to whoever visits there. there is no time to feel moody or forlorn, not with a crazy sod like me around. howls of laughter echo from every room. now even the animals have joined in the game at our home the funny farm, the place some say i was born.
Its funny how hello is alway accompanied with goodbye, its funny how good memories can start to make you cry. its funny how forever never really seems to last, its funny how much you'd lose if you forgot about your past. its funny how 'friends' can just leave you when your down, its funny how when you need someone their never around. its funny how people change and think they're so much better, its funny how many lies can be packed into one 'love letter'. its funny how people forgive even though they cant forget, its funny how one night can contain so much regret. its funny how ironic life turns out to be, but the funniest part of all. is that none of thats funny to me.
Believe me, i run from dying i know, it's so dumb, but funny trying war, around me everywhere soldiers, killing everyday, i swear. truly, i have nothing to fear because when i look in the mirror i see myself with no hair a jock, playing, fakinit, like its there i know. you hate that, my dear made your point of view claire telling me, if i show up, you will run out there hiding from me, on your feet, downstairs anyway, sweetie, anyway, truly i don't care whatever you say honey, you love me with your smile you illuminate my world you can't imagine my happy feelings, whenever i tell you, that, without you, my life has no meaning at all i love myself, maybe, but i've loved you before knowing in your heart im not outdoors because you love me too and i am sure i hope, my life is long, because we are made for it you are what a man wants from this life and more i love you, its true and beautiful so let us live our magic story all thank to my dear friend cruz.
Sisters and brothers you belong together although you pray, mostly you play to teach, to reach, to fetch one another even when your love groove you delay. together you sit, you eat, you study you talk to them and you poke fun at your mom who's your bosom buddy and dear pop likes your witty pun. sometimes family irritates you stacks your fashion, your tuition they select to pass on wisdom with love packs when wrong choice you're about to elect. whatever the mood is in your cosy family they mean well in all they choose to do; celebrating you or reading you riot homily they love you. they do care, your home crew.
I am funny i cry upon hearing the pleas of the goats transported from the market to the slaughterhouse it is ridiculous as others think of the goat meat well spiced for their next sumptuous dinner i am funny thinking about the mass killing of natives in the south as other still think of the gain on the next delivery of guns and ammunition i am not just funny i am crazy and they are not ridiculous they are serious for wars to come and shall never end for the violence they create so they may have all the profits and gain reality is not funny war is a serious business the government is crazy worshiping a master this great puppeteer.
I want to untwine my youthful body aches more pills make it go away it's mind blowing intertwining worlds, of hate blood horror pain and mud you've become a shadow of yourself your eyelids shake when your eyes close yes you are still all alone you are the endless stars you are the colors in the sky you are the sun that finally shun to remind me another day had just begun destroy, create, repair, it's all in the open air and i'm back again. dissect my quivering relapses before everything collapses.
Na chmistry hoti na main student hota na yeah lab hoti na yeah accident hota abhi practical main ayee nazar ek larki sundar thi naak us ki test tube jaisi batoon main us ki glucose ki mithas thi sansoon main eter ki khushboo bhi sath thi ankhoon se jhalakta tha kuch is tarah ka payar bin piye hi ho jata tha alcohol ka khumar benzene sa hota tha uski presence ka ehsas andhere main hota tha radium ka abhas nazrain milien, reaction huwa kuch is tarah love ka production huwa lagne lagay us ke ghar ke chakar aisay nucleus ke charon taraf electron hoon jaisay us din hamaray test ka confirmation huwa jab us ke dady se hamara introduction huwa sun kar hamari baat wo aisay uchal pare ignesium tube main jaise sodium bharak uthe wo bole, hosh main aao, pahchano apni auwqat iron mil nahin sakta kabhi gold ke saath ye sun ker tuta hamaray armanoon bhara beaker aur hum chup rahay benzeldehyde ka karwa ghoont pee ker ab us ki yadoon ke siwa hamara kam chalta na tha aur lab main hamaray dil ke siwa kuch jalta na tha zindagi ho gaye unsaturated hydrocarbon ki tarah aur hum phirte hain awara hydrogen ki tarah.
Funny you should say, that the world is spining, funny you should say, that manchester is winning. funny you should say, that time flies fast, funny you should say, that's all in the past. funny you should say, that death is dawning near, funny you should say, he turned a deaf ear. funny you should say, that life is full of honey, but for that you need money, hmm. funny.
How to make you funny? and you are always funny, you hide it and it is still funny, and that makes me laugh. how to make you serious? and you can not be serious, funny is funny, and being seriously funny is not that funny, and you laugh. how to tell you a joke? and you are the funniest joke that makes you more funny and serious while you are drinking and thinking at the risk of spilling the juice of your lips at my laugh.
It's funny how the ones who show you the most love, are often the ones who say it the least it's funny how the ones who tell you they love you the most, are often the ones that hurt you the most it's funny how the ones who beg for forgiveness, are often the ones who least deserve it it's funny how the ones who mess everything up, are often the ones who make you feel guilty it's funny how the ones who are the happiest, are often the ones who've known the most heartache it's funny how those hearts can always mend themselves, if you give them enough time and space it's funny how this life just keeps going, no matter how hard you may beg it to slow down.
This is your wedding day and in your eyes the light of love is brighter than the stars. your heart is full of hope with all the joyful promise this all brings. and the promise will come true, if you remember this one thing, just love each other as you are, don't try to change this person you found and learned to love. let your love be the greatest gift you both receive and when you do the love will last through all as the light that lights the evening sky.
Pour the wine bridegroom where before you the bride is enthroned her hair loose at her temples a head of ripe wheat is on the wall beside her the guests seated at long tables the bagpipers are ready there is a hound under the table the bearded mayor is present women in their starched headgear are gabbing all but the bride hands folded in her lap is awkwardly silent simple dishes are being served clabber and what not from a trestle made of an unhinged barn door by two helpers one in a red coat a spoon in his hatband.
Though you know it anyhow listen to me, darling, now, proving what i need not prove how i know i love you, love. near and far, near and far, i am happy where you are; likewise i have never larnt how to be it where you aren't. far and wide, far and wide, i can walk with you beside; furthermore, i tell you what, i sit and sulk where you are not. visitors remark my frown where you're upstairs and i am down, yes, and i'm afraid i pout when i'm indoors and you are out; but how contentedly i view any room containing you. in fact i care not where you be, just as long as it's with me. in all your absences i glimpse fire and flood and trolls and imps. is your train a minute slothful? i goad the stationmaster wrothful. when with friends to bridge you drive i never know if you're alive, and when you linger late in shops i long to telephone the cops. yet how worth the waiting for, to see you coming through the door. somehow, i can be complacent never but with you adjacent. near and far, near and far, i am happy where you are; likewise i have never larnt how to be it where you aren't. then grudge me not my fond endeavor, to hold you in my sight forever; let none, not even you, disparage such a valid reason for a marriage.
If i was a ghost in love walking veiled in mystery i would ask a ghostly dove to take a message to thee flying down from above asking you to marry me from the spectoral one you love strange as this might be on this october night i think that it might be for our guests a terrible fright to see what they will see and will they hear the i do's against the sea of wails and will you always be true to a lover who's very pale.
Love is a wedding ring, a little band of gold i give to you under the eyes of heaven for now and evermore. our love can stretch vast distances whenever we are apart for within that wedding ring you hold the essence of my heart. 14 november 2008.
Everyone knew we were heading for snow. lowering banks of menacing clouds trying to threaten cold wedding guests told us so. you and i cuddled close. i was crying. after a night of passionate rapture you would be gone. yet these moments were ours. my body, heart, mind and soul you captured, snowbound, we then bound ourselves to love's vows. your presence has stayed, 'tho war took your life. it shines in your son, and comforts your wife. dedicated to all war widows.
In our wedding night i saw the bright stars promising us happiness through all days to come my bride i much adore you you have my unbound love your shining beauty your gleaming eyes the doors to paradise your cheerfulness your radiating delight the candles lead our way in the journey of life the golden bells the silver bells they will all chime announcing merrily for joyful future for beautiful family crowning our love.
One said, its a secret so don't say to anyone said, she is marrying that she is, my love the one, don't knew it heart stopped for second and started to pain badly my throat too had felt it but my lips had smiled and said, its good news the one said me date and told me to come by then heart was broken but my lips still smiled said, wish i can do so the one started to say about my loves only love so my ears were on job and lips carried the talk but rest of me had died the one told me all about my loves love then my dead heart felt my loves love is better far far better than me so i wiped my eyes said bye to the one and placed hand on heart said, its time to sing for my only loves wedding wedding, which i can't go my broken heart is weak it can't break down more but its each broken piece sings a happy marry life forever to my loves wedding.
Marriage is a bond of love sealed under the eyes of god. an arrangement of love for one another, and the enrichment of their two lives. wedding anniversaries celebrate the bond of both man and wife, of their choice to live together for the rest of their lives. so as we say happy wedding anniversary to someone. we are celebrating two people whose lives have now become one. we are wishing them love, luck for the future and that more anniversaries they will share together. happy wedding anniversary meggie with many many more to come. from a special friend.
To my sister on her wedding day i am happy to say, you're love is peur for this man hear, and he wont throe her love away. they will be happy, i know so i am happy to say it is her wedding day.
Beauty brightens the wedding day with purity of conduct at bay, and innocence lies dormant now marked by uncertainty on the brow. a wedding, like a bell doth ring, attached to the heart with a string, and ecstasy, dawning the eyes, reflects the marvel of the skies. the vows taken on a wedding day by far, like the sanctity of life and character are, and the animation in the eyes more bright than the moonlight on a tranquil night.
I wake up early dawn to witness the changes in sky from darkness to morn for a new bride tonight.. the pain is still here with sadness and anger today may be the end tomorrow is never a fine.. this man who'll be my groom is as good as homer a monster from the north captured me as his lover.. i never love this man before but he never let me go he give me no freedom only to find..i love him too. for all those days of confusions my hours filled with loneliness all i see is his perfect love a true love which is always the best. perhaps it's just a fair to think that i am a bride to be morning comes with no illusion a celebration for wedding anniversary.. and as the ceremony starts my eyes filled with tears he is lying in white satin while everybody stands with me. today.as we celebrate our anniversary no other words i can say i love you so much 'happy silver wedding anniversary'.
You are my city the gaudy glow of neon light that dispels the darkness of the night enhailing this dust flying smells ands feels like home the cloudy weather, the dim trees, the city looked like and open book. with nature bringing a colourful beauty to ones heart alone i lay on a wooden raft my breath is void of oxygen my heart is scribbled without rythm to the beautiful change made by ur smiling culture the shimmers of the moon made the rest of the city glimmer now its clear why ure a symbol of pride the lullaby tunes of the mocking bird awakenes momments of passion my head speaks and so does my heart am lost in the beautiful city and for ever i want to be here, laughter is a pleasant sound it spreads joy all around flushing out every despairs of the heart just for this city i will open my eyes and ask the creator for one more day this are my praises 4 the city in u.
Once, there was a girl, she lived in the city. she is precious like a pearl, she grew up to be smart and witty. she was always happy, she was sometimes, sad. she was always laughing, her laugh was bad. xd she loves to study, she loves to write. she loved to dress oddly, she loved to dress in white. these are some of the things, the things about her i can see. of course, i can see them, cause this girl is me.
Come, here is adieu to the city and hurrah for the country again. the broad road lies before me watered with last night's rain. the timbered country woos me with many a high and bough; and again in the shining fallows the ploughman follows the plough. the whole year's sweat and study, and the whole year's sowing time, comes now to the perfect harvest, and ripens now into rhyme. for we that sow in the autumn, we reap our grain in the spring, and we that go sowing and weeping return to reap and sing.
Music is like a city the genres are the suburbs the bands, the streets the albums, the buildings and the songs, the apartments the streets get inspiration from other streets they duplicate then alter them slightly. the city is very busy and there are always people driving through looking and listening the city is growing every day. the suburbs larger and larger and some join together. the streets longer and longer and some old and tattered. the building will always stay the same but they will always be new. the city will always keep growing as the music goes on.
The sluggish clouds hang low upon the town, and from yon lamp in chilled and sodden rays the feeble light gropes through the heavy mist and dies, extinguished in the stagnant maze. from moisty eaves the drops fall slowly down to strike with leaden sound the walk below, and in dark, murky pools upon the street the water stands, as lacking life to flow. with hopeless brain, oppressed and sad at heart, toil's careworn slave turns out his flickering light and treads in dreams his dulling round again, where weary day succeeds to dismal night.
You are my city the gaudy glow of neon light that dispels the darkness of the night enhaling the smell of dust makes it feel like home the cloudy weather, the dim trees, you look like an open book. with nature bringing a colourful beauty to ones' heart alone i lay on a wooden raft my breath is void of oxygen my heart is scrambled without rythm to the beautiful change made by ur smiling culture the shimmers of the moon made the rest of the city glimmer now its clear why ure a symbol of pride the lullaby tunes of the mocking bird awakens moments of passion my head speaks and so does my heart am lost in this beautiful city and for ever i want 2 b here, laughter is a pleasant sound it spreads joy all around flushing out every despair of the heart just for this city i will open my eyes and ask the creator for one more day one more day to discover the city in you and you in the city let this be my praise of you, my beautiful city.
You can rock to elvis presley, you can jam to zz top, you can bop to carl perkins, you can dance to credence and rock. but when it comes to music this city boy loves country. you can make love to the platters, you can croon with franky boy. you can shake with little richard, or sing the blues with benny king. but when it comes to music, this city boy loves country. you can cry to barbara streisand, you can laugh to roger miller, you can go way back with jolson or keep up with m.t.v. but when it comes to music this city boy loves country.
And brought back with her the first few primroses she did not pick tucked neat into the hedgerow a wisp of sheepwool caught on wire she did not touch a dewdro p which the sun caught as she passed rabbits who lifted softbrush ears paused then hopped away and yet not fast a slight breeze which did not touch the primroses which blew the wisp of sheepwool a little for a moment which trembled the dewdro p into colours and yet it stayed on the grass stalk in the night the primroses sheltered in her and grew imperceptibly the sheepwool almost touched her the dewdro p joined the air around her the rabbits slept close to her the breeze sighed and waited outside the window in the morning they awoke together.
It was a happening, a moment in time, some fifty years ago. i remember the pull on my shirt, a plaintive voice a cry for help, the revulsion that i felt. for standing there, iraqi girl, age close to seven, dress torn, sandals broken, cupped hands outstretched; no nose, no cheek, no right eye. staring out instead a gap, a void, a fly trapped festering hole. horror struck, i search, i find a coin, a silver one, to give, to push into her hand. i think girl with only half a face, please go away, please leave my view, seeing you i ache, i pain, i hurt, for you do offend my sight. she had run, had scurried off, was quickly gone. now when i close my eyes.
Like a shell on the beach. my memory lingers on. the waves carry them in. the sand erodes their shape the rain buries them low. the sun shines them gold. a stranger picks it up. seals it in his palm. throws it back into the sea there in the depth of time.. .my memory lingers on.
I thank the loss of my memory of those days when i had not a friend i am thankful to the memory of those great moments when we are together i thank the loss of my memory of those seconds prior to your reasonableness i am thankful to the memory of the great dimple when you smile i thank the loss of my memory prior to the reduction of your anger i am thankful to the memory of those great sharing moments of your success i thank the loss of my memory for the reasons of our arguments i am thankful to the greatest moments of my life with you.
You are but a memory to my dear heart that dwindles as each day passes me by. my heart yearns for you, but you're not there, only your memory is, and that hurts even more. the tears are all too real and they follow the pain my heart feels when it misses you so. memory upon memory floods the gates and soon i begin to drown in them. each better than the last but all so sweet and real. the memory is real but its fading too fast its uncontrolable, and its evaporating like dew drops in the sun. i try to gather them up quickly, place them in a jar, but the time is quicker than i, and it speeds up the sun's steal. o i wish you could be here and not just your memory because you are by far better than the thought of the past. as each sunset brings forth a new day, i think about the memory, and the pain it brings is too immense but the tears are even bigger. you are but a memory that is quickly fading and only you can fix that my dear. though my heart hurts so much from the pain only you can save me. like each sunset brings forth a new time, this sunset will bring you to me. and love back into the mourning heart.
I the angels guide him now, and watch his curly head, and lead him in their games, the little boy we led. ii he cannot come to harm, he knows more than we know, his light is brighter far than daytime here below. ii his path leads on and on, through pleasant lawns and flowers, his brown eyes open wide at grass more green than ours. iv with playmates like himself, the shining boy will sing, exploring wondrous woods, sweet with eternal spring. v yet, he is lost to us, far is his path of gold, far does the city seem, lonely our hearts and old.
When snow like sheep lay in the fold and wind went begging at each door, and the far hills were blue with cold, and a cloud shroud lay on the moor, she kept the siege. and every day we watched her brooding over death like a strong bird above its prey. the room filled with the kettle's breath. damp curtains glued against the pane sealed time away. her body froze as if to freeze us all, and chain creation to a stunned repose. she died before the world could stir. in march the ice unloosed the brook and water ruffled the sun's hair. dead cones upon the alder shook.
Ask me to tell how it feels remembering your mother's face turned to water under the white words of the man at the shoe store. ask me, though she tells it better than i do, not because of her charm but because it never happened she says, no bully salesman swaggering, no rage, no shame, none of it ever happened. i only remember buying you your first grown up shoes she smiles. ask me how it feels.
High in the sky, like a bird in the air, one lonely kite, soars peacefully there, a child on the ground, with a string in hand, pulling ever so slightly, to keep it from sand, with every slight dip, he tugs the kite, to keep it flying, to keep it in flight, high in the sky, he watches with care, a kite in the air, he tries to keep it there, a dad watches silently, with pride in his face, as his little boy tries, to keep it in place, a memory in making, a time to share, a time in life, with love and care.
When i look upon a photograph. not so long ago, not so faded. a picture of my beloved big brother. the memories had filled my mind. the times we cried and the times we laughed. how brother watches over me, makes sure i'm not hurt. when i was sick, he made my lunch. we'd go on shopping trips. we thought we would grow old together. through the years we thought it was true. brother and i worked on model trains. then time had come to call. my big brother had to go. he passed away, he went to eternal sleep. god is holding him as he sleeps. until he comes to call. all i have are memories and a photograph. in memory of big brother paul.
Hello mawe, if you are stil there alive and listening if you still have the shadow of autumn and spring if you still stand there beside the glass walls of malls staring at the thick snow beyond you mawe, my friend, please tell me 'what does the snow of chicago tell you? ' please tell me what is it that still bothers the calm waters of your heart? merry christmas. happy new year. why are you more silent than the snow?.
I was built in 1914 on a chicago city block. wrigley field had come to the scene, where cubs baseball fever would rock. some decades later, ivy grew famously on my outfield walls. baseball officials made me do lights later for the night game balls. corner of clark and addison, my main entry marquee does call of welcome to some magic fun, the friendly confines beckon all. oh when, oh when will ever be a world series be played in me?.
Going home means warmth and family and work and friends since childhood it means being someplace that never changes at least in my mind but in my haste i sold the house and gave up the job the childhood friends all grew up and the family died off now there is no home to go to.
The great chicago fire, friends, will never be forgot; in the history of chicago it will remain a darken spot. it was a dreadful horrid sight to see that city in flames; but no human aid could save it, for all skill was tried in vain. in the year of 1871, in october on the 8th, the people in that city, then was full of life, and great. less than four days it lay in ruins, that garden city, so great lay smouldering in ashes, in a sad and pitiful state. it was a sad, sad scene indeed, to see the fire arise, and hear the crackling of the flames as it almost reached the skies, and sadder still, to hear the moans, of people in the flames cry for help, and none could get, ah, die where they remained. to see the people run for life; up and down the blazing streets, to find then, their escape cut off by the fiery flaming sheets, and others hunting for some friend that perhaps they never found, such weeping, wailing, never was known, for a thousands miles around. some people were very wealthy on the morning of the 10th. but at the close of the evening, was poor, but felt content, glad to escape from harm with life with friends they loved so well, some will try to gain more wisdom, by the sad sight they beheld. five thousand people were homeless, sad wanderers in the streets, with no shelter to cover them, and no food had they to eat. they wandered down by the lake side, lay down on the cold damp ground, so tired and weary and homeless, so the rich, the poor, was found. mothers with dear little infants, some clinging to the breast. people of every description all laid down there to rest, with the sky as their covering, ah, pillows they had none.
sad, oh sad, it must have been, for those poor homeless ones. neighboring cities sent comfort, to the poor lone helpless ones, and god will not forget them in all the years to come. now the city of chicago is built up anew once more, and may it never be visited with such a great fire no more.
She wears two platinum bracelets on her wrists dressed in golden yellow her reading glasses on she poses as he takes her picture against the yellow leaves falling the wind passes another year is marked in the autumn of their years.
Your violet eyes, your black hair flying in the wind. i glance out the window and see the highway we're on. i wonder when we'll get there. to the city i've choosen to stay for college. you spoke to me, saying we'll be there soon. you hold my hand on the seat of your truck. the truck you'll be selling, for a motorcycle. i smile, remembering how excited he was when he told me. chicago, that's where we're headed. it's where i need to be for college. he parks the truck finally in front of our new apartment. my other roomates aren't there yet, but they will be soon. chicago is gorgeous, but i'm not staying long. just four years and i'm gone.
The yards was what the world called me. where chicago did meet the meat, packed in over a century, butchered for all the world to eat. the chicago river did pump half a million gallons per day. loads of beast decay i did dump. i did smell bad from long away. sinclair's 'the jungle' gave me shame. sinatra's 'my kind of town' sang. sandburg's 'chicago' gave me fame. tourists came to me, just to hang. i was torn down in progress fate. all that remains is my main gate.
I've dreampt of living in chicago all my life. i'd roam around and do what i please, not thinking about yesterday's problem or tomorrow's tasks. i'd sulk in the energy just thinking about here and now, not about what's to come or what has passed. i'd just be in chicago free and at peace.
If we tear it apart and i hug you too hard maybe we can go back to that chicago skyline and not worry about all the monsters and mountains we've seen here. i'm made of feathers when you breathe out words i've never wanted to hear so i am crying out the dust you've left in my chest i want to catch what you want between my teeth and give it to you i want to dance until i can build myself back into stone but i have never been able to dance when you're not here. now i can see how we are so good at failing. all i want is to go back to chicago so we can be the girls standing where the earth meets the water, so the tide will never rise if you stand so still, close your eyes, only open your mouth to tell me this is where we belong and i will clutch your pieces even if they draw blood from my hands, make me believe we are surviving and you will never fade again. if i can't take you with me i will paint you into the chicago skyline.
The lincoln park zoo reaches out 'round the chicago neighborhood, to share of nature all about, how human connect can be good, ever growing in time and place, spreading the truth of nature's worth, made better by the human race, 'round the neighborhood, 'round the earth. within the beauty of zoo grounds, or in endeavors far and wide, bettering nature knows no bounds, lincoln park zoo is filled with pride. lincoln park zoo phenomenon, the pride of chicago thrives on.
The poetry of the americas, democrat and republican new york, chicago, philadelphia, write i the poetry of los angeles, washington, boston, new orleans, las vegas, write i. american vibes and americanism, americas and americanness, write i of seattle, miami, atlanta, savannah, detroit, baltimore, portland, oklahoma, cincinnati, write i. their vibes, life and culture, urbanity and modernity, dress and city culture, idiosyncrasies and nuances of the language, styles and manners, etiquette and behaviour, take i a note of while striding, passing through, viewing them, for my poetic medium of expression, catching the rhythm of life, venting my feelings.
With you, with, with you, you, only you, saw i, saw i chicago dreams, chicago dreams with you, with, with you, you, only you, you, you, you, only you, only you chicago, chicago dreams, chicago dreams, my love, love, you holding my hand, i, i holding yours, going, going around chicago, chicago, my love, love, dreaming and dreaming, you and i, you an i, i and you, i and you, my love, my love, i, i with you, you, you with me, me, my love going, going with chicago, chicago dreams, dreams and dreaming, dreaming together, together holding the hands, holding the hands, my love.
Chicago why do you have to change? chicago acting so plan chicago your better than what the people say your the first thing that comes to mind chicago is a place being with all kinds of faces learning about new cases to in brace the mistakes that people make like acting fake why chicago?.
There is a place not far from here a place that i must go a place to escape all my troubles the city of chicago the place i am right now is quite simply a living hell but i never went to chicago so i guess it may be as well but from what i've heard it's a very exciting spot and the place i am right now most definitely is not i need to leave this aria and i have to make it there to create a brand new life for myself and find a person who will care yes, i must go to chicago to get away from all my deceptions for i have lead good people to believe my many misconceptions.
I live in chicago a very windy city but tonight i will dance the chicago samba once again but when i dance the chicago blues i sweat like crazy and i feel like a kid again but when i hear the chicago samba being played by the local musiciams in the streets of chicago i get very excited because i know that their music cam be heard also from faraway and bring me back memories of home.
I sit on the water tower waiting chapped hands in a visor over my eyes looking toward durham hoping i see you in that gossamer gown on the road to chicago. i don't care if you stop by confederate streams to pick phallic rocks so long as you rise release all your hair and float on to chicago. no more will i sit on the water tower waiting. i'd rather go blind than see through the sun you in that gown ascend in the air pirouette in the wind giggle again and float back to durham.
Where will the lovely lady go on her diurnal walk? one child in 30 years she bore, now they do not talk. supple, firm, her lithe legs are, young men wheel and gawk. a husband left her money, though, a poodle, too, to walk.
The chicago style hot dog is an all beef frankfurter cooked done, steamed, boiled or grilled the vendors' biz, then put on a poppy seed bun. yellow mustard is put on top, with green sweet pickle relish near. then add some white onions, chop, chop, tomato slice, dill pickle spear, just a dash of celery salt. dragged through the garden, so to speak. but use ketchup, and face the fault for react havoc that would wreak. one is living high on the hog, chowing down a chicago dog.
On a cold winter a friend in chicago finally opens up like a clam and grabs a sand that pricks his tongue so he can make a pearl this christmas i ask two questions which i think are intrusions to his privacy honestly, i am not interested he's happy and it is enough to know that what i realize is that he is happy and he is no longer interested about what i ask or what i say i quit.
I took you back to my poem we made words all night long to the rhythm of the trains on the track by my window and the gunshots below until the sirens were still and the bag ladies buried in bags in the snow chicago, chicago i took you back to my poem and we rhymed the whole night through.
Tough streets of chicago, you made me who i am. tough streets of chicago, for me you had a plan. you forced me to observe, what kids my age did not. you taught me to look and see, always looking for a plot. you taught me to react, and kept me on my toes. you taught me to examine, the actions of my foes. you forced me to react, in situations dire. you made sure i would function, when i came under fire. you made sure i was tough, made sure i'd understand, the skills that i would need, when i joined uncle sam. tough streets of chicago, i almost went insane. tough streets of chicago, you caused me so much pain. you made me grow up fast, always dodging death. you made me run from danger, could hardly catch my breath. you took most of my friends, why, i'll never understand. you made it possible to count, all my friends on one hand. you took them in their teens, you took them very young. you took them way before, to live they had begun. tough streets of chicago, my tour is almost up. tough streets of chicago, with your gangster posting up. tough streets of chicago, can't get you off my mind. tough streets of chicago, i miss those streets of mine. tough streets of chicago.
So good to be home and out of the heat. all those excess people reminded i'm alone as i explored the busy chicago streets. so good to be mild and not full of heat. all those old buildings reminded i'm only a child as i explored the ancient chicago streets. so good to be recognized and not sweating in the heat. all those dollars spent reminded me of the love i'm still denied. as i explored the poor chicago streets. so good to be back from running away and back from the heavy, humid heat. all of the luggage and vacations reminded me problems come to stay. as i left, for a long time, those chicago streets.
The aura of dusk it walks alone at segregated paths you walk towards a room which can never be your home for your home is here and there is no promise that you will come back no one figures out the reason for this self ostracism if you ask me there are designs for happy shapes which time in some ways shall teach us how to mold and cut and finally show you walk away and that is the end of how we can think of you what we have is a mist and then the morning light takes it away i know how cold it is there but what can we really do?.
So this is love? is this what they told me of? because i don't feel the connection and where it is going, which direction so this is what makes life worth while? has it always been this style? how is it to fill the empty spaces if i cannot even see its true faces so this is love? i don't feel that it is enough because my heart can't fly with wings and my heart hasn't found the song its to sing so this s the warmth of aglow? well, i don't think that i know that heaven is as divine and i can tell that it will never be mine so this. is the miracle that i've been dreaming of? so this. is love? .
Father met a lovely lady, she had two daughters one was crazy father and daughter went to stay in a mansion far away father turned ill one cold day everyone bowed their heads to pray stepmother turned into a witch along with daughters became a bitch cinderella was their slave she stood tall tired and brave cinderella's friends were very few she knew exactly what to do take care of stepmother sister too work and work till day is thru one day a messenger came to call inviting all girls to a ball the prince was home it was getting late girls meet him at the kingdoms gate he was looking for his wife to be the king also wanted to see the ugly sisters gowns were fine cinderella thought where is mine her little friends and two field mice thought about her problem twice we'll make a gown for our friend to wear she'll be beautiful ever so fair so the friendly sewing circle began sewing a lovely satin band stepsisters started to contrive to destroy her gown never to arrive her fairy godmother came in view she knew exactly what to do touched her with a magic wand a fabulous gown she put on dressed in her stunning gown of white cinderella was a pure delight waiting for her carriage of gold her future was about to unfold. to be continue.
We used to love, we used to dance. but something happened to make the love vanish. the dance ended as my cinderella left me, slipping through my hands like the sands of time. now i'm hiding all my pain as i wonder if she's doing the same. everyone asks if i'm fine, and that i'll move on someday, and i know this is true, but for now, i want my cinderella back. it hurts to think about it, no matter what i do, the dreams of the past haunt me.the laughs, smiles, hugs, dates, and kisses. they all won't leave me alone, as i keep wanting her back, nights of restless sleep for a few weeks. i act like i'm fie, but in reality, i just want her to give me one more chance, perhaps a dance. we would dance slowly, just like before, and i would smile, because i would have my cinderella back.
Cinderella the beautiful girl i saw in my dreams she was flying in a flying saucer looking the universe in curiosity striking the events of universe from star to star she tried to reach the flying saucer glittered in nights that i saw in my eyes cinderella looking the planets the beautiful earth, mars and all the life breath facility in saucer technology were so superior to man she felt no thirst or hunger in journey she was blessed with gods will beautiful cinderella always prayed in journeys she remembered the humans the fellow people who loved her the affection of her beloved mother the fairy made problems to her the lovable prince's charm she thought the well ridden poems in human mind cinderella can read the minds prettily just like human computers in action the stars, moons of different types different worlds, different live systems poor cinderella became blessed one she got a place near the planets for ever she looks to the earth she came she shined and glittered like jewels where there is no prince, or paupers the world of contentment only there where material gain is not a concern in fact cinderella is a great enlightened the nobility of a great human being and an angel's beauty and clarity in her the flying saucer ever ready to carry cinderella the beautiful girl ever ready to go from planets to planets and stars above oceans, mountains, and hillocks to proclaim the noble feelings of love the essential teachings of love she carries the flying saucer superior to all the loving mind ever superior to all we can farewell cinderella for her journey till attaining the kindness in all creatures.
Cinderella the cute girl cinderella the poor girl the kind full heart there have the noble thoughts always still there were enemies the poor cinderella wandered chased by the devils grace of god protected demons made there traps god saved from dangers poor cinderella have no death wandering for well being of the living cinderellas in countries beyond her reach warning to safety ways she cares cinderella a symbol of love cinderella a sign of hardship cinderella a victim always still triumphed on her love faced the life challenges and got married to the prince.
There was a letter in the mail, i dreamed that night about a woman named tara mchale. although there were those lips that pout, it was the presence of a breeze made up of warmth and intellect, she stopped for just a minute, just to tease yet it was futile and i was not able to detect more than the pheromones of something great, of youth and fresh aroma, passing through, of silent whispers knitting silk for a debate she left behind for me her cinderella shoe.
Don't be afraid of, cinderella the girl of truth, and nicety the little one, the joyful one where innocence in mind energetic in actions cinderella, the girl loved by all. but poor cinderella the poor girl the devils always followed her tried to do damages in full spirit but her faith always stood with her she got her prince the most loved one the noble hearts always wins.
A prince's dream slender slipper of a slippery antelope heart elopes sentience tiny toes and heeled soles a tinge of toe jam feet and play tender soles woven in assam silk a prince's foot fetish smells like halloween a slipper made of glass smelling of pumpkin a slipper made of glass beyond misty mountains beyond the cover of oceans rests a transparent love.
When the countdown's over i won't be disappeared i still want to meet you if i could if it's still the same if the time stops i don't need pumpkin cart i don't need glittering gown and i don't need glass shoes till midnight stop the needle of clock from cyber idol mink.
Cinderella the girl the village grown neither fairy nor devilish only a village girl an innocent human girl. cinderella a serious student tried hard to achieve goals to make herself to become a hero in studies, sports, and arts in singing her sound so melancholy our cinderella never failed. cinderella the girl pubescent the mother told to neighbors the women loved her very much the beauty queen of the village cinderella never prided herself. a humble and lovable human being cinderella helped the people to make the illiterate literate the inhuman as a human being tried her best for welfare measures. still people cursed each other still people quarreled themselves tried to harm others feelings poor cinderella failed her attempts. then came a marriage proposal the beauty of cinderella spread around the prince came in picture the devil made to block the proposal but the prince adamant and decides to marry the poor cinderella the humble. she enjoyed the life with humility never boasted for her wealth or husband tried her best to do services liked the people rich or poor no matter. a successful journey of life she followed.
I wish i could be you're cinderella i wish i could meet you at a ball and you find my glass slipper and bring it back then sweep me off my feet take me away in that carriage let it just be you and i let me be your one and only princess i want to be your cinderella oh please let me be your one and only cinderella september 13,2007.
There i saw a beautiful girl in the little street of the town in shabby dressed, the girl seen in speedy steps she was walking but somewhere in fear she seemed the time was evening nearing dark the night was slowly taking place the girl was in busy walk in street the girl is beyond the reach of eye where i mistaken for cinderella the girl.
Cinderella a great social symbol stood for service to fellow humans family woman stood with her rights issues took by cinderella took the cases to courts of justice. organised the woman for empowerment education were her favorite theme the little girl she persuaded to school the poor girls she gave books and bags cinderella the great girl of friendship the neighbors respected ever in pride she was a brave, had strong will power seldom shown mercy to the abusers. cinderella herself had a chosen carrier the human psychology she graduated counselling made to the woman in village where she tried her best to raise the respect that deserved the woman in public life.
Cinderella the young one her story a tragic one written by hearsay turned to be a moral one. cinderella the beautiful cinderella the marvelous cinderella have no comparison gods grace showered in her but tested with bad events. cinderella the luckier one saved from the wicked ones got one the great prince the prince himself charming the prince himself good looking ever pride to the dignified girl cinderella the young girl from curse to blessing she became.
Cinderella the dear girl the fondness of love you gave the unselfish gestures to guests the great wishes of you ever it is pleasure to remember curses followed you but never minded attempts to destroy the future never minded, but always cried the god saved you at last you got your loved one the prince the great achievement for your life cinderella the kindness in your heart love the children and the world humanity in your words always pleasantness in your feelings followed ignorance never minded attentive to the people whom you care the world is with you poor girl not as a victim but a successful heart.
I want to drink the ocean to come to you i want to give you the kiss the one you need i want to wake you up from endless sleep to teach you poisoned apples not to eat i m in love with the powers of your words climbing in my desert like gorgious dolls i don't know the colour of your eyes but when i see the moon i feel their light.
I still believe in cinderella story. and i am even worse. there's no concept of time. when your heart strikes '12 o'clock', there will be a new pair of shoes for you. waiting for you to shine again. there's no concept of time. there will always be a new pair of shoes, no matter how old you are, how ugly you are, how unhappy you are. waiting for you to shine again.
Cinderella means the personality or beauty of a person, or things remain unrecognized in real and in version. in our society there are some talented and wise people, some of them come to the knowledge of nation in ample. there are some extraordinary children in our society, who can dance, sing and play on music in variety of course mass media brings some to our eyes, till in remote area few lads are left in rise. there are some medicinal plants till now unrecognized, animals cure themselves by using these plants recognized. society develops through the person with strong personality, they must come to our eyes that have the perfect morality. let's try to find them and to vanish of cinderella, make hay while the sun shines or keeps in rain an umbrella.
She was the cinderella waiting for her prince charming, but soon enough she finally found him. she always doubted he was the one, and that he would leave her for someone better, even when he called her perfect and that there was no one else to take her place. he was the prince charming looking for his cinderella and he found her. he would give her a look followed by a gentle smile, then a kiss. he loved her no matter how much she doubted him. he knew they would be together forever.
How my mother treats me, sweeping out the golden straw. only can it tilt us and it's us it can when only, deeply in the girls our clear feelings show the crimson heels. arrows point out the doubts of what has yet to come. mask of crimson, the pupils of her green the silver hair, made up is fate, face is fair the which she burns it up. just as suddenly like the wind when he arrives with fans, and as i climb up the carriage steps it tilts. he moves away now it retracts and it then begins again. each movement of the hand and arm sweet violin. i am shy the palace is a worm like my dark hole. where i was kept like sour wine it can't be slipped. pinks and yellows red the rose from back to front. chalice like my being climbs the wall of sweet lilacs. grace this state i shine and the coming stars and years, i hope each revolution yet to come slides up as night must bring me down to what i am and my guilt for what was done. the sound draws near the sound it is i wish corrosiveness. two arms one second hand of the clock which never heard.
I spend my days like cinderella i want a prince of america i love to dance like cinderella i want to live in america i squeeze my pillow at night thinking of holding him tight in my arms and in my bed why god acts like he is dead i change the channel of tv may be he is in the movie i look for him in the web but i find nowhere my babe i have waited for so long to write and sing a love song only for him for the dance so no one else stand a chance.
This week i ran, i ran from home. my father was cruel, he treated me like, a simple slave child. i ran to a friends, trying to leave town. we almost escaped, then he saw us, he took me straight home. once we arrived, i packed all my things. as he begged me to stay, he said something was wrong, he wasn't sure what. he went to the phone, i ran out the back. to my friends once more, the cops have soon come, they said, 'we can do not'. so know here i am, a run away girl. no more treated as if, i am cinderella, without a kind prince. but a prince i need not, for i have many friends. with many a true, i hold them all close, for i am cinderella. and one day i'll have my prince.
Cinderella a woman of thoughts a woman of brave and questioning mind stood for education and empowerment never brawled but a bravura in actions. cinderella had grown to woman hood facing all challenges to the girls still faced them in her style of brave no one had courage to face her challenges. she was not a bravado someone suspected she was a hero in circumstances warranted a valiant girl fought for justice never she minded the cowards opposing progress.
We, the students do feel that literature is a big deal it is full of nonsense, 'tis true but we can make lively and nice too i believe in you, my friends that you can achieve your ends in understanding literature and its aims and knowing all its titles and great names some poets can be role models for us others' idoicy we can laugh at and discuss we may learn from some historic events and take the morals behind what is meant some plays can be a source of inspiration for students' great works and innovation with this, my friends i end my song hopefully, nothing in it is at all wrong.
A light like yours can lead me home. a body warm inside my arms. a fantasy so alive, made of flesh and bone. a voice of warmth, a scent of light. the taste of sunshine and the sound of your sight. might just be enough to save my mind. if only once again i can find. cinderella dressed in white. standing next to me tonight.
I'm a modern cinderella. i wish i was more like twighlight's bella. but i'm locked away. it's like that everyday. i'm the modern cinderella. i wish i was the enchanted ella. my family wants to get rid of me. this no one really sees. i'm the modern cinderella. never mind bella. i'm meeting you for the very first time. this the day i challenge my self to sing 'the climb.' i'm the modern cinderella never mind ella. we feel in love at first sight. now the clock strikes midnight. i'm the modern cinderella. never the orginal. never mind bella. never mind ella. i don't run in flight. i'm prepared to fight. i'm the modern cinderella. see me as i am. see the real me. not the person i pretened to be. i'm the modern cinderella. nothing like the original. not like bella. not like ella. now i've found my modern prince. i am me. i'm the modern cinderella.
Where are her little helpers those nice little mice why is she so alone in it all where is her fairy god mother to say 'poof' and it all be gone she needs a break she needs for once to care for herself when will she get to meet her prince one that will sweep her off her feet will love her for who she is she may not have to ugly step sisters or a evil step mom but she has an evil step dad and distant mother both with anger problems i would call it even she fights to calm her mind as she dreams of the singing butterflies she needs to escape she needs to get away that is it magic or not she is packing up her pumpkin and leaving good bye farewell have a nice life she cries with an evil grin as she rides away in her half broken pumpkin.
Cinderella was a nice gal always did what she was told put others before herself cinderella had lots of hopes and dreams one day in the town she heard of the ball cinderella wanted to go really really bad her step mom gave her touble her sisters were ok but she never went beucase no one cared poor cinderella cried dreams really don't come true fairytales are fake cinderella never found her prince she never really went to any ball she lost all her hopes and dreams in life cinderella never got a granted wish poor cinderella true love never found her when she was old cinderella died an old maid when cinderella went to heaven she was treated like a real princess angels planed a ball for her and made her a pretty white gown jesus danced with her then he took her by the hand and led her to her handsome chosen prince it was all worth the shattered hopes and dreams in life to have a fairytale ending in heaven.
From dusk to dawn, from town to town, without a single clue, i seek the tender, slender foot to fit this crystal shoe. from dusk to dawn, i try it on each damsel that i meet. and i still love her so, but oh, i've started hating feet.
When we first met it was at a mask dance party we only dance once but last a lifetime it was a magical time even thought we never saw each other face but you remember how beautiful i dance i know i left without saying goodbye and i'm glad you've been looking for me since because one song bring two strangers together and one dance make two stranger fall in love with each other baby you are my cinderella and i can tell you if we can find each other after all those years and if one dance make us fall in love we are going to live happily ever after the truth is that it wasn't just a dance it was a cinderella dance.
Dreaming every night about holding you in my arms your lips touching mine in a never ending kiss a promise of forever with you by my side my prince charming that never did i think in this world i would find flesh not fantasy anymore that is my secret longing to know you to be held by you whispering i love you and will never stop even after death nothing shall part us if only fate would allow i would be your cinderella tonight it's true yes, i have fallen in love with you sight unseen voice unheard heart and soul how i long for you to be mine always praying that soon we two shall find the one thing we have always needed and hungered for tonight please lover come to your cinderella writing this so that you will know i am here and i am waiting for you forever if i have to i swear never will i stop trying to find you the other half of my soul the only man who can make me complete god and i know you are out there it is only a matter of time and fate before face to face we meet cinderella and her prince forever more 2008 ramona thompson.
You seemed like a really good catch until that night at your place dollar store votive candles boxed wine and for dinner frozen lasagna you picked up at the drug store when you got your industrial size bottle of opiates now my good catch began to rot mom always told me about how many fish there where in the sea and i had to land you the cheap broke slimy bottom feeder mom also said it's just as easy to fall in love with a rich man most millionaires avoid cheap dates dull and dusty conversations and dollar stores so i dream of my knight in shining armor and pray he doesn't rust before i find him. i'm suffering through a cinderella story on hold.
If i was cinderella would you love me? would you pick me up in a gold carriage and dance with me till midnight? when i run, will you never give up, and chase after me just to give me a passionate kiss? will you marry me the next day, saying that you found your one and true love? will you make me feel special, and shower me with love and support that any man should give to his women? but, that won't happen. because i'm not cinderella. i'm not cinderella, because i won't have anyone that will love me enough to drive me in a golden carriage, or chase after me when i get to scared to commit to anyone. i won't have anyone that will marry me the next day, because they know that i'm their one and true love. i won't have anyone who will dance with me till midnight, because i'm just that special. i wont have anyone to give me that passionate kiss. to give me, that passionate kiss.
Is cinderella leading a happy life with her dearest prince still, hand in hand, heading towards the same destination? she knows how to eat with a fork made of gold? she finds the silver cup to heavy to hold? she ever fails to meet his expectation? can the loneliness her happiness kill? she has a friend to talk to? . yes, she should be happy, she must be happy, for i have provided her the best life a girl can possibly have, and i have given her my every care to turn her into a real princess. the prince said with confidence. but is she still cinderella?.
The clock has just struck one. have you seen cinderella tonight? was she ever real? lost in the mist of lies and deception, hidden in the shadows where she used to feel safe, with the aid of a secret godmother, her ghost tries to find the light. and as the moon is chased by the sun magic is replaced by reality and all again are plain and ordinary and lifeless. tomorrow night her withered spirit will try once more to find her prince. she believes that dreams are our pathway to magic and i am definite that fairy tales end only when we allow them to.
Like a broken cinderella, she turns in the jewellery box, there is no exit, no escape, no hope, and she is hanging from a noose rope. broken cinderella, broken cinderella, you're over; a broken record, that cannot play, pain here to stay, no prettiness to escape to, no moving forward, only moving back, trapped, dead, deceased, over and broken, with a torn dress, a torn gown, that is ripped at the seams, ripped in her agony, she searches, but can find no one with a solution. her shoes, long since worn out, leave her walking a lonely road, almost crawling on the ground, her heart an empty, cold stone, with many heavy stones in the load. she wishes for mercy from the hot sun, she wished for mercy from the cold snow, where is the window? she asks, where is my future? a broken cinderella, broken, down and out, living all by herself, with no helping hand, with no friend or stranger to understand. and she yearns to be fixed, she hopes to replace those bricks, that will make her a new home, a world where her heart carries no stone, and leaves her to fly in the blue sky, her wings carrying her, from the unforgiving ground.
That public men publish falsehoods is nothing new. that america must accept like the historical republics corruption and empire has been known for years. be angry at the sun for setting if these things anger you. watch the wheel slope and turn, they are all bound on the wheel, these people, those warriors. this republic, europe, asia. observe them gesticulating, observe them going down. the gang serves lies, the passionate man plays his part; the cold passion for truth hunts in no pack. you are not catullus, you know, to lampoon these crude sketches of caesar. you are far from dante's feet, but even farther from his dirty political hatreds. let boys want pleasure, and men struggle for power, and women perhaps for fame, and the servile to serve a leader and the dupes to be duped. yours is not theirs. anonymous submission.
Pale morning sun that rises in the east, spread wide your light, and let the warming blush be thus increased, to shine more bright. welcome the dawn and so enhance the sky, with colours that unite, a vision there displayed, food for the eye, quick changing sight. a new day now unfolds, and in its glow, the scene is quite breathtaking. subtle shades soft and mellow, just fine and right. pale morning sun, that rises, burn more strong, and so invite, nature to call awake the melody of birdsong, from out the night.
My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun; coral is far more red than her lips' red; if snow be white, why then her breasts are dun; if hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head. i have seen roses damasked, red and white, but no such roses see i in her cheeks, and in some perfumes is there more delight than in the breath that from my mistress reeks. i love to hear her speak, yet well i know, that music hath a far more pleasing sound. i grant i never saw a goddess go; my mistress when she walks treads on the ground. and yet, by heaven, i think my love as rare as any she belied with false compare.
"the sun says his prayers," said the fairy, or else he would wither and die. "the sun says his prayers," said the fairy, "for strength to climb up through the sky. he leans on invisible angels, and faith is his prop and his rod. the sky is his crystal cathedral. and dawn is his altar to god. ".
The sun is a beach ball covered in sand, warming up this little land. it's been kicked into the blue sky, by a boy on the beach, that kicked it too high. it races you home, wherever you may be, who will win, you'll have to wait and see.
Sun sun sun rising sun the creator mid day blazing sun the destroyer rudra setting sun the maintainer and continuance greatest of all sun sun sun. the sun is invoked for getting rid of diseases for wisdom for salvation for wealth for fire.
There is the sun who wakes me up for another day that brightens each and every day there is shine who shines so bright in the evening sky that keeps me dreaming of better tomorrows then there is the light of my life who is always there when i am down that has this gift of lighting the way without these three i could not be this is the sun, the shine and the light of my life this could only be my family who always brightens my life with every passing day.
When the sun comes after rain and the bird is in the blue, the girls go down the lane two by two. when the sun comes after shadow and the singing of the showers, the girls go up the meadow, fair as flowers. when the eve comes dusky red and the moon succeeds the sun, the girls go home to bed one by one. and when life draws to its even and the day of man is past, they shall all go home to heaven, home at last.
The sun has set, and the long grass now waves dreamily in the evening wind; and the wild bird has flown from that old gray stone in some warm nook a couch to find. in all the lonely landscape round i see no light and hear no sound, except the wind that far away come sighing o'er the healthy sea.
The sun is not just a special star huge balls of hot gases are stars spinning in space so big so hot and giving heat and light to the earth larger than one million earths is the shining sun in front of our face. we must never look directly at the sun cos it's not fun its brightness will damage the eyes the sun gives lives to all creatures on earth to all births, animals, human beings n natures when sun shines the stars shine all the time day and night the sun's so bright, it hides the light of the other stars with a steady light's broken up as it passes through the earth's atmosphere oh my dear, how beautiful they look, sparkle twinkle little stars. the earth spins or rotates on its axis in geographic, we have.night and day, who wonder how? the axis is an.imaginary line, going through the centre of the earth taking 24 hours at once for the earth to spin around. at night, one side of the earth moves away from the sun that part is the darkness..as the sun seems to sink below look at the horizon, the darkness is starting filling the dawn sky with the rich dark beautiful colours, changing to night time very very slow.
They say her words were like balloons with strings i could not hold, that her love was something in a shop cheap and far too quickly sold; but the tree does not price its apples nor the sun its selling power the rain does not gossip or speak of where it goes.
Let the sun shine brightly each day, warming us deeply in our soul, we are happy it's here to stay let the sun shine brightly each day, giving our earth a lovely ray, having found its own final knoll, let the sun shine brightly each day, warming us deeply in our soul.
The moon still shines like that of ages old, holding distant secrets like a tale yet to be told, the sun in all its blinding beauty continues to lend us its rays, enriching us with memories of those blisfull youthspent days. the sea still massages the sandy golden shores, passing from the sea gods ever open jaws. the rain still travels from open blue skys, showering the land as the sky god cries. the wind whispers words of both hope and depair, in hope it strokes the heads of ours so very fair, the moon and the sun and the sea the rain and the wind, do what they have done since time began, yet man, yes man has changed grown more hungry, and in turn has robbed the earth of its enchanting energy, man has bombed, and slaughtered, and destroyed, man has teased and tested and toyed. and as i, a man am washed by the nightly visit of rain, tears of fear fall in unsison with the cloudy droplets, i was not meant for times like these, i am a passer by a silent hooded journey man, swaying in the comfort of the invisible breeze. wanting and waiting with poetic patience, to be taken away on the wings of timeless words.
But all this while, where's he whose golden rays drives night away and beautifies our days? where's he whose goodly face doth warm and heal, and show us what the darksome nights conceal? where's he that thaws our ice, drives cold away? let's have him, or we care not for the day. thus 'tis with who partakers are of grace, there's nought to them like their redeemer's face.
99 superfluous were the sun when excellence be dead he were superfluous every day for every day be said that syllable whose faith just saves it from despair and whose "i'll meet you" hesitates if love inquire "where"? upon his dateless fame our periods may lie as stars that drop anonymous from an abundant sky.
Look, look, brave sol doth peep up from beneath, shows us his golden face, doth on us breathe; he also doth compass us round with glories, whilst he ascends up to his highest stories. where he his banner over us displays, and gives us light to see our works and ways. nor are we now, as at the peep of light, to question, is it day, or is it night? the night is gone, the shadows fled away, and we now most sure are that it is day. our eyes behold it, and our hearts believe it; nor can the wit of man in this deceive it. and thus it is when jesus shows his face, and doth assure us of his love and grace.
Light breaks where no sun shines; where no sea runs, the waters of the heart push in their tides; and, broken ghosts with glowworms in their heads, the things of light file through the flesh where no flesh decks the bones. a candle in the thighs warms youth and seed and burns the seeds of age; where no seed stirs, the fruit of man unwrinkles in the stars, bright as a fig; where no wax is, the candle shows its hairs. dawn breaks behind the eyes; from poles of skull and toe the windy blood slides like a sea; nor fenced, nor staked, the gushers of the sky spout to the rod divining in a smile the oil of tears. night in the sockets rounds, like some pitch moon, the limit of the globes; day lights the bone; where no cold is, the skinning gales unpin the winter's robes; the film of spring is hanging from the lids. light breaks on secret lots, on tips of thought where thoughts smell in the rain; when logics die, the secret of the soil grows through the eye, and blood jumps in the sun; above the waste allotments the dawn halts.
The sun has burst the sky because i love you and the river its banks. the sea laps the great rocks because i love you and takes no heed of the moon dragging it away and saying coldly 'constancy is not for you'. the blackbird fills the air because i love you with spring and lawns and shadows falling on lawns. the people walk in the street and laugh i love you and far down the river ships sound their hooters crazy with joy because i love you.
The sun got up and saw the moon. 'why are you out of bed so soon? ' 'it is because a moon's required to light the way when you've retired into your bed to rest your rays, i do not like to work on days.' 'i'm glad to see you my dear cheese to tell you of my ailing knees and in the springtime i will quit and you can handle all this shit. '.
You flew in softly and tiptoed in my life my parched soul got a reprieve my heart is now your permanent home we shall play with elves and gnomes the moon will sing with me a lullaby the stars do a slow tambourine dance in the sky my blurred vision suddenly got a divine sight you are the soul of my soul, my eternal light there is a river gushing inside me you are the fountain, you are my chi i hear nothing but your sweet voice you shimmer, you glisten and i rejoice you, my darling are my inner sun you are the song that i will hum today, tomorrow and forever your inner light i shall devour you are the ink on my heart that will never blur the calligraphy etched deep inside you have fulfilled a deep void you are my baby, my love, my joy, my pride.
Where did the sun go? somewhere we will never know where is the sun? did it run away from you and me? without it you and i cant see sadness now exists our nightmares are at our reach where is the sun? now my days are colder will the clouds love forever in my life? cause i dont want to live this way i'll chase the sun if o decided to run i'll chase the sun but will the sun know it's me longing to keep the sun, come back.
Oh day of fire and sun, pure as a naked flame, blue sea, blue sky and dun sands where he spoke my name; laughter and hearts so high that the spirit flew off free, lifting into the sky diving into the sea; oh day of fire and sun like a crystal burning, slow days go one by one, but you have no returning.
And the sun slept on into the day and lay buried deep where the wisemen say its gone to find some peace. o hand me this, this tired star and let it be thrown with a spiteful toss so far so far so far from home throw it to night and the darkness it craves hurl it into endless space watch it as it slowly fades with an upturned face o hope o hope you treacherous dawn that promised light would come again but you've grown dim and now are gone come night my cursed friend.
The sun shines very brightly. when cluds are not covering it. the sun is yellow. the sun comes up in the morning. the sun shines during the day. the sun has rays. which are called sun rays. the sun rays are also known as heat waves.
Freer than most birds an eagle flies up over san francisco freer than most places soars high up floats and glides high up in the still open spaces flown from the mountains floated down far over ocean where the sunset has begun a mirror of itself he sails high over turning and turning where seaplanes might turn where warplanes might burn he wheels about burning in the red sun climbs and glides and doubles back upon himself now over ocean now over land high over pinwheels suck in sand where a rollercoaster used to stand soaring eagle setting sun all that is left of our wilderness.
I ask them to take a poem and hold it up to the light like a color slide or press an ear against its hive. i say drop a mouse into a poem and watch him probe his way out, or walk inside the poem's room and feel the walls for a light switch. i want them to waterski across the surface of a poem waving at the author's name on the shore. but all they want to do is tie the poem to a chair with rope and torture a confession out of it. they begin beating it with a hose to find out what it really means.
Sparrows were feeding in a freezing drizzle that while you watched turned into pieces of snow riding a gradient invisible from silver aslant to random, white, and slow. there came a moment that you couldn't tell. and then they clearly flew instead of fell.
Ein gedicht ist nicht was ein duemmlicher wicht schreibt auf's klopapier in der hoffnung dass wir uns beim lesen erfreuen doch wir wuerden's bereuen denn wie goethe, der dichter, auf'm friedhof da liecht 'er. a poem can't be what a he or a she jots on toilet paper with the hope that this caper will bring joy to us all. real poets stand tall, he rests quite contrary in a cemetary.

And there was the knocking on the door that we were expecting and it was the man that we were expecting with the questions we were expecting to which answers were expected by those who expect answers as if life were like that which for writers it is not yes, tea was drunk and after tea the tape recorder set up so that what i said i would continue to say somewhere else even when i changed my mind here and nowhere else and he said ms stein what do you think of american poetry and we said well it's american and it's poetry that's as it should be and really that's all there is to say and the man looked disappointed so we asked him did he read poetry and he said poetry no i dont read poetry but my editor does so i said it's really about americans living their lives that's what american poetry is really about because americans move around and so their words move around and words in english have lost their intensity but american words are always on the move and they are more intense yes, americans living among americans and talking to their neighbours if it's not about that it's not really american poetry at all is it if it's not about that then why bother writing poetry and the man was asking about a rose being a rose being a rose and we said for a hundred years the rose has not been red in poetry but now for the first time in a hundred years the rose is red again and the man looked at his watch and said thank you ms stein and was switching off his tape recorder and a month later that was what we said in a magazine much read by americans who mostly are not poets no very few but we said it we know that this is so because we read it there and we think that really that was all there was to say because that was all we think is really important about american poetry that the words move like americans move and that is exciting for a writer and that is the important thing about american poetry.
If you peruse deeply, you will come toy our finding that modern indian english poetry initially began with the stray poems and one books on the anvil and they were not established writers, but were the beginners, the amateur ones promising to add to the corpus, but now you may call et cetera, et cetera.
The refreshing taste of dawn mist and sunshine, mountain loam rolled up in tender brown leaves and now unveiled through spring water they are the simple joy that raises the morning sun up into my sky i dont need that many readers, just a few who care to weigh every word to see how much they are worth they too are my tea that elevates the sun up my sky.
When the king of siam disliked a courtier, he gave him a beautiful white elephant. the miracle beast deserved such ritual that to care for him properly meant ruin. yet to care for him improperly was worse. it appears the gift could not be refused.
Poetry is not the rain poetry is how the rain beats down on your path poetry is not in the man poetry is how you open his heart with your smile poetry is not in the flowers poetry is how you can use them to help your friends bloom yesterday, today, tomorrow poetry is not the sea poetry is how you spread your laughter over its surging water and count your blessing with every shell you pick up.
I don't like nasty limericks. i don't like vulgar words. i'd rather write of better things, like maybe watching birds. so many poets feel the need to write such graphic things. the art of poetry to me is making words that sing. it's easy to be nasty. it takes no brain at all. but i can't keep from wondering where you get the gall. my poems may not be ''genius''. i'm sure they don't compare to many other writer's work but mine, i like to share. no matter if you're ninety or if you're only nine you needn't feel ashamed to click on poetry that's mine.
Poetry is that schoolgirl junior high you have known for three years but never talk to she is always at the corner of everywhere by herself living out the world of her own harbouring a dream beautiful as rainbow poetry is that junior school girl at the corner of your class you never talk to but have always wanted to poetry is that girl by herself harbouring a world too entrancing for her to extricate herself from poetry is that gentle girl at a little corner who has an apple garden to be explored and savoured but would rather keep quiet about it poetry is that boy who makes the first move to lift the first page of her life to give her life another dimension and lets his mind be showered with all her graces.
Those wishing to learn writing good haiku should start first by writing spooky haikus; midnight bus leaves me in the shadow of a haunted house midnight park the swing suddenly creaks dark corridor passing by the unit a man hung himself ghost festival hell money trails the night wind night clothesline below the white table clothes feet.
In poetry's fond verse we save all matters of the heart, our thoughts that may be sweet or grave, with which we'd hate to part. our fears of what may come to pass, our sadness at what has, the desperate state of pain's impasse, a human alcatraz. the lessons that pain teaches us, road signs, in fact to joy, our god's reforming animus, love's armor for schoolboy. remembering that pain serves man, is always hard to do, puts limits on outrageous plan, helps vanity subdue. our owning of the father god, the highest we can reach, releasing our own dreams slipshod for what he has to teach.
With poetry i have found a purpose with poetry things just seem easier with poetry words will dance the tango with poetry i can put meaning to my thoughts with poetry i can ramble on and on with poetry everything is easier.
Why poetry? to realise that a simple smile can mean so many things and interpreted in so many ways that there is always a fresh way to look at things the way god has been able to give each of us a new way to experience things a cross puzzle he challenges us to find the uniqueness he has meant for all of us to be languages, geographies genes, religions universes, angels. every facet that helps a diamond to sparkle its own way.
And it was at that age . poetry arrived in search of me. i don't know, i don't know where it came from, from winter or a river. i don't know how or when, no they were not voices, they were not words, nor silence, but from a street i was summoned, from the branches of night, abruptly from the others, among violent fires or returning alone, there i was without a face and it touched me. i did not know what to say, my mouth had no way with names, my eyes were blind, and something started in my soul, fever or forgotten wings, and i made my own way, deciphering that fire, and i wrote the first faint line, faint, without substance, pure nonsense, pure wisdom of someone who knows nothing, and suddenly i saw the heavens unfastened and open, planets, palpitating plantations, shadow perforated, riddled with arrows, fire and flowers, the winding night, the universe. and i, infinitesimal being, drunk with the great starry void, likeness, image of mystery, felt myself a pure part of the abyss, i wheeled with the stars, my heart broke loose on the wind.
When i think of all the clean words i used to use on you and how they've become vernacular for having been attached to one so lowly i think how poetry will never be uttered in the same manner instead the language takes on your stench poor english venom and cigarette smoke i've dissected abbreviated so much the vowels now longer sound long or short they just whimper.
Just remember that hope goes a long way. as long as you have a little you are still doing okay. everything will be alright, the sun will start to shine, spring brings more hope but you may just have to look harder for it sometimes. so, do not fret and do not cry, the warmth of the air, the blue of the sky will dry your tears most of the time.
What is hope, ask a bee in cold winter days, she hangs around the pruned rose bushes, with the hope that someday the spring will come, and the flowers will bloom again in the garden. what is hope, ask the blue bird pair in early spring, they work diligently to bring every twig and grass, to build their nest in the corner nook of my house, i see the hope in the eyes of this lovely pair, they are dreaming of a happy home for their family. what is hope, ask a lonesome soul, when the uncertainties linger around in mind, hope is the only refuge to calm our fears, when the loneliness sends one in depression, the hope of a companionship overshadows the despair. what is hope, ask a human being, our life is a sand castle of hope on a sandy beach, with the lingering fear of drowning in occasional high tide, our destiny, our future, and our own survival, hangs around the magical hope, the hope that is the eternal inspiration.
Hope is the sweet, sweet scent of flowers in the morning hope is the cool gentle breeze on a warm summer's day hope is the knowledge of stability from a son in mourning hope is the bright shining light keeping darkness at bay hope is the calming warmth during a cold winter hope is the determination of an athelete on the track hope is the potential of a newborn baby hope is the love between you and me hope springs eternal.
Angel of hope come to me mend my heart with golden thread weave your healing all around in and out through my soul patches of love to cover the void made from the finest in the land tenderly spin me a new dream one of love and hope in between cradle my heart in finest silk softly and sensual to the touch but strong for many years of wear show me with pride give me to one who will cherish a slightly used but still useful heart one that will keep them warm with love forever more.
Is to believe in that a greater authority will take care of things and of you when there's nothing else to see or feel to tell what future holds and you've done your best to take care of the present it comes from the heart always for something when there's nothing.
So many crosses, so little hope, so many puppets, praying for some thing they dont even believe in.where is your devels, where are your saints, where is your god, when you fill your body with drink, so many crosses, so little faith, so many puppets, waiting for.what?.
Off the coast of california where else hornyhead turbot and there's a name for a start were found to be bisexual with ovary tissues in their testes the males were found congregated around a sewage outlet before graffiti writers and fundamentalist preachers develop the implications of this newsflash i think i'll stop right there.
Is there another world for this frail dust to warm with life and be itself again? something about me daily speaks there must, and why should instinct nourish hopes in vain? 'tis nature's prophesy that such will be, and everything seems struggling to explain the close sealed volume of its mystery. time wandering onward keeps its usual pace as seeming anxious of eternity, to meet that calm and find a resting place. e'en the small violet feels a future power and waits each year renewing blooms to bring, and surely man is no inferior flower to die unworthy of a second spring?.
Since thou hast given me this good hope, o god, that while my footsteps tread the flowery sod and the great woods embower me, and white dawn and purple even sweetly lead me on from day to day, and night to night, o god, my life shall no wise miss the light of love; but ever climbing, climb above man's one poor star, man's supine lands, into the azure steadfastness of death, my life shall no wise lack the light of love, my hands not lack the loving touch of hands; but day by day, while yet i draw my breath, and day by day, unto my last of years, i shall be one that has a perfect friend. her heart shall taste my laughter and my tears, and her kind eyes shall lead me to the end.
If you only care about the ones within your small arms reach there's so much you will never know and i could never teach. life will be your teacher you'll see things we have known. if closely you will listen you'll never be alone. but, if you choose to focus on you and only yours so much joy will be kept from you through simple unlocked doors. i hope you never need a stranger someone you've never met cause you have to remember. what you give is what you get.
It's been eleven years, since i first met you. i know that the blessed, are far and few. i wish i saved myself just for you. as i write this poem, only for you. something i thought, i could never do. i hope you accept this poem, from me to you. times have seemed to change, yet so many things remain the same. there are so many things i have learned, and so many pages that i have turned. people are always changing, trying to play the part. yet the only movement i felt, is the one inside my heart. the gods have shined down on me, to give me the courage to write to thee. yes or no, right or wrong, my faith in us, will be forever strong. although my will was not enough, to share my feelings before you left. i respect our friendship the way it exists, i can't help wondering if more could exist. i think of the good times that we shared, i never knew the burdens you bared. i really wish i knew your pain, i'd have done anything to take it all away. there were so many things i wanted to say; but here i am writing so far away. thousands of miles and an ocean away, my feelings for you will always remain. i haven't much to give, only one life to live. so little money and so few possessions, a simple man with no obsessions. for my hope carries me on, and my faith makes me strong. my heart and soul and love for you, these are what i offer you. with a soul, as stong as you; when i sleep, i dream of you. my faith and thoughts of happiness, you're my sanity in this world of madness. you remain in my thoughts everyday, and i hope we will meet another day.
False hope prolongs my ever certain grief, trait'rous to me and faithful to my love; a thousand times it promis'd me relief, yet never any true effect i prove. oft when i find in her no truth at all, i banish her and blame her treachery; yet soon again i must her back recall, as one that dies without her company. thus often as i chase my hope from me, straight way she hastes her unto delia's eyes; fed with some pleasing look there shall she be, and so sent back, and thus my fortune lies. looks feed my hope, hope fosters me in vain; hopes are unsure, when certain is my pain.
Hope is an expectation or desire for certain event, it relates to persons, things or to circumstances it is inherent. not only men but also animal and birds, reptiles have hope, all live on hope or hope against hope hopeless persons have no scope. men live in hope and in hope they dream, to dream many lovely things is too dream of a team. hope is the reason of attachment and it is the art, it is too reason of detachment and it is the heart. maximum people hope to get perishable things they want, but these are such things those bring men daunt. hope to lead valuable life and value in life is the best, we must hope peace and bless of god there actually are the zests.
I believe that horses can heal, i believe that their hearts feel all that we feel, i believe that the joy from riding is real, i believe that horses really can heal. i see children riding and smiling with joy, i see happy healthy girls and boys, i see hope for life and wonder renewed, i see love for the children coming to you. i see dreams for the kids, who once were lost, i see helping hands, no matter the cost, i see friends for kids, who once were tossed, i see children laughing and no longer lost. i do believe that horses can heal, i believe that horses make recovery real, i believe being sober is a much better deal, i really believe that horses can heal. and i know that this land, its buildings and stones, insures that our children are never alone, insures that our horses and children are one, insures that their lives will finally be won. yes i do believe that horses can heal. that recovery hope and dreams are real, that god and love can make a child whole, that all of this is the stallions hope role.
Hope hope and faith go hand in hand. hope for the future. hope leads to a brighter future. hope for riches life would be different without hope. the power of hope makes us hold on. in the worst of times hope is there. hope fuels our courage. it makes hearts stronger. hope doesn't just give up on us. hope is like faith one must have both.
Im not crazy im not dreaming i hope hope hope hope there has to be a way not the best way but a least a way we have to run out of this place we have to free ourselves from this masacre start from scratch from this disaster we have to get out with the hope we have hope hope hope hope your all i got.
I hope that a friend in need is a freind indeed and i hope that the skys stay blue and my friends are the same friends that i knew and i hope that this earth is still round and that i will be found and i hope that my dreams are so clear and when i wake up my eyes have no tears and i hope that ur hand is in mine and with love theirs no time and i hope that i will survive a broken heart this time and i hope and i hope.
Hope is a nice word, people use it a lot. hope has a deep meaning which should not be forgot. hope to some means, life or death. hope to others, is to win a bet. to all those people, that do not need hope. i hope this sinks in, my message about hope.
Live in hope, hope, hope and hope. let me say again that words live as young as your hope, be not without hope in hours of adversity rightly said nizami and optimistic attitude of life and have pleasant thoughts always.
I've heard hopes enough, enough to keep you alive, they say that hopes a joyous feeling, hope that they''ll come back, hope they'll see their mistake, but hope hurts more than the the deepest betrayal, it keeps you awake at night, with dreams that tomorow, well, that tomorrow everything will go back, back to how it was, back to love and happiness, and then in the morning when nothings changed, when your all alone, wondering why, then you know the truth of hope, that hope gives you sleepless nights, the pain thats throbbing in your chest, the knowledge that for all your want, it will never be the same, and that hope is the biggest betrayal.
I hope you surf the waves in form the ocean, big and small. i hope you watch the sunset, from a mountain straight and tall. i hope you can sing a song to all the angles, loud and clear. i hope you will try new things, never giving into fears. i hope you fall in love, with one who makes your world go around. i hope that if you fall out, your feet will stay on the ground. i hope that you can understand, that true love waits for you. that you may have to wait a while, but when it comes it will be true. i hope you find a rainbow, and realize it was worth the rain. i hope through you journey, you will learn to balance smile with pain. i hope that you realize, life isn't always on your side. i hope you know when hope is lost, in me you can confined. i hope that your glowing smile, brings someone out of gloom. i hope you taste your life, with more than just a spoon. i hope that when you are lost, you are also one to find. and i hope that you hand, never grows too big from mine. i hope watch the stars shoot by, upon a grassy hill. i hope you know that i love you, always have and always will.
I'm writing you this poem, for you being you, i'm writing you this poem, because i wanted to. i'm writing you this poem, cause i thought of you, i'm writing you this poem, for the wonderful things you do. you have taught me right from wrong, you taught me how to love and praise, you taught me how to be hopeful, and now to be amazed. now it's my turn, to be like you, to follow god, and look up to.
Hope sigh not for there is hope doubt not because it is there just seek it let thy eye wander far just touch it let thy hands lay softly just live it let thy heart fill the cold and conquer laugh in joy not in cruelness cry always but not in pain sing tunes for the far and dance for the near wonder not because hope never dies.
When the desperation hit when the people cried in the streets when everything felt at loss hope stayed, even though fleaing would be easier when the eyes were full of tears. when kids and families were torn apart by that last desperate grasp hope tried when all else gave up when all else backed off when people lost all they had hope flew when they cried when the world was shocked with desperation and dispair when nothing seemed good hope worked when those four planes crashed when the buildings fell when the lives were lost hope was there hope was only a tiny glimmer hope was still there she ran to those who needed her she worked to help when all else failed hope didn't she flew through us all letting us know, we still had her we just needed to look hard enough hope was there hope remembers.
Only fools live in the future only the regretful live in the past but very few live in the now the hardest part of all dreams of what to come can be changed and the past can be accepted but the now? can only be survived soon it will be the past then we will regretfully accept.
It was a year ago today we went our seperate ways strange now to think that there could have been a you and a me the way we are now seems more natural somehow it wasn't meant to be but without that little fling we would never have seen the potential in each other to be friends and not lovers.
So you think, today might be the day it might be, it might be not? depends on your luck, if it goes your way or you could get caught? this might be the beginning, the first day the first day of the rest of you life you want to go down on one knee and pray that all will be abundant and rife this is the day, like everyday seize it well, grab it tight do your job, have fun, play then you'll sleep well, very well tonight.
Today nothing is the same though i thought no tears would ever come again today it all changed a child didn't cry when his mother died a mother didn't cry when her son disapeared a father didn't cry when his family was gone forever when the world lost their tears i cried today.
Today i saw a hedgehog a funny looking thing he crept across the lawn outside as i sat watching him he snuffled through the leaves and grass his nose twitched like a snake and then he stopped quite suddenly as he came across a rake at first he rolled into a ball quite comical to see then slowly poked his head out and i'm sure he winked at me once more he turned towards the rake who's spines looked somewhat higher and slowly moved toward it with what to me, looked like desire first he nudged it with his nose then rubbed against the prongs then getting no reaction seemed to sense that somethings wrong and then he tried to mount it but that just came to grief and shuffled off indignantly which came as some relief and so i've learned a moral from this hedgehog in his teens things that we take for granted are not always as they seem.
I love you not because what you are but also for your deep love and thoughts for me your love fills my heart with meanings and bring my emotion melting in your arms when you are close to me then my worries disappear and exchange of our love makes my heart strong i didn't know the power of love until it showered from you and you made me to understand what is love and be loved today, i am falling in love with you every single moment your heart leads me to your thoughts and senses and tells me to tie my heart at night with yours when morning comes then i wake up with your thoughts and i recollect my dreams which i have buried with you brings me a smile on my face and rushing to hold you and find my day is not enough to be with you in love hope you will understand that i cannot live with out you and today you are everything to me.
An easter flower cuts light into the sill the sound of suffering is forever still. tears of forgiveness warm the evening chill. i hear his whisper in a rustling leaf, 'i would have been so lonely in my grief, without your fragile friendship, my good thief. you did not scorn the pity of my frame, but saw the jesus in me just the same, i call you friend, you need no other name. my father's house is just a breath away. see. one by one the windows light our way. i think he was expecting us today.' beyond the drama of earth's dying skies, joy is too powerful for human eyes. forever is today in paradise. for my dear friend, ralph russell who often requested this poem to be read at easter.
Open your eyes and you will see, just how beautiful our earth can be. no animal would ever be rare, if everyone would try to care. trees would not be lying dead, and all of earth's animals would be fed. all of the bears would have plenty of honey, and there would even be carrots for every bunny. if everyone picked up one piece of trash, our litter problem would be gone in a flash. tomorrow take a good look at the sky's new dawn, and realize someday all of this might be gone. remember the important part that you play, in saving our planet for a future day. our childrens' eyes with your help will see, just how beautiful our earth can be.
I went home today and it was a big surprise; buildings got in the way and made me realize i couldn't stay although i tried, old friends could not be found like me, they all moved away home is not back there but do you know where? i went home today and much to my surprise i found all the memories home inside for in the heart is the only place home will stay so i went home today.
Forget today my tired soul imagine you never said those destructive words another person no longer sees your worth but tomorrow brings a reason to hope forget today my tired soul pretend you hadn't created your own downfall you've lost the chance to make a friend but there's always a chance to make ammends forget today my tired soul wipe the tears that fall from your eyes love has once again overlooked our door but one day her sweet face will be seen again forget today my tired soul don't dwell on the pain that lives within the clouds are bleak and the sun seems so far away but i promise you someday we'll have our moment to shine.
I saw her by the bus stop and she glanced my way she gave me such a pretty smile it took my breath away i knew i couldn't say hello the struggle what to do i'd never know what you were like a stranger passing through do you ever think of me as i have thought of you wonder what sights we'd have seen if we had stopped to view crazy how the little things and chances slip away another one, another life another day today.
Today is sunday. for the first time they took me out into the sun today. and for the first time in my life i was aghast that the sky is so far away and so blue and so vast i stood there without a motion. then i sat on the ground with respectful devotion leaning against the white wall. who cares about the waves with which i yearn to roll or about strife or freedom or my wife right now. the soil, the sun and me. i feel joyful and how. translated by talat sait halman.
The racist cloaks his loathing thoughts behind deceiving eyes those men who once wore hoods and robes today wear shirts and ties their methods changed but yet and still, their mission is the same today they lynch with politics, the racist's favorite game divide and conquer is their plan to keep minorities from seeing that the forest lies just shortly past the trees racism lurks within the press, courthouses, banks and schools black folks convinced that all is well have certainly been fooled a racist underground exists, a chilling fact indeed they seek to kill, steal and destroy, we can't let them succeed.
I am the hoodie you pass on the street i am the one you dread to meet i am the one in the park i am the one who stands outside in the dark i am the one who stands in a gang i am the one you look at when you hear a bang i am the drunken youth i am the binge drinking culture thats so uncouth i am the thing you detest while i sit here distressed about all the exams i have to complete and all the sport events in which i have to compete the duke of edinburghs expedition but all you see is my hooded disposition i am the one stood out side your local shop i am your next local cop.
If i were to die today. forever im my heart your love would stay. through my mind your memories would flow. wishing i could hold you and never let you go. i would remember your voice and laughter many years after. i would gaze upon you everyday from the heaves above. just to feel your heart with all of my love.
But the sun also rises towards yet another day and the sun does not fear come what may because this is a day of lilies and butterflies a day of laughter and cheers, of infinite cries this is a day unlike any you've ever seen it will bring you life, on this you can lean this is the day that will turn your world around this will be the very day that you found another truth that shows you why you are you today you'll find the importance of always staying true this day will be unique just like every other.
I came home this morning after saying goodbye to a ghost. i wrote a little poem about and posted it. then up popped alison cassidy dreaming of summer. in england, we are all doing that. we have to walk in our wellies, hoping not to get our feet wet. andy wilkinson posted another romantic ditty, then he comes along, and calls me sentimental because i wanted to say goodbye to a ghost where i used to work. yes, i think the poets have come out to play today.
Our ride through life is short at best choices made do count moments lived savored memories made golden embraced in the gilded frames of time honored vestiges of era's of yesterday and today that are too soon gone reflections play like the waters still but forever deep mirror's of the soul.
I saw a reason to smile today when i saw a butterfly flutter its wings around my way. i saw a reason to smile today, when i heard the children laughing and playing under the warm sun of may. i saw a reason to smile today, when i looked up and saw no clouds of gray. but most of all, i saw a reason to smile today, when i saw you pass by, which completed my day.
Bulldog faced bulldozed, face flattened, dried and creased to a patch, an aching patch large as iraq tears flow swift as justice a noose to stamp a committment not to return to terror floods with blood distraught land that echoes prayers as much as screams and cries with the road to balance hearts dammed like the tigris heaven only knows the secrets of enemies and friends in a fractious land the mighty river tarries out to sea without a care looters, bulliers, saviours, enemies, or invaders i recall hamurabi and and his honeyed sumeria where justice were chiselled hard as stones.
There was a time when i thought that our love was failing. then you got ill and nearly died, and i found out how a lonely life would be, so today i started loving you again. the sun in my life began to shine again, the roses in our garden even started to bloom, my life began to lift me higher, and our home is a battleground no more, for today, i started loving you again. never will i doubt our love again. we have something so precious; i would be a fool to let it go. i now realise the consequences. so today, i started loving you again. 6 august 2007.
Harshness vanished. a sudden softness has replaced the meadows' wintry grey. little rivulets of water changed their singing accents. tendernesses, hesitantly, reach toward the earth from space, and country lanes are showing these unexpected subtle risings that find expression in the empty trees.
In spring i go to war to sing or to die. what do i care for my own troubles? today i shatter them, laughing in pieces. oh, brothers, know that young spring came in a whirlwind. quickly throw off tired grief and follow her in a host. i have never felt so strongly how much i love you, oh, germany, as the magic of spring surrounds you amidst the bustle of war.
Green ripples singing down the corn, with blossoms dumb the path i tread, and in the music of the morn one with wild roses on her head. now the green ripples turn to gold and all the paths are loud with rain, i with desire am growing old and full of winter pain.
O out of a bed of love when that immortal hospital made one more moove to soothe the curless counted body, and ruin and his causes over the barbed and shooting sea assumed an army and swept into our wounds and houses, i climb to greet the war in which i have no heart but only that one dark i owe my light, call for confessor and wiser mirror but there is none to glow after the god stoning night and i am struck as lonely as a holy marker by the sun no praise that the spring time is all gabriel and radiant shrubbery as the morning grows joyful out of the woebegone pyre and the multitude's sultry tear turns cool on the weeping wall, my arising prodgidal sun the father his quiver full of the infants of pure fire, but blessed be hail and upheaval that uncalm still it is sure alone to stand and sing alone in the husk of man's home and the mother and toppling house of the holy spring, if only for a last time.
In the spring of the year, in the spring of the year, i walked the road beside my dear. the trees were black where the bark was wet. i see them yet, in the spring of the year. he broke me a bough of the blossoming peach that was out of the way and hard to reach. in the fall of the year, in the fall of the year, i walked the road beside my dear. the rooks went up with a raucous trill. i hear them still, in the fall of the year. he laughed at all i dared to praise, and broke my heart, in little ways. year be springing or year be falling, the bark will drip and the birds be calling. there's much that's fine to see and hear in the spring of a year, in the fall of a year. 'tis not love's going hurt my days. but that it went in little ways.
In the green and gallant spring, love and the lyre i thought to sing, and kisses sweet to give and take by the flowery hawthorn brake. now is russet autumn here, death and the grave and winter drear, and i must ponder here aloof while the rain is on the roof.
To what purpose, april, do you return again? beauty is not enough. you can no longer quiet me with the redness of little leaves opening stickily. i know what i know. the sun is hot on my neck as i observe the spikes of the crocus. the smell of the earth is good. it is apparent that there is no death. but what does that signify? not only under ground are the brains of men eaten by maggots. life in itself is nothing, an empty cup, a flight of uncarpeted stairs. it is not enough that yearly, down this hill, april comes like an idiot, babbling and strewing flowers.
The threefold terror of love; a fallen flare through the hollow of an ear; wings beating about the room; the terror of all terrors that i bore the heavens in my womb. had i not found content among the shows every common woman knows, chimney corner, garden walk, or rocky cistern where we tread the clothes and gather all the talk? what is this flesh i purchased with my pains, this fallen star my milk sustains, this love that makes my heart's blood stop or strikes a sudden chill into my bones and bids my hair stand up?.
God bless our native land, land of the newly free, oh may she ever stand for truth and liberty. god bless our native land, where sleep our kindred dead, let peace at thy command above their graves be shed. god help our native land, bring surcease to her strife, and shower from thy hand a more abundant life. god bless our native land, her homes and children bless, oh may she ever stand for truth and righteousness.
Thank god for little children, bright flowers by earth's wayside, the dancing, joyous lifeboats upon life's stormy tide. thank god for little children; when our skies are cold and gray, they come as sunshine to our hearts, and charm our cares away. i almost think the angels, who tend life's garden fair, drop down the sweet wild blossoms that bloom around us here. it seems a breath of heaven round many a cradle lies, and every little baby brings a message from the skies. dear mothers, guard these jewels. as sacred offerings meet, a wealth of household treasures to lay at jesus' feet.
Since thou hast given me this good hope, o god, that while my footsteps tread the flowery sod and the great woods embower me, and white dawn and purple even sweetly lead me on from day to day, and night to night, o god, my life shall no wise miss the light of love; but ever climbing, climb above man's one poor star, man's supine lands, into the azure steadfastness of death, my life shall no wise lack the light of love, my hands not lack the loving touch of hands; but day by day, while yet i draw my breath, and day by day, unto my last of years, i shall be one that has a perfect friend. her heart shall taste my laughter and my tears, and her kind eyes shall lead me to the end.
Wilt thou forgive that sin where i begun, which was my sin, though it were done before? wilt thou forgive that sin, through which i run, and do run still, though still i do deplore? when thou hast done, thou hast not done, for i have more. wilt thou forgive that sin which i have won others to sin, and made my sin their door? wilt thou forgive that sin which i did shun a year or two, but wallow'd in, a score? when thou hast done, thou hast not done, for i have more. i have a sin of fear, that when i have spun my last thread, i shall perish on the shore; but swear by thyself, that at my death thy son shall shine as he shines now, and heretofore; and, having done that, thou hast done; i fear no more.
Waves of strength surging in you and me that is god, that is god stream of compassion flowing in you and me that is god, that is god trembling consciousness quivering in you and me that is god, that is god creative juices flowing in you and me that is god, that is god undying spirit burning in you and me that is god, that is god throbbing heart overflowing with love in you and me that is god, that is god.
God is the greatest artist to whom no one can compare, streaking sunsets very beautiful, painting rainbows in the air. brushing green the hillside scene, blotting blue the sky above, splashing flowers 'cross the ground beneath, shading white clouds with his glove. of the wonders god has made there is none that is so fair as the smile he paints upon your face when you realize he's there. to the greatest artist, whose natural beauty and wisdom both inspired and guided me in writing this little verse.
They shall see him in the crimson flush of morning's early light, in the drapery of sunset, around the couch of night. when the clouds drop down their fatness, in late and early rain, they shall see his glorious footprints on valley, hill and plain. they shall see him when the cyclone breathes terror through the land; they shall see him 'mid the murmurs of zephyrs soft and bland. they shall see him when the lips of health, breath vigor through each nerve, when pestilence clasps hands with death, his purposes to serve. they shall see him when the trembling earth is rocking to and fro; they shall see him in the order the seasons come and go. they shall see him when the storms of war sweep wildly through the land; when peace descends like gentle dew they still shall see his hand. they shall see him in the city of gems and pearls of light, they shall see him in his beauty, and walk with him in white. to living founts their feet shall tend, and christ shall be their guide, beloved of god, their rest shall be in safety by his side.
My god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god and i have my eyes fixed on him today while i am walking to school because god is coming towards me to greet me and there is something going on with my mind but i don't know what my mind is trying to tell me or if god is coming to give me a message or to walk with me to school and to make sure that i am safe while i walk to school my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god he forgives everyone that sins here at home my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god he lives inside of my heart everyday because i made room for god inside of my heart my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god he will let the sun shine here at home every single day and i look forward to the sun every single day my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god my god is an awesome god because he is the maker of heaven and earth.
"there is no god," the wicked saith, "and truly it's a blessing, for what he might have done with us it's better only guessing." "there is no god," a youngster thinks, "or really, if there may be, he surely did not mean a man always to be a baby." "there is no god, or if there is," the tradesman thinks, "'twere funny if he should take it ill in me to make a little money." "whether there be," the rich man says, "it matters very little, for i and mine, thank somebody, are not in want of victual." some others, also, to themselves, who scarce so much as doubt it, think there is none, when they are well, and do not think about it. but country folks who live beneath the shadow of the steeple; the parson and the parson's wife, and mostly married people; youths green and happy in first love, so thankful for illusion; and men caught out in what the world calls guilt, in first confusion; and almost everyone when age, disease, or sorrows strike him, inclines to think there is a god, or something very like him.
When god opens heaven's gates as we cross that gulf so wide, the arms of jesus open as our soul will there abide. when god opens heaven's gates we'll see beauty all around, our loved ones, too, will greet us, as we leave this earth behind. when god opens heaven's gates there'll be singing angels there, the awesome peace and joyfulness will permeate the air. as god opens heaven's gates and his light takes place of day, jesus welcomes us forever as the ones who found "the way. ".
Of old our father's god was real, something they almost saw, which kept them to a stern ideal and scourged them into awe. they walked the narrow path of right most vigilantly well, because they feared eternal night and boiling depths of hell. now hell has wholly boiled away and god become a shade. there is no place for him to stay in all the world he made. the followers of william james still let the lord exist, and call him by imposing names, a venerable list. but nerve and muscle only count, gray matter of the brain, and an astonishing amount of inconvenient pain. i sometimes wish that god were back in this dark world and wide; for though sonic virtues he might lack, he had his pleasant side.
Love is god and god is love "love is god and god is love" all may say i found no name that actually professed these words to lay i bow my head to preachers who really follow the spirit and guide the masses to bow their head and touch the feet it has become customary and now a show business visit temple, mosque or church in order to confess it is good on the part of human being to obey and learn the teachings by heart and pray many may be seriously praying for universal happiness so many may be secretly donating for the serious cases yet the genuine concern occupies the religion centers as they have to rush to the needy poor to cater all said and not done in true essence we swear by god but speak lies in his presence we only object blasphemy but in real life act contrary general awareness with staunch followers is necessary i weep with tears when see the christ on cross what a feeling in mind with complete remorse why did we commit cruelty when he was our messiah? i feel great when hear churches bell ring or hear the name of allah i may be illiterate in literally terms it will be of no use to look at holy book to turn the writing may cut little in my mind yet i know it is great message from him to find what has he not done for mankind as whole? tolerated all cruelties and found body with holes "give them some sense not to repeat ills" i shall not deviate from my path even if they kill such a saint or god is not among us but his spirit prevails in form of trust we believe each and every word cry with open mind and far of no sword "he may guide us to nobility" make us capable and worthy o supreme god and almighty you are our savior, messiah or deity.
Where are you? our dear father, we call you without sure bother. oh dear god you hear oh dear god, minds have gathered here to nod. we observe everything is illusion, confusion takes us in mind fusion. you are father you are true only, in false streets we travel lonely. today we are here tomorrow we not in lap of death sure life is caught. we search you moving on here ever, we go on working forget you never. oh god dear father you super light, spark soon in boon to make us bright.
Know god trust god. when you pray and it seems that god is not answering your prayer. think on his ways how he wants you empowered. how he wants you spiritually blessed. know god trust god. remember he loves you. and your adequacy to know how he chooses to bless and answer your prayer. is so far beyond your comprehension. know god trust god. god always answers you better than you know how to ask. your asking is never equivalent to his answering. for his answering is always beyond your request. know god trust god. his blessings are always a continuance to your prosperity. you may ask for one thing but god wants you fulfilled he gives you two. to multiply anything of itself gains you nothing. know god trust god. for in search of his answers you may find the blessing you hoped for and the one you really wanted. but then look again you will find the very thing which was all you really needed. know god trust god. god always blesses us beyond what we ask. for neither we the intelligence nor the aptitude to even guess what he will do for you.
The stillness after the destructive storm. the healing of a broken heart. the birth of healthy baby. the moving of leaves on a still warm day. the chirping of birds after long night. the calming words of a pastor after you sin. the smile on your mother's face, when i walk in. the 'you got mail' sign after a long quiet spell.
I have a dream or a dream dreams me i have hope a hope that is for me i have faith a faith that's not in me i have love a love for all i see. i had a dream a dream that dreamed me. i had hope a hope that hoped for me. i had faith a faith in i, in me. i is love a love which joins i with all that i can see.
The buffet opens and no one comes. the waiters stand around in their white shirts crisp as the tablecloths. the food is the day's offering, regardless of its fate, and a poet sits at his table drinking tea, scrawling in his notebook another sacrament of words.
Faith is your finger and hands. faith is your mouth and ears. faith is your eyes and brain. faith is your love and loves faith is your god and life faith is not only tommrow today also. live faith fully with love yoou and other's.
Faith or fate? melvin banggollay faith or fate or anybody else can define one's life quest? faith, when we truly believed that we can surely received all the wants we conceived with mercy of god we prayed. fate, when we truly believed that we can surely receive all that we want to perceive if we're destined to receive fate, is a matter of destiny to take its course or way faith, is a matter of an ability sailing to complete the journey.
I had faith in his word and it failed me i had faith in my friends they left me i had faith in the mirror it shattered on me i had faith in justice it hurt me i had faith in the world it laughed at me i had faith in my family they turned their back on me but i'm not disappointed in them more of myself you see i had faith in my strength it crumbled before me i had faith in my mind it stopped working on me i had faith in me i failed on myself.
A mother's job is to shelter. a mother's job is to care. it's my pleasure to do these things for you, and enjoy the life we share. problems may surround us and try to keep us down. but, i will never give up the faith on the love that we have found. our family is precious. to me, there is no end. not only are you my children, you also are my friends. i know you will be happy. i know you'll set your mind to go after the success in life only a good person can find. don't let them tell you different. don't let them break your stride. don't let their hatred hurt you. remember.you have pride.
A moment you wished you could remain in that day you wanted to never stop the time you professed your heart when all was released and you found inner peace for some it comes but once in a life time through faith we may remain our hopes our dreams all seeming possible when at last we surrender finding what has been missing the void that was never filled completeness and oneness in him, through him and by him creating a love that will never fade the light that was brought inside shining for all to see from his hand to mine an eternal flame that shall never be extinguished.
Hope is forever dreaming faith is forever pure while charity weighs up its lot so its life it can endure. hope is forever youthful faith has no greying hair while charity is ageless so it is forever there. for faith and hope and charity are of each of us a part the measures there between them are what balances our heart.
Within this eclipse of darkness, we overcome. our minds clouded in in a circumference of ideas. below us is the fiery temptation we all scantily avoid. our seas of life seem to be in a fury that we dispose. swirling waters around our souls waiting patiently, captivate dark colors that parade in the universe. invading us is the lava of love, the waves of ecstasy. rolling to the inner cells of our probable blind faith, though this eclipse seems to be endless in design, truly only moments of this, tribulation is its existence. tomorrow shall bring sunshine, peace, glory, to all. some say, blind faith, is without true understanding. faith and religious quests will break out blind faith.
When she returns to the woods, or the dream that is her creator it is the late afternoon. her exit beckons the coming dusk and leaves me with a most excrutiating tremor in the depth of my being that she could somehow know me yet not be able to sit and chat yet i know her, and that will have to suffice, until i solve this permanent mystery. she comes as a breeze each day around noon, the highest leaves of the trees bristle with a shiver of anticipation, in the heat of these special moments she raises her voice, as a sustained wind bends the branches holding the leaves, i marvel that those branches willingly bending with her breath, never breaking. from this wind comes the slight force of her questions carried for how many miles by the voice of her unending curiosity, i fancy her soft pondering to be evidence of her sensuous presence. her questions are never blunt or overbearing so that even all evil defers to her ease. we sit together each late afternoon as i rekindle my love of her voice its sweetest rhythm, its sensitive knowing and i revel in my own reflection, thanks to a breeze with a voice that is, to me, a person yet to others i must surely seem insane with each coming season. her exit beckons the coming dusk and leaves me with a most excrutiating tremor in the depth of my being that she could somehow know me yet not be able to sit and chat, yet i know her, and that will have to suffice. then she returns to the woods, or the dream that is her creator, as the dusk descends softly she blows me a kiss.
Can people have faith in eachother? do creatures trust themselves? is faith overrated? a lot of questions, so little time f a i t h to have faith faith in the poor faith in the rich faith in the animals who have faith in us live up to expectations have faith that you'll make it to the end faith will be with you faith and destiny is it the same? faith or destiny will show us show you and show me..
People call it a believe some call it tolerance but faith justified a person by faith we are sanctified and experience joy by faith we became free from condemnation faith gives us assurance and fulfillment cos faith without work is dead live by faith walk by faith continue in faith do everything by faith grow in faith demonstrate faith by good works combine faith with hope and love.
Promises of faith as when the truth flows like a fountain of beauty beneath and beyond the trust at the alter of love vile less and divine looking to the moon the blue sky above the home to the glory of sweet voices ye tuning in the depth of night yet blazing luminous as swaying becomes brighter and bestirred the trust of stunning rune by the muse as when eclectic to the reason of acceptance when persuading the truth pervading within yet it flows to the edges of time as we embrace melting the pain when resourced by blessing the sorrows of being yet apart from the heart as the deep scars from the hue of love idyllic.
Your flairs and flares as yet gleaming is never on the wane yet unfettered flaming the fame of yours as protracting is reasoned to the faith of love unearthly the love of soul in embracing in desire when benign words of love subtle true whispers you at your askance cuddle you as hands of blessings blazing in disguise. the blissful smiles on your grace undying may lead you as high as you wink the sky even reaching the moon and its blue to rave up your beauty and glory yet unfazed.
My friend is praying for you lord he needs you in his heart so please lord enter my friends heart right now because tomorrow will be too late and i want you to find your faith in the lord my friend be courageous my friend and have faith in the lord my friend because heaven is waiting for you right now my friend and i wish you farewell my friend and i hope that you will find your faith in the lord my friend please be a good servant to the lord my friend my friend will you praise the lord today?.
We live tomorrow the dreams of today our hopes of the future gives us faith along the way love is the river of this wakened state its never out of time its never too late it gives us life as it flows through our lives it tears through confusion loneliness and strife love cuts a clear path through the test of time you can see where it has been and watch it unwind free as a river that you can't control you can't even say where it might flow hope is a power that cant be taken away it can pull you through even the toughest of days hope can keep you going when everything else fails it keeps you company on the loneliest of trails faith is ever daring in the face of defeat it can bring you courage that nothing can beat faith is never doubting in yourself or your beliefs holding on to what you know when content is just a dream faith can give you strength to face what the future brings combined with hope and love you only need the three of these love is like a river hope is like a dream faith is just believing with nothing to be seen so dream of tomorrow and love for today hope with all your heart let faith show you the way.
Stricken by torrential tsunami life has become devastated hope broken, wasted, and died devoid of ember, turning to ash. existence is finite, it goes such destiny is inevitable caught as victim of pain hurt, beaten to pieces. sought god's providence often in time of turbulence but when life is abundance we ignore his presence. we have no time for god when life so pleasant but we cry so much upon tribulation. and blame on him all our sufferings for forsaking us in death.
A little boy needed an operation that his parents couldn't afford. they didn't have much money but they had faith in the lord. the boy was terminally ill and he grew very frail. but his parents never lost faith and he eventually got well. now he's in complete remission thanks to the lord. their prayers and faith brought about this wonderful reward.
Faith is the light of the next step illuminating a way ahead, without revealing the direction. faith will sustain, and comfort through our darkest hours. faith upholds the unseen hope, it is the seasoning that endures, the pain of life whilst revealing that misery can be optional. faith is a light in the darkness, surrounded, yet not consumed. in the storms of our lives faith is the stillness, seated at the rear of our boat.
The trust that happens as night to the sky looking into the darkness as the cries of the pain falling as the dew as tears of love and i shine in wetting as the rain of faith in trust as the light of faith tunes to the faith of love yet intense leading the love like a rising sun in the sky.
My lungs respond, but there's no air, as i struggle to survive, it hurts to know that they don't care, whether or not i stay alive. the world is growing dark now, as i drift toward the light. i want to cry out somehow; if i had the strength, i might. i feel like i am falling, into a great abyss. i hear past loved ones calling, as i taste death's tender kiss. finally, i have found some peace; my soul is god's to keep. i have finally gained release, by slipping into endless sleep.
I slowly the ponderous doors of lead imponderous pushed by a wedging force unthinking opened how like a cloud i floated down the dim green air unthinking of the soft violence of odorous winds the falling plaint of hidden violins and eyes following ii doors unto doors unfolded downward and i was like unto a sailing ship stern downward sailing on a dim green sea unmindful of the rich push of flowery winds the melting voices of far seraphims and arms following ii slowly the ponderous doors of lead imponderous lowered above my head in absolute slow closing quiet as a shadow on a dim green wall i rested in my dark and ivory vault the violins were no more nor eyes nor arms hours on hours following.
Sleep has not visited me the whole night, will the dawn ever come? o my companion, once i awoke with a start from a dream. now the remembrance from that vision never fades. my life is ebbing as i choke and sigh, when will the lord of the afflicted come i have lost my senses and gone mad, but the lord knows my secret. he who deals out life and death knows the secret of mira's pain.
In the night there are of course the seven wonders of the world and the greatness tragedy and enchantment. forests collide with legendary creatures hiding in thickets. there is you. in the night there are the walker's footsteps the murderer's the town policeman's light from the street lamp and the ragman's lantern there is you. in the night trains go past and boats and the fantasy of countries where it's daytime. the last breaths of twilight and the first shivers of dawn. there is you. a piano tune, a shout. a door slams. a clock. and not only beings and things and physical sounds. but also me chasing myself or endlessly going beyond me. there is you the sacrifice, you that i'm waiting for. sometimes at the moment of sleep strange figures are born and disappear. when i shut my eyes phosphorescent blooms appear and fade and come to life again like fireworks made of flesh. i pass through strange lands with creatures for company. no doubt you are there, my beautiful discreet spy. and the palpable soul of the vast reaches. and perfumes of the sky and the stars the song of a rooster from 200 years ago and piercing screams in a flaming park and kisses. sinister handshakes in a sickly light and axles grinding on paralyzing roads. no doubt there is you who i do not know, who on the contrary i do know. but who, here in my dreams, demands to be felt without ever appearing. you who remain out of reach in reality and in dream. you who belong to me through my will to possess your illusion but who brings your face near mine only if my eyes are closed in dream as well as in reality. you who in spite of an easy rhetoric where the waves die on the beach where crows fly into ruined factories, where the wood rots crackling under a lead sun.
you who are at the depths of my dreams stirring up a mind full of metamorphoses leaving me your glove when i kiss your hand. in the night there are stars and the shadowy motion of the sea, of rivers, forests, towns, grass and the lungs of millions and millions of beings. in the night there are the seven wonders of the world. in the night there are no guardian angels, but there is sleep. in the night there is you. in the daylight too.
Lie still, sleep becalmed, sufferer with the wound in the throat, burning and turning. all night afloat on the silent sea we have heard the sound that came from the wound wrapped in the salt sheet. under the mile off moon we trembled listening to the sea sound flowing like blood from the loud wound and when the salt sheet broke in a storm of singing the voices of all the drowned swam on the wind. open a pathway through the slow sad sail, throw wide to the wind the gates of the wandering boat for my voyage to begin to the end of my wound, we heard the sea sound sing, we saw the salt sheet tell. lie still, sleep becalmed, hide the mouth in the throat, or we shall obey, and ride with you through the drowned.
Sleep, sleep, sleep and keep eyes open to feel in heaven i shall come to welcome and take in arms to keep you warm i shall remind you to find me in your presence without feeling tense this is the life that we wanted and felt so excited the dream is realized you look so dazed it is reality that has been blessed by an almighty let us not be carried away but cheerfully stay.
There was a man who didn't know how to sleep; nodding off every night into a drab, unprofessional sleep. sleep that he'd grown so tired of sleeping. he tried reading the manual of sleep, but it just put him to sleep. that same old sleep that he had grown so tired of sleeping . . . he needed a sleeping master, who with a whip and a chair would discipline the night, and make him jump through hoops of gasolined fire. someone who could make a tiger sit on a tiny pedestal and yawn . . .
You like to talk in your sleep. your dream must be so deep. you say the words i want to hear. you say you always want me near. and i know that its true cause i hear it when i'm sleeping next to you. and in the morning when you wake, my hand you will take. you will put it to your heart, and the day we will start. and when you're dreaming again in bed i'll hear the loving things that will be said.
Sleep, sleep, come my way. let me sleep, so i can start a new day. sleep, sleep, i take my pill. my mind won't sleep, too active with chills. sleep, sleep, show me how. what's that, sleep, how now brown cow? sleep, sleep, my brain is delirious. stop playing tricks, sleep, you're making me furious.
Sleep baby sleep may i sing a lullaby. i am your mum now. i am your dad now. i am your angel of love. i shall protect you always. you are safe in my hands. i shall hug you softly. you can sleep on my chest. sleep baby sleep.
Sleep, when a soul that her own clouds cover wails that sorrow should always keep watch, nor see in the gloom above her sleep, down, through darkness naked and steep, sinks, and the gifts of his grace recover soon the soul, though her wound be deep. god beloved of us, all men's lover, all most weary that smile or weep feel thee afar or anear them hover, sleep.
Sleep oh blessed sleep, the place where i can dream, of all that i do need my energy to keep. sleep oh blessed sleep, the place of future hope, in places far away, and love for me to keep sleep oh blessed sleep lull me with your content, keep me ever safe my souls sanity to keep. sleep oh blessed sleep, let me emerge at morn, with clearer thought and mind, with no more need to weep.
I watch you, as you sleep, the glow, a rosy hue of roman cheeks, a tiny trickle, as if glued onto the crease of lips so red and so inviting, your hands asleep in what they call the warmest spot of living humans, i wish i could, and surely would. i am your guard tonight, just sitting here, prepared to be the death of horny demons, should they forget their place and wander in. i have now put the final cork away, and opened up the kitchen clock to rip the living battery and put an end to it, the pulse of time. i shall be happy just to sit here, by your side, and dream about the warmth of you, in all those feather downs. for angie.
Like the goddess of the sea like a mermaid in heaven shrouded in the icy blue sea, accompanied by the sun phoenix's rays lingering and dancing in the water, she hides in the water where the sun glared into the sea, she is beloved by sailors and pirates, they all want to feel her ocean heart of love in the forbidden sea, but sometimes she can be devious, sometimes you can see her in the mist where hazy smokey clouds block the sun, her head popping out of the her and you can see her glowing heaven devious eyes piercing through the gray mist staring into your firelight soul, sailors would give anything to be with her, they would lure into her trap and she will twist their warm sun raving hearts into cold and fozen ice, even though they heard about this beautiful creature, they would still go after her and hunt for her pearl ocean heart, their's something about her that make every guy crazy she mesmerize their minds and hearts, making them into bloodless zombies swimming blind into the sea but guided by the pulses of her aura, you can hear laughter echoing in the fog and adventurers would swim in the middle of the ocean for her, but before they reached her, something lurking in the shadows of the ocean reached them first and drag them under the sea, filling their lungs of hollow water because they tried to reach to a angel in the water.
You would be meandering by wasting your while this world is not worth living under the sky if you havnt tasted your soul water other delights will turn bitter open your inner eye feel the inner wind blowing inhale the fragrance listen to the sound of the water flowing become your own lover open the folds bit by bit use your innocence to see not your wordliness that will make it flee the soul water is pure crystal clear drink it drown in it anoint yourself with it.
Modern day in the shade feels like hazy, blue, pouring rain sitting under chipmunk filled trees watching clouds and thinking about fleas fleas are small but not as tiny i am fine, but please, don't mind me growing tadpoles in the pond just a patient, won't take long alcohol is in my blood inject an overdose when water floods the find is dry she lied again i don't know why? i do know when.
Water water water and water give me water in this hot summer. and water has atom, water has favor, and water water water and water water as cloud, and water drops in action, in creation and water is the symbol of supreme devotion. water, water. water and water and in water there is true love that is flowing within and outside.
This flint, time out of mind, has there abode, where crystal streams make their continual road. yet it abides a flint as much as 'twere before it touched the water, or came there its hard obdurateness is not abated, 'tis not at all by water penetrated. though water hath a soft'ning virtue in't, this stone it can't dissolve, for 'tis a flint. yea, though it in the water doth remain, it doth its fiery nature still retain. if you oppose it with its opposite, at you, yea, in your face, its fire 'twill spit. comparison. this flint an emblem is of those that lie, like stones, under the word, until they die. its crystal streams have not their nature changed, they are not, from their lusts, by grace estranged.
You sway like my emotions you glitter into my eyes you swallow me inside you give me warmth you make me shiver you keep the petals of a rose from wither i look at you you are transparent but within you there is beauty there is life and without you my petals will stiffen and wither.
Everything on the earth bristled, the bramble pricked and the green thread nibbled away, the petal fell, falling until the only flower was the falling itself. water is another matter, has no direction but its own bright grace, runs through all imaginable colors, takes limpid lessons from stone, and in those functionings plays out the unrealized ambitions of the foam.
Shy one, shy one, shy one of my heart, she moves in the firelight pensively apart. she carries in the dishes, and lays them in a row. to an isle in the water with her would i go. with catries in the candles, and lights the curtained room, shy in the doorway and shy in the gloom; and shy as a rabbit, helpful and shy. to an isle in the water with her would i fly.
Diving, into clear water. the light hurts my eyes, the warmth protects me from myself. i see your hand in the water. an open hand, waiting for me to grab it, to grab life, to grab fear, to embrace you. the shore can no longer be seen. i float weightless, fearless, into your arms.
Palms in hand closed tightly fitting right into the face. steaming the tears falling non stop. planning a stop sign a whole where i can stop thinking im loosing sickend almost as a dead weed drooping towards the hell of evil as a deadly poisend rose. the viens are kiling stabbing within my heart is eating away as the love inside has an attachted disease. molds of the spreading water drops steaming off my face. with palms tightly in hand.
If you have forgotten water lilies floating on a dark lake among mountains in the afternoon shade, if you have forgotten their wet, sleepy fragrance, then you can return and not be afraid. but if you remember, then turn away forever to the plains and the prairies where pools are far apart, there you will not come at dusk on closing water lilies, and the shadow of mountains will not fall on your heart.
It has always puzzled me that the most important liquid that a person can drink is a glass of water water has no taste or oder or smell you see but it is important to our everyday living it flushes out our system and helps us to lose weight it helps us to stay regular that's the importance of water.
Water water everywhere water water everywhere and not a drop to drink that is of course until this lovely ship does sink there is nothing to compare to a sunrise while at sea oh how i've missed those moments special just to me sunrises on the ocean with no one else around seems to show god's near us without a single sound sunsets are special too, dull moments they are not beautiful red colors emitting hues not too soon forgot night time on the ocean brings many things anew on moonless skies it seems so cold with just a hint of dew of course those starry nights are quite a sight to see the beauty of those twinklers was fashioned just for me i'll always miss the wonders the stars have brought to me and when i die i'd like my ashes spread far, far out to sea jim 199.
The night smoothes out its black tarp, tacks it to the sky with stars. lake waves slap the bank, define a shoreline as one man casts his seine into the unseen, lifts the net's pale bloom, lets spill of threadfin fill the live well. soon that squared pool of water flickers as if a mirror, surfaces memory of when this deep water was a sky.
Water water the ganges water flows from you all truth come down with this sacred water life is with this sinless and glowing effulgence emanating again and again with this i am expressing my words of love words of affection you are my finest selection i am doing everything here only for your glorification.
I am water sometimes solid.you can always depend on sometimes liquid.fits in anywhere sometimes vapor.ephemeral.i am there and then i am gone sometimes ice.but can be dissolved by fire sometimes swirling.with passion sometimes tranquil.with still desire always flowing.unaware of the destination sometimes vivid.like blue sapphire always pure.see your reflection always rising.wanting to go higher.
Goodness reasons to revel by reality heart yet knows right path to heaven eyes raves back by illusion of mirage light refluxes into room of delusion do we ever know depth of eyes by mystery? as sands gleaned on shore delving blue myth of blindness yet they still read moment swirls by winds unfolding dreams moon seems to be here on top of hill whispers allays sorrow by voices where is the time lost to living, life when reasoned to grip of wine as desire mills through green of wild.
The force that through the green fuse drives the flower drives my green age; that blasts the roots of trees is my destroyer. and i am dumb to tell the crooked rose my youth is bent by the same wintry fever. the force that drives the water through the rocks drives my red blood; that dries the mouthing streams turns mine to wax. and i am dumb to mouth unto my veins how at the mountain spring the same mouth sucks. the hand that whirls the water in the pool stirs the quicksand; that ropes the blowing wind hauls my shroud sail. and i am dumb to tell the hanging man how of my clay is made the hangman's lime. the lips of time leech to the fountain head; love drips and gathers, but the fallen blood shall calm her sores. and i am dumb to tell a weather's wind how time has ticked a heaven round the stars. and i am dumb to tell the lover's tomb how at my sheet goes the same crooked worm.
Green tornado fast asleep, just above your forest sweep, high above the planes of gold, which drought and hunger will evolve. green tornado fast asleep, underneath the tigers creep, through the forest stalking prey, while far away the dear do play. for green tornado fast asleep, you are mother natures keep, with heart of gold and blood of fire, the world is yours while men admire.
This little bowl is like a mossy pool in a spring wood, where dogtooth violets grow nodding in chequered sunshine of the trees; a quiet place, still, with the sound of birds, where, though unseen, is heard the endless song and murmur of the never resting sea. 't was winter, roger, when you made this cup, but coming spring guided your eager hand and round the edge you fashioned young green leaves, a proper chalice made to hold the shy and little flowers of the woods. and here they will forget their sad uprooting, lost in pleasure that this circle of bright leaves should be their setting; once more they will dream they hear winds wandering through lofty trees and see the sun smiling between the leaves.
Upon the swag of stubbers green where many ducks and wading birds and all the geese and seagulls fly to seek its comfort and the peace and watch the day go by. and while the graceful swans do pass upon the water flat and calm their downy cygnets all in tow they seek the solace of the reeds which on the shoreline grow. as light does shine and waters gleam now diamond ripples dancing free i feel a whispered gentle breeze that moves across the golden lake and through the restless trees. as on the grassy bank i stand i gaze upon this tranquil scene and lean against the tree to shade my eyes from setting sun so bright and watch the evening fade.
Before the first ray of sunlight on a frosty winter morn. the frost has hazed the windows to a feature of lands long before our life began. to the time when dragons ruled the world with their hot breath and thunderous roars. however, the gods were not happy with their chosen rulers and banished them away. the crown they then handed to man in hope for a better job done. since then man has ruined everything his eyes gazed on. therefore, like the dragons of long ago, the gods may decide in time to banish man as well. returning this planet to the lush green garden that it used to be.
On the cheerful village green, skirted round with houses small, all the boys and girls are seen, playing there with hoop and ball. now they frolic hand in hand, making many a merry chain; then they form a warlike band, marching o'er the level plain. now ascends the worsted ball, high it rises in the air, or against the cottage wall, up and down it bounces there. then the hoop, with even pace, runs before the merry throngs; joy is seen in every face, joy is heard in cheerful songs. rich array, and mansions proud, gilded toys, and costly fare, would not make the little crowd half so happy as they are. then, contented with my state, where true pleasure may be seen, let me envy not the great, on a cheerful village green.
When i die, oh, bury me, please, 'neath the budding of springtime's weeping willow tree, near the creek where the icy waters flow, and place in my hand a single red rose. a single red rose, my love, just an single red rose, to stand for my sweetheart, my only true love. my only true love, my dearest one, the one i loved through all my long life, and all my passing days. and for the child i bore, put there those violets i love, the ones that grow in the moss along the creek where the icy waters flow around the roots of the green willow tree.
In the shade of the green wood the holly does grow, while in soft rays of sunlight the wild roses glow, and i smell their sweet perfume that gently floats by, past trees strong and mighty that reach to the sky, the pathway of gold autumn leaves still remain, as i walk through the green wood again. in the shade of the green wood this bright sunny morn, that's so cool in the shadows a new day is born, all the birds in the treetops are singing for me, sweet songs of the summer which fill me with glee, and know from its beauty i never shall part, for the green wood does live in my heart. in the shade of the green wood a soft gentle breeze, now caresses the branches and whispers through trees, a sound reassuring shall carry me to, all the scenes that exist in each marvellous view, it's here that my spirit shall always now stay, and the green wood is guiding my way.
These days i dream of america and they offered me the green card. i visited to my far relatives who were living there. some are in california and the rest in massachusetts. they showed me the hospitality but in doubts. i feel that they might think i'll be a burden for them. never mind i said good bye and searched for my scattered unseen friends. i am totally tired and frustrated. i heard the statue of liberty is whispering something. 'why don't you visit our ancestors? ' i left for red indian reservoirs and they guided me to geronimo's tomb and some apaches. we talked each other many things like old familiar friends and when i woke up i found a red feather on my pillow. sing song my beloved wife brought me the bed tea.
Forty word poem. my heart is yours in all my dreams. eclipse of the moon together we spoon. venus lends her glow. she seems to know our elation.for tomorrow at sunrise our hearts will fly to the green emerald island of love.
So green the land that i can see the hills and fields before my eyes, which blend with joyful harmony beneath the peaceful summer skies. i breathe the morning air so sweet so glad to be alive this day, to see the new shoots of the wheat and hedgerows now adorned with may. along the country lane i head not caring where it leads me to, i know wherever i am led i'll always find a pleasing view. beneath the bridge a river flows where ripples dance and brightly shine, like diamonds as the water glows and winds unto this heart of mine. the sweeping slopes of light and shade where clouds now cast their shade before, with all the beauty there displayed no man could ever ask for more. so green the land that i can see with gladdened soul i now do roam, and as i go i say with glee fair england always be my home.
A racist who was loud and mean arrived with buddies on the scene. they pointed fingers at the black and then prepared for an attack. the black boy asked why they would pick to beat and torture with a stick a little boy who'd done no wrong the racist said 'you look like kong. 'it is the colour that we hate that's why we now will beat you, mate.' the fellow pleaded, 'don't be mean, i think i am a shade of green.' the racists, though, yelled, 'never mind, we're white and also colourblind. '.

By this part of the century few are left who believe in the animals for they are not there in the carved parts of them served on plates and the pleas from the slatted trucks are sounds of shadows that possess no future there is still game for the pleasure of killing and there are pets for the children but the lives that followed courses of their own other than ours and older have been migrating before us some are already far on the way and yet peter with his gaunt cheeks and point of white beard the face of an aged lawrence peter who had lived on from another time and country and who had seen so many things set out and vanish still believed in heaven and said he had never once doubted it since his childhood on the farm in the days of the horses he had not doubted it in the worst times of the great war and afterward and he had come to what he took to be a kind of earthly model of it as he wandered south in his sixties by that time speaking the language well enough for them to make him out he took the smallest roads into a world he thought was a thing of the past with wildflowers he scarcely remembered and neighbors working together scything the morning meadows turning the hay before the noon meal bringing it in by milking time husbandry and abundance all the virtues he admired and their reward bounteous in the eyes of a foreigner and there he remained for the rest of his days seeing what he wanted to see until the winter when he could no longer fork the earth in his garden and then he gave away his house land everything and committed himself to a home to die in an old chateau where he lingered for some time surrounded by those who had lost the use of body or mind and as he lay there he told me that the wall by his bed opened almost every day and he saw what was really there and it was eternal life as he recognized at once when he saw the gardens he had made and the green fields where he had been a child and his mother was standing there then the wall would close and around him again were the last days of the world.
1 green groweth the holly, 2 so doth the ivy. 3 though winter blasts blow never so high, 4 green groweth the holly. 5 as the holly groweth green 6 and never changeth hue, 7 so i am, ever hath been, 8 unto my lady true. 9 as the holly groweth green 10 with ivy all alone 11 when flowers cannot be seen 12 and greenwood leaves be gone, 13 now unto my lady 14 promise to her i make, 15 from all other only 16 to her i me betake. 17 adieu, mine own lady, 18 adieu, my special 19 who hath my heart truly 20 be sure, and ever shall.
The ivy grows it climbs the wall as if reaching for sunbeams of gentle ole' sol nuture o' nature garden green chlorophil watered and fertilized exquisitly alive still hibiscus garden near the water fall dancing moisture dropps rainbow colour neath' ole' sol magnifience 'tis reigning o'er garden's divine special touch divinity god's very own design.
I always see to it that i understand what a family is when we went to a trip we make the pact inside the plane that moment when we step upon the plastic floors of the tarmac i have already seen the hint we understand i repeat we always understand when we were there at the saigon shopping complex we too understand the family segregates as one block shields itself from our interference we understand that and so we too have to create our own path go somewhere else to the market to the park to the palace of the president we must learn to enjoy things by ourselves we are not really a family but splinters of dreams one must realize to each his own no dependence one makes a story fabricates the rest of the characters develops the plot complicate matters and then arrive at the resolution of the big conflict finally i decide a poem is better this way intrepid, limpid, crisscross, wanting to open but must only show the closed door to reveal but only to arrive at the consensus that it is better concealed mouths silent, lips sealed hands that dance in the sky enclosing the fingers with the sun.
We say we will spend some time for the season take a walk in the autumn groove enjoy the trees the leaves and the soft rustle at our feet that gently bids goodbye to another season of gold and amber we never let it dig our heart to catch a leaf or two they fall, resigned to the fact that we will never have time trail the last wind and listlessly to the ground like jilted lovers soon the snow will bury them and our wish to explore the season spring will see us caught up with another year like fish in a net with the water just inches away.
Let me close the eyes of my soul that i may not see what stands between thee and me. let me shut the ears of my heart that i may not hear a voice that drowns yours, my dear. let me cut the cords of my life, of my desolate being, since cursed is my hearing and seeing.
Distraught that's what i am why does the world have to be like this? why can't things ever work out for me? crying that's what i'm doing crying out tears that drag out my sadness, my pain, my confusion stop that's what i want to do cease feeling the wrongs of the world all weighing down on me until i feel i am crushed how? how can i forget the sadness? how can i stop the pain? how can i heal these scars left on my heart? never never will i be able to rid my life of all it's troubles never can i heal my heart the wounds may heal but the scars will remain escape that's what i must do but where? where is there a place safe from all the pain, all the sadness, the confusion i must go i will never survive another day like this now i must be rid of this it's eating away at my insides it's slowly causing me to fade i'm growing weaker, and weaker the sadness, the pain, the confusion despair that's what this is i am distraught and in despair and i can never be rid of it it is destroying me slowly, but surely i am fading.
No willow tree to toss his hair no paloma bianca in white to clad this is the bench seated in despair of creatures upon the earth widespread of features upon the surface unsaid he smiles at the crowds the crowds go mad he laughs at the clouds in white to clad and it's a smile no one can bear horrible laughter of a mutant pain the customs at which there's nothing to declare no belief no relief no grief just a sky and a grin despair is his sin.
Despair of the early morning despair of the early morning despair of the darkness despair of the despair despair of old age despair of the road closed despair of nothing to do despair of nowhere to go despair of endless errands despair of money running out despair of the message of despair one transmits to those one loves. despair that has to be resisted despair that the light of the day will help me overcome despair i will pray my way out of despair i will in the course of the day sometime overcome. not the great despair the unending despair the final despair. the small despair of who i am and where i am now. the despair that still can be resisted, by the writing of a few awkward lines early in the morning.
Go ahead and laugh in my despair. when im sitting in the corner with a sad glare. nothing matters to my opinions. the world is drowning me in their evil words and their dirty looks. no one gets me and neither do they care. go ahead and laugh in my despair.
The pain crashes to the depth of my soul just another feeling of sorrow another flinch from pain just like yesterday, it'll be there tomorrow wounds healing slowly so slow, it seems not at all i want it gone tonight but still and fast i fall where does it go from here? does it end? will it continue? when did it begin? but you don't care, do you? i don't know why i even bother you will never be what i need why should you try now to be the father? are you done hurting me? are you finished yet? you enjoy it, don't you? you have not one regret. you took away my pride, my joy, and my brother. you avoided talking of things i needed to hear such as my mother i just needed you the love of a father but i don't want it anymore because i was never your daughter.
Sometimes on a high tide certain rules might not abide returned from land again to ocean one does not see any plausible reason in the very first observation arguably one sees no pattern with the moving of time somewhere in mind there strikes a rhyme a flash of light a glow of hope to lay things straight with a constant hope the pattern is figured the purpose served still looms the uncertainty observed pattern fails at infinity despair seeps in, one looses the power of will sinking in the past, making time to go standstill imagining life to be some unbroken seal however strong, time shall always heal.
I am a man of poland, man in a land invaded. i am but content, that my house has not been raided. i walk up, to my silent home, why does my wife ignore me. i see my wife and son dead on the floor before me. jew, jew, on the wall in blood like a damned profanity i look in fear at the madness and insanity. two months i have walked the earth and no relief i have yet found. one day, i saw soldier push a rabbi to the ground. he sees the symbol on my neck and puts the rifle to my head. i now know he wants to make me like the poor rabbi, dead. i wrestle him and put his own bullet through his heart. he writhes in pain and hit the dirt, like a twisted work of art. i know and fear that in hell, i shall soon sit. but i am more surprised that i was good at it. so that day, i sold my soul to the dark. and longer can i walk amongst, the free and lark. the kraut soldier walks down the street, i crouch down in the dairy. he gets a bullet through his head, first to fall to the mercenary.
I love the hours of misty morn when clouds descend and kiss with dew lilac, verbena, rose bud and thorn. in perfumed morn, i think of you. i love the hours of warm sunlight. your beauty is everything i see and i feel you almost in my sight; but your spectrum is a mystery. i love the hour of magic light. all colors are pleasing to the eye while i think of you in seraph flight aureole, wings, in chromatic sky. i love the hours of blissful night and i feel you close in candlelight. when i fall asleep you hold me tight. with your love and hope, i greet the light.
Today there will be no killing or blood spilling well none coming from you i'll kill your friends, parents, and siblings to i will frame you so your locked up for life i'll pay the judge so your locked up all alone you'll be driven right into despair you shall rot in prison you'll wither down there now you want to vanish into thin air i'm making you feel as i do so lonely and bare why doesn't anyone care as i myself is living in despair.
Being alone as always, this pain is consuming me, no one to care for me, in this empty world alone. this darkness is all i feel, all that i can see, it makes me want to go, to die and say goodbye, to everyone that ever cared. i feel so alone, late up at night holding myself, well i cry myself to sleep, know that no one cares. a day of despair, i despise everyday that i am here, living this life of mine, hurting endlessly, by people i once thought cared, always betrayed, feeling a stab in the back, friends i once thought cared about me, but what now. turn on me as usual, i can't trust anyone but myself, yes i am alone, having to endure this pain, all i do is suffer anymore.
Despair outloud despair and fear its all despair when noone hears my soul is screaching it mouns to you its like a whisper, its like a flute the midnight fence, that holds me back it aches my heart with metal bars despair is all i know despair its lonely yet its my home despair is simple, it holds 7 words despair come join me we wont die alone.
Frozen tears fall to the ground, covering up this weeping sound. of lamenting throughout the land. seeping through like grains of sand. it penertrates our very hearts, paper thin hit with poison darts. the darkness grows and closes in, crying out its resounding win. fallen hopes and fallen dreams, deathly cries and chilling screams. not a single soul is spared the pain, we only wait for the winter's wane.
Lost and trapped in the valley of nothing but despair hands held high for help and grasping nothing but air alone and much abandoned no one knows you're there all have turned their backs and none seems to care you can choose to stay down and wallow in your sorrow or speak words that says there is always a tomorrow then you will see the sunshine on a bright new day rise up from the valley no matter what they say when others try their best to keep you burdened down rise high above their heads with a smile and not a frown the life that you want to live is solely up to you so get up shake off the dust and start your life anew despair like a vine can creep back into your life again loosen its hold and see the sunshine and not the rain if you know of someone else whose back is to the ground take their hands and lift them up for you was also down copyright 2013.
I'm tired now, i've had enough, of this weird life, so full of stuff, you toil and sweat, you take all bets, and at the end, it's all regrets, the empty hands, the loveless nights, the chilling fog, 'turn off the lights'.
Losers in a row about to die corks that pop from the other side. people have come from all over the country just to watch them cry. haughty looks aristocrats pulled from homes that are now forfeit. children that can't be saved. better thee than me a father says. walk me home i hear one mother. dancing in the streets unpaved. distant future from the past in the dawn i hide. rhyme or reason treasonous tounge from the land scape and you can never see. unrelated events that came together here. no warning came to they. corks that pop as guns go off and oddly from the corner of my eye. i see the rest of them come from the forest their on fire.
Despair's cruel fingertips crawl over the heart of my church. i witness it's demise as my world crumbles. when all hope is locked up in enemy dungeons, i pray. with a hand of faith that proudly stood by my side, i pray, for the weak, to make them stronger, for the scared, to make them fearsome and for all that remains pure.
As the waves vanish at the shores the new ones rise and stretch their wings am keen to count them for a while though in vain as the companion abandons the new one is quick to embrace its heavenly bliss to witness the sight a magical touch to forget the rest let, the bygone footprints be bygone crumbled abodes be orphaned it's an infinite search on an orbit of canvas so much to unlearn so much to unburden just in case, got queries to pose please reserve them for the desert of despair.
Thou'rt my hope, thou'rt my despair, thou my hope, thou my despair, thou the candle burning, thou the light dazzling emitted by, it is my prayer to thee, thou leavest me not, thou leavest me not, where to go leaving thee, thou my sole hope?.
From where i stand i have no faith, i look around and see only hate. stuck in pain i cannot wake, from this nightmare that is my fate. all around me darkness lies, from which i see not beyond my eyes. i met this one who shown a light, only to have them turn into my plight. such hurt, such pain inside of me, ever enduring it always seems. i'm told 'have faith, i will be saved, ' i think to myself, you're all insane. for all and all i am alone, left in this darkness that i must roam. from these pits of my despair, i have learned to never care.
He prides himself about this job where he is all wise and his students listen he drives the points like he's the hammer to his nails somehow the old teacher listens it is not supposed to be he picks a snail a house actually where the hermit crab lives he whistles and the crab comes out learning the song of the master the wind, soft as breeze the openness like the wide gate of the morning sun between the breasts of the hills.
A nice teacher never gives out alot of work to their students. a nice teacher always give out candy to their students. a nice teacher always give students a warning before they get punish. a nice teacher would never give out a test. a nice teacher is always a nice teacher.
The teacher man teaches kids from all over the world the teacher man teaches no matter boy or girl the teacher man teaches christians, muslims, and jews the teacher man teaches those who say 'god i don't believe in you' the teacher man teaches over demands for more recess the teacher man teaches to only demand the best the teacher man teaches science, reading, and math the teacher man teaches how to live out of class the teacher man teaches all how to share the teacher man teaches that we all should care the teacher man teaches how to keep an open mind the teacher man teaches with a kick in the behind the teacher man teaches there are lessons in life the teacher man teaches how to overcome strife the teacher man teaches there's nothing wrong with a hug the teacher man teaches the world changes with love the teacher man teaches the rich and the poor the teacher man teaches those who are ready for more the teacher man teaches how to look someone in the eye the teacher man teaches how to accept someone in their cry the teacher man teaches in more than one tongue the teacher man teaches how to make working hard fun the teacher man teaches all the colors of the land but, most important of all, he teaches we should take a stand take a stand, take a stand, for what you believe take a stand, take a stand, and you will be free take a stand, take a stand, for the least of the least take such a stand, and you will find peace he's the teacher man.
My most loved teacher is irene miss she is always very bliss she answers all my questions and good at making suggestions she gives us a lot of work to do though, they are fun to do she explains about things very well she is great is what i have to tell.
As the sun shines so we make our hay, knowing that it is not here to stay, and that soon it will fade away, for as the dawn comes so will the day, for patience and hope we pray, that the light we follow will never stray, our trust and future i their hands we lay, waiting for their teachings and inspiration as a pay, like clay, in the hands of a potter, is like our lives in their hands they say, and if we try to fool them at to play, they will mould us into whatever they may, and the path they will lead us might slay, so we do as they say, and follow the whole way.
The everyday duties of a teacher are as difficult as they can be, whether in an elementary or secondary school or whether the teacher is a he or she. the teacher must possess a bundle of information, a knowledge that will constantly shine, and in addition must maintain class discipline to keep all the students properly in line. there are insurmountable number of questions to be answered during every period of the day, and test papers must be carefully graded when the students leave and go merrily on their way. the pleasures and encounters of an evening out are few and seldom to be socially shared, because the next day's lessons must have priority, be reviewed and lessons carefully prepared. a dedicated teacher gets a personal satisfaction in this cumbersome and timeless atmosphere. the role of a teacher is vital in this complex world, preparing all students for a future career.
Teacher says, teacher goes, teacher smiles, teacher knows, what you have done, was clearly a mistake, maybe it is, time for a break. teacher says, teacher goes, teacher smiles, teacher knows, that you have been naughty. that you have been quite foughty. that you are being rude, don't call teacher a dude. teacher says, teacher goes, teacher smilies, teacher know, that you were making faces, behind teachers back, that you were throwing spitballs, at the teacher's pet. teacher says, teacher goes, teacher smiles, teacher knows. so enough is said, so now you know, that whatever you do. teacher says, teacher goes, teacher smilies, teacher knows.
The greatest teacher of all is our lord, jesus christ the kindest teacher of all is our lord, jesus christ the meekest teacher of all is our lord, jesus christ the most loving teacher of all is our lord, jesus christ so i can boldly say, that i love my teacher, jesus christ.
My teacher ate my homework, which i thought was rather odd. he sniffed at it and smiled, and gave a thoughtful chew. i think he must have liked it, for he really went to town. he licked off all his fingers, gave a burp and said, 'you pass.' i guess that's how they grade you when you're in a cooking class.
Each one has an important part they guided us all the way each one has a place in my heart for being there each day good role models to everyone you never stopped believing when we're sorry for what we've done they are always so forgiving when there's something we can't understand they never stopped trying always ready to lend a hand to help keep us from falling thank you teachers, you're always there every time i needed a friend i enjoy the moments we share i hope our moments would never end dear teachers, so sweet and kind look how fast the time has fly teachers like you i shall never find but i will never say goodbye.
I ask a question and am showered in grace my tongue wags and there is no answer i am silent and there are no questions only the inner love that knows all the answers. before the questions were born. i approach him with an empty heart and he fills it with good tidings i offer him blind words and he gives them eyes i offer him my dumb tongue and he speaks eloquence in essence he takes my tears as full stops and breathes new life in old meanings, i cannot find the words but thankfulness; speaks without end.
A teacher will guide you in many ways, displaying patience and inspiring hope, a knowledgeable person with a spirited soul, preparing you to be in a position to always cope, an untiring ability that is always exhibited, the crown of intelligence adorning the head, a special and charming person everyday, teaching you to tackle problems just ahead. a devoted teacher that you will always respect, that prepared you to select a future career, to think of your posterity in a positive way, and to glorify in the sunshine without any fear.
You know your true friend when you are in most need for like 'tis said such a friend is a friend indeed one who stands by you when you are feeling down a cash strapped and depressed poor soul of the town 'tis when you are most in need your friend you come to know you ask one you thought was a good mate for a small loan his answer to you no one who is not short of money of which you are aware yet a ten dollar note for you he could not spare yet a person you did not know well one you had met a few times before gave you the ten dollars and asked did you need more that this person is your friend you've come to realize in life every day there is some new surprise in retrospect in years from now you will recall that those you thought were your friends not your friends after all a lesson for us to be learned from life every day life is a great teacher it does seem that way.
Home is the first school and mother is the first teacher. parents are the builder of children's characters and minds. the mother won't be a fighter but should be a well preacher. if she is an illiterate she must carry her children to tuition. howsoever the mother should educate their children first. and she should send her children to school daily and regularly. teachers are not blamed not to fulfil children's educational thirst. both the parents and teachers should make them the best citizens. as we can't work with one hand likewise we can't walk with one leg. hence, parents and teachers are the same faces of the same coin. if parents and teachers do them careless they suffer in life to beg. do well and have well it is said to see your own profit in life or ruin. that is why parents and teachers are the best artists of the child. if an art is spoilt the statue of the child looks like an ugly and a wild.
Never he showed the maps and globes to the boys. his sudden entry scared them in the room. straddling his bike, he flew with a deafening noise. to stop the smiles of the urchins, he'd loom. he'd be going ratty if the boys said jokes. to shun criticism, enough were his looks. he'd stop teaching if a sore throat made croaks. his wild punishment alarmed the young crooks. loud teaching he spurned as he was wont to read books.
You want someone to hear you run your mouth no one wants to listen to a pathological liar you talk loud now my aggravations got the best of me drown you out you tell your stories, i try to wrap my brain i've lost count i pick the best and write your fiction what you're about it makes for a laugh or something to fill a void shut your mouth.
The last of the group is a teacher. a history teacher to be in fact. and i know many hate the study of history, but there are some who just love his classes. he is young and loves to shout. calling you by nicknames if you have one. he is a kind man to some. and hard on the others. his classes are required so you must see him at least twice in your high school career. he cares for his students and loves to have fun in his classes. he is one of those teachers, who you don't make mad, of fear of being yelled at. he tells his students he loves them at the end of his classes. he says third hour is the best. but we all know better to believe that. he calls us all sausages. he is kind and is willing to work with students. his essays are fun and hard all at the same time. he shouts at us to make them two hundred words, and no less than two hundred. he is a strange man, dresses as he wants and never really a care in the world. he loves his job and the kids who seem to care. this man is in search of the milky way. not the one we may see in the sky at night. no the one that tastes like heaven. with it's rich chocolate and its caramel delight.
All year i had behaved, with not a friggin' hair or sound of dissonance in sight for those who looked. but on that faithful morning when certain feelings landed inside the courtyard of that what you would call the autonomic and the system without limits, it happened, and it did so quickly. no rescue or reprieve, no hiding grace, it's what they label 'in the act', that counts he was my best and most benevolent impressed with me, herr teacher. how could one, ever, forget the shame, that had attached itself by then to one's own innocent and altruistic name? i sometimes think that my mistakes, my ludicrous misjudgments could well be a measure of the me who would not even know.
I was abused literally and pushed aside by teacher he was in rage to see me when i tried to enter he might have some grievances in mind to nurture as i was doing fare in studies and position was assured i was really ashy boy but excellent in pick up i heard attentively and was cheered with thumb up his behavior as teacher made great impact in mind i might have taken it lightly if he was harsh or unkind it is customary to show little disrespect to the poor students some of the discourtesy is extended with inferior comments i was unable to think further but bore a grudge permanently i remember those abusive remarks and resisted him once vehemently i thought and rethought about such behavior as teacher he would have been considerate and held honor i became reserved from that day and decided to keep silent as it was now known to me that best way is to offer no comment in social circle too certain disliking exist for people it may be more intensive when they are incapable not in financial capacity to move forward and compete live under their dominance and agree to submit i remained firm in approach but turned away from close contacts i kept good will at heart and prayed for their well being in fact this gave me enough of strength to observe them from distance i was taken little note of and none observed my presence i return gesture with kind words and remain aloof i have enough of strength financially as single proof they dare not to see me with inferiority and pull down as i have established of my own and became powerfully known i wish that same kind of maltreatment is not shown to children who are unfortunate of having means of their own they are really asset to us and builder of future generation how can we be indifferent when question of building nation comes? i have known some of the people getting blinded by sudden arrival of fortune and secretly confided their common sense gets unnatural boost to reveal the arrogance is reflected and shown with no efforts to conceal.
As the years grow harder so do the choices should i listen to myself or listen to the voices for over 3 years footballs been my thing i've dealt with failure i've pushed threw the sting but now i'm getting older classes need attention football should be done but i twitch a the mention football is a pain it's losing what was fun i want to quit i do but i'm not quite done i was okay not tall at all now that could change but to rise i'd have to fall if i stop i cant start if i start i cant start i'm still at the bottom oh so far from the top if i quit now i can't start again i'll fall far behind there's no way i'll win but if i keep going my grades will slip and its not even fun so i have to get a grip well whether i play or fall apart football will stay somewhere in my heart.
Why do you love football? what do you see in it? why not watch another sport like rugby, golf, or cricket? well let me answer that my friend and put your mind at rest i love the beautiful game because it's simply the best no other sport is as exciting no other comes anywhere near football can create passion and lots of atmosphere it is loved all around the world most children kick a football rich kids, and poor kids small kids, and some very tall a good football match is a joy to watch that's why thousands go to every game when you get goals and lots of action all the fans are so glad that they came so yes my friend i do love football it's by far the number one sport for me so while you're watching golf and cricket i'll be watching match of the day, or man u f.c.
Their flags and their banners they are waving with joy and excitement they shout the hero has kicked the winning goal but what are they shouting about to them it should not really matter 'tis only a game of football but to them it is very important and their's is the best team of all. at least that is how they do see it their lives revolves around their team when their team win a huge boost to their egos and a loss bad for their self esteem last week their team lost in a thriller but their loss reduced them to tears and tonight they will sing their club song in the local and celebrate with a few beers. they look forward to the football season and they live for the love of the game and on their bedroom walls a poster sized photograph of their heroes and they know every player by name why do they take football so serious they talk about it at work every day but suppose each of us have our own passions and each to their own one might say. their flags and their banners they are waving as proudly they sing their club song and they look forward to next weekend's game each day till then for them too long their football team to them important their lives revolve around the game and each time their heroes are defeated the umpires for the loss they will blame.
Another football season has just commenced having said so just the same a lot of hype and excitement about a field game for many from their life problems a relief of sorts suppose that's why the establishments created sports. some things do seem to change little from year to year of football fans discussing football one often does hear they talk of their club as if the club they did own 'tis from people like them that football clubs are grown. they talk of team ratings and player stats and of last weekend's best on ground and of who their team are due to play in the next round and the forward with a goal for the taking who kicked a behind next week with the seconds a place he may not find. another football season commencing the barracker's wife she does feel neglected but then such is life he knows about football and the words of the club song and his heart to the club it does surely belong.
He is not getting on with his unhappy wife his football club his diversion from his problems in life he looks forward to the weekend through each working day to cheer on his team such is life some do say. he and his wife seem to have little in common at all she does not have any interest in football and their nineteen year old daughter is living elsewhere experiencing life in the big world out there. with his mates in the pub football stories they share a diversion for them from their every care than football no greater passion in their lives they can name to them it is more far more than a game. it would seem love in their marriage it is of the past but then few things in life ever do seem to last on saturday he barracks for his team whilst she is with her friend in the cafe enjoying afternoon tea.
I loved to play football, that night i dreamt that i was tirelessly running and running with the ball to score a goal, but in spite of my utmost effort, i failed to score it again and again, finally when i succeeded to score the spectacular goal, i found that i had already lost the match, all my efforts were in vain.
I've heard that ballydaly does not have a football team which puts a cloud on tommy tucker's dream that they might win duhallow for third time and give some bard another chance to rhyme. they won their first duhallow title more than forty years ago some time back in the fifties that i know though of my dates i'm not too very clear i think 'twas fifty seven was the year. when ballydaly had their first big win and their footballers were celebtated men and john twomey wrote of ballydaly boys and west of millstreet bonfires lit the skies. the sullivans, the buckleys, jerome and paddy ring of them the famous mushera bard did sing, tom mulcahy and tim kiely at the back to cullen forwards pressure would not crack. jack murphy and con kelleher were supreme their goals took fight out of the cullen team and pat joe kelleher brought his skill to play and andy lynch at midfield won the day. big jerry corkery played a true captain's part and sturdy mick horgan not lacking in heart and pat and eddy murphy cheered in victory it's nice to recall such a memory. and of them all the mushera bard did sing and of how danny regan called each player a king such memories i retain from years gone by when i was young a primary school going boy. but for ballydaly a near two decades wait before their fans again would celebrate i think it was in nineteen seventy five when ballydaly once more came alive. some of those fellows i remember well they scorned the word defeat and laughed at hell the twomey brothers denis, tim and dan could hold their own with any man to man.
con connors who was a teenager then years later he mixed it with the best of men i watched him play for millstreet in the green and for cork in the red he too was seen. his brother tim his passing caused much grief he died quite young his life was far too brief he did not even live to see his prime the poor lad was not granted so much time. as his two brothers had done years before the ballydaly colours ted ring wore and tadgh and denis murphy stood the test in the field of play they always gave their best. the keeffes from knocknalummin gave their all and the leary brothers fought for every ball and d dinneen that marvellous personality how could he ever slip the memory. denny john murphy his dad from lisnaboy a hardy sort he gave it his best try and frank hickey could run and run all day and kanturk's mullane also lined out to play. big john murphy may not have been in that team but on his day the big man was supreme and of dave, john and christy tarrant opponents used to say from toughest challenge they'd not back away. and dan joe casey to his colours true and in his time a handy player too and the moynihans and the mccarthys john and joe too played for ballydaly years ago. so many players since con and bill jack's day for ballydaly took the field to play john regan and the sullivans tom and mick and humphrey reardon he was strong and quick.
and though as a weight lifter he won all of his fame big j.j. fitz another i could name and there were more far too many to recall who for ballydaly played gaelic football and it puts a cloud on tommy tucker's dream if ballydaly does not have a football team that they might win duhallow for third time and give some bard another chance to rhyme.
After stepping into the field there is no way out even before you start the game you hear the fans shout the players then sings their anthem its football. the most beautiful game. and when the whistle blows the crowd starts their roar in the 90 tensed minutes the players got to score football is friendly only in name because friendliness is not meant for football. the most beautiful game. so when the hard tackles go in and injured fellow goes out the crowd becomes furious and starts to shout even after breaking one's leg there seems to be no shame because its football. the most beautiful game.
'tis football is the big world game of today grid iron the big game of the u s of a, rugby league, rugby union and aussie rules football and soccer the biggest world game of them all gaelic football a field game the irish do play football in it's many codes the big world game of today football supporters worldwide their team and their club colours wear and in international games in their national colours they even dye their hair some men love their football team as much as their parents, children or wives yes football is one of the great loves of their lives when their team does win the club song they do sing but a loss to their weekend great sadness does bring all over the world many codes of football and to each their own code the best game of all.
They celebrate in the commercial and mickey bourke's pub the marvellous win of koroit saints football club the warrnambool blues the pride of warrnambool town in the football grand final to the red and black went down to the memory of such a victory koroit fans will cling dear they will celebrate well into next year the grand final win to the town has brought cheer they do celebrate there in spirits and beer from shop and house windows red and black balloons and bunters in the wind blow their great love of koroit all koroitians do show and well do they have reason to celebrate their present footballers with koroit's best do rate their 09 premiership for them a huge victory something that is destined to live in memory.
Most of those who knew him thought he was not good enough he could not measure up when the going did get tough in the grand final he wilted under pressure with the game to be won when he could have become the town's favourite son. on the final siren he did take the mark that should have won the game and he had the chance for to make for himself a name thirty metres out straight in front of the posts his side two points down had he kicked a goal he'd be toast of the town. his poorly placed kick slightly curled in the wind and went through the one point posts to record a behind from the opposition fans a thunderous roar by a single point their team had kicked the winning score. after that disappointment last september he gave football away in his life's twenty first year he'll be twenty two in may but the past it has gone can't keep a good one down and this week he is the hero of the town. at the fire in donello's house a boy's cry for help he did hear at the risk of great danger to his life he conquered the fear he went into the flames and dragged nine year old franscesco out when true courage was needed his was not in doubt. mr and mrs donello lost their home to the fire but their son's life he did save in the gap of danger only the bravest are brave he saved a young life which is more important than all of the grand finals ever played yet for him for that there won't be a parade.
The beauty of the golden days, where the great adventure began, on a field where we all sang, sang cheerfully with our fans, we were head on head, we had a solid back, a positioned middle and a stronger front, the score was one all, the previous goals were jokes, they were just shots without effect, hits without desire we try scoring but fail, they attack we defend, we push hard but regret it at the end, the match was too even that it couldn't be decided, a substitution occurred, leaving us in shock, leaving us blank minded, leaving us distracted with our thoughts, it seemed like nothing mattered anymore, we are champions now forever more, not a single soul would be able to take it from us, but oh how i was wrong about that,.
Never cared much about football, even less about the cardinals. pat tillman rose above the football field, reached out and touched our lives with his love. pat's heart encircled all americans as he went overseas to fight for our freedom and continued safety. to hear of his death this morning was devastating, i can't imagine what his family is feeling. hopefully, this poem holds some of what pat meant to all of us.
Of late little in our lives for to talk of at all we can count ourselves lucky for to have football for our after work get together in the local pub for to talk of the fortunes of our favourite club and discuss our team's chancesin the weekend game another win would bring themcloser to fame this well may be their year for the premiership flag would not this give us reason for to cheer and to brag on saturday our partners and wives at home watching t v they do have their own favourite soapies to see whilst we cheer on our favourite team as they do play it is each to their own as the wise one does say a september flag win would be great for our self esteem without football to talk of we would be lost it does seem football to us a huge part of our lives it gives us a break from the nagging of our partners and wives little of late for to talk of at all thanks be to goodness indeed for football on saturday the club colours we will proudly don and go to the game for to cheer our team on.
Football is my life it can be dangerous as a knife but if you have fun anything can be done every minute of it is worth every hit ever touch of the ball makes me recall that goal that makes football my soul.
In the floodlight lit football oval each weeknight after tea i hear the young men shouting as they train diligently as their coach puts them through their training drills their exuberance i hear they sprint about in the chill night air in the coldest time of year. some of the young players under twenty they have their dreams of fame that they yet may become famous in australia's only indigenous game to play in an australian football league grand final would be a dream come true a dream that's dreamt by many and realized by only a few. in the well lit football oval they kick ball and sprint around and in their endeavour to become match fit they cover miles of ground and they perform push ups and pull ups and natural muscle in this way they gain for one cannot expect sporting success if for success you do not train. in the local football oval where dreams are born and die the shoutings of the young men echoes to the starry sky in the chill evening air of late autumn you hear them cheer and shout as they race through the oval and chase the ball about. i hear them every evening from six thirty till after eight in the local football oval five hundred metres from my front gate the town's young budding football stars not quite yet in their prime and they dream of sporting greatness that will withstand the test of time.
This is the football season it is that time of year when men in the pub talk football as they enjoy their beer and look forward to september when one club will fly the winner's flag the team that wins the premiership gives their fans the right to brag. their wives nicknamed the footy widows their husbands at the football club or after work talking football with their mates down at the local pub they take football so seriously 'tis their passion in life the footy fan loves his football club as much as his children or his wife. and if their team lose at the weekend they feel and look so sad what's known as football addiction they seem to have it bad they feel sad for their football team and the chance of four premiership points gone but they cheer up and look forward to next weekend's game as the working week wears on. this is the football season football has gone to their head and their football scarves and beanies they even wear to bed about their team they feel so passionate as if to them it did belong and 'tis with delight and pride in victory that they sing the club song.
Just like a football i am and have been bounced around a bit, but only by chance of fate, no man would get away with it. the football suffers silently the grabs, the throws, the kicks. i'm not one to take that from the country boobs or the city slicks. i come from a line of strong women who took on varying roles. my grandma was a marcher for equality at the poles. grandma raised her family of five after her young husband died, by sheer strong will and hard work with no helpmeet by her side. my paternal grandma must have been a strong willed woman too. she raised a very respectful son who gave womenfolk their due. my mama raised four strapping sons without needing to raise a hand, no slaps, no harsh words and no threats to make them understand. she passed down to her daughter unrelenting self respect. rough handling me would surely bring more grief than you'd expect. so i'm not much like a football nor would i ever be an uncomplaining plaything kicked around so endlessly.
In some ways humanity does not seem advanced at all people in their physical prime tussling over possession of one football they ought to get a football each with for to play and for many it would be just as enjoyable for to watch anyway people making a hero out of a person driving fast in a racing car for a sport fanatic you need not walk that far in fact no further than your local pub where on t v on a saturday they cheer when their favorite team their opponents outplay if people were more interested in the welfare of mother earth than in sports we would have a better world to live in a healthier mother earth for us all would be a great win huge amounts of money attending sporting and entertainment events people does spend on causing pollution travelling to such events we are not mother earth's friend despite advancement in technology and science in some ways we are not advanced at all many go to watch young people competing for the possession of one football.
As the years grow harder so do the choices should i listen to myself or listen to the voices for over three years football's been my thing i dealt with the failure i pushed through the sting but now im getting older classes need attention football should be done but i twitch at the mention football is a pain it's losing what was fun i want to quit i do but im not quite done i was the worst no good at all now that could change but to rise id have to fall if i stop i can't start if i start i can't stop im still at the bottom oh so far from the top if i quit now, i can't start again i'll fall far behind there's no way ill win but if i keep going my grades may slip and it's not even fun so i have to get a grip well whether i play or i fall apart football will stay somewhere in my heart.
You and i met not long ago you and i were a thing of love we were idolized by all then the day came you cheated on me with the football team what happened? to you and i? i didnt expect you to do this i let my guard fall and now as the open woulds bleed through my heart cant take any more but as the days go on without you the wounds do not close do not heal my heart weakens more and more then i heard you slept with the visiting football team the same night as you slept with our home team i cant take this anymore you betrayed me and our home football team you slept with the visiting team this is the final blow to my heart as i walk into your house i load my nine i walk into your room and look you in the eye despite the other 3 men there i empty my entire clip into your slim tan body i save one bullet to end my hearts pain the other 3 men long gone now i am now with you and you are with only me we ended up together yet again just you and i.
Like medieval knights armor clad, in fields battle to reap victory haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football.
To be good at football assures one of local fame though outside of your hometown yours is not a known name for there is quite a difference between good and great and outside of their hometown local heroes few know of to celebrate the difference between local, national and worldwide is huge one can say and the local heroes as the local heroes do stay until the local heroes slow beyond their physical prime and eventually the local heroes do lose out to time to be good at football in your hometown assures you for awhile of local renown but the fame of the local heroes in time fades away and there are young local football heroes in the town today it does not take that much to be a local hero at all since many become local heroes for being good at football.
Let children play football or basketball. they would experience camaraderie, team spirit and togetherness. they would learn bearing failures and defeats and abiding by rules and regulation. they would develop reflex action necessary for spontaneous response. they would develop a steel physique. let children waste in football or basketball. 17.06.2014.
Bloom could the cherries no more, the haste that burdened, made visionary the sight, restrictions frequent but pure, had not known, the cold bare winter tree, that stood all day long, to which history had shared the secret. once it happened so, a bird wingless sought shelter too, for the black ghosty witch had entered, and into the button staid eyes, the irony lay, the heart shivered, till the fear traveled and made cold the bones, the weighty burden was carried, until downloading lightened the shoulders, the sky shone making the air sweet, and the lips smiled with the curves of joy, all was seen a rare truth of dependent history.
There is no need to celebrate today. there is no joy, no promise with the sun. days are merely shadows that fade away. thoughts of what should have been have just begun. our lives were carefree just a while ago. we had each other's love and it was clear our plans were fine and firm; our days would glow. no folly or no foe could interfere. in an instant fortune can be changed. cruel chance can cut and conquer the sublime. no accident can be rearranged. no prayer, faith or money can turn back time. the good are taken and their dreams are torn. pain rips my breath while fairness turns away. now, every path is barren and forlorn. for you i mourn. until my dying day.
What is created is also truth there is nothing but truth truth sustains truth what is sustained is also truth there is nothing but truth truth never destroys what is destroyed is not truth there is nothing but truth truth is only here there everywhere as you see as i observe and you see truth as i see truth and truth is the light of all lights.
The universe is god you did not know? they do not tell the universe is god all within it too including you including you the universe is god to god we are as senses are to us yet we don't see see that we are part of he or she read that again more carefully.
Tell all the truth but tell it slant, success in circuit lies, too bright for our infirm delight the truth's superb surprise; as lightning to the children eased with explanation kind, the truth must dazzle gradually or every man be blind.
The teenager blasting his favourite tunes drowning his thoughts and feelings in a muddy swamp of filthy lyrics. the postman cheerfully whistling as he does his round an osrich, stuck in the sands of denial his wife has just left him for a woman. a mother wrapping her daughters' presents it's christmas eve passively abusing and complicit as her new husband violates her child in the bedroom right above her. people would rather die than face the truth.
Truth and absolute truth alone is the actual reality. it was there before my birth it is now at present with me it will be there after my death. it is but the truth that i see i feel i talk about and i am in truth only in truth. change your mental setting if you want to see me feel me.
"truth," said a traveller, "is a rock, a mighty fortress; often have i been to it, even to its highest tower, from whence the world looks black." "truth," said a traveller, "is a breath, a wind, a shadow, a phantom; long have i pursued it, but never have i touched the hem of its garment." and i believed the second traveller; for truth was to me a breath, a wind, a shadow, a phantom, and never had i touched the hem of its garment.
The truth is i shouldn't have left the comfort of your grasp. the truth is i miss you. the truth is i get jealous of the one you're with. the truth is i was stupid. the truth is i shouldn't have left the comfort of your grasp. the truth is i miss you. the truth is i get jealous of the girl standing with you. the truth is i was stupid now i know i shouldn't have left the comfort of you grasp now i know i really do miss you now i know the girl standing with you is my best friend now i know the true meaning of 'you never know what you have until you let it go. '.
The darkness surrounds me fills the void and caresses my skin encouraging me to rise and sin my mind turns ashen and corrupts my thoughts gossiping about would be not i was once revered by the sick and the old now all i have left is the cold the darkness engulfs me in my wake i drain happy thoughts leaving morals to sit and rot dealing with those who would rather not. 'your a monster' they say with a mob at their side alone by themselves they would run and hide a wake of destruction follows me by my stride lands charred black, rivers boiled the hard work of man soiled my rise to the top is bloody and fast the public knowing my reign will not last those who oppse are often bloodied i have been extensively studied the darkness becomes me they fear me, hate me, want to destroy me all because i took away their lives that were free a bullet to the head, i rise from the dead proclaimed as the one deeds like mine are rarely done so begins my apocalyptic reign i am the darness.
Truth be told, in days of old you were the one i wanted to have and to hold if it be, boy cant you see that you will always belong to me as it is, and forever more, if it's god's will that you walk out the door before you go, there is one thing you should know that is, i will always love you so.
Truth is truth and it is the greatest work force truth is truth and it is the greatest religion truth is truth and it is the only essence of life truth is truth and it is all over the universe truth is truth and it is the greatest fighter here.
Theres no sense in running you cant hide from the nightmare forever don't you feel the breathe of death? don't you understand that you'll never get better? can you feel the world watching? accusing eyes, plotting your demise can you tell that no ones listening? no gentle hand, to help you stand learn to laugh when you're fading learn to lie when you're in pain learn to smile when you're drowning learn to be pretend when you're no longer sane.
Truth truth truth everything is truth the earth the water the fire the air the ether all that are accepted as truth you are the original truth, my dear everything pertaining to you is also truth your body is truth your knowledge is truth your smile is truth your pleasure is truth my offering is truth my surrender is truth your protection is also truth truth truth truth everything is truth my dear, see my love is truth.
Lies are told by those too scared, too lazy, or too naive to tell the truth. but predominantly lies are told by master manipulators who seek to conquer others exploit divide. enlightened souls must tell truth in cause truth risk all truth defend.
Love is wise, but how wise? real love can live without the magic of sex? love is the wisdom of two people sex is the lust of many a woman the gift.a wise person understands less sex. women are not always willing to be on there back a relationship is not a running track but a place to be laid and admired from the sack. a man as i was told. is bold for the female hole wisdom did him no good. born for sex from the hood. ride'em, feed'em, and puck'em that is how it was told but the wisdom of the gift put into man a shift. now most men see love with both eyes and hope instead of with one eye and the hole as dope. the gift is a shadow of a man's smile.. a woman's love is the wisdom we both learn to live and grow with now that most men understand that woman is woman and man is man.let us try to do the best we can. less sex on demand. whisperkwane.
Sometime i think life is over, but when i look behind your eyes i can uncover the truth you hide, the lies you told me, the things i believed, but you never knew i can uncover your lies you have told me, uncover your dirty little secret you hide, the deaths you have upon me will never end, the lies you have told others will never end, its hard to believe the one you love can lie to you and shatter your heart into million pieces, i have uncover the truth i seek, uncover the hate i feel, you lead me to believe you are the one i love, lead me to think i loved you, but in the end i get my heart broken.
The time is now let change begin, blend heaven and earth in an endless spin, wherever you're going, wherever you've been now change your direction and travel within; the time is now to take a good look examine your life and the roads that you took, from cover to cover you've written your book did you swim in the river or sleep by the brook? the time is now get your head on straight no more indecision to love or to hate, since you are the author don't blame it on fate, take control of your future before it's too late.
I beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies this is the dawning of the rest of our lives cast off the masks and let emotions fly let the false self die hear the sound of the falling rain the rain to cleanse the brain everyone has a mask to perform a different task hiding misery, regret, and pain with a forced smile or gleam hoping it's only a bad dream i beg to dream and differ from the hollow lies this is the dawning of the rest of our lives.
Written at fourteen years of age. where, lovely goddess, dost thou dwell? in what remote and silent shade? within what cave or lonely cell? with what old hermit, or unpractis'd maid? in vain i've sought thee all around, but thy unfashionable sound in crowds was never heard, nor ever has thy form in town or court appear'd. the sanctuary is not safe to thee, chas'd thence by endless mystery; thy own professors chase thee thence, and wage eternal war with thee and sense; then in perplexing comments lost, e'en when they would be thought to show the most. most beautiful when most distress'd, descend, o goddess, to my breast; there thou may'st reign, unrivall'd and alone, my thoughts thy subject, and my heart thy throne.
So familiar an echo an echo from my heart i turn to look and the years that carve that emptiness large as cave sprout legs to run to me and my mind rushes to embrace the most endearing ones so many lines we traverse that remind us of the longing that has bitten its way into us the years that help lay bare the truth between us the truth that has fallen between so many painful lines.
A brave face can certainly be misunderstood. too soon lonely in the darkness of the night. afraid, crying, hurting out of sight. no one knows how hard one must fight. brave they are to those around them, trying not to break the silence of what is really haunting them. a pillar of strength for all to be in awe, when deep inside there is a flaw. they walk with dignity for all to see, but oh too soon will fall to their knees sobbing uncontrollably, with such anxiety. quivering, not wanting to mix with society out of their shell, they crawl in early morn to show a facade that can be adored the truth must not prevail, what life really does entail. their fear of truth must never be told. it is a secret, hidden deep within the soul. the bearer will endure much pain and sorrow and ponder of hiding again tomorrow written october 12,2005.
Truth is always truth, no one can deny it, no one can defame it, the sun is still shining brightly at daytime like a king, the serene moon is still shining like a queen in the night sky, gentle breeze is still blowing to soothe the pensive and weary heart, sweet birds are also singing in the pleasant atmosphere and the spring is still reigning in nature as usual; so, there is nothing to worry, be happy and joyous, truth is definitely prevailing in this beautiful world.
For each simple random kind act a small flower grows in my soul, for each beautiful flower observed a random kind act grows in my heart for each loving smile i give a dew drop comes to my dreams for each beautiful dew drop i see a smile is adorning my face for each simple truth i speak my soul is touched by a breeze for each lovely breeze i feel a simple truth is revealed.
In younger times, a boy was i i loved the earth and loved the sky an innocent of times gone by an infant to the world i grew up strong and grew up fast and soon a youth with little past but felt that all was in my grasp the world could do no wrong developing my social skill became a favourite of the girls i plunged in deeply to the thrills the world was mine alone i sought stability at last and settled down from hectic past with marriage vows and bankers draft a new world would be born the time was spent before i knew the marriage gone the children grew aquaintances now just a few the world had surely changed in older times, a man am i i love the earth and love the sky an innocent from times gone by to face the world alone.
I was so tied to play this game i never found my situation without pain why you put me in? i thought that we are all to blame i'm the man from the outside people think that i'm a stupid guy i'm a good player in the other game but why now i feelany shame? why you try to put the wheel on the ship? why you want to make the unkonws to believed? just face to truth and we'll know what we lose if you and i could make it better let me back to my space on the start line of my red life i will rebirth. . the world let me down should i change it all or back home? . a man always half to success and half to fail.
Where is a truth? what is truth? everyone is moving in search of truth eyes are looking for third eyes of truth ears are silent for hearing the truth brain is meditated for truth in the stage of litany is echo of melody is truth menace is truth or opacity is truth what is truth? where is truth? heating is truth or melting water is truth or fire mind is truth or heart god is truth or gost war is truth or peace life is truth or death what is truth? where is truth? heaven is truth or heal love is truth or hate yesterday is truth or tomarrow is today the truth please father say me what is the truth? where is the truth?.
What ever god does is honest and true what ever you do should be too. no matter how hard it seems to be ask help, in jesus name and be honest in your heart. brothers and sisters in christ truthful and honest trusting our lord with all our hearts as jesus taught us, lean not to our own understanding. our faith worketh in jesus love his love for us, forevermore we except it day to day hour by hour, how wonderful. how wonderful we can ask his will to be done, not thine or mine how wonderful his love for us makes all things right and wonderful.
Now the ice lays its smooth claws on the sill, the sun looks from the hill helmed in his winter casket, and sweeps his arctic sword across the sky. the water at the mill sounds more hoarse and dull. the miller's daughter walking by with frozen fingers soldered to her basket seems to be knocking upon a hundred leagues of floor with her light heels, and mocking percy and douglas dead, and bruce on his burial bed, where he lies white as may with wars and leprosy, and all the kings before this land was kingless, and all the singers before this land was songless, this land that with its dead and living waits the judgement day. but they, the powerless dead, listening can hear no more than a hard tapping on the floor a little overhead of common heels that do not know whence they come or where they go and are content with their poor frozen life and shallow banishment.
There are strange and mysterious sounds when the winds of winter blow, the long nights are crystal clear and cold, and the fields and meadows are covered with snow. the stars are frosty against the sky, and the wind's whistle is shrill, as the snow blows against the house and drifts against the hill. yet, i like to see during the winter a white carpet on the ground, to plod aimlessly in the deep snow, where deer tracks abound. i like to feel the stillness of a crisp winter's night, watching a full moon rise over the horizon, exposing a winter wonderland beautiful and bright.
Today the world. landscaped in pen and ink by hidden hands is winter and embossed in white on white, the sky cries down its tears upon the earth. black angled trees. an onyx labyrinth twists down the wind until the ground is rippled white brocade bemeath a shifting candleflame of sun. and we ourselves. embracing on the creek, like figurines skate out across a polished mirror of ice its edges rough and ridged like hobnailed glass.
Winter, winter, winter, when are you going away. i love it when you snow, but i hate it when you stay. at first i start to play, until the end of day. but when the snow gets hard, i wish you go away.
I think you know that this is winter day. this time last year woodsmoke blew us away. frost wrote the poem on tall panes of gray. that was the morning of the yellow finch, a dropp of sun upon a garden bench. light raised the bird's momentum, inch by inch. you held your coffee cup up to the sky, promised as long as yellow birds could fly, this anniversary would never die i hold your words much prettier today. though where the bird went, who could ever say? memory locks all emptiness away.
Oh, pretty girl, you have trapped yourself in the wrong body.twenty extra pounds hang like a lumpy tapestry on your perfect mammal nature. three months ago you were like a deer staring at the first winter snow. now aphrodite thumbs her nose at you and tells stories behind your back.
The truth is dark under your eyelids. what are you going to do about it? the birds are silent; there's no one to ask. all day long you'll squint at the gray sky. when the wind blows you'll shiver like straw. a meek little lamb you grew your wool till they came after you with huge shears. flies hovered over open mouth, then they, too, flew off like the leaves, the bare branches reached after them in vain. winter coming. like the last heroic soldier of a defeated army, you'll stay at your post, head bared to the first snow flake. till a neighbor comes to yell at you, you're crazier than the weather, charlie.
When you startle awake in the dark morning heart pounding breathing fast sitting bolt upright staring into dark whirlpool black hole feeling its suction get out of bed knock at the door of your nearest friend ask to lie down ask to be held listen while whispered words turn the hole into deep night sky stars close together winter moon rising over white fields nearby wren rustling dry leaves distant owl echoing two people walking up the road laughing let your soul laugh let your heart sigh out that long held breath so hollow in your stomach so swollen in your throat already light is returning pairs of wings lift softly off your eyelids one by one each feathered edge clearer between you and the pearl veil of day you have nothing to do but live.
The thief of my identity to my friends and family my true identity is all that makes me i stole my identity my personality what i live for, what i breath for what i'd fight for, what i'd die for if not for my soul, i would be lost once again for my true identity has fled me fled me for another it is the dancing shadow you play with, the beauty you can see in yourself, and the hostility. it wants to see you suffer, it is most content, when you are in despair. when i can look into my self and find the real identity of my inner self, until then i will not blame anyone for my misfortune.
I'm changing. yes i know my face is the same so is my name and i'm still only partially sane, but i'm changing. i found true beauty. it's always been in front of me but i guess i was to blind to see. and i'm happy. i never understood why they cry when they read the words. i never understood why a rock meant such worth. i never understood why they prepare for the worst. now look at me. one chapter and i'm teary. i stand five times but don't grow weary. i guess it's because i found me, my true identity.
I want my identity with super quality not to compromise on anything even if tempted for something i want to grow but shall not allow shadow to grow larger even with temptation offer nobody should be high above as you can happily prove you should be responsible for acts of omission and hence to struggle it is good to assess the loopholes which drives and lands you in troubles that shall be good for remaining as human you have to prove as nice gentleman yes be ordinary and poor no one shall dare to show you door as you will be known for impartiality and also for strong identity.
I'm dazed and confused i'm tired of being used it is not me that you see it is just your fantasy it's an identity crisis an identity crisis work all day for my pay doing it the bosses way at night i'm a fright wondering if all is right it's an identity crisis an identity crisis weekends here need a beer gotta get out of here on the road one my hog acting like a dog it's and identity crisis an identity crisis all weekend long having fun riding in the sun seeing sights that i like while sitting on my bike it's and identity crisis an identity crisis sunday night come the fun is done sleeping in my home feeling like a drone it's an identity crisis an identity crisis.
An individual identity that matters in community reckoned in personal circles identity, the word crucial. identity in better meanings the individual reputation that is relevant and important identity of a human being that is everywhere taken up. service to the society kindness to the deserving character and integrity yardstick of identity. man a social being everywhere, in every circles his identity reckons make the identity in such goodness.
Dig deep who are you what do you want how do you want be seen and remembered dig deep what makes you happy, frustrated, angry, peaceful, free yeah the world tells you who to be blurs your vision smears away your identity so take hold embrace this moment for yourself define your own identity reflect on how to achieve what makes you happy done scrambling around trying to please all others' wants put your wisdom first and the rest is sure to come.
Identity is not a given; it is a song; it is a quest. it is a journey and its trials, not just the outcome of a test. it is the continual burning of a flame, not the marks that a burning flame leaves. it is but the choices that you wrought, not just the tapestry destiny weaves.
Identity crisis my identity is intact, see. here is my knowledge and my real position, see. actually i am not lost though i am lost. false identification is of no use, see. i am a living entity i can never be lost. i am not thinking what i am not. actually i am lost and my identity is intact.
Our life experiences aren't the same. we have our own personalites and that's o.k. but when that image has been changed. by others who condemn you in everyway. u struggle to keep yourself afloat. when who you are, you seem not to know. the journey to find one's self seem unsure. the inner self broken and bruised. not to fear, theirs more in me. despite, the events that try hard to be. my identity is god's gift to me. everyone's unique, with much diversity. so with god's grace put upon me. identity is also an inner beauty that has yet to be seen.
Identity controls behaviour identity controls emotions identity controls how we think identity controls behaviour. identity determines behaviour identity determines feeling identity determines our mental pictures identity determines behaviour. we do not rule our believing our believing rules us our believing rules how we think we do not rule our believing. identity controls behaviour believing controls identity identity is borne in what we believe who do you believe you are?.
Identity of individual '' date of birth, is a identity of individual. name, is a identity of individual. address, is a identity of individual. signature, is a identity of individual. personality, is a identity of individual. profession, is a identity of individual. knowledge, is a identity of individual. marriage, is a identity of individual identity of inventions '' invention of filament, made thomas alva edison, a identity of world. independence of india, made mohandas karamchand gandhi, the identity of the world. service towards the poverty, made mother therasa, the identity of the world. discovering searoute to india, made the vasco da gama, the identity of the world. invention of flights, made the wright brother's, the identity of the world. proves of identity. '' sometimes, somewhere, somehow, the small piece of paper scribbled, proves the big identity. sometimes, somewhere, somehow, the small footage, proves the big identity. sometimes, somewhere, somehow, the small thumb impression, proves the big identity, sometimes, somewhere, somehow, the date and time, proves the big identity. sometimes, somewhere, somehow, the purchase bill, proves the big identity. identity of environment '' bea utiful flora and fauna, gives a cute identity of environment. an cleanliness around us, gives a cute identity of environment. planting plants and trees, gives a cute identity of environment. taking care of plants and trees like child, gives a cute identity of environment. allowing the beautiful birds, away from cage, gives a cute identity of environment.
Identity what is that identity and who is competent to issue identity card in whose favor and for what purpose all the things we have to know from here, from our day to day activities. let me say all the identity cards are bogus cards as they are not based on truth and truth needs no identity card like the the sun and the moon like the air and the sky like the earth and the water, we are here to see how the clouds are going away from the sky we are to see the light only by its grace. here, the question is about identity. identify first who is who and what is what if you are able, my dear.
I am a woman of many things my style is rare dare not compare me to others especially your previous lovers my attitude is bold with me the truth is always told what can i say for you see it was me that called you had no clue, what so ever, at all you thought it was her but it wasn't you said auntie maybe next time you'll try cousin what i know to be a fact is that love is a act i have no time for a simple man you know, one that doesn't have my best interest at hand i need someone i can trust being straightforward is a must i need someone that's real that actually cares about how i feel you call yourself the boss well baby it's time to pay the cost true love might have found you at last but it has now come to past good luck with your future good luck with the other see i'm in a better place getting my ears, neck and ring finger laced.
Simple identity use word as lover and act as admirer no killer or any other word suits for the beautiful thing of lord you may not forget the gift you got from almighty the powerful you are so much grateful you are peace ambassador simple massager and carrier with beautiful message as known lover love transmits disease and ceases your concentration to go in one direction that is sign of love if you believe it has powerful beam and directs all of them love hides no one but brings as one with simple identity and strong affinity.
They all try to look the same all try to give themselves a name pick on the boy who is all alone just because his identity is his own what has this world come to? all this wrong that people do just for the image they want to show down the evil path they seem to go the next person you go to hurt or try to make feel like dirt instead of trying to look cool feel for the guy you make look a fool a cool identity isn't a need let those you bully be freed your identity should be your own a better person you will be known.
Identity, fragile image of broken mirrors the start of hope and banished fears razor time cuts into the innocence fallen gardens of an empires deluge travel the stars in moonlit sin identity is a strange foreign land reflections of solitude beneath the mask rainy night pounds with thunder identity is an endless hunger.
Identity crisis i took birth as daughter, my identity was of a daughter, then i became beloved and wife, i framed myself in a house, then i became a mother, i am in a fix, to think, about my real identity.
Sometimes i feel so stupid and so stupid that i like being called stupid by other stupid people out there who think that they are not stupid sometimes i like to laugh at myself and call myself crazy and behave like i am crazy and then suddenly a man comes next to me and asks me why am i happy? i think he is not stupid anymore.
Sometimes there are no words to say why a heart should feel this way. no reason to even question why just be still, don't even try. sometimes thinking holds no thought life's just a net in which we're caught no use in struggling to be free we cannot plan our destiny sometimes we just have to listen and just go by our intuition no need to try and justify a love we simply can't deny.
Glorious long days hang from the sun until dark, beauty stacked upon beauty and all of it for love. vast prairie of day with another one to follow, the trees burning fires in the sky. time is a lazy, tame horse and leisure a profession. no imperative exists but to drift like a cloud through the sky of my day, doing whatever i love.
Sometimes i wish i could break the barriers and free myself from this golden cage and become a free bird free of the worries of the haunting past and of the unknown future flying in the vast sky sans any pains or sorrows sometimes i wish i could rest in the soft clouds freeing my heart of the burdens and become weightless and floating with the clouds quenching my thirst with the chilled droplets forgetting all my rage and anger.
Sometimes saying i'm sorry means more then i love you. sometimes holding hands means more then making love with you. sometimes its hard when loves so strong a cord. sometimes its easy to forget, sometimes its easy to desire to be adored. sometimes we overlook the weaknesses that we have. sometimes it makes us happy, sometimes it makes us sad. sometimes we remember that it is ok to mad. sometimes we reflect and are just glad to have a path. sometimes we drift, sometimes we fall. sometimes we heal. sometimes we loose it all. sometimes it doesn't matter. sometimes everything's ok. sometimes is like what ever, sometimes we just need to say get away. sometimes i will linger and you will do the same. and yet as always, sometimes we wake up and its a brand new day.
Sometimes when we emote that much like some bleeding hearts blinded by the colors of the blood and sweat of the dying sun we fail to see that the day has ended that it is time to sleep and dream that it is time to give way for other souls to cry to weep to sigh that it is time for some other creatures who died when they were once children to play their forgotten games in the dark sometimes we must accept this is not just ours this is also theirs and the tears that dry on the sand may not be just ours after all we may meet them in due time, but for now let me meet myself, let me drink with it let me know his name we are still strangers of the very shining light.
Sometimes i cry, because i am on my own the tears i cry r bitter and warm they flow with life but take no form i cry because my heart is torn, and i find it difficult 2 carry on i had an ear 2 confide in, i would cry among my treasured friends but who do you know that stops that long to help another carry on the world moves fast and it would rather pass you by than 2 stop and c what makes you cry it's painful and sad sometimes i cry and no one cares about why.
Sometimes the skies of tomorrow look bright crystal blue and full of hope telling you the best is on its way.. sometimes the waters of yesterday seem black showing nothing but the pain you've felt the tears you've cried; the sorrow you're forced to hide.. sometimes the world of today seems revealing granting you a moment of peace before you take your next step allowing you for just this one heartbeat to let go.
What is right can sometimes be wrong, like the right of a state to kill, that to me is wrong, like the right to have slaves that was wrong, but they once thought it was right, something that feels so right may, sometimes, be also be wrong, like feeling love, and too much love for a neighbor or yourself, it can be intoxicating at times, and it can kill you, because what is right exists only in our human minds, limited, too narrow, too confined in our flesh and blood, in the context of our culture, in the frames of our time, to the dictates of religion the liberality of our education, to our biases and prejudices, what we believe in, what we touch with faith in dark places what we try to light with candles, or see in microscopes or see in telescopes, or see with our eyes and hearts wide open, may still be wrong, or still be not right, so what is right after all? possibly, this can be right, but possibly this can also be wrong, we can always pray. but the doubt is always there. cogito ergo sum. who can really be sure?.
Sometimes we must get hurt in order to grow we must fail in order to know sometimes our visions, clear only after our eyes are washed away with tears when pain is caused by those we call peers it is sometimes needy to stand tall even when we are pushily pulled to fall to raise that unwanted we want the world of happiness it is sometimes through hope, trust and perseverance perfect was not the one who came first but that same one whom strived for the best mohale o tswa maroleng.
Sometimes it rains in deserts, sometimes it snows in june, sometimes a burning sun is cooled behind the moon. sometimes a classic's written, sometimes a poem's sung, sometimes the wisest words are spoken by the young. sometimes the treasure's golden, sometimes the victory's won, sometimes the road not taken is where the path begun. sometimes when all is rotten, sometimes when hope is gone, sometimes your foe is worthy and helps you carry on. sometimes a miracle happens, sometimes the fear's misplaced, sometimes the hope that's lost is once again embraced. sometimes our tears are happy, sometimes the hate undone, sometimes the chains are broken and the world stands up as one.
I feel like a train sometimes that can't get no locomotin.' my wheels lumber and my ideals get stuck in sideways roller motions. i feel like the moon sometimes beautiful but dead. feel like thinking sometimes but get tangled up in emotions. feel like a bird sometimes remembering how to soar. feel like sleeping sometimes and not getting up, being in bed for a while. feel like christmas when someone gives me a smile. feel like feeling more on certain days and times. feel like talking deep and thinking light laughing loud and quiet. feel like feeling like my best days sometimes. feel like is feeling like if a good poem rhymes sometimes. feel like is feeling like if the rhythm beats in time, if my heart skips to music quips and rejoins at the metered line. feel like is feeling like feeling is ok; but feeling good or bad without that like is better; well.. like superior. like ok?.

Sometimes i wish i never met u so that i wouldn't cry when i miss u sometimes i wish i never saw u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't find u sometimes i wish i never heard u so that i wouldn't cry when i think i lost u sometimes i wish i never touched u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't feel u sometimes i wish i never made u laugh so that i never cry when i can't see u smile sometimes i wish i never left u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't come back to u sometimes i wish i never said i love u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't be with u sometimes i wish i never hugged u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't touch u sometimes i wish i never kissed u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't sing for u sometimes i wish i never had hands so that i wouldn't cry when i can't write to u sometimes i wish i never was born so that i wouldn't cry when i can't die with u sometimes i wish i never was me so that i wouldn't cry when there is no u sometimes i wish i never knew life so that i wouldn't cry when i can't go with u sometimes i wish i never had u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't have u sometimes i wish i never had a dream so that i wouldn't cry when i can't dream about u sometimes i wish i never heard u say i love u so that i wouldn't cry when i can't say it back to u sometimes i wish i never go to sleep so that i wouldn't cry when i can't be beside u sometimes i wish i never could have walked so that i never cry when i can't walk to u sometimes i wish i never had hands so that i wouldn't cry when i can't reach u sometimes i wish i never been with u so that i wouldn't cry when am not with u sometimes i wish i never learned how to cry so that i wouldn't cry every time i think of u sometimes i wish i never was poor so that i wouldn't cry when i can't buy a gift for u sometimes i wish i never was born here so that i wouldn't cry when i can't travel to meet u sometimes i wish i never knew how big the world is so that i wouldn't cry when i know i can't find u sometimes i wish i never had a tongue so that i wouldn't cry when i can't talk to u sometimes i wish i never knew time so that i wouldn't cry when i count the time am far from u.
Sometimes we adapt in tranquility yet face the insolent society. sometimes we get hurt in order to grow. sometimes we fail in order to know. sometimes we feel maturity yet unaware off our creativity. sometimes we go through the complexity to maintain our originality. sometimes our visions broaden when our eyes are washed away with tears.
Sometimes i feel you your presence tickling my neck sometimes i feel you waking up feeling my sweat drip i saw you sometimes i reach for you my hand stretching my muscles stiffening i cannot get to you sometimes i talk to you my eyes closed in the middle of the night when my body sleeps and my mind does not sometimes i feel you dripping from the sky you are lonely you seem sad you bring weather that makes my bones weak sometimes i feel you through my window gently stroking the blinds sometimes i hear you whistling through the air creating a tornado of despair sometimes i grieve for you your life was too short when you left this world i wasn't even born but, you are not a stranger you are my angel and when you cry you bring rain and when you smile the clouds move like your lips do and the sunshine peaks through sometimes i feel you through black and white pictures your eyes gazing at me seeing the creation your daughter has made you try hard to smile behind a garden you have tamed only soon your garden will no longer be in your hands your eyes dry up your flowers dry up your hands no longer tame gardens on earth sometimes i feel you through my mothers garden sometimes i taste you through my mothers recipes sometimes i see you through my mothers eyes.
Sometimes i wish, not to be in love don't wanna get committed, wanna fly like free dove. sometimes i wish, not to get marry don't wanna be in a relationship, that i can't carry. sometimes i wish, not to be nice but my heart says, that isn't wise. sometimes i wish, not to worry but when situation gets tough, mind stops working in a hurry. sometimes i wish, not to loose control i should practice meditation, calmness should be my goal. sometimes i wish, not to play with emotions but that i do unconsciously, now i'll take more caution. sometimes i wish, not to feel down people love smiling faces, not the 1 which is frown. sometimes i wish, not to cry forget that damned past, at least 1 should try. sometimes i wish, not to work too hard but then i change my mind, because its gonna give me later on great reward. sometimes i wish, not to pray but to feel attached to the almighty, this is the only way. sometimes i wish, not to weep that's not a solution, i just need to breathe deep. sometimes i wish, not to play in the rain but that i do, just to hide my tears and pain. sometimes i wish, not to hide my tears but thats gonna hurt my love, which my heart fears. sometimes i wish, i could forget my haunting past 1 should remember good things, only sweet memories are meant to be last. sometimes i wish, not to study but then nothing else will help secure a career, buddy. sometimes i wish, i wish him to be mine but hes already engaged, and coveting is a crime. sometimes i wish, to slit my wrist with a knife but there are other people too who love me so much, then why to end up my life. sometimes i wish, not to flirt what if others got serious, then they might get hurt.
sometimes i wish, not to eat but i need energy to do work, else i'll get weak. sometimes i wish, i wish to be alone but the very next moment, such thoughts are gone. sometimes i wish, i wouldn't have wished but without wishing, even this poem couldn't have finished.
A heart's sometimes like an arrow that gets lost on its long turning on way or a flying high clouded lonesome sparrow that not for long in the forest can stay the seedlings of the passionate going songs that grows on the heart to each sparkling give and each new aspiring passion belongs in its fulsome ways there to onward live the colors of the truest summer blossom the reddish with the pink shades between the beauty of moments that kindle love's thought delicate and decent where roots are from each true compartment that can not be seen in asking questions what love is and ought.
Sometimes she wants nothing but to hide, and sometimes she holds everything inside, sometimes she wants to runaway, and sometimes she thinks things will be ok, sometimes she wishes she was some one else, she really does she hates herslef, sometimes she wants to disappear, and sometimes she thinks she dose nothing but fear, sometimes she wants to be alone, and sometimes she dosn't want to go home, sometimes she wishes for her life to end, and sometimes she wishes her life was pretend, sometimes she thinks she has nothing to live for, and sometimes she thinks she needs more, sometimes she thinks her life will get better, and sometimes she thinks it will stay bad forever, sometimes she thinks this all she can do, is write poems to help her through.
Sometimes in life sometimes in life, i wonder just what i'm doing? the energy's there, but the trouble is brewing. i seem to have, no control of myself, i just turned away, now i'm with someone else. the days just fly by, yet there's so much to do. i look to a face, to just pull me through. time just can't wait, so it just marches on. all of the things, just, seem to be wrong? just turned my back and everything's gone. sometimes in life, i don't believe what i see. are all of these things, just part of me? i pick up the pieces, but some seem to be missing, i look for the answers, but it feels like i'm guessing? sometimes in life, you can't get what you need. you feel so empty, yet there's nothing to feed. your soul feels so empty, nothing can fill the hole. it's hard to find direction, when you just don't know. sometimes in life, i think i know my way? it's just around the corner, i might make it today? though things seem hopeless, there's always faith, carries me back, to a place that is safe. sometimes in life, there seems something better. but the rain just comes and you just get wetter. things always appear better, on the other side. at least until you get there, then you must hide. sometimes in life, i just wanted the truth. but it was surrounded by lies and they just got loose. the answers don't match, the questions i find. uncertainty robs, my peace of mind.
Sometimes i watch myself watching you i don't know how i do it it comes naturally as a heart beat sometimes i catch you watching me it makes my heart overflow with something sweet sometimes we both look at each other at the same time as one another it makes my eyes smile and i know everytime i spend with you is so worthwhile.
Sometimes i just sit and ponder, what the true meaning of lifes all about; try and figure out my insucurites, and the reason im so full of doubt, maybe im too hard on myself, with the pressure i apply from within; maybe i want too much to fast, here comes doubt creeping in again. how can i find a balance in life, where i float with an even keal? not worring about the future, or losing for life its zeal?.
Sometimes my friend i close my eyes to see what i have not seen inside the domains of my heart and then i open them again to see what blinded me there is so much light to some things that i daily see and have not seen realistically.
Sometimes i wonder why i feel i what i feel whether it is pain, sadness, joy or madness why must i feel it all so deeply emotions on a never ending circle filled with blue and gray light trickling in at its own convenience to play is this the destiny for which we create our won existence or can we change the circles to squares triangles or octagons with a brighter beginnings and visible ends a life with meaning pleasurable and rewarding without oppression, suggestion or reprimand is this the reality of the conclusion of our lives or merely the beginning of destiny.
Sometimes i feel like im left out, sometimes. sometimes i don't like my life, just sometimes. sometimes i feel like the world should be different, but only sometimes. sometimes i feel creative, just sometimes. sometimes i just think there's a missing piece, only sometimes. sometimes i feel like people don't like me, just sometimes. sometimes i feel like the world is after me, but just only sometimes sometimes sometimes sometimes.
Sometimes you laugh, sometimes you cry, sometimes you don't even know why. sometimes you smile, sometimes you frown, sometimes i don't know if you feel up or down. sometimes you're with me, sometimes you're not, but still, always, i love you a lot.
Sometimes i'm up sometimes i'm down sometimes i smile sometimes i frown depends on what i've done depends on who i've seen depends if you are nice depends if you are mean sometimes i'm clever sometimes i'm thick sometimes i endeavour sometimes i retreat depends on who i'm talking to depends on what i say depends on how i'm feeling depends if i'm too weak sometimes i'm happy sometimes i'm sad sometimes i want to change sometimes i want to be me depends on those around me depends upon the news depends if i'm helpless depends who else i could be.
I know sometimes you wonder, just how true are my intentions. i know how you must ponder, just what are my motivations. but these are things i thought you knew, and thought you would never question. the fact that i love you, should be known without mention. you i have loved before i even knew what it was, and i have drempt of you all my life. without a reason, or a cause, and in every dream you was my wife. for you i would do anything as i have and always will just for the joy you bring and i think thats a hell of a deal nolonger should you wonder, just how true are my intentions. nolonger should you must ponder, just what are my motivations.
Sometimes you may forget sometimes people may forget how nuture have a power how the words have amagic a magic come from the sky in birds feather with buterflies it have shine from long time ago to show the ancient where to go and now many buterflies have gone and many birds feather the air have take and we still dont now the truth did the magic still or it goes because the people have forget the magic source the love the pureness the truth the magic is not just a words its love inside children hearts its like one child wishing a wish putting his hand on his heart and say i wish the spring wind bring with it the lost magic source the love the pureness the truth.
Sometimes i feel alive sometimes i feel dead sometimes my heart hurts sometimes it's all in my head sometimes i feel lonely sometimes i need my space sometimes there are no problems sometimes i've got too much to face sometimes things go right sometimes things go wrong sometimes i fit right in sometimes i just don't belong sometimes i want to laugh sometimes i want to cry sometimes i want to live sometimes i want to die sometimes i want to face life sometimes i want to be gone from sight sometimes i want to run sometimes i want to fight sometimes i want to sing sometimes i want to shout sometimes i know the asnwer sometimes i'm in doubt sometimes i'm happy sometimes i'm sad sometimes i'm scared sometimes i'm mad sometimes i want to win sometimes i want to lose sometimes i listen to music sometimes i watch the news sometimes i make decisions sometimes i'm told what to do sometimes i find life hard sometimes so do you.
He only lives for work and drinking for these are his passions in life and when he goes home from the local he argues with betty his wife she no longer cooks him his supper she tells him you can help yourself in the fridge you'll find eggs and bacon and there's coffee and tea on the shelf. their marriage as such it is over they live in the same house that is all though betty will talk of the good days when happier times she recall, when their children were growing up in the sixties and joe had drink under control until the love between them faded and boredom of their marriage took toll. when asked how come she still lives with him? she says where i live i will stay i'm sixty five years on a pension and my hair is silvery gray and though we live under the same roof and we argue almost every day there's nothing of love left between us we have gone our separate way. sometimes love does not last a lifetime despite what the romantics might say and the story of joseph and betty is a story of love in decay, he once showed her lots of affection but that was a long time ago and though they live under the same roof no love left between her and joe.
Sometimes i like to try curl into a bottle and hide from those thoughts about me those thoughts which haunt those annoying thoughts those keep you awake thoughts sometimes i spend hours writing days taken over by the tap, tapping of the keyboard or the scratching of a pen against paper sometimes i don't write for days sometimes it's weeks, i hate those times sometimes i listen to poetry readings perhaps too lazy to read myself or just enjoying another voice i like to imagine others reading that which i call my poetry sometimes i do all of the above and sometimes, well i guess sometimes is never enough.
Sometimes i wonder if you guess the deep impassioned tenderness which overflows my heart; the love i never dare confess; yet hard, yea, harder to repress than tears too fain to start. sometimes i ponder, o my sweet, the things i'll tell you when we meet; but straightway at your sight my heart's blood oozes to my feet like thawing waters in the heat, confused with too much light. i hardly know, when you are near, if it is love, or joy, or fear which fills my languid frame; enveloped in your atmosphere, my dark self seems to disappear, a moth entombed in flame.
Sometimes, i want to cry. sometimes, i want to die. most times, i just ask why. why does it always happen this way? why is she always greater than me? why doesn't it get better? sometimes, i wish i would die. sometimes, i just want to cry. i always ask myself why. why does she get to be free? why is she so much better than me? most of all, why does she always lie to me?.
Sometimes i pray before i sleep; sometimes i pray, the lord; my soul to keep, sometimes i pray. sometimes i pray in the morning; sometimes i pray for those in mourning, sometimes i pray. sometimes i pray for rain; sometimes i pray for nomore pain, sometimes i pray. sometimes i pray before i eat; sometimes i pray for good bread and meat, sometimes i pray. sometimes i pray, my baby; that you'll stay; but only sometimes for these things do i pray, for i talk to my lord everyday.
Mr. potato is a fat man who juggled his belly as he ran he once tried to clean a fan saying to himself 'i can, i can'. down came mr. potato with a bang 'aargh' he cried, 'ooh' he sang. 'trring' the doorbell rang at the door, another fat man. mr. potato was all sore for the man was a big bore who always wanted more and would'nt just leave it at the door mr. potato had a hard time that day with nothing going his way he fell to the floor and got to the door only to face a big bore rishi menon,11 years.
Sometimes you just dont want to talk to anyone sometimes you dont want to hear anything sometimes you cant do anything right sometimes you dont want to feel anything sometimes all you feel is pain sometimes you dont want to see anything sometimes you dont want anybody to look at you sometimes you want to be alone sometimes you dont want to live sometimes you just cant take life anymore sometimes you just want it to end sometimes you just want to stop sometimes. is all the time for me.
Sometimes, i'm a little rude, but just sometimes sometimes, i guess i can be creative, but just sometimes sometimes, i feel on top of the world, but only sometimes sometimes, i feel like i'm all alone, but only sometimes sometimes, my life is spiraling out of control, but really, sometimes sometimes, my heart, i swear stops beating, but then again, sometimes sometimes, my heart is so full it could burt, but just sometimes sometimes, i feel like i've got it under control, but only sometimes sometimes, i truly know you love me, but just sometimes but, my love, with all of my heart, mind, and soul. forever and for always, i'll always love you.
And sometimes it happens that you are friends and then you are not friends, and friendship has passed. and whole days are lost and among them a fountain empties itself. and sometimes it happens that you are loved and then you are not loved, and love is past. and whole days are lost and among them a fountain empties itself into the grass. and sometimes you want to speak to her and then you do not want to speak, then the opportunity has passed. your dreams flare up, they suddenly vanish. and also it happens that there is nowhere to go and then there is somewhere to go, then you have bypassed. and the years flare up and are gone, quicker than a minute. so you have nothing. you wonder if these things matter and then as soon you begin to wonder if these things matter they cease to matter, and caring is past. and a fountain empties itself into the grass.
Sometimes i do not know where i am going. sometimes i have no idea where i have been. sometimes life is all about the knowing. and i wonder will i ever win. sometimes this road it feels so long. sometimes i feel i can see the end. sometimes i fall and tumble in my choice of right from wrong. and i wonder with you will my heart mend. sometimes this food does not fill me. sometimes this liquor does not numb. sometimes i am so lost and lonely. and i wonder without you will i succumb. sometimes i know what i am doing. sometimes i barely have a clue. sometimes i fall to my knees weeping. and i wonder will my search ever find you.
Sometimes i cry sometimes im fearful sometimes i want to die sometimes im tearful sometimes im happy sometimes im sad sometimes im sappy sometimes im mad sometimes i cant say sometimes i want to hold my breath i just live every emotion day by day sometimes i want to call upon death megan watts.
Sometimes i'll laugh at your stupid jokes sometimes, only sometimes sometimes i'll pout and walk about sometimes, only sometimes. sometimes i'll face the day with shame sometimes the only one to blame is no one. sometimes, only sometimes. and sometimes i am what i appear to be sometimes, only sometimes. sometimes i see what you can not see. sometimes, only sometimes. sometimes i'm the fool sometimes i'm the tool sometimes i believe what i can not percieve is cool as do you. sometimes, only sometimes though my actions and thoughts may be erratic they are but as nature intended inspiration, emotion, both love and devotion my sometimes, become mended and in the joining is formed a spirit as pure as the gods do allow as threads we connect and our sometimes reflect our here, our forever, our now.
Sometimes it is said, we are only given what we can handle, is this true? sometimes what we are given is so overwhelming, i can't believe it's true. is the pain and hurt more than we can handle? sometimes i wonder, would i leave more hurt than i feel? that is the question, what is the answer? what is the release?.
Sometimes i wish that i didn't feel like this that my heart didn't control me the way it does that everytime i saw your face i didn't smile that your very laugh didn't warm my heart that i could just leave, walk away that you meant nothing to me but you do, you mean so much everyday it grows even stronger than before it's forceful more than i ever thought i could endure it's confusing and i don't know why happiness and pain reside tears and laughs fill too much to keep still somtimes i wish i were braver that my fear didn't hold me back from what i wanted to do that i could say what i really want is you.
Sometimes i walk without seeing sometimes i see without knowing, sometimes i live without learning and sometimes i learn without showing. and sometimes i pay no attention to what lies on the road ahead, and sometimes i just rush in where the angels fear to tread. sometimes i listen real well to words that my soul speaks, and sometimes i dont hear reason when my heart is feeling weak. sometimes when it rains i see the sound that it makes, and sometimes it floods my heart because of my mistakes. and sometimes when it snows i hear it's gentle sound, as it falls like silent thunder everywhere upon the ground. and sometimes when i see you i think i'm really seeing me, because sometimes life's not really all it would seem to be. sometimes instead it's all gone sort of topsy turvey, and sometimes right or wrong is not as clear as day. sometimes it all gets muddled from black and white to gray, and sometimes that path to righteousness just doesn't lead the way. then sometimes before i know it i find me standing in the light, because sometimes when i get lost you're there to set me right. and sometimes when i think that all in my life is gone i look and see you standing waiting there within the dawn. and sometimes when i'm feeling that i'm running out of time, you're love helps me see that i can run to you sometimes. and sometimes you will save me and keep me safe from harm, but sometimes you'll just guide me and lead me by the arm. to show me that just sometimes i need to make my way, and that sometimes all you can do is watch me falter as you pray. for sometimes lessons learned come about in the hardest ways, so that sometimes in myself i can learn to be amazed. but sometimes you will hold me and at others set me free, so that sometimes i can find my way back to loving me.
The man cut his throat and left his head there. the others went to get it. when they got there they put the head in a sack. farther on the head fell out onto the ground. they put the head back in the sack. farther on the head fell out again. around the first sack they put a second one that was thicker. but the head fell out just the same. it should be explained that they were taking the head to show to the others. they did not put the head back in the sack. they left it in the middle of the road. they went away. they crossed the river. but the head followed them. they climbed up a tree full of fruit to see whether it would go past. the head stopped at the foot of the tree and asked them for some fruit. so the men shook the tree. the head went to get the fruit. then it asked for some more. so the men shook the tree so that the fruit fell into the water. the head said it couldn't get the fruit from there. so the men threw the fruit a long way to make the head go a long way to get it so they could go. while the head was getting the fruit the men got down from the tree and went on. the head came back and looked at the tree and didn't see anybody so went on rolling down the road. the men had stopped to wait to see whether the head would follow them. they saw the head come rolling. they ran. they got to their hut they told the others that the head was rolling after them and to shut the door. all the huts were closed tight. when it got there the head commanded them to open the doors. the owners would not open them because they were afraid. so the head started to think what it would turn into. if it turned into water they would drink it. if it turned into earth they would walk on it.
if it turned into a house they would live in it. if it turned into a steer they would kill it and eat it. if it turned into a cow they would milk it. if it turned into a bean they would cook it. if it turned into the sun when men were cold it would heat them. if it turned into rain the grass would grow and the animals would crop it. so it thought, and it said, "i will turn into the moon." it called, "open the doors, i want to get my things." they would not open them. the head cried. it called out, "at least give me my two balls of twine." they threw out the two balls of twine through a hole. it took them and threw them into the sky. it asked them to throw it a little stick too to roll the thread around so it could climb up. then it said, "i can climb, i am going to the sky." it started to climb. the men opened the doors right away. the head went on climbing. the men shouted, "you going to the sky, head?" it didn't answer. as soon as it got to the sun it turned into the moon. toward evening the moon was white, it was beautiful. and the men were surprised to see that the head had turned into the moon.
Under the crescent moon's faint glow the washerman's bat resounds afar, and the autumn breeze sighs tenderly. but my heart has gone to the tartar war, to bleak kansuh and the steppes of snow, calling my husband back to me.
My tears are like the quiet drift of petals from some magic rose; and all my grief flows from the rift of unremembered skies and snows. i think, that if i touched the earth, it would crumble; it is so sad and beautiful, so tremulously like a dream.
I think the moon is very kind to take such trouble just for me. he came along with me from home to keep me company. he went as fast as i could run; i wonder how he crossed the sky? i'm sure he hasn't legs and feet or any wings to fly. yet here he is above their roof; perhaps he thinks it isn't right for me to go so far alone, tho' mother said i might.
And like a dying lady, lean and pale, who totters forth, wrapped in a gauzy veil, out of her chamber, led by the insane and feeble wanderings of her fading brain, the moon arose up in the murky east, a white and shapeless mass.
Not the moon. a flower on the other side of the water. the water sweeps past in flood, dragging a whole tree by the hair, a barn, a bridge. the flower sings on the far bank. not a flower, a bird calling hidden among the darkest trees, music over the water, making a silence out of the brown folds of the river's cloak. the moon. no, a young man walking under the trees. there are lanterns among the leaves. tender, wise, merry, his face is awake with its own light, i see it across the water as if close up. a jester. the music rings from his bells, gravely, a tune of sorrow, i dance to it on my riverbank.
The moonlight breaks upon the city's domes, and falls along cemented steel and stone, upon the grayness of a million homes, lugubrious in unchanging monotone. upon the clothes behind the tenement, that hang like ghosts suspended from the lines, linking each flat to each indifferent, incongruous and strange the moonlight shines. there is no magic from your presence here, ho, moon, sad moon, tuck up your trailing robe, whose silver seems antique and so severe against the glow of one electric globe. go spill your beauty on the laughing faces of happy flowers that bloom a thousand hues, waiting on tiptoe in the wilding spaces, to drink your wine mixed with sweet drafts of dews.
I and, like a dying lady lean and pale, who totters forth, wrapp'd in a gauzy veil, out of her chamber, led by the insane and feeble wanderings of her fading brain, the mood arose up in the murky east, a white and shapeless mass. ii art thou pale for weariness of climbing heaven and gazing on the earth, wandering companionless among the stars that have a different birth, and ever changing, like a joyless eye that finds no object worth its constancy?.
Amongst the flowers i am alone with my pot of wine drinking by myself; then lifting my cup i asked the moon to drink with me, its reflection and mine in the wine cup, just the three of us; then i sigh for the moon cannot drink, and my shadow goes emptily along with me never saying a word; with no other friends here, i can but use these two for company; in the time of happiness, i too must be happy with all around me; i sit and sing and it is as if the moon accompanies me; then if i dance, it is my shadow that dances along with me; while still not drunk, i am glad to make the moon and my shadow into friends, but then when i have drunk too much, we all part; yet these are friends i can always count on these who have no emotion whatsoever; i hope that one day we three will meet again, deep in the milky way.
The cat went here and there and the moon spun round like a top, and the nearest kin of the moon, the creeping cat, looked up. black minnaloushe stared at the moon, for, wander and wail as he would, the pure cold light in the sky troubled his animal blood. minnaloushe runs in the grass lifting his delicate feet. do you dance, minnaloushe, do you dance? when two close kindred meet. what better than call a dance? maybe the moon may learn, tired of that courtly fashion, a new dance turn. minnaloushe creeps through the grass from moonlit place to place, the sacred moon overhead has taken a new phase. does minnaloushe know that his pupils will pass from change to change, and that from round to crescent, from crescent to round they range? minnaloushe creeps through the grass alone, important and wise, and lifts to the changing moon his changing eyes.
Long walk at night the breeze freezes my spirit the moon warms it up pulling at my poetic soul the crickets sing their poems to the night a million other insects contribute their share to loosen up the night for lovers, husbands and wives while a tide of words too creeps in all directions in my mental sphere saturates the poetic bar of the intellect waiting to be strummed into verses the rhythm swims along with them as i write out verse by verse the moon my friend shares its light the night wind inspires lovelorn stars wave all the way a million light years away heralding the birth of a song sparkling, twinkling guided by intricate orchestration of the night before gracing the written page long walk in the night even the insects with the lamps start to lend me their lights between the twinke of the stars they dance, sing, beat out a dance.
Two statesmen met by moonlight. their ease was partly feigned. they glanced about the prairie. their faces were constrained. in various ways aforetime they had misled the state, yet did it so politely their henchmen thought them great. they sat beneath a hedge and spake no word, but had a smoke. a satchel passed from hand to hand. next day, the deadlock broke.
The moon has a face like the clock in the hall; she shines on thieves on the garden wall, on streets and fields and harbour quays, and birdies asleep in the forks of the trees. the squalling cat and the squeaking mouse, the howling dog by the door of the house, the bat that lies in bed at noon, all love to be out by the light of the moon. but all of the things that belong to the day cuddle to sleep to be out of her way; and flowers and children close their eyes till up in the morning the sun shall arise.
The dark moon is rising no silver left to see the crone has awakened her power flows in me the dark storm is coming the rain pouring down the thunder raises power as lightening takes ground the dark queen is walking her whispers call to me ancient wisdom flowing circling energies flow free the dark night is waiting its lure a sweet bane stepped through my shadow and i am forever changed copyright 2006 a.j. mckinley.
After dark near the south dakota border, the moon is out hunting, everywhere, delivering fire, and walking down hallways of a diamond. behind a tree, it ights on the ruins of a white city frost, frost. where are they gone who lived there? bundled away under wings and dark faces. i am sick of it, and i go on living, alone, alone, past the charred silos, past the hidden graves of chippewas and norwegians. this cold winter moon spills the inhuman fire of jewels into my hands. dead riches, dead hands, the moon darkens, and i am lost in the beautiful white ruins of america.
Under the harvest moon, when the soft silver drips shimmering over the garden nights, death, the gray mocker, comes and whispers to you as a beautiful friend who remembers. under the summer roses when the flagrant crimson lurks in the dusk of the wild red leaves, love, with little hands, comes and touches you with a thousand memories, and asks you beautiful, unanswerable questions.
I want to look into her dreamy eyes, but she turns them away and my heart sighs. i want to hold her hand and intertwine our fingures, but my ennocent youthful sweat lingures.i want to embrace her in my arms to cuddle, but when i raise them there is no mass, no muscle.i want to feel her soft lips in a sweet pashoinet kiss, but mine turn into a dry desert abyss.then it is time for our day to end along with my first date gidder, but i carry her sent with me to remember.
Kind paris under my feet. the clack of heels on a cobblestone walk along the river encompassed with concepts from centuries of artists. the streets, they sing, with the accordian and accoustic. kind paris under my feet and my theatrical and melodic tapping of heels on wet cobblestones.
Each summer i go to paris to write and each trip i make you greet me as though you haven't seen me in ages then you tell me i get more beautiful with each passing year but i'm just getting older and it's really men not women that get better looking with age i pose for you by day watching your brush as it whisks over canvas nights are spent in quaint restaurants where we eat only the finest foods chasing it down with the best of the wines later in the night i try to write but you won't let me you're too busy teasing and tickling me it's impossible to concentrate you never cease tempting me into your bed you tell me i will be famous once your masterpiece is complete then when i come to paris everyone i pass by in the city will know me.
This paris hilton thing makes me sad so much of it comes from who's her dad i don't defend actions that we know are bad but grieve that the lives of the rest of us have become so vacuous watching this media circus has become a fad.
Three matches lit one by one in the night the first to see your face in its entirety the second to see your eyes the last to see your mouth and complete darkness to remind me of all that in taking you in my arms.
Energized by the scent of mesmerized women of a south sea shore, men went to that shore and mesmerized the women the more. they emitted more scent, energizing the men the more, and drawing more and more men to the shore. some took their scent to france, where their mastery at erotics made paris northern limit and capital city of the tropics.
Paris. o paris. y paris. the patience, eating the happiness the pain, eating the patience and the pain, eating the pain i am sick, paris treat me, sister paris. o paris. y paris. exile, on my papers restrained, .. in my lines so free me, paris treat me, paris i belong to you, .. sister my home, the colours of monet my room, is a water flower my air.. is the scent of france and my refuge.. is a place by renoir shrine so take me paris.. as your.. renoirian.. refugee.
I know this girl doris she lives in paris doris asked me to come for a visit so i got on a bus and did it, went to paris saw lovely doris and all the sites plus the night lights i was tired, and i went to the hilton that is in paris, after i left doris now in my room thinking about the day ' i did paris', i suppose i can say.
It was the paris feeling of it all assaulting my senses as i slumbered and dreamed on imagined european time white noise buzzed with sophisticated speak clicking on cobblestone to chanel boutique snobbery as the eiffel tower loomed large drenching the city in warmed light my dreams paused, to images of home longing for lady liberty, a fine french gift scents of the city of lights cling tightly lavender, roses and mint leaves hurry me back to my imagined luxury dreaming of the hotel le bristol paris the french sandman sprinkles gold dust here in no man's land, dream world central still safe and sound in my trance the time ticks and i continue to float i notice the pace of the country no rat race rules, or impossible schedules they march to a different beat cafe's, wine, and enjoying life as i begin to slowly wake and find my way through this foggy haze my final image of paris in my dream is a speeding car, hitting the thirteenth pillar in the alma tunnel. some things are never forgotten.
The one with brown eyes and brown hair her hometown is paris in france she has such a sweet singing voice and to music she loves to dance she is in her twenty fourth year and happy in her single life for some very lucky young man she will make a beautiful wife. her accent is easy to love like the lilt to a beautiful song of her voice one never could tire i'd listen to her all day long to this town she's like a breath of fresh air not many french people live here except for the rare tourist who stop for a break from travel i meet one perhaps once a year. she has such an old world charm and she has such a beautiful face and she doesn't find it hard for to smile a woman of charm and grace 'twould be nice if here she did settle but in our town i know she won't stay the young woman from paris in france from home she is so far away. she says she will go home next year in beautiful may of the spring in the green parks of paris in france she will hear the birds whistle and sing and on the verandah of her old home with family and friends out of the glare of the sunshine she will sing along in the sing song as she enjoys a glass of good french made wine.
Lonely for paris in spring all is so faraway to reach, a heart for joy could sing what memories should teach; eyes are wide in clearing blue all is such a joy to glide, it's always up to me and you what gets soft or amplified. be here and become strong all has its wandering ways, have an opportunity get along make the best of all the days; ripe your feelings and touch nothing else is more of hope, we have everything inasmuch as we work things out and cope. the days begin in nothingness with the cold pleasure at first, then there might be a new fresh a moment of thought we thirst; a day is asleep for awhile and then there's some awaken, hard in a lost hour to defile when a mind's occupied or taken.
Because he coveted beauty above wisdom or power, death would be his destiny. wisdom may have saved him. yet he deceived himself to believe a mortal man, could possess such loveliness, even though he was a prince. the fairest maiden of all, the daughter of the swan, was wed to a greek king, but she did not love him. still in alliances of death, armies swore protection of their honored queen, and the honor of the king. yet goddesses conspired, and eros fired love's arrow ensuring helen's passion. thus the prince was doomed. paris would die for love, for abduction of the queen brought war and retribution, and troy was razed to dust.
Paris so beautiful at night and during the day is beautiful also the eiffel tower is located in the center of paris but all the flowers in paris are blooming in the parks and at la seine yes spring is heret in paris and i am enjoying the spring but the flowers in the parks here in paris are beautiful because they are a show of colors.
Ms.paris what is paris? eiffel towers beauty, disneyland's adventure, historically religious. its all step by step to your destination, only 1 street lamp, owls go starring curiously. a long way in history, a lot for a pray to god almighty. really amazing sacre coeur, and notre dame church. ms.paris is it really paris?.
Sneaking through the back alleys their evil intentions muted uzis ready in their hands their minds full of hate sons of terror struck swollen with innocent blood walls were dripping with fresh paint a new portrait of terror appeared paraded in the streets of paris by the fanatical servants of terror the peaceful night ripped apart by the flood of innocent blood that painted the streets red in a midnight exhibition of terror the bleeding graffiti in paris.
Paris, have'nt you known, darling.. that things in you ignite, to let the me in poetry.. look at the poetry in me, or have'nt you known, darling.. that when the inme ignites, things in you go down.. to let the poetry in me, look at the me.. inpoetry.
Paris in paris, they tell me million is marching i would too; if i could to support and agree 'respect is top of list' 'tolerance is the need' behaviors can exceed it makes heart to bleed head in sand or snow polishing with glow empty; being shelled will repeat at its end what logic is against.
His eyes, from looking at the passing iron bars have tired and no images will hold he feels as if there were a thousand bars albeit behind them no reality at all. the supple grace of lightly treading steps endless gyrations of the smallest kind a dance of strength encircling a core which holds, subdued and numb a mighty will. brief moments when the pupil's curtains slide an image passes, silently, inside goes through the quiet of the body's lissome limbs and finds its final rest inside the creature's heart.
There was a spirit of friendly fellowship in the family reunion days of long ago when the young and old gathered together and softened the day's beautiful glow. i can still detect a variety of odors of barbecue chicken, pie and cake and the sizzling steaks on the grill, like the elderly members use to make. i recollect the old timers telling stories about how rough life use to be, the great depression and lengthy war years, heartfelt accounts they seemed to me. as the evening shadows began to deepen, i always recited a simple, thankful prayer for all the blessings, joys, and happiness our family was willing to share.
Being born into a big family in the midst of uncertainties, real understanding and perseverance it carries. all sorts of human thoughts and emotions set into focus, towards realigning own family solidarity despite wide disparity on the basis of practicality loyalty and sincerity. families produced though varied in sizes and unevenly shared rapport, act on the instinct of love respect and moral support. men and women alike are one in times of a true call, inspiring each member to be strong and to stand tall. life could be rough and tough yet not one must quit, yield only to the family and never to others outside it.
He is a hero not by sibling ordinal age, nor by fate. he did not choose whatever he became. you see . . . his father drank himself out of fortune, family, and prestige, right into the nothingness of the streets. cold and motionless, without anyone to claim what remained, a city dump truck took him to the grave. not just any power greater than he but the lord alone, led the hero to success and . . . away from alcohol.
Sitting in front of the fire, auntie flo's reciting a story, it's one about her first christmas as a newly wed, the same one she broadcasts every year, but no one is listening. uncle fred, 'out to the world' snores rhythmically on the sofa. mother exhausted, having cooked the lunch, without help, as usual, stifles a yawn. dad, brow furrowed, is trying to piece together eddy's lego set, whilst eddy glowers, after all, it was 'his' present. joe, playing with a set of 'disco lights' is sending flashes of colour across the room, straight into grandpa's eyes, making him feel even more bilious after having consumed too many chocolates. grandma's knitting. grandma always knits on christmas day, and every other day, come to that, probably yet another scarf for what she believes is still the war effort. the cat, curled up on her lap, purrs contently, oblivious of the knitting needles, waving precariously in front of his sleepy eyes. susan is gazing at the tv screen, . glued, for the umpteenth time to, 'the sound of music' movie, singing every song, word for word, at the top of her voice. 'turkey was nice', said auntie, 'i was given too much', moaned grandpa, belching loudly. 'your problem is, you never can refuse a second helping', said grandma, 'so it's your own fault'. mother grins and asks, 'would anybody like another mince pie? '.
Eventhough she sometimes talk about the past i know that my love for her it will last. like the link of a chain together we cling she is my girl and love is what we bring she is my love my all in all my love for you will never fall.
All families are different loving caring helpful but my family special their there to talk tell stories bake wonderful cookies welcoming you and me smells like a family with colorful decorate houses going by to my family one day to stay.
Why can't family be family again we used to always be friends we used to huddle together whenever we got scared we felt the warmth in one anothers arms because we knew the love was there we used to build forts out of whatever we had in our rooms and wage sars throwing pillows, books, and brooms we used to have mini mosh pits with just the four of us we headbanged and pushed we screamed and pretended to cuss we used to protect eachother we used to defend one another we used to stand together like brothers and sister when mom punished us we would all resist her we used to be a family a family that would always care we used to be a family with more happiness than despair we used to be a family that never hogged food or air we used to be a family that told eachother we were there we used to be a family a family that sat down toghether and ate we used to be a family full of our own ideas that we create we used to be a family that got along without debate we used to be a family with more love than hate so why can't family be family again and remember why those times were so good why can't family be family again and treat eachother the way we should why can't family be family again and throw the hate away why can't family be family again and invite the love to stay.
My brother lee wagner and wife my sister billies rose and husband george tmeple me and my husband walter hoffpavir my sister jewel dyan and husband curtis diyon my sister ruby lee and husband walter wright my baby sister joyce and husband charles staples my brother walter toler and wife i have two boys rex and ralph living nearby with children of their own grandchildren on the way but where the tall grass grows birds nest in the trees the wind blows free.
My family is everything to me family is always going to be there for you family is the people you trust family is the kind of people who cares alot about you family is the first people you come to if you have a problem just remember that family is going to be there no matter what in tough times and in easy times in you could think of everything so family is going to be there no matter what so i just want to say ''i love my family''.
What is a family picture? is it all for real? are the people that you see pretending they don't feel? can you see their anger? can you smell their fear? do you sense unhappiness in the picture that's so clear? we're trying to be perfect, to look a certain way. a family picture says so much when there's nothing nice to say. you plaster on the fake smile. you put your arms 'just so'. you show the world your family without letting your family show.
It is not the colour of our skin that makes the person, but what lies deep within. we all bleed red blood no matter what colour we are, our tears are always salty whenever they stain our sorrowed brow. we all breathe the same air, so why do we discriminate and caste aside one person from another. no matter who we are when we die and go to heaven. god does not discriminate from one person to another. as far as he is concerned, we are to him just one big family, no one is different from the other. therefore, as we walk forward today lets link hands and say, come and join us as we are family. 16 may 2008.
With open arms they welcomed me with open arms they let me stay with open hearts they loved me with open hearts they show they cared with open minds they listend to me with open minds they believed me its very hard to find people people that care so hard infact i think it's rare.
Your mouth is biger then the world is round someone tells you something and you run home and tell my dad he and you both make me feel like i dont belong in this world you tell him things that i never said or did you say things to me and when i tell him you deny everything you are family so i have to love you right? well i do just most of the time i dont feel i have a reason to love you.
Everyone has a place in a family there are the crazy uncles the wild aunts the anger father the gently mother the sneaky cousins the giving grandmother the wise grandfather the mature child haha what a dream that is meet my real family drunk, abusive, or controlling uncles crazy, angry, stressed, and untrust worthy aunts alcoholic father that was never there two faced, angry and high on herself mother pissed off mood swing step father lying and sneaky cousins two faced grandmother old fashion grandfather a child who was never allowed to be a child that child is me and i am the black sheep of this family the unwanted one anyone in there right mind would not want to join this family i sure as hell would love to run from it so that is my family you ever come never them i wish you good luck for they can drive anyone to wits end.
Her father was a smart dyslexic but she was thin and anorexic. the mother had a bad addiction to gambling in her jurisdiction. one brother used amphetamines the other started in his teens to rob and steal and even kill it made the family quite ill. one day the father, chaired a meeting next day his daughter started eating. the mother won a million bucks one brother said this life, it sucks the other changed identity and ended thus his misery. all five were favoured by the gods, and, what the heck, they liked the odds.
Love my family with my hold heart. my love is joy to love my family family is sad and happy and love. family is fun and painful and pretty. my family is like all families we have love and we have happiness and tears i love my hold family my family is like angels who fly in sky i am grateful that i have family that loves me. my family are kind and nice and fun to be around my family is painful like all familys are and heart breaking and evil sometimes my family is heart breaking and deadly like everyone else hey i can't stop loving my family not matter what it coats in the family. way my family is just makes me want have family with someone be as good as they are. but god know i love my family and our love is great to have in life and even know they leave he world they still a live in my hearts.
Not one less of this family that must stick together and always save one another, be it whatever, a financial distress emotional stress, societal imbalance, technological displacements the family shall be first even in crime passion, the family is one in all conspiracies not one less, each must be saved from shame from destruction i am tired of this, i am getting out, i am now a stranger, alone against this family, i speak my mind, i blow the whistle now, kill me i am a corpse, i have long been dead in the dark chambers of this family the secrets too deadly, kill me now, i dare, only if you can.
Tell me what does family mean to you is it all the little special things one another do or is it the bond that one another has maybe its the love from one generation to another one it pass family is more than a six letter word it is a word that often need to be heard family is more than realitives they are friends friend that will stick with you to the very very end a family bond is stronger than ever because it can overcome any stormy weather a family stand tall no matter how hard they fall uniting as one when their backs against the wall that is simply what a family do helping you become a better you so when you think about the word family think beyound just the background history like they say a empty house is not a home and a true faithful family never stands alone.
We've got a family album like a family tree a thrill to turn the pages the pictures we can see starting off with grands and greats then slowly down the line like a book of history a journey through the time fashions start to alter mustaches come and go ladies skirts skip up and down a proper fashion show top hats change to boaters to caps then none at all ladies bonnets disappear and so does grannies shawl picture's change to colour black and white has gone a different place, a different time so much to look upon but what is so amazing is the likeness we can see showing up the genes right through our family tree.
Family comes together for always and forever in sickness and in health in poverty or in wealth family comes together for always and forever without any reason anytime or any season family comes together for always and forever in death or in life in happiness or in strife family comes together for always and forever in anger or in kindness whether all seeing or in blindness family comes together for always and forever whether for work or for play they somehow find a way for family to come together because families are forever.
My family will forever be in my heart, my sister's mean the world to me, more than life, all i ever wanted was a complete family, to have a mother whom i never met, my family will always remain who they are in my heart and soul, my family is more important than my friends and my lover, family will always come first, family is family, no matter what they did they'll always remain family.
To all my family and friends, i'm happy to say, this is the end. i've been contemplating death for a while. stressed out, as all these problems pile. i need more help than i can get. a year in therapy, no improvement yet. scarred for life and full of pain. unable to clean this everlasting stain. no one but me knows the whole truth. of all the awful things of my youth. i lie to myself all the time. pretending i'm happy and my life is sublime. everything is out of control. i'm tired and worn, my body has taken its toll. my conscience and morals seem to fade, as i did the bad things my parents forbade. i'm tired of making the same mistakes. i'm tired of all the liars and fakes. i just want to be gone and disapear. living another day is my only fear. so with this in thought i will take the knife. find a vein and end my life.
To be a part of a family like mine is so divine where love is shown hurt is shared our love for each other is never impaired we talk we laugh we cry but we are a family and we do it all together for as a family we do it all as one you hurt one you hurt all and as a family unit we will all stand tall for we are family a family full of strength a family full of love a family no one can touch that's why i love my family so much.
At christmas families, gather around a family christmas tree to open gifts of love each has left there for one another. the tree sparkles with lights and coloured tinsel, while on top there sits an angel to watch over everyone. carefully wrapped presents adorn the floor around the bottom of the tree. each has been wrapped and sealed with a loving kiss, one for you and one for me. then on christmas morn as the dawn breaks the sky the children climb out of their bed and tiptoe downstairs to the presents, getting ready to explore. before the day is over there will be shrills of laughter and joy ringing out at all they have received from beneath a family christmas tree.
Fear not, dear friend, but freely live your days though lesser lives should suffer. such am i, a lesser life, that what is his of sky gladly would give for you, and what of praise. step, without trouble, down the sunlit ways. we that have touched your raiment, are made whole from all the selfish cankers of man's soul, and we would see you happy, dear, or die. therefore be brave, and therefore, dear, be free; try all things resolutely, till the best, out of all lesser betters, you shall find; and we, who have learned greatness from you, we, your lovers, with a still, contented mind, see you well anchored in some port of rest.
Do you see the window, .underneath the tree? do you see the sunshine .floating on the sea? do you feel the laughter .over at the bar? do you feel the pain .of the rusting car? do you understand the world? .ask if you are real. do you understand our time? .can you even feel. do you know the answers? .there are no questions here. do you know why we hate? there exists inside us fear.
The fear swells up i begin to dread that time in my life that my life will end the fog gets so thick i can barely see my brain starts to wonder what will happen to me i look over my shoulder but no one is there i could die right now but i just don't care inside my chest my heart begins to race the end is so near it's right in my face the fear swells up i begin to dread that time in my life that my life will end.
No. basking in human godship due to your doubt, never can i be esnared. for what good is an ice cube to the magnitude of the sun? have you consummated self assuredly such pride in aloofness? facetiously with kin brooding on, in a bed of fear. a manifestation that cannot be good news to hear. drugged with wanting the scare of freedom, not wanting the sacred touch of oblivion.
I have no fear in death i long for it i find death for a child always looking for enjoyment in what it kills i have no fear in death death is what i can only see but why, has it not come for me it comes close but never comes for me i have no fear in death for death fears me.
What causes the fear that people feel, when there scared and have to face the truth. what cause that fear that people feel, when there in love and have been hurt. what is it that there afraid to face, when fear is at the door. do they think that they can just walk away and not face it head on. because when you turn your back on that fear, it follow's you night and day. it creeps up when you least exspect it, and haunts you everyday. fear is just another diease that's waiting to be cured. but the cure is not in a bottle, a vile or a store. the cure is made from what's inside you. the courage that you have. but to use it, you must believe that fear is not all that you have. use what courage you can, to bring yourself forward and stand tall. and the next time your afraid, remember fear is never far from the fall.
In death we die alone to dust and bone we return to take our rightful place on earths throne dying of an endless cancer whispers on the cold clay earth a stillness in the air filled by sudden fear when the shadows of darkness are knowingly very near a stillness in the air filled by sudden fear whats next, when and where curiosity of thoughts above or beyond a heart beats endlessly pondering on what is out there which remains a mystery.
The musty smell hangs weightless in the air. suspended like an invisible cloth curtain. marking the boundary of the cave. striking the senses like a sledgehammer. it mists up the eyes like fog. and sets the skin crawling from the body. beyond the smell is the dark. endlessly covering the limits of reality and possibility. the fear of the unknown against the safety of the mundanity. walking forwards, the darkness retreats into the earth. folding in on itself until rushing forward to encompass. it breathes into into its invisible depths. deeper, deeper. the shadows are calling out. sounds are amplified to a fearful crescendo. anticipation hangs ripe for harvest. something waits, feeding on the taste of fear. something not right something different something greater something that is not meant to be something wrong something not human not human. instinct takes over undiluted fear floods through the veins pumping through the body, ripping apart all reason, animal fear takes hold the last vestiges of civilization fall. and all other emotions are thrown away into the maelstrom of dread awe. giving way to the terror of the hunted. blindness darkness fear p ure fear.
I come now from those foreign places unknown to those with hidden faces bedecked and different, for them to leer as one unknown, something to fear am i not i that you can see? what is the fear you see in me? this faceless one, that makes you quake i hold no fear its what you make deceive yourself if that you may and cringe from that which spells decay i hold no terrors in these hands i am but a vessel to unknown lands there is nothing to fear but fear itself of what, the memory of love or wealth you will take my hand, make no mistake a new life starts as you awake.
People choose to see what they want in me wanting to be my friend seeking the knoweldge i hold within from what i have learned in school and outside of school never really touching what i am made up of on the inside but if they ask, i tell them some but nothing to deep for i feel once they know who i am on the inside they will no longer be my friend for they always want people to know them inside and out for me it takes either along time or a very strong conection between me and that person before i let them know my deepest darkest secrets that lay deep beneath my skin with the hope that they will still be my friend.
Fear haunts the eyes, of the terrified young slaughter replacing, days once filled with fun streets full of laughter, now places of dread market squares littered, with the dying and dead tiny hands clenching, coats tattered and torn relying on mothers, to keep them from harm cordite and dust, still thick in the air stinging their eyes, now filled with despair truely an age of innocence passed drawing on breath, which may be their last brought into a world, full of violence and hate what kind of impression, do we hope to create the youth of today has ourfuture on hold bitter and twisted, we created the mould no love or affection, just the will to deprive how can we as a race, ever hope to survive.
What do people fear? we fear things we don't understand, we fear things that can hurt us, we fear things that put shivers up our spines, we fear things that we see that we wish we didn't, so why do you fear?.
1 many animals that our fathers killed in america had quick eyes. they stared about wildly, when the moon went dark. the new moon falls into the freight yards of cities in the south, but the loss of the moon to the dark hands of chicago does not matter to the deer in this northern field. 2 what is that tall woman doing there, in the trees? i can hear rabbits and mourning dovees whispering together in the dark grass, there under the trees. 3 i look about wildly.
I didn't know what to do, i was trapped, a prisoner, a slave, i had nowhere to run, nowhere to hide, nowhere to go, and nowhere to cry, i'm all alone in this world i have no shoulder to cry on, no person to love, nothing to look forward to, yet i go on, i live my life in fear of everything, i fear i will never find love, i will never feel the warmness inside, that i long to feel, the warm touch of someone close, that i wish to feel, i will never find, that i will always love, the soul mate, i'm always thinking of. what is there left in this world for me? nothing or is it just worth waiting, just to see, what might happen? and will i ever become free.
Had less to do with any harm they might inflict than with the sad look in their eyes expressing a need for love he felt he couldn't meet. and so he looked away from them. he was too busy for such obligations, waiting instead for angels to speak, looking up at heaven with an expression they couldn't help responding to, try as they might to avoid his gaze.
Rainy days and stormy nights a train running through my mind tree's fall knocking out the lights and i somehow, lose all track of time i sat there in that corner all alone wondering what will happen next praying that he didn't come home i was wrong, now i'm in a hell of a fix i heard her tell him, i got beat up bad he had to come and look for himself when he saw me crying he did get mad after that beating, all i thought of was death i was always wrong because he had his own rule and no matter what i did, it just wasn't enough i even had thoughts of camping out at school because living at home was getting to be rough i use to cry a lot, but i got broke in with pain it's hard to do at time, and i can't understand holding the tears all the years who can explain he walked around, proudly calling himself a man he just didn't know what i had been thinking pay him back for all the pain that he gave me wait till he passed out from all the drinking could burn the house down and i would be free it's sad to think of all the pain a child gets so hard to deal with and seems no one cares they go through this life with so many regrets from living in shame and hiding from fear when will it ever stop?.
Fear is an agonizing thing it cripples deep inside it freezes the thinking part of you so you want to run and hide it creeps like a burglar upon you causing shivers to run down your spine it reduces you to an empty shell and destroys all that is fine don't let fear get a hold on you fight it with all your might once you bring that fear in the open your world has a chance to be bright.
Us godly fear delightful unto thee, that fear that god himself delights to see bear sway in them that love him? then he will thy godly mind in this request fulfil. by giving thee a fear that tremble shall, at every trip thou takest, lest thou fall, and him offend, or hurt thyself by sin, or cause poor souls that always blind have been to stumble at thy falls, and harder be against their own salvation and thee. that fear that of itself would rather choose the rod, than to offend or to abuse in anything that blessed worthy name, that hath thee saved from that death and shame; that sin would soon have brought thee to, if he had not imputed righteousness to thee. i will love them, saith god, and not depart from them, but put my fear within their heart, that i to them may always lovely be, and that they never may depart from me.
A mother worries about the choices that her son may make. she knows she has let him make decisions for his own sake. as sirens scream, a mother sits in darkness choking back tears. she prays that her boy is safe and calms her doubting fears. at half past two, beams from headlights flood the driveway. relieved that he is home, she tiptoes to her bedroom right away. she hears an urgent knocking and goes to turn on the porch light. patiently waiting at the door is a police officer; he is a somber sight.
I fear the vast dimensions of eternity. i fear the gap between the platform and the train. i fear the onset of a murderous campaign. 1 fear the palpitations caused by too much tea. i fear the drawn pistol of a rapparee. i fear the books will not survive the acid rain. i fear the ruler and the blackboard and the cane. i fear the jabberwock, whatever it might be. i fear the bad decisions of a referee. i fear the only recourse is to plead insane. i fear the implications of a lawyer's fee. i fear the gremlins that have colonized my brain. i fear to read the small print of the guarantee. and what else do i fear? let me begin again.
I fear not of tomorrow the dark scares me not i am not full of sorrow although i've weeped a lot what i fear is not on paper there are no words big enough i am not a hater although this world can be so tough what i fear is much deeper it is not simply cold or hot what makes me a weeper is the fear of loosing all i've got it's the fear of fear itself that keeps me up at night the fear of fear itself is what keeps happiness out of my sight it's the fear of putting all plans on the shelf that makes me afraid of loosing my very self the fear of scaring away who i am inside is what makes me so afraid i hide.
I live all alone. upon my own. along will come my fears. my memories. my nightmares. it will all huant me again. all alone in my world. a world not quite real. a world not humane a world of fear. through my fears. i go alone. cqant share them with no one. keep it all to myself.
It is in the small things we see it a spider in the corner a hairy monster on the prowl lighting on a dark night a flash of ligh that brings a scream of rage a new room filled with the unknown the staring faces and smug looks of others later if you return with a knowledge packed head you do it with the dreaded anticipation of the day ahead you do it hiding from the monsters the laughing monsters of pain and hurt you do it as a black shadow flickering between the light and the dark later if you survived the hell of a thousand faces you emerge with painful memories but also with a hope of a new life this is short lived the stacking of bills a never ending stream of debt the dark monster trying to steal a loved one away emerging behind words of pain and hurt smothering your dwindling hope later after a life fully lived your fear is in the struggle to stand in the winter the horrific beauty of the ice in the last sickness of your life.
When life becomes a trembling world of fear, you question every single move you make, afraid your loving soul will disappear; for danger looms, awaiting your mistake. what hidden word will cause explosion's might to back you in a corner of despair? your sole reprieve lies in the ebon night, yet anger boils from pain he wouldn't spare. where love once dwelled resides a burning hate as desperation's hand has gained control. no longer viewed as your eternal mate; to save yourself becomes the utmost goal. envisioning a pool of crimson red; a knife within your hand; your fear is shed.
Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye, that thou consum'st thy self in single life? ah, if thou issueless shalt hap to die, the world will wail thee like a makeless wife. the world will be thy widow and still weep, that thou no form of thee hast left behind, when every private widow well may keep, by children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind. look what an unthrift in the world doth spend shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it; but beauty's waste hath in the world an end, and kept unused the user so destroys it. no love toward others in that bosom sits that on himself such murd'rous shame commits.
Don't fear death in earthly travels. don't fear enemies or friends. just listen to the words of prayers, to pass the facets of the dreads. your death will come to you, and never you shall be, else, a slave of life, just waiting for a dawn's favor, from nights of poverty and strife. she'll build with you a common law, one will of the eternal reign. and you are not condemned to slow and everlasting deadly pain.
Just feel full of fear. time for that cold beer. find a friend with big ears. wont cring at my fears. cimb into that nest high. after a few, then that sigh. what keeps this liquid cold. drinking fast and not too slow. crazy how life just goes. that guys got a funny nose. onward the march of day. over the bar, another days pay. what can i do but cry. so its time to say goodbye.
I fear the fear i cannot stop, i fear it more and more, and when i grind my teeth with pain, the words come out demure. i close my eyes with acid, and dream while not asleep, to confuse any enemys, anything i write i eat. i fear the loss of loving, but loving leads to pain, so when im loving i admit, i start to fear again. i cry tears of happiness, to pretend it isnt real, i divulge no information, on what is truely real. i say sorry constantly, it means nothing anymore, im sorry i cant be sincere, are you wanting more? would you like my fantasies, to warp with truth and light, or can i keep them to myself, so i can keep them warped inside? i fear my sense of longing, i turn me inside out, my insides are much prettier, than the outsides ever felt. so spit on me with poison, prove my worth is nil, i dont fear your ignorance, its your clarity that kills. seek the maze of happiness, and dont you chase you tail, dead ends lace every divide, but no one can win or fail. so fear the fear that i fear, and see that all this mess, will not be sanitised with truth, when you beg me to confess.
The beating of your heart when you know somethings wrong. why you hide from everything but think you're so strong. why you can't take chances and stay on the safe side. why you never sit in the front seat, or go on six flags rides. why you don't leave the house, even when you want to. why you don't have many friends to talk to you. as scared, anxious and modest as you appear, people think you're crazy, all i see is fear.
Why you've fear, when i'm here? why shed a tear, i'm not clear? you're every year, grown up in fear, that brings you tear, when you aren't clear. show always a cheer, in place of a tear, that will, my dear, drive away your fear. if still you've fear, when i'm near, you turn deaf ear, to my words, dear. i'm now clear, that you've no fear, nor let a tear, down below your ear.
Child of mine please never be afraid to fear fear the next book if you will the next page or the last word as terrifying as they may seem but please never be afraid to fear for it is the fear you free yourself to feel that will serve you well.
Adolescent fear never speaks in its own language always translated into the impure tongue of cocky mock confidence mutating into terrifying others but not me each morning resolute to spread a little knowledge inspire a little, fighting another tide which is pulling them each morning they arrive resolute to fit in look cool be popular stay safe a handy tool is mock the teacher show no interest in the offerings of knowledge and inspiration let battle of two tides commence.
I know the fear within you aches it captivates your mind but i know you have what it takes though you fear you're walking blind but walking blinds a good thing walk by faith and not by sight with faith you can conquer anything but the void of faith is fright remember, you have nothing to fear this battle is god's fight too and he's never lost a fight, my dear so why would he start with you? remember the warrior you are the leader of them all god heard our war cries from afar and now beside us he's fighting tall god is with you now and tomorrow and forever till forever's end please don't let life bring you sorrow because in god you've found a friend please listen to my words listen and hold them dear god is lord of lords and with him, there's nothing to fear.
Why must one such as i, live my life with fear, the fear to unjustly die. it is not what you first hear, i do not fear lack of breath. i am worried about dying inside. i do not fear eternal rest. i am worried for my broken pride. i lay in pieces on the floor, with lack of peace to be found. and i hope for you to open my door, i wish you could gaze upon me downed. i miss you away from my side, and generally away from my life.
I do not fear. armagadden, not the end, not soldiers wearing masks, not the plague, not nuclear disaster. not prisons, not persecution, not being labeled or hated. not losing it all, not guns, not drugs, nor one world order. but i do fear. not living all that i can live, not giving all that i can give, not matching beliefs with action, not seeing all people as people, not doing what i know is right. not standing when i should stand, not saying what i should say. not writing the words i'm given.
This poem is to my father. it's a long story, but this is how i feel and this is my way of helping myself feel better after what he did. i know everyone says hate is a strong word hate is a strong word yeah but in my case i can use it i hate you you bring me nothing but anger, pain disgust i may have your looks but i am not you i have a brain i use it, unlike yourself as a young woman almost grown i know this now i don't need you and i think you know why why you ask because i hate you.
Love me for what i am hate me for what i've done love me for what i do hate me for what i don't do love me for been there for you hate me for every time i failed you love me for trusting you hate me for not thinking of you love me the way that i do hate me for the pain i caused you.
They say hate is another fear a fear to not love a fear to not belong a fear to not be here a fear that is wrong i'm consumed with more than enough i feel it all the time more than the feeling of love more than being afraid dark thoughts make me cold making it a part of me until i grow old until i can no longer see i let the evil within take over my soul by commiting this sin i pay a greater toll slowly, now i'm fading blurry and freezy it hurts to be hating.
Love and hate are four letter words that tells lies and that tells the truth love and hate are four letter words that express feelings for the old and the youth love and hate are four letter words that can be powerful love and hate are four letter words that can be doubtful hate, hate is a four letter word that is cruel and mean hate is a four letter word that was made to hurt someone's feelings hate is four letter word that someone uses when they are angry hate is a four letter word that can tear your family apart hate is a four letter word that can even break your heart love, love is four letter word that can sneak up on us sometimes love is four letter word that is hard to say at times love is a four letter word that can be true and pure love is four letter word that can be fake and cruel why do people say 'i love you' and don't even know what love is? love is a four letter word that confuses the mind of adults and us young kids love is a four letter word that can be blind love is a four letter word that can play tricks on our minds love and hate are four letter words that tells lies and that tells the truth love and hate are four letter words that expresses feelings for the old and the youth.
There once was a little swine he was partial to blueberry wine and he had a fat mother who had smothered his father someone said you are out of line. and the mother was really huge and she dreamed of an oily deluge where she would lose it all and become a sweet doll but the god of all fat was a scrooge. so she went on a rampage to stab all those thin ones who did not have flab but she was so inept that she finally wept and she hoped for the gift of the gab. but the weather had turned rather sour it was raining from shower to shower so she called to the crowd that today is allowed real fighting in mud, woman power. but the people who'd smelled her objected she was fat, had completely neglected her old body at that and she was rather fat so she found that they all had defected. when the stars came out shining in gold and this fatso had done what she's told she just jumped from the castle to avoid further hassle she had always seen others as old. what this proves is the subject of hate is so futile to use on a mate if you hate you are dumb they should flog your old bum but i think that we may be too late.
I hate to fly and do you know why you stand in huge line for three hours just to have your bag checked in by a retarded old hag. i hate sitting in the plane it gives me pain next to a person who does not speak english and a little terror kid who you wish would play with the fire exit.
I hate the way you make me cry tying knots around me forever binding me to this feeling of hollowness i hate the way your screams echo inside me constantly blinding me deafening my sense of certainty with your hurt i hate it when glass shatters leaving pieces of my sanity splattered on white carpets and formica cabinets and when the roof has caved in and crashes over my head crumbling down to my nail marred feet i sweep it neatly up and hide it darkened corners with all the other forgotten martyrs left praying for the worlds sins in a pool of crimson i hate how you make me hate myself eroding and excavating my goodness with your foolishness false pride mixed with alcoholic breath triggering my gage reflexes with your familiar sour stench i hate to love you every single vessel that allows you to be every tiny molecule atom and cell that beats down on my shoulders like torrential rains suffocating normal functioning.
I hate my life and don't ask why cause you might think its just a lie everyone hates me, everyone left me i know that it sounds crazy but its true, if you can see be what you can be i feel invisible but no one cares loneliness is what i cant bare tears run down, my eyes start to sting i'm running out of tears, but i kept on crying no more tears, need to cry more blood replaced my tears, but spilling out more my heart beats slower, my breathing becomes shallow i fall on the ground, everything becomes blury i can die right now since no one cares yes, that's what i should do i close my eyes i'll go to my dreamworld my heart stops beating my body stays still, my soul breaks and smiles no more.
Hate is a feeling that boils with rage. hate is a feeling you lose with age. hate is a feeling that eats inside. hate is a feeling we all should hide. hate is the feeling we dont understand. hate is the feeling of losing our stand. hate is the feeling of a thing called fear. hate is the feeling that hurts in here. hate is a feeling that grows some more. hate is a feeling, what good is it for? hate is a feeling that you have too. hate is a feeling i have for you.
I hate that you left me i have that i fell for you i hate that your smile haunts i hate that you died i hate that i can't be angry i hate that i'm upset i hate that you wanted this i hate that i wasn't enough i hate that i couldn't make you happy i hate that your gone i hate that i don't hate you i hate that your laugh is gone i hate your gentle kisses i hate your friends for not crying i hate that i can't stop crying i hate that life goes on i hate that your not actually dead i hate your choices i hate the drugs that you love i hate i feel that your dead i hate you're no longer mine i hate the people you now call friends i hate the men you sleep with i hate your dad for what he's done i hate seeing you so unhappy i hate so many things but the one i hate the most i hate that i love you i hate i would die for you i hate i'll never get over you i hate this new you i hate myself for not hating you.
Sad and lonely depressed thinking about suicide not just sometimes but all the time i write these words in digust upon my mirror in my own blood glaring back at me i hate myself and i wanna die pent up emotions ripping me apart inside my head is a endless chant bugging and never ending urging me to just go ahead and give up today, tomorrow, and yesterday always it's the same i can't stop it not even sure that i want to all i know for sure is i hate myself and i wanna die so many times i've thought about it even come close to carrying my threat through cos it seems to me to be sad but true no one here on this earth really gives a damm about me pitiful ugly me the stuff nightmares must surely be made of bringing my funeral date a little bit closer still i write these words that keep on breaking my heart over and over and over again i hate myself and i wanna die no one's fault but my own i know that i accept that just not strong enough to handle this life on my own so soon very, very soon i promise that i will make my final exit silently and without a word so that i don't disturb any of your happy lifes i'll whisper it to myself one last time before i go what i would like you to crave on my tombstone when i'm finally gone at last please don't be too sad cos it's ok really it is cos the truth is it was her choice she hated herself and she wanted to die.
There is so much hate, and not enough joy to balance all things out, and when you get overwhelmed you just want to shout. to the heavens above to the earth below to everyone around. but even though you open your mouth, no one hears a sound. is it because they were born deaf to the world or because they choose to be someone who doesn't give a crap about what happens to you or me. i guess what i'm saying is that we need to act, don't leave it up to fate, because so many things can go wrong that we cannot help but hate.
I hate the hate that resides in me now i hate the hate that is so heavy it weighs me down i hate the hate that keeps my emotions tightly wound i hate the hate that charges my wall i hate the hate that lies to strengthen my fall i hate the hate that has me in chains i hate the hate that courses through my veins i hate the hate that is a shadow at my side i hate the hate that has stolen my mind i hate the hate that blinds me from the stars i hate the hate that has created my war i hate the hate that has stolen my grace my scarlet letter written all over my face.
Am i to be loved by you a day, and lost for your heart the other? know that if you walked away, i will never love another.. even if i killed my own heart, and stopped it from it's right to beat. i swear i'll tare it apart, if it longed to who is used to cheat. how have i ever fell for you? in no time you had all of me. how didn't i know what's true? that you never felt for me. and i saw more than a sign, but yet i stayed so in love. thinking that you are mine, i flew all the skies above. and they told me but i didn't believe, it will end soon for it had no start. but i heard nothing, trying to achieve, the dream of my life to reach your heart. what was ever on my mind? if people lied to me, will so my eyes? how was i so blind? and hiding from all those lies. i guess that no words are enough, to describe the pain inside me. i thought i am your only love, and i'm your star and reverie. can't help but to stare at you, and stare back at my weary life. can't help but to hate you, and in this gale i won't survife. love and hate and you and i, why did you have to lead me on? i can't believe those tears i cry, i can't believe i was never strong..
A girl named hate stood at heavens gate just wishing to be let in she breathed out sin and they shuned her her pain a blur she walked away to try again another day a girl named hate stood at hells gate she breathed out sin and they let her in they did not judge her they loved her for sure and there she will stay day after day that girl named hate broke away from fate she stayed were she fit in she stayed with her sin they did not hate her they befriended her things usualy turn out that way when you tell some one to go away.
I try to hide but you just keep finding me i try to run but you are the one i bump i try to forget but you just smile and say 'trying to run from yourself isn't going to get you anywhere' i hide from myself i run from myself i try to forget myself but when i look in a mirror you stare at me with a smirk but all i know is i have to run but how can you lose yourself easy just kill yourself i hate myself.
No hate with hate thursday,10th january 2019 if we can win over the internal enemies if the answer is in yes, then there lies the solution for all tragedies we have the medicine and remedy why go outside and advocate? take the refuge under the guise of lies and relate the things which are common for all of us as human beings whoever has won over the hatred happiness has always led the humanity to the purposeful end we have respected and bowed to such trend hate emanates fromthe greed and selfishness the lines can be traced on the face the visible displeasure is easily noticed its repercussions are easily felt but roots not traced we burn with the rage write it down on the page but again return to an old theme and follow them hasmukh mehta.
No one usually likes the word goodbye. its a painful word. that hurts so many poeple in so many ways. when your love says goodbye is that i'll see you later. or does it mean its 'over'. goodbye hurt me once it was the end of something good, i wish there wasnt a goodbye why wouldnt it have been 'hi'?.
Hate is the opposite of love. these emotions are powerful. hate stirs up conflicts and wars. discrimination is a cause of hate. people say hate is a powerful word. it is indeed a powerful word hate. hate brings on anxiety anxiety leads to fear. fear brings on anger. anger leads to suffering. suffering causes death. this feeling is dark and dreadful. hate is represented by the color black. such a dark deep color like hate. in the dictionary there are too many words that mean hate. does all humanity hate each other. people hate you for your beliefs, interests, dress, even the way you look. thinking that hate will be a solved problem is only a madman's dream.
Somewhere, it must have happened first, the fear, the anger, the helpless feeling of guilt. somewhere, it must have happened first, the sarcasm, the malice, the wearied feeling of shame. somewhere, it must have happened first, the desertion, the anarchy, the drained feeling of alone. somewhere, it must have happened first, the lost love, the lost faith, the stoic feeling of the end somewhere, it must have happened first, somewhere, it must have.
The day i hate rice is several rare day in a year when i don't eat rice i don't want to eat rice i don't want to see it because i hate its taste and i hate to think about it if i have the day i hate rice then you'll know that i don't feel well i'm bored of this procession i want to run from this life because i begin to hate myself .just a little while and everything will be back to normal again that's the meaning of the day i hate rice.
I hate you i hate that you left me stand stupid for so long i hate that you thought i could or would take it. i hate you i hate that you let me go i hate that you left me standing alone. i hate you i hate that you couldn't prove me wrong i hate that i was right. i hate you i hate that i met you i hate that i opened my heart i hate that it was to you i hate that i love you i hate you i hate that i lost my clear mind i hate that i lost my direction i hate that i lost it because of you i hate you i hate that i hate you it wasn't suppose to be like this. i hate you.
I had no time to hate, because the grave would hinder me, and life was not so ample i could finish enmity. nor had i time to love, but since some industry must be, the little toil of love, i thought, was large enough for me.
I hate that you fooled me with your infectios smile i hate that you told me you loved me when you were lying all the while i hate that you were so jealous when he was just a friend i hate that you turned this into something we cannot mend i hate that we screwed this up past the point of no return i hate that you never believed me trust is something you should learn i hate that you ignore me now as if we never were i hate that you betrayed me for my pain there is no cure i hate that you broke my heart you don't know what i've been through but most of all i hate myself for letting you.
You used to call me your sunshine and you used to be really fine i wanted to be in your life and now i am your ex wife i hate you so bad for that we used to be really wild but we never had a child i was really cool but i ended up with a fool i hate you baby boy i told you i loved you and you said you love me too but how could that be when in the end you said you hated me so now i hate you too you are still in my half broken heart while your car is a one wheeled shopping cart you always were beggin you can never enter my heart again because i hate you.
Suferring is what i come from suffering is what ill cause what was once considered scum now has the world in his jaws this is the year of endles pain. hatred, malice, and revenge as i, your new king, takes my reign my poor sister will be avenged raped, beaten, and killed she didnt desevre it at five my lust for blood will be fulfilled noone at all will be left alive.
I dont hate you like i should what youve done to me others would im not angry but im not happy either at least you told me i just need a breather i need time to think about what to do time to think of my feelings of you i love you i always will after what you told me i need time to heal if we decide never to speak again ill love you forever til the end im forgiving no matter why no matter what even if i die i wont live my life going thru hate god says'to forgive' to get thru his gate one day when your watching the birds in the sky remember me after i have died so i leave you with these words from me i love you forever and please forgive me as i have done you.
Drive me crazy make me insane all these emotions run through my brain. you make me feel all these things i want to hate you but its not happening. you annoy me but make me smile. you have an arrogance about you which makes me want to hit you. i look at you feel your stare i try to ignore these feelings i bear. emotions clash hate and love can you feel both things at once? is it possible? is it wrong? to want to hate and love you at once?.
I hate how you left me without any sign, i hate that you moved on without saying goodbye, i hate how your smile makes me give in, i hate that your always making me want to caress your skin, i hate how you can't talk to me when she's around, i hate that when she leaves you look me up and down, i hate how you made a mark in my heart, i hate that you let us drift apart, i hate how when i say i hate you i don't really mean it, but most of all. i hate how you know i can't hate you. and never will.
I truly do hate the news it's full of half truths and disposable heroes it ruins the lives of many the media swarms the story if your the story then stay home and stay inside though from the media you cannot hide they'll look over your fence or through your window for that one snapshot people say gunshot's kill a person but so do snapshots once your famous you can never live a normal life it is cruel how we know more about celebrities than we do of ourselves how does reading garbage make us better a man makes a profit off the magazine who is unfit to have that money he ruins lives and me and you he tells us how to look and what we should be interested in i truly do hate the news.
I hate my mom i hate the way she doesn't call i hate the way he act like i'm not here child at least my dad is there for me. i hate the way she thows me away like i don't belong but hey i act the parent and call you o grow up and tart acting like a adult. so i guess you got your wish goodbye see you heaven 'adios'.
Hate is only one of many responses true, hurt and hate go hand in hand but why be afraid of hate, it is only there think of filth, is it really awesome neither is hate don't be shy of unkindness, either it's cleansing and allows you to be direct like an arrow that feels something out and out meanness, too, lets love breathe you don't have to fight off getting in too deep you can always get out if you're not too scared an ounce of prevention's enough to poison the heart don't think of others until you have thought of yourself, are true all of these things, if you feel them will be graced by a certain reluctance and turn into gold if felt by me, will be smilingly deflected by your mysterious concern.
I hate the way you tease me, i hate the way you walk. i hate the way you look at me, i hate the way you talk. i hate the way you run around, i hate the way you speak. i hate the way you write your words, i hate the way you greet. i hate the way you srut around like you have it all, but most of all i hate the way i don't hate you at all.
I hate the way you act i hate the way you dress i hate the way you smell and you hair looks a mess i hate the way you tease i hate the way you beg i hate the way you talk and i hate your hairy legs i hate all you friends and your family to boot but i still find myself falling in love with you.
You make me weak. you make me feel dirty and sick. you make me crazy, you make me cry quick. i hate you with a passion, i cannot explain. you make my heart throb with evil, because you are so vain. i hate you. i came to that conclusion today. i hate you. that's all i can say.
I started out expressing my thoughts. pouring out my heart and soul i never planned to look around i just needed a pad to write my thoughts but papers get thrown away and misplaced this site was perfect.just perfect..it felt like home i thought i could say anything i want express my ideas without insulting others refute, argue, agree accordingly but to never never hate personally the poser.why because it's not my place to judge people i don't really know so well i do rant when poked and provoked but i don't go chasing the hater just to dis him all over the board making me ponder deeply now i have so much hate inside they say but never with such passion as they.
I hate the way you treat me i hate that everything is how you want it to be i hate all your lies and silly games i hate how you make them all the same i hate that i feel this way i hate that i can't take the pain away i hate that i'm your back bone i hate being in the same zone i hate the way you make me feel i hate the pain won't heal i hate that you are too blind to see i hate that i want to leave i hate not wanting to be around i hate your mouth that produces bad sounds i hate a lot of other things too but i hate that you make me hate you.
I hate it when u look at me i hate it when u smile ur smile i hate it when u say hi 2 me and wave i hate it when u think u noe everything i hate it when ur with ur friends and not me i hate it when u dont say hi i dont hate u i just realized that i love u i just hate it when u dont do these things 2 me i hate it when ur not around i hate u but i love u at the same time.
Follow the ravens who gather in the weeping willows. silent and starving near the bank. dusk curls at your feet. you watch the busy hands of trees pointing toward the river, divided by an island. a dead ash stands like a bone knife plunged into its chest. black swans swimming in it's stomach. you whisper a prayer for the dying. river bleeds over stone, smoothes away rough edges. while the moon perches on edge of some unseen horizon. you wonder if stars seek a sense of place. step over things as not to invade shadows. you are certain they know the river is bleeding. know that you are the one story that began out of place.
Traumatized, by life's indiscretions submerged in stereotypical contradictions caught up in the mix can you fix, what's not broke? the token mentality of the man disparity is his plan a thousand faces and, no place to call your own you're trapped in a world taught to hide and divide victimized by a crime you didn't commit you ask the question will i ever be free to just be me and. walk the streets though unknown, be left alone? can i drive my car no matter how far and. not get stopped because, my skin color is not like the other? will they discover the other side of prejudice or just, continue to suffer the consequences of circumstance? is there a chance to enhance the mind of the man and. make him understand that, not all brothers are the same? the game remains but. the players do change.
Let us pray to the demons of time and old age. let us beg absolution from our wrinkled skins, and our hair, the color of cremated doves. let us beseech the heavens to stop this constant loss of joy, this slow dulling of the heart. we are silent old soldiers alone with our terror.
Why dont you come home at nights? why are you always getting into fights? why are your eyes always so red? why do you seem like your hanging by a thread? why are you always in a bad mood? why dont you come home.except for food? why dont i hear from you? your always with your friends. please, tell me what we did wrong, i'll gladly make amends. where does all your money go? wait.dont tell me.i dont want to know. please pull yourself together. make something of your life buy a house, settle down, have children with a wife. please stop doing all this foolishness you do. but remember, no matter what. i will always love you. brother, dear brother whatever you choose. whatever you lose i wont abandon you, never.i refuse i'll be by your side to the very end. when all your friends leave, i'll be your best friend just please let me help you fix your bad choices. when choosing your path.let your family be the voices. we'll guide you to life we'll guide you to hope we'll guide you away from the booze and the dope so please make room in your heart for the ones who love you. we'll be with you forever. we love you through and through.
My brother is ther one who helps me up when i have fallen. my brother is the one who is always saying no he cant be your boyfriend. my brother is the one who sticks up for me. my brother is the first one to fight for me. my brother the one i love with all my heart. my brother the strong one. my brother is my everthing thank you brother.
My brother is so annoying my brother is so sad my brother drives me crazy it makes me wanna go mad. my brother makes my father constantly yell my brother makes my mother cry my brother makes me wanna go die, sometimes. my brother is crazy my brother is nuts sometimes i want to grab him and choke him til' he goes nuts someday i won't have my brother and i wish that day will never come because surely without him i will nor be the same.
I love you can't you see how i care can't you see how i die die there with you can't you see my pain cause it hurts yes it hurts to see you hurt yourself so bad i love you.
Big brother he is always watching you and nothing unbeknown to him you do of his attentions none of us are free we never can escape his scrutiny. big brother is one we never get to know though he spies on us where ever to we go our sixth sense tells us he is never far away he never cease to watch us night and day. big brother is an agent of the state and few would wish to have him as a mate no respect for your privacy he show and due to him the government about you most thing know. a faceless soul he is one we never see and of his attentions we cannot be free a silent spy he never makes a sound and unbeknown to us he follows us around. along the street as by houses you walk by from behind curtained windows on you he does spy big brother watches you by night and day and from you he is never far away.
When i look upon a photograph. not so long ago, not so faded. a picture of my beloved big brother. the memories had filled my mind. the times we cried and the times we laughed. how brother watches over me, makes sure i'm not hurt. when i was sick, he made my lunch. we'd go on shopping trips. we thought we would grow old together. through the years we thought it was true. brother and i worked on model trains. then time had come to call. my big brother had to go. he passed away, he went to eternal sleep. god is holding him as he sleeps. until he comes to call. all i have are memories and a photograph. in memory of big brother paul.
Dear brother will i ever see you again? or have i lost another friend? i know you had to go but i want you to know that i miss you more than i can show dear brother it's been a while since you last made me smile and i know you had to leave but i want you here with me because i miss you terribly dear brother will you ever come home? or am i never to know? and i wish you didn't have to go but i want you to know that i miss you more than i can show.
My favorite brother is really helpful and even funny. he's really great at making friends, better than me ill say. my brother is always there for me and hes almost never annoying. my brother loves me and i love him too. because he's my favorite brother, because he's my only brother. dedicated to my favorite brother regi.
In hte ghetto you'll never know when it's gonna be your time. sitten here in the ghetto thinken about time we had, gawd damn i miss my brother janus warbus. how could it be somebody took my bro from me my funny brother is gone and now o feel all alone i really miss my brother janus eugene warbus. even though he's gone away i know he's in a better place, and i hope to see him some day. i used to ahng my bro even slang with my bro gawd damn i miss my bro it's so hard to see my brother in the dirt that's ten feet under. his kids are so adoreable they start to look like him each and mintue of there life's it's so hard to see my brother riden in that black car, man i miss my brother janus eugene warbus.
And we shall not leave this country we shall build because it is ours throughout the golden hours here we belong for quite long our great forefather was buried here and though in poverty we must stay as we enjoy what we have under the sun we love the coolness of the moon we all swoon and don we shall be proud as a tree we enjoy our liberty we shall live we shall die there is no reason to cry.
Humankind has come far in technology so very far 'twould seem back in the nineteen fifties of such achievements we dared not dream in this age of the computer big brother reigns supreme to him we have become as visible as fish in a clear pool of a sunlit stream. big brother knows more about you now than he has ever known before and he watches every move you make even from a distant shore he knows your inner secrets into your soul he see with the aid of the computer and modern technology. big brother not a benign character he has never been that way he judge you for your opinions and everything you say goes into his computer a dossier on you he create for government bureaucrats for to use against you in some future date. the pinnacle of human achievements we are told we have not seen and big brother is more powerful now than he has ever been with the aid of modern technology he looks into your soul and the loss to us of privacy is beyond our control.
My heart feels so troubled by the things that fate has done, i love you dear brother, to me you're number one. i set here by myself, your picture in my hand, thinking about you living in another land. you my dear, sweet brother, are everything to me, my heart, my life, my happiness all the good i see. though you're ill, and feeling sad i want you to know, if life were to take you away, my love for you wont go. i'll remember all the days we shared as little children having fun, jumping, climbing, birthdays from now back to when we where young. dear brother you'll never really leave me, no you wont depart, and if, god, saw fit to take you, i'll forever keep you in my heart.
A big brother is a guy i love to be around he is a very close friend i found a big brother is a guy who always seems to care and is always there a big brother is a guy that i can look up to because he always knows what to do a big brother is a guy i want to see he will always understand me that guy i talk about is not my big brother he is just a brother i wish i had.
His ears are ever vigilant be careful of what you do say big brother he is listening from you he's never far away your words he may put a slant on and one word in the wrong place could see you in deep trouble the court you might have to face. the government allows free speech free to a point maybe but when mere words can land you in trouble that does not seem free to me and big brother is listening and he hears what he wants to hear the best way of freedom curtailment is the weapon known as fear and big brother he takes note every time you speak your mind and if he sees something he does not like in trouble yourself you will find he is the government watchdog your words can see you in jail big brother is always watching you he even checks your mail. big brother he is listening even when your friends you phone and even those who live on their own in truth are not alone for big brother is with them though him they cannot see he remains as invisible and few as treacherous as he.
He left ireland in nineteen fifty two our brother john the man i barely knew he was the eldest of the family and the homeland he was never more to see. in life our brother john he journeyed far he lived through peace time and he lived through war in korea with the air force of the u.s.a. far distant from the fields of claraghatlea. one of my sisters mary wrote to me she said our brother died with dignity in death as in his life he showed his bravery and at least now of his sufferings he's free. our brother john left two sons and a wife and he worked hard all of his working life only in his sixties he seemed young to die he was my hero when i was a boy. from millstreet thousands of sea miles away our brother john in a distant graveyard lay and though i'd not seen him for more than thirty years the news of his passing reduced me to tears. he was the quiet man never spoke too loud and of our brother john we felt so proud in his death from his sufferings he found his release and may he rest forevermore in peace.
My brother's so sweet in times of need he is there my brother's so responsible he taught me a lot of things my brother's so funny we even teared from laughing my brother's so fierce don't mess with him when his angry my brother fell inlove and he's very very happy my brother made up his mind and had a nice sweet family my brother is away i'm sad when i think of it but my brother's heart is good and i know he will never forget me.
Whenever ur running out of time, to complete your assignments, you see no hope of getting on time, but then u realize that there is someone, who will surely help, no matter what time it is, you always come to me for help, and i may refuse but god u r so sure, that i won't let you down, i will help you out inspite of anything, to make your assignment the best of all, and there are conditions that i put you on, to buy me the chocos and icecreams i want, and you have no choice but to say yes, but you know brother that i will always be there, because you are special and i will always care.
I have a friend far across the sea. we have never met, but she is never far away. our hands have never touched, but our hearts have, through our words that bring comfort and console. we are not related, but a big brother she thinks i am. she is always writing about this distant friend. so now is my chance to write one for her. i hope when she reads it she will get a silly grin. 29 june 2007.
Brother brother please come back home i wish we all would have known brother brother why arent you here? you diddnt have anything to fear things would have gotten better throught this past painful year you took your own life brother just like so many others your family just looks at pictures and has to stare thats the only way we see you and its just not fair we all miss your big smile that you had on your face every day i love you sister the words you said every single day i miss the way you hugged me the way you would always be there now once again all i do is sit and stare.
If god could give us a new brother? what type of broyher would he give us? would he be a very friendly brother? if god could give us a new brother? it would be nice to have a brother that listens to us if god could give us a new brother? could he be our friend? could he share his feelings with us? if god could give us a new brother? could he stop to put us down? could he show us his love? if god could give us a new brother? it would be impossible because there would had to be our mother and father they would be the ones that could do it through god now it is history for us unless it is a friend that is humble a friend that has some feelings and understanding he could be our new brother brothers we can never change or get rid of they are a part of us weather we like it or not.
The moment you were born we were all happy to see you you were precious gift to us from god my mother held you in her arms you were charming and we named you deva we hugged you a sign of affection and love we hugged you a sign of little loving baby you were growing up as special person we took so much care about you but your death brought us a great shock i asked god why did my brother have to die our tears of sadness still roll over our eyes and sad for our mother who believes you are still alive i know when nature calls one has to leave this world on that day i will meet you in the same world where you are but till then my tears will not stop for you. my ever loving brother deva.
My brother's in a wheelchair and he can't jump or run but i can throw a ball to him to catch and we have fun. he can't do a lot of things that other kids can do. he needs help getting dressed and he can't tie his shoes. mommy told me it's called 'special' when a child is born that way. i said i could have told her that. my brother's special every day.
I was groping for a friend in a net of eyes by the tube; i was looking for a brother in a heart of dearness as old; i am sharing for a life to a friend not yet known; i am trusting a brother at a distance my dreams've shown. i am talking to a friend in a net of dearness by the tube; i am looking at his eyes seemed like moses of old. i am sharing for a life to a friend now yet called at a distance shared a promise for a newfound life yet assured; for at a distance, a friend and a brother, now behold; he's there, i'm here yet embracing in this little lovely world.
Falling through memory's wide open window, hitherto kept tightly closed. i'm flying away into chilhood experience where, brother and i were supposed to be good, while parental strife, flaring brightly, would envelope us nightly, as arms flung round each other we struggled to sleep, despite shouting and fighting downstairs, we said pleading prayers and, always tearful goodnights. we often cried quietly into the darkness my brother and i. orphaned from love, we grew close together, and clung to each other over the ensuing years. losing my only beautiful brother to cancer has emptied and drained my lonely heart, despite crying rivers of tears. i reluctantly close that window again but never will close on my brother, den.
Who was aged five when i was born my brother who hid my toys and broke my dolls my brother who avoided his sister at school all day my brother who tolerated my teenage years my brother who as an adult became a friend my brother who mellowed with each passing year my brother who supported my desire to immigrate my brother who was there when others weren't my brother who buried our parents while i was gone my brother who cherished every visit i made my brother who had his ticket to visit me here my brother who unexpectedly died this year my brother.
Brother to brother i know that i can always coun on you because you are my brther and i am your brother also brother to brother your life is different than mine you live in brazil i live in canad a country that is more advanced in technology brother to brother i will pray for you eventhough you don't believe in god brother to brother i will email you more frequently brother to brother i will sing you a song brother to brother i hope the saints will go to sao paulo and watch you while you are sleeping.
None lives for ever, brother, and nothing lasts for long. keep that in mind and rejoice. our life is not the one old burden, our path is not the one long journey. one sole poet has not to sing one aged song. the flower fades and dies; but he who wears the flower has not to mourn for it for ever. brother, keep that in mind and rejoice. there must come a full pause to weave perfection into music. life droops toward its sunset to be drowned in the golden shadows. love must be called from its play to drink sorrow and be borne to the heaven of tears. brother, keep that in min and rejoice. we hasten to gather our flowers lest they are plundered by the passing winds. it quickens our blood and brightens our eyes to snatch kisses that would vanish if we delayed. our life is eager, our desires are keen, for time tolls the bell of parting. brother, keep that in mind and rejoice. there is not time for us to clasp a thing and crush it and fling it away to the dust. the hours trip rapidly away, hiding their dreams in their skirts. our life is short; it yields but a few days for love. were it for work and drudgery it would be endlessly long. brother, keep that in mind and rejoice. beauty is sweet to us, because she dances to the same fleeting tune with our lives. knowledge is precious to us, because we shall never have time to complete it. all is done and finished in the eternal heaven. but earth's flowers of illusion are kept eternally fresh by death. brother, keep that in mind and rejoice.
Uncontrollably weeping i reach for my phone i ring him up and get an out of service tone i know he's away and that's all i'll hear but somehow when i call him i feel he's near i write him a message that he'll never read i have this crazy impulse, this urgent need i know its irrational, i know its insane but it helps me through the day and eases the pain.
All alone in this crazy home trapped in this room no one here to talk too but what i hear a whisperin soul i am not crazy the walls begin to make strange faces the devil itself no i am not crazy where did these scars come from i didnt do this it was that shadow of darkness no i'm definitely not crazy who is dat woman in the bloody white gown a slit at the throat the fire in her eyes i am not crazy docters come to give me my dosage dead cut to pieces blood every where my insides are my outsides they said i was crazy but i'm not i'm insane.
I shall not sing a may song. a may song should be gay. i'll wait until november and sing a song of gray. i'll wait until november that is the time for me. i'll go out in the frosty dark and sing most terribly. and all the little people will stare at me and say, "that is the crazy woman who would not sing in may." anonymous submission.
Drooling mouth, he dropped the juices so earthshaking, so sweet, too wet and made that tight, choking door open wide for him to come momentous and swallow, sip the juices out. so sweet, so wet, the man turns delirious and the woman is delighted.
Going crazy right now need some help real bad he wont leave my mind and i dont know why even after he cheated and lied no guy could replace this his causing me so much pain yet i know i love him he plays me like a fool says we're over than wants a cuddle it's driving me up the wall i need to lose him get him outta my mind this just isn't right i love him to dearly he doesnt love me thats for sure im going crazy he just wont leave my heart or mind.
Every time when you talk to me, i feel you love me. every time when you look at me, i feel you love me. every time when you be with me, i feel you love me. though, when i want to be with you, you go away. when i want to look at you, you look away. when i want to talk to you, you dont talk. this makes me think.. why you care for me, why you need me, why you miss me, if you don't love, why you cry for me? ? ?.
Isn't it crazy how you cant see things right in front of your eyes isn't it crazy how love always seems to slowly die isn't it crazy how i fell for you and then fell right back out isn't it crazy how your something i can live without isn't it crazy how how you put me through a lot isn't it crazy how your something i just forgot.
When darkness spread all were dead, animals, freedom and all. terrain was moved the sky was grooved, the earth started to call. crazy crazy life is lest once thou, the best of best, now we shall never rest, crazy crazy is the crest. when darkness spread all were dead, animals, freedom and all. the earth in despair will take the share, for crazy is the fall.
If you think i'm crazy you should meet my friend when my madness it is over she continues to the end i stand there open speechless and wondering at times whether it is me or she or it who have lost their minds if you think i'm crazy then i'd ask you for a while to put false dreams behind you and take the time to smile for if you think i'm crazy then there's only one thing left to reassure your sanity and always always let the providence of madness strike deep inside your core for in a mad mad mad mad world who could want for more?.
'love is all unsatisfied that cannot take the whole body and soul'; and that is what jane said. 'take the sour if you take me i can scoff and lour and scold for an hour.' "that's certainly the case,' said he. 'naked i lay, the grass my bed; naked and hidden away, that black day'; and that is what jane said. 'what can be shown? what true love be? all could be known or shown if time were but gone.' 'that's certainly the case,' said he.
My babe thinks i'm crazy crazy for feeling this way thinking she's the best thing in the world wanting to spend the rest of my life with her crazy for looking at her certain ways like shes the only one in the room crazy for dazing of into her eyes or looking at her like shes a goddess crazy for loving her so much crazy for constantly writing her poems crazy for asking her to marry me my fiance thinks i'm crazy.
I am crazy enough to jump off a bridge for you even when i have seen you only ounce. i am crazy enough to still be thining about you even when i know nohting of you at all crazy enough to build castles in the sky crazy enough to imagine you and me crazy enoughto never see the lie of you i am crazy enough to stand in the rain so i might see you once more crazy enough to follow you home so i can see you for a while and i am crazy enough to want to be your sickness so that you might go unhindered crazy enough that no pain hurts me deeply crazy enough that i cant let go i am crazy enough to want to die for you and there is nothing known about you i am crazy enoughto want to kidnap you and watch you gorw old in the cupboard of my mind crazy enough to kill you so i might have you forever crazy enough to only think ' if not mine no one else's' crazy enouhg that i might want to haunt you i am crazy enough to hear what i want crazy enough to hurt you so i might love you more crazy enough to offer my soul for you crazy enouhg to want to be you i am crazy enough to say that i dont know you except by sight but i love you all the same.
I made you crazy i drove a man crazy and yet i dont know how i made him crazy it wasnt fair for him to be crazy im sorry for making you crazy i wish i could take your place and i be crazy tell me a way show me a way and make me crazy my heart hurts cause i made my friend crazy please change i dont want you to be crazy someone help him, help him, he's crazy take away his pain that made him crazy i dont like how i made him crazy i didnt do it on purpose, i didnt even know i was making him crazy i wish i could take it all back and he leave me crazy.
I believed you, every word you said i believed, how stupid i must have been didn't my mother tell me that guys always lie i didn't want to believe it, especially looking into your eyes the most honest face, who wouldn't trust you your were like every girls dream come true we had the makings of something great but believing in you was just another mistake i knew it somehow, even in all my doubt that the guy i knew had not really come out you were just another guy who lies to get what they want luckily for me, i woke up just in time, to correct my mistake before i made a decision that would make it too late i could have changed my life for you rearranged it all but thankfully i recieved my wake up call you played with me like the other's, your just about the same but i'm thankful to you because now i know the game.
I met the bishop on the road and much said he and i. 'those breasts are flat and fallen now, those veins must soon be dry; live in a heavenly mansion, not in some foul sty.' 'fair and foul are near of kin, and fair needs foul,' i cried. 'my friends are gone, but that's a truth nor grave nor bed denied, learned in bodily lowliness and in the heart's pride. 'a woman can be proud and stiff when on love intent; but love has pitched his mansion in the place of excrement; for nothing can be sole or whole that has not been rent. '.
When i am crazy and insane as said by the critics how can i be a poet. i do not know how to praise god god has not taught me the language of praise and pleasant words. i do not fear my god unseen i have not learnt how to fear gods on earth who loves death instead of life. who loves people of power hoping for a reward. i prefer chain and punishment instead of flowers how can i be a poet of honour when i am with undressed and unhonoured people. ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?.
A guy came to me the other day saying some crazy stuff he said he hate what i do and what i stand for, to not hit him was ruff why do people tend to not look from outside of the boots i say they need to read a history book on american roots some of the comments i hear, i see people can be very crazy they dont see the pride in the soldiers i fight with daily out here where im at, we are all we got even tho we know americans back home got our back i wish that guy could have seen the day a lil iraqi boy gave me a flower he said thank you america for your courage and power his english was kind of broken but i knew what he ment to say we made it so at least that one lil boy can come back out and play at my level we dont see saving the world all we see is making a way for some little boy or little girl so think twice when you approach me with somthing crazy to say i fight for so much more than what you saw on the news today so go have sweet dreams and sleep peaceful tonite all will be secure, cause american soldiers will continue to fight.
It's crazy how a person changes, after you knew them so well. it's crazy how fast feelings can change, from heaven into hell. it's crazy how i thought i knew you, and you changed right before my eyes. it's crazy how i thought you were the real thing, then you pulled on a deceiving disguise. forgive me please, i've been a fool. none other than a fool for you. your not the person i once knew, but i refuse to change myself for you. i am me and that's all that matters to me. now how long will it take you to see, that i'm done with all the tears i cry. this is 'i'm sorry' for the last time.
A shadow with me all day no body this is crazy, this is crazy notes of a scintillating flute no flutist this is crazy, this is crazy breathtaking verse on paper i was sleeping this is crazy, this is crazy vermilion laden sky sunrise or sunset? this is crazy, this is crazy dishevelled clothes, swollen lips you came in my dream i am crazy, i am crazy or is this the only sanity? ?.
A perfect man? is there such a thing? have you fallen off a bin? one with lot's of money and lips as sweet as honey. everything he says, seem so funny with a desirable chest, flat tummy. you must be delusional because these requests are quite unusual. a perfect man? don't you dare say that again.
I must be crazy..am i? i was looking for my eyeglasses thought i have to go upside down and not to pick it up in a normal way but my knees just wobble i dont wanna dilly dabble think i must be crazy..am i? my neighbors just laugh at me, he he he seeing me in this position nahh, dont mind really i am comfortable here swinging down they think i must be crazy and so am i. lol.
I see a crazy man by the door, he is old and worn. he wears a blanket over his head, likes to be unknown. he looks up and above, glancing far and wide, he is the man everyone frights. i see a crazy man by the door, and out of sight. he yells and screams till dawn, and retreats once we are gone. for he is the crazy man i see by the door every night.
Every time you yell, it's almost like a bridge collapsing. every time i cry, it's like i'm about to reach my breaking point. these scars on my arms aren't just scars. they tell stories. when you get in my face. i'll make sure i will punch you. get too close i'll shove you away break my heart i'll just walk away. you see. you don't scare me. you don't frighten me. you don't intimidate me. so just walk away and forget. nothing happened you see. you are just going crazy..
Your always on mind because your so kind i love you so when we're apart you should know i miss you so crazy in love that's who you think i am but what i don't care because love is what i share crazy in love baby your always on my mind i guess i'm crazy in love.
When she talks about love does she talk about you when you feel alive when you feel unseen the world is blue it's raining, so you walk it's raining, so you talk thoughts are the walls that close your mind down your heart once full of love but shes not around maybe you're meant to be alone in this crazy world everyone is on their own not everybody is happy yet we seem that way not everybody is lonely yet we seem that way so when she talks about you does she talk about love.
I ran up the door, closed the stairs said my pajamas, put on my prayers turned off my bed and jumped in the light all because you kissed me goodnight the next morning, i woke and scrambled my shoes, polished my eggs, and toasted the news, i couldn't tell my left from my right, all because you kissed me goodnight.
It's like i'm going crazy out of my mind cause images of you holding my waist from behind it's crazy how fast i fell in love knowing that you're far away i'm missing your kisses and hugs it's crazy how i can't do any of my work in my classes cause the whole time i'm thinking how you keep me laughin it's crazy how i want to be your wifey cause your time is worth more than anything you can buy me it's crazy how i know we can make sweet music together and i'll lock you in my heart always and forever.
I'd walk her home after work buying roses and talking of bechsteins. she was full of soul. her small room was gorged with heat and there were no windows. she'd take off everything but her pants and take the pins from her hair throwing them on the floor with a great noise. like crete. we wouldn't make love. she'd get on the bed with those nipples and we'd lie sweating and talking of my best friend. they were in love. when i got quiet she'd put on usually debussy and leaning down to the small ribs bite me. hard. anonymous submission.
It's that beautiful summer sky.. like blue raspberries i dare to try. freshly squeezed home made orange tropicana. to wash down my yellow banana. ruby red cherries how sweet the summer berries.. dark green rhines of sweet red watermelon.. the perfect scenario of heaven. the perfect summer rainbow. there are sweet little secrets in our green crowded garden. they do grow. so the next time you look into that beautiful summer sky with your fruitful eyes. take a bite of that summer rainbow in your garden just below..
Once upon a summer day, birds chirped in a musical way, grass drenched in the morning dew, the sky covered in a vast color of blue. once upon a summer day, flowers bloomed in full array, bright rays of sunlight spilled upon my garden on the hill. once upon a summer day, thunder rumbled and prolonged its stay, but after the rain tumbled down, this summer day wore a glorious rainbow crown.
Winter without you is like a summer in a winter, when memories of your love murmur in my winter. summer in a winter was never been hot as it is.when the memories of your love thrills me today. winters summer were very rare when we walked on the bed of purple flowers with your affectionate look. when i forget this heat and hold you in my poetic arms, you kiss my poem through your heart in this winter. winter's summer was very rare. venky.
The frog half fearful jumps across the path, and little mouse that leaves its hole at eve nimbles with timid dread beneath the swath; my rustling steps awhile their joys deceive, till past, and then the cricket sings more strong, and grasshoppers in merry moods still wear the short night weary with their fretting song. up from behind the molehill jumps the hare, cheat of his chosen bed, and from the bank the yellowhammer flutters in short fears from off its nest hid in the grasses rank, and drops again when no more noise it hears. thus nature's human link and endless thrall, proud man, still seems the enemy of all.
1068 further in summer than the birds pathetic from the grass a minor nation celebrates its unobtrusive mass. no ordinance be seen so gradual the grace a pensive custom it becomes enlarging loneliness. antiquest felt at noon when august burning low arise this spectral canticle repose to typify remit as yet no grace no furrow on the glow yet a druidic difference enhances nature now.
Summer breeze summer long i'll sing to you my summer song read a poem a summer song it isn't long it's just a song from my heart a poem long but not at all my summer song my summer long is something special a poem, a song to my heart belong summer breeze summer long i'll sing to you my summer song.
A seated statue of himself he seems. a bronze slowness becomes him. patently the page he contemplates he doesn't see. the lesson, the long lesson, has been summer. his mind holds summer, as his skin holds sun. for once the homework, all of it, was done. what were the crops, where were the fiery fields where for so many days so many hours the sun assaulted him with glittering showers. expect a certain absence in his presence. expect all winter long a summer scholar, for scarcely all its snows can cool that color.
It's sumertime, school vacation has begun, time for children to play, and have fun in the sun. now the children are out of school, there are trees to climb, swimming in the pool. time to spend with special friends. seems they're on the go until the days end. but when summer vacation is finally through, it's time to hit the books and return to school.
What do you have to say on this day in the month of april and may everybody is gay this is the summer time when people go to the beaches they have juice made of lime and fruits like mangoes and peaches many people like to stay indoors and try their best to keep cool just staying inside really bores so they want to have a dip in the pool these are times of holidays when we play and run some people show off the beauty of their face at summer we have a lot of fun.
Fickle summer's fled away, shall we see her face again? hearken to the weeping rain, never sunbeam greets the day. more inconstant than the may, she cares nothing for our pain, nor will hear the birds complain in their bowers that once were gay. summer, summer, come once more, drive the shadows from the field, all thy radiance round thee fling, be our lady as of yore; then the earth her fruits shall yield, then the morning stars shall sing.
In the summer i stretch out on the shore and think of you had i told the sea what i felt for you, it would have left its shores, its shells, its fish, and followed me. translated by b. frangieh and c. brown submitted by noele aabye.
Summer's heat can swelter and melt. as summer's heat may simmer as weld. some summer's heat can burn as long. this summer's heat can impel a song. summer's heat can cook and bake. summer's heat of life can take. boil and broil a heart so hot. a summer's heat can break that romanceful knot. this heat of summer can smoulder and rot. anger's heat, heats up my libido's furnace. this love of summer can invoke to heart, a loving furnish. love of summer brings to mind, a resurgance of love. summer's sun may bathe one and all with heat fro' above. summer's heat can bring to beaches and swimming pools. visions of women in bikinied thongs, these things my eyes do love.
I know a place where summer strives with such a practised frost, she each year leads her daisies back, recording briefly, 'lost.' but when the south wind stirs the pools and struggles in the lanes, her heart misgives her for her vow, and she pours soft refrains into the lap of adamant, and spices, and the dew, that stiffens quietly to quartz upon her amber shoe.
In that summer of loving you i was free all things were possible and i believed them all in that summer of loving you i was beautiful i saw myself in your eyes and i was wonderful in that summer of loving you i danced with passion in and out of arms of love and you held me in that summer of loving you i was laughter you laughed with me but never at me in that summer of loving you i lost you and my heart was breaking. as you left me.
There is a dark cloud over my head with every move i make, every step i take it keeps following me lord you know i want to free dark clouds, dark clouds, dark clouds now as the rain begins to fall, i feel so small i'm always getting wet with the rain of prejudice look there is a mist of discrimation and the fog of injustice dark clouds, dark clouds, dark clouds hanging over my head lord you know i want to be free it's hard to look through the thickness of the clouds standing under the dark clouds the sun never shines as my eyes glist for a brighter tomorrow my sisters and brothers are filled with sorrow dark clouds, dark clouds, dark clouds why do they keep following me lord you know i want to be free this cloud kept many of our people down this cloud has kept us bound our head hanging to the ground a cloud of sorrow and pain a cloud of loneiness and despair wondering does anyone care now as i look beyond the horizon with the telescope of my mind it was fantastic what i've found if you can look beyond your dark cloud, sorrow and pain you will see a star shining so near, yet it seems so far beyond your dark clouds, there is a galaxy of deterination there is a star of i am somebody and it's shining for the whole world to see let's load up our spaceship of education put our satellite into orbit, let's speed on to culture proudness gravitation of ignorance will never hold me down there's no time for malfunction in our dreams for many years our focus was ecliped eclipse we were inferior, eclipse we couldn't make it couldn't go to the same school we can see clearly now my sisters and brothers let's walk in the light, let's fuel up with knowledge independence, awareness yes use the telescope of your mind the satellite of youe soul the orbit of your heart to reach that certain star, no matter how near or far.
I'm blinded when i scream as i tumble through the darkness of my dream lost and lonely but nobody knows i'm surrounded by pain and i'm all alone frightened and afraid full of fear i reach out to escape my eyes open with tears.
I felt her smile like the rays of the sun approaching me i almost felt she would run calling my name with a pleasuring glee excitingly glorious she came to me we talked and we laughed holding hands in the park a crisp winters morning we felt the ice crack old friends and old lovers like we just met remembering times we could never forget back in our teens we ran wild through the streets with friends in a gang and the world at our feet mischief and trouble were things we knew well trust was a byword for love that we felt we became closer and needed more time exploring emotions we just had to find that first teenage kiss in the dark alleyway still with us eternal remembered today the broken coke sign flickering in the cafe we nervously laughed as it flashed cok each day all through the winter we huddled and talked encouraging moments that we couldn't stop our friends drifted off somewhere in the unknown as we bonded closer in love on our own enjoying the pleasures of body and mind as teenagers do as they grow through that time we tried to make plans for the future i guess but we were just amateurs out of our depth as the spring came it melted the snow and our dreams and we stretched our wings seeking different things forty years on at the roadside cafe the coke sign still flickers as we nervously smile at each other and remember the day of that first teenage kiss in the dark alleyway.
As the girdle of time digs sharply into my flesh as the black veil of my existence hides the impermeable truth as the flame of my thoughts move in rapid circles and become a mere line as the vulture of pervading questions devour my almost dead body as the furnace of my yearning bakes it into a solemn comprehension that this is the endd.
Welcome to my haunted house dare to see the dark in me suits of armor wait to joust eyes in portraits move to see stroke my ego, don't be shy give my id his equal pay watch the serpent slither by my alter ego's chance to play in the dungeon sleeps the creature securely cuffed in mounted chains disregard his ragged features please excuse the carpet stains behind the bookcase hides my secrets discretion swept up under rugs the dark in me you haven't met struggles loose in warring tugs tempting me in carnal pleasure rewarding me if i dare accolades in grand measure disposing me in deep despair.
Those words, life in peace, a compass in the storm, light for closed eyes. tic, tac. an old poet is speaking and his harmony offers hope and you feel like taking a look again without clouds, without winds, one more chance before making the decission.
Skimming stones, into a dirty english sea, bieng my big strong dad, you would always beat me, by a skim or two, you were the atlas of my world, and i adored you. watching me proudly. playing football on a cold winters day, i was rubbish, yet always would you say, great game son, holding me tight, soothing the nightmares frights, singing me songs your dad sung to you, the way great dads always do. holding me hand, high up on the mountain side, your strong reassuring grip your face smoothed with pride. these are the memories i treasure, i will keep them with me forever, these are the times when the family was one, and you was daddy and i was son, so simple it was back then, i do love you dad, but dark demons, have built high thorny walls, and neither of us can hear our calls, of forgivness.
Urgency of frantic desire requires witchcraft or that i become a mystical gypsy reading fortunes and the future by tea leaves or the alignment of the stars in the cryptic and magical sky. i have already read my misfortune in your eyes, and that my every fragile hope to be with you flees like a frightened child, that the path is mapped for me to become a man of your distant past, driven further and further from your memories. if i could only learn dark supernatural skills that could transform fate into ardent dreams, then you would linger here in a blissful embrace.
They see you as they see you, a poor farmer with no name, ploughing cloudward, sowing the wind with squalls of gulls at the day's end. to me you are prytherch, the man who more than all directed my slow charity where there was need. there are two hungers, hunger for bread and hunger of the uncouth soul for the light's grace. i have seen both, and chosen for an indulgent world's ear the story of one whose hands have bruised themselves on the locked doors of life; whose heart, fuller than mine of gulped tears, is the dark well from which to draw, drop after drop, the terrible poetry of his kind.
From the shadows his hand took a hold of my wrist, i panicked and struggled to escape his tight grip, i heard his footsteps creep behind mine the sweat dripped and tears filled my eyes, i ran until reaching an empty road dead as the night, it scared me the most. i didn't look behind he may be ready to attack at any time, i regained my courage and turned to see if he would show, his where abouts i did not know, there i was standing alone, surrounded by mist and the trees that spoke, the sun started to fall my heart beat began to rise, as once again i felt his hand touch mine.
Driving on the nights highway deep into the dark night that swells scorched by the moonlight gone astray the wind laments, the devils dwell the dark blanket of the night enshrouds a sudden chill, a gust of fog envelops sensing a bad omen, together we all crowd the car sputters, the engine goes bust the spirits rise from the ashes chanting ha ho, ha ho a searing bolt of lightning lashes will there be no dawn tomorrow the wolves huddle, stalking around our door we could hear the beats of our heart whimpering with fear, crouching on the floor as they lunge.i wake up with a start.
It's dark outside but i see the light then darkness i see the light again and here comes dark it's dark outside i am lonely and sad but i see the light you ask my name then darkness you take my hand i see the light again we fall in love and here comes dark it's dark outside i can't find you but i see the light you were right there then darkness i have my doubts i see the light again you say i'm wrong and here comes dark it's dark outside i reach for you but i see the light you don't reach for me then darkness i feel alone i see the light again i read your face and here comes dark it's dark outside i want to leave but i see the light you're come to me then darkness i feel your grip i see the light you're hurting me and here comes dark it's dark outside i try to scream but i see the light you have my throat then darkness i can not breath i see the light for the last time and here comes dark.
As his mind weaves a spiderweb on the wall of his heart i silently watch bemused admiring the intricate web so light beguiling in its softness and watch the hovering bees slowly becoming a prisoner caught in its beauty and the spider mind already moved to a new wall to make its next masterpiece.
Everything looks different in the dark sometimes i imagine that things that are standing still are moving and they are not; it is only in my mind the dark sometimes can be frightening the dark is like a burned paint the dark must grieve alone for its lost friend no one around to hear its silence but the silence so peaceful that tears the heart i look back as i am walking to see if anyone is following me but thanks god no one is only the sound of my footsteps i hear the trees in the dark looks strange to me, i only see a dark shadow.
Dark is a shade of my heart. when i close my eyes i see a ray of light in dark. it gives me pleasure of finding you in dark. it gives me life of your existence. it gives me passion of your adorable touches. i always want to close my eyes to see u in dark. this is the way i want you. when i open my eyes you are not in my mind. it gives me sorrow of losing you in dark. it gives me confusion of your existence. it gives me loneliness when i am surrounding with people. i never wanted to open my eyes cause i love you. this is the way i love you.
A deep dark night clutching like a parasite strange dark woods throwing its hoods refusing to let go howling winds blow threatening whirlpools demons rule tentacles and vines circle and entwine your dark mind raging tempest anguished quest died a thousand deaths trying to set love on the breath deep cloud cover o seething lover dont burn so bright in your own light slide out from the side do it now before you die run, escape before you get raped by your own mind thats made you blind with its simmering steam can hear your soul scream soar up to the sky along the length of my thigh wings of your fancy and fly up, up, high, high join me inside inside my love, die.
The lights are silenced., the shades are drawn., while waiting impatiently., for the dawn., i'm shivering in the dark., lonely and scared., shivering in the dark., in the far distance., i hear a faint siren., unlike the siren in my heart., calling for you., while i'm shivering., shivering in the dark., waiting, wondering, quivering., and shivering in the dark.
Dark girl so filled with strife dark dark girl she'll take your life dark girl stay for a while dark dark girl she makes me smile dark girl she shows no fear dark dark girl is always near dark girl wont see her cry dark dark girl just wants to die but dark girl lives in the dark so you dont see her painfull mark dark dark girl may never know just how much the light can show.
I want to sleep the dream of the apples, to withdraw from the tumult of cemetries. i want to sleep the dream of that child who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas. i don't want to hear again that the dead do not lose their blood, that the putrid mouth goes on asking for water. i don't want to learn of the tortures of the grass, nor of the moon with a serpent's mouth that labors before dawn. i want to sleep awhile, awhile, a minute, a century; but all must know that i have not died; that there is a stable of gold in my lips; that i am the small friend of the west wing; that i am the intense shadows of my tears. cover me at dawn with a veil, because dawn will throw fistfuls of ants at me, and wet with hard water my shoes so that the pincers of the scorpion slide. for i want to sleep the dream of the apples, to learn a lament that will cleanse me to earth; for i want to live with that dark child who wanted to cut his heart on the high seas.
That dark dweller in braj is my only refuge. o my companion, worldly comfort is an illusion, as soon you get it, it goes. i have chosen the indestructible for my refuge, him whom the snake of death will not devour. my beloved dwells in my heart, i have actually seen that abode of joy. mira's lord is hari, the indestructible. my lord, i have taken refuge with thee, thy slave.
The dark moon is rising no silver left to see the crone has awakened her power flows in me the dark storm is coming the rain pouring down the thunder raises power as lightening takes ground the dark queen is walking her whispers call to me ancient wisdom flowing circling energies flow free the dark night is waiting its lure a sweet bane stepped through my shadow and i am forever changed copyright 2006 a.j. mckinley.
I am a boy with mix emotion i have no friends i have parents but they don't want me as i stay in the shadows no one to guide me i want to have a future only for me so if you think i am crazy let me be my life is filled with sorrow and anger no good memories to remember life is a wondeful thing brought to you and me but for me it's a burden that will not be taken a burden that i will carry from this day forward my life is really not worth telling so please let me be i am a boy with no family just a dark life and me so if you think im crazy let me be this is my life story not for you but for me.
I see you now, and it makes me cry in my heart, one so beautiful, and yet, so damaged and messed up inside. the scars that line your arms, look like the intricate artwork of a tattooist, those razor cuts and puncture wounds, signs of a desparate cry for help. that vacant look upon your face, the doctors miracle cure; prozac, takes all your troubles away, but all it does is pushes them deeper inside. i see you now, and it makes me cry in my heart, one so beautiful, and yet, so damaged and messed up inside. my dark angel.
Suspended by his wrath a mind that is fraught with delusions about his genius and a sea of dissatisfaction yearning to reach a bliss hanging by his dark desires burning in his blazing fire the vampire lurks. led by a belief that he will get his release riding on her dreams as he spots her, his inner eye gleams he gets a whiff of the expanded soul and he wants all of it to make him whole the light that will glorify him the vampire strikes.
Why is tonight such a dark night what is it trying to hide? sweeping a dark velvet shroud shutting all light invoking the restful spirits to rise rise, rise, slowly they rise mortals like us standing in a hush the shaman suddenly lets out a cry his chants gone awry in a sudden rush they swoop, they circle, they speak without words a sudden breeze blows, an icy shudder flows the owl lets out a shriek, so do other birds the demons in the mortals sneak out in rows the wolves come out from the men to join the dance of its hosts circling over the body of the shaman being feasted by the ghosts the men stand rooted in a respectful trance the moon slides in to watch casting its silvery light to see this orgy of the dark, to see them all dance as the fog creeps in and then out, they have floated out of sight.
For i have seen dark mountains in the sky, more himalayan to the naked eye, than any reason for our where or why. hands clasp to lift a measure of that height. the gesture is as fragile as a kite against the massive, polarizing night. and yet, my friend, i am content to be a little part of that entirety. all space my hands can hold belongs to me.
We shall not always plant while others reap the golden increment of bursting fruit, not always countenance, abject and mute, that lesser men should hold their brothers cheap; not everlastingly while others sleep shall we beguile their limbs with mellow flute, not always bend to some more subtle brute; we were not made to eternally weep. the night whose sable breast relieves the stark, white stars is no less lovely being dark, and there are buds that cannot bloom at all in light, but crumple, piteous, and fall; so in the dark we hide the heart that bleeds, and wait, and tend our agonizing seeds.
Solitude stands in the bar door the place i go to find her her lips like wine why don't i love you more? i could answer you call everyday but i fear you your dark side the last few trists have been wonderful your dark side but we've never talked this much before perhaps i only had to strike up the conversation or listen to your thoughts your dark side.
Dark is dark, let it be, dark is dark, let it be, what it was dark, is still now and will continue to be so in future, dark is dark, let it be, what it was, what it is, dark is dark, dark the myths of life, dark the tales of the creation, darker the ways of the world taking to which man comes here, taking to that man goes out.
I am here with the music, never more to roam. i am up beyond white clouds because heaven is my home. all my life i have waited to be where you are, i am here with the music and my faithful guitar. the gates they were golden the roses were red when i entered herein like a sheep i was led. but i'll live here forever with the ones i adore, i am here with the music through heaven's open door. august 2008.
Happiness, when people ask me where i find happiness, i don't have an answer, when they inquire what my happiest memories are, i just shake my head, i can't say i have a happiest memory, it's not because all my memories are painful, or unmemorable, no, it's because i search for happiness in tommorow, in the wonder of a new dawn, in the excitement of the growing light, there's always something better, so why wallow in what has been, when you can bask in what is to come, i have no idea what tommorow will bring, but one things for sure, i can always hope for a brighter future, and never ending happiness.
Happiness can only be found if you search for it like a vicious blood hound happiness is just like love just to get it you will push and shove happiness is just a door you open it up and you just want more happiness grows like trees it gets really big but dies in a breeze happiness is what i could never find so i went to the dark to sit and hide.
Over the rainbow bluebirds scatter, nothing's there to really matter. a shaft of light born of love, from the womb of life pierces the axis of your being your home. no need to climb that mountain, no need for promised lands, no need to climb that fence, the shaft of light has told you, you're sitting on a golden seat, see, your eden's. lying all around your feet.
A wonderful emotion a thing everyone needs to find a thing i never felt until now something i will fight not to lose something worth it all worth the pain stress depression the struggle it is worth the fight and i will keep fighting to keep it.
It's not so much the world outside that make us sigh or smile. it's more the thoughts within our head that make life seem worthwhile. thoughts of special people that we have met along the way and memories of the happy times we've shared from day to day. i often wonder on a day like this if you've ever guessed. how many times the thought of you has brought me happiness.
Love is so beautiful, in love there is loss, life is still beautiful, do not cause loss, if it occurs to you, just accept it. none causes loss, it just happens, forgive those, who appear to have, caused loss to you, forgiveness is noble. let her be happy, and at peace, if she could not, she would have a reason, let god take care of her, wish her happiness and peace.
Happiness is knowing, that you are truly loved, but that someone special. knowing that you are secure, with the person you are, is also happiness. happiness is knowing, that you have learned, to believe, trust and most of all, love yourself, for the person that you are. having accomplished all that is needed, to be a complete person on the inside, only then, can we be truly happy. being happy with ourselves, we are ready to accept the happiness, that awaits us in our lifetime, and that is the greatest happiness of all.
To hear your smiles to feel your joy your warm hearted laughter spilling across my shoulder tender hands creating soft sighs then turning to see the light of the sky as it bends to touch your eyes knowing you is a special happiness a small child's hugging arm at my hip the glistening shine on its plump lower lip, quickly moistened after a delectable treat then the blush of color on the full rounded cheek this is a moment of happiness a quiet night of deep restful sleep. the wake to the languid, tingling, feeling, of reach for arms that continue to keep on running to encircle one another yet open wide to welcome each others feats this is the ultimate happiness.
Should i wait for you to fall in love with me or should i just forget about it and let it be i don't want to wait for heartbreak because you and i both know this is something i can't take i know that you are in love with someone else and i don't want to be in a relationship all by myself i want to understand your decision about us so don't be in a relationship that you can't trust you will always have a place in my heart a special designed place from the start maybe one day we can connect that's if our love don't reject i feel beautiful and i hope you do too so in the future one of us will have to say i love you now is not the time so be like me and change your mind i hope that you find happiness too but it's a choice up to you it was either heartbreak or happiness and happiness was something that i didn't want to miss.
There's a happiness, a joy in one soul, that's been buried alive in everyone and forgotten. it isn't your barroom joke or tender, intimate humor or affections of friendliness or big, bright pun. they're the surviving survivors of what happened when happiness was buried alive, when it no longer looked out of today's eyes, and doesn't even manifest when one of us dies, we just walk away from everything, alone with what's left of us, going on being human beings without being human, without that happiness.
I've never trusted happiness. we've never quite been friends. and everytime that my heart breaks, it never really mends. i wrote these words so long ago and yet they still hold true. this heart can hold no happiness. the love just falls right through.
Happiness in usually free, for both you and me. but what i see is something else, big box big fee. happiness should be free, but for many it is not. happiness cost some their life and home, and the dog his bone. happiness can be free, with just a little little effort. smile, give or embrace, or just show your support. happiness is without cost, i am sure we are not lost. we are all in the same boat, just wish we could stay afloat.
An ode to happiness happiness is one of the many emotions maybe the greatest off all it can make you feel all jumpy inside a first kiss, first love its all to do with happiness. but yet happiness never gets thanked for every thing it has done for us so im saying thank you for bringing me steven, amy, fayeness, india and everyone else that means something to me thank you happiness.
Being your self even when it's not neccesairy, when it's not required. even when the world's not perfect and the sky has it's clouds. just walking there just being yourself just closing your eyes, smiling. just walking there, existing, breathing happiness.
I asked the professors who teach the meaning of life to tell me what is happiness. and i went to famous executives who boss the work of thousands of men. they all shook their heads and gave me a smile as though i was trying to fool with them and then one sunday afternoon i wandered out along the desplaines river and i saw a crowd of hungarians under the trees with their women and children and a keg of beer and an accordion.
What is happiness without any pain? what is happiness without any gain? happiness is contentment. happiness may also be a wonderful achievement. happiness can be defined as satisfaction which we get after doing a noble action. happiness can be achieved by doing selfless deeds. by this we can sow the 'humanity seeds' love one another as i have loved you, follow this golden principle and you will find, happiness awaiting you with arms open and welcoming you.
Happiness, oh happiness, waiting to burst forth from me, happiness. to live in such splendour and bathe in the milky sunlight, i wish such a happiness, existed for me. to live in a world of anger, trapped inside a bird's cage. why won't this happiness be mine? hatred fills my heart, for this world full of anger, why can't this happiness be mine?.
Greet the bright dawn with joy, raise your spirit to the light, then your smile you must employ, swiftly expelling the gloomy night. a new day comes into view, to be shaped and to redesign, and each move will be, by you so perfect, so right and fine. the birds will start their song, and delight in this newborn day, and with your courage so strong, exhilaration will come your way. greet the bright dawn with joy, don't give in to tears and stress, find nothing that might annoy, come to know complete happiness.
I want you to know, i never felt this way before, you will see that this will be a perfect harmony. to have you near me by my side, i swear i'll make you mine. and i felt alright when you kissing me goodnight. and i will always standing by your side. i may say yes to loneliness i might dropp some tears, but this tears turn into happiness. i saw you passing by, i told you why the love i cant deny, only that we are to far away. every night every day, but if you will open your heart and love me. i swear i'll never make you cry. i swear to dropp your tears and turn this tears of happiness.
Happiness is th smile that appears when your love walks through the door it's the fact that everyday you love her even more happiness is smiling when nothing goes your way happiness is family when you've had a tired day where do you find happiness do you look up or down? you find it in the mirror at the absence of a frown happiness can be described in so many different ways so let's just hope when it finally comes it will never go away.
Together at the altar we in vision oft were seen by thee, thyself as bride, as bridegroom i. oft from thy mouth full many a kiss in an unguarded hour of bliss i then would steal, while none were by. the purest rapture we then knew, the joy those happy hours gave too, when tasted, fled, as time fleets on. what now avails my joy to me? like dreams the warmest kisses flee, like kisses, soon all joys are gone.
Happiness is bliss happiness, is when you get a new puppy happiness, is when you get married happiness, is when you go on you first date happiness, is making your own decisions happiness, is graduating happiness, is getting you first job happiness, is falling in love happiness is being proud of who you are happiness is bliss happiness, is glowing happiness, is fun happiness, is an amazing feeling happiness, is when you smile all day happiness, is giving someone a hug just because you can happiness, is that light in your eyes happiness, is what makes the world go around happiness, is bliss.
Sadness have strikes me i fought harder and harder to get the happiness back i weeps frequently i smiles frequently happiness is what i want in return having him support me gave me a happiness sadness have strikes me i fought harder and harder to get happiness back i wore masks thousand times i pretend and it hurt having him to take off my mask to reveal the truth out of me gave me a happiness sadness have strikes me i fought harder and harder to get the happiness back my heart is shattered i grabbed a broom to gather it together i cries having him glue my heart all together brought me into happiness once again.
Happiness is elusive like the wind coming and going like migrating birds and sound of echoing peals of church bells. i would keep love safe and strong held fast within my heart never lost to furies of a purple storm. once, i was happy and royal with my lover not knowing it was supreme and through folly have lost all to loneliness.
You cannot buy your happiness, 'cause happiness is free. don't you know, or can't you guess, it's there for you and me. and what you do with what you've got, can change the way you feel. just do your best and smile a lot, you'll keep an even keel. 'cause happiness is made for you, just take a bite and see that happiness is what you do with something that is free.
I get a bit, romantic. i get a bit, sensual. i get a bit, romantic when enchanted. and caught up, when i can't get enough. i get a bit, romantic. when you and i touch. i get a bit, wanting to be cuddled. i get a bit, a wanting to be held. i get a bit, ear nibbling. and. wishing all goes well. i get a bit, romantic. i get a bit, sensual. i get a bit, romantic when enchanted. and too caught up, when i can't get enough. i get a bit, wanting to be cuddled. i get a bit, a wanting to be held. i get a bit, ear nibbling. and. wishing all goes well. i get a bit, romantic. i get a bit, sensual. i get a bit, ear nibbling. and. wishing all goes well.
In a candle lit room with an open fires glow, you sit arm in arm passing the evening through. a bearskin rug under your feet and the romantic evening feels almost complete. you bring the wine from the cooler and both of you sip it gently. your hearts beat faster with the warmth inside of you and your kisses are like fire and urge you to go on. then the door opens and her parents tell you in no uncertain terms to get out and go home.
You are my whole on my trip, i love to travel on your ship. my hope is to reach that land, to give you a red flower by my hand. you make me feel in peace, you divide me into many pieces. we are alone at that place, we are rarely in that case. we are alone in this room, when my red flower starts to bloom. i muse on your face under the full moon, when my favorite music blasts to drum. after you read my letter, you make my mind quieter, by your smile so sweeter.
This one is entering her teens, ripe for sentimental scenes, has picked a gangling unripe male, sees herself in bridal veil, presses lips and tosses head, declares she's not too young to wed, informs you pertly you forget romeo and juliet. do not argue, do not shout; remind her how that one turned out.
Lovers love to smile and dance as it's the first step to romance love it o poet love is the only one word for which all hanker life is just an accident born out of love and blessed are those who become the outcome of such a volition and life is born in another form we reincarnate to be another one in love to be born again and again but in different norm come love me o poet me if you want to just for once come in the rain with me get drenched remove all your attire we are divine aren't we. my beauty lies in my concealment you want to see upfront first come and show yourself o poet then you may turn me around till then just admire the wettest silky attire love me first eredisaster comes love is just for one and only once.. dear dave peace be with thee the moon replied how much happier i'd have been if you had shown the lower half all naked to me with my sexiness you wanted to compare o lady i am more beautiful than thee years don't age nor frail me your beauty just lasts till end of your virginity but still i can see ye you too are as beautiful but not more than me good dears all do read my poem moms smiles u'd love it notes this extempore poetry is as a result of a romantic poet of ph here who translates his views as he would like the other person would love to do he views a sure romancer he must be like poet me.
I'm lost everytime i look into those eyes. and yet you never let me peer through your disguise. you leave my heart in disarray. babe.i really don't want to play. i don't know why we couldn't be.you cut me deep, like a chainsaw to a tree. so for all those girls out there with the wrong man, here i stand. a bleeding heart, and i feel its all for naught'. so forget that we ever shared the same thought.
Poetess is very happy today and in romantic mood for her love is the only passion and food she has chris on hand to go with full with deep love and armed with teeth what moon, earth or for that matter anything she has needed none or expects something since weeks she had prepared beautiful ground now naturally she will be drunk and found all her eagerness may come to an end in chris she has found an ally and friend what else she has needed to enjoy? no stars, no sky and no moon to joy let her explain what happened on that day how did she enjoyed it till long night stay what did he get in return for complete surrender? who was winner in race? female or male gender let it remain there as their private domain they might have talked about loneliness and pain we may hear the version form poetess's encounter let her take complete world by storm and enter.
Romantic, romantic, who is a romantic, the making of a romantic, how the man behind the curtain is the thing to know? romantic, romantic, the word is no doubt musical and magical, but who is the romantic, one who is full of colour and image, fancy and imagination, dream and fantasy? or one who is creative, a lover of nature, hills, rivers, woods and valleys, the village and the country, the landscape and the greenery in full myth and mysticism? or one who transforms dreams into realities, imagines and creates as per nature's plan, envisages and transforms, loves man, birds and beasts, sees the things in astonishment, the world and nature? or one who is a loafer, a rambler, a roamer moving aimlessly on the road of life, parting like a romeo, loving and dodging, cheating and deceiving?.
I love writing with emotional fighting to add something unusual but still look it as casual i make life to look wonderful i wish everybody to become successful peacefully live with their expectations with harmonious coexistence and relations we are not here to score points take lives of others with joint conspiracy it spoils the chance for living together the message is spread with split offers what do i try to write? i still have nerves to excite write for readers to know some of the unknown aspects that may sometimes urge them to act romantic tales are not my style to work more in this direction is not goal to remain in touch with human thinking that is all i wish to perform rather than sinking.
Candle lights, a bed of petals a sprinkle of roses a table with the candles lit two plates, two wine glasses a rosy birthday cake, a bottle of wine soft music playing in the background a loving tune flowing thru the air beautiful you coming down the stairs a glowing angel with a gorgeous smile sent from the heavens above a birthday surprise and a tearful joy a romantic night for you to cherish like a scene from the movies the beautiful actress gets her man a dream that comes true tears of joy and surprise wishing you a loving birthday full of love and joy a kiss and a slow dance holding you tightly, whispering happy birthday and loving you a birthday wish for you comes true.
My heart loves you my soul loves you my eyes are missing you i wish that your family agrees to marry me but what can i do, it's something in your parents hands i write letters to you all the time i put a rose every day on the wall of your house you are my life and my soul each beat of my heart is calling you, honey i love you so much i miss you so much i wish that i can be with you someday i wish that 'best wishes to you from whole my heart' ali sabry.
Dry sticks in the wind, how have they made this from your music? i can't pretend to like them for it. once the skies were ours the rainbow gleaming dome and the multifaceted shone even in a single dewdrop and the blown rose. but they have bundled you off to the ragmen of the soul for pennies on the dollar i never owned. what's owning for if you lose this? what will you tell your children's children when they come to find the trees stripped bare in summers in a world of care, i would ask them if i thought they could listen and, if, i dared. let the sere winds blow the betrayals away. god speaks still in the solitary ear unquenchable gold and always, glistening mary angela douglas 22 september 2014.
With casual gesture is raising the goblet overfilled with the cascade of words to the mouth inexpressible with the red rowan of persistent thoughts like drops of blood is marking the road to the white summerhouse of trysts standing in the garden wrapped with elaborate tangles of bindweed and the virginia creeper leading the purpose through the drawbridge he is encouraging participation in spring funs sensitive breath of the wind what knocking with trees is flying without the memory protracting on the young greenness fields getting it is beckoning rains of the spring storm over to himself with the lightning the poet is writing with heart off whom one each drops of the red rowan and tenderness of longing are falling.
Love the heart of all romance, must be of the sacred, laughing brook, it must be of the eternal dance. it must of her sable, dark look, and of mine returning purity for purity. romance is love and love is romance. it is of the azure, gleaming stream, it is glory beyond all ecstasy. it transcends all pines, all wines, all loftiness, it is not a fabled, windy dream. and when one is immersed in its ineffable caress, when diamonds are donning her wedding dress, the sun and the stars rise merely to greet yet another height where lips do meet.
Romantic poet and memory of magic realism life still fact of dream small village in unfinished seas a sailor can not visit the land or say can god of souls stopped death for ever magic realism our story through broken economic'my economic under zero hours ' as peace in middle east.
A frog, beautiful greenish mixed color while in search of its food trapped in a pipe a drainage pipe for easy flow of rain there he imagined well grown insects a safe hideout to catch the prey and eat well and himself to become fat then going to his habitat to tell the story the achievement, nourishing food and all and to marry a beautiful bride to live with it in happy days ahead his ambitions were big and attempts accurate enough to eat he got from the drain pipe there he became lazy and got asleep often sang the songs in loud without mistake showed his vigor to attract the female then came the ill luck in the form of owner the house owner perturbed on blockage of pipe the rain water stagnated in the compound unable to know the reason and took a stick slowly he tried to pierce it through the drain with pain and fear the frog tried to escape but alas another side there waits a snake the song of the frog attracted it, to swallow the unusual predicament on his trapped stand however it escaped after a while in care the mystery is all is not well always careful.
Frog swimming to try for fly. fish was asking frog 'why you did want to fly.? ' frog say 'i am was born on tommrow a bird.so. i was try to fly.' fish was hahaa loug lot. 'frog take care try too fly. '.
The corroboree frog i be, a hopping the land down under. black with yellow splotches on me. as hubby, i am a wonder. i know that i need build a nest, using my hind limbs to sculpt moss, make proposals that i sing best. ladies to my threshold do cross, all laying eggs i fertilize. the gals take off but i do stay, and wait for the waters to rise, till hatching tadpoles come my way. ah, the memories that i've had living as a stay at home dad.
However much learned we are, however big our possessions are, however large the kingdom we rule, however wide our popularity is, however deep our knowledge is, however widespread our domain is, we need to accept that we are no better than a frog in a well some are in a big well some are in a small well a well, regardless of its size will never become an ocean ocean is the ultimate truth well is the ground reality a frog in the well cannot fathom over an ocean but, we, with our sixth sense can comprehend what ocean can be and need to be on a continous effort to understand the ocean and reach there, the ultimate reality.
There once was a frog, who sat on a log, and didn't know what to do. he looked around, sat on the ground, then saw the birds flying above. the birds were high, high in the sky, and looked like they wouldn't come down. the frog watched and stared, then got scared, then he ran off into to town.
The frog by nature is both damp and cold, her mouth is large, her belly much will hold; she sits somewhat ascending, loves to be croaking in gardens, though unpleasantly. comparison. the hypocrite is like unto this frog, as like as is the puppy to the dog. he is of nature cold, his mouth is wide to prate, and at true goodness to deride. he mounts his head as if he was above the world, when yet 'tis that which has his love. and though he seeks in churches for to croak, he neither loveth jesus nor his yoke.
A frog and a tarantula is an unusual pair, in a hole up a tree they're happy to share. the dotted humming frog has poisonous skin, so he's safe from succumbing to his hairy kin. he protects the spider's clutch of eggs, from ants attracted to her insect dregs. there's mutual benefit from this clever deal, for ants are this frog's favorite meal. the spider scares the snakes away, to look elsewhere for their prey. it's a wonder how this sister and brother, have learnt to help one another. if you want to see these splendid two, take a trip to the jungle in south east peru.
The great, green gob was opened wide and a wriggling worm was fed inside. the boy said, 'mum, the frog he comes and sees me every day, but a grass snake lurks and slyly works his slithers by the way'. then the snake, like lightning, makes a strike. the boy he quickly starts and jaws around the great, green gob are gently eased apart. now frog and snake their freedom take from the boy with a pounding heart.
A tiny costa rica frog was caught in heavy rains he hops around to get away pitter patter water pains he chanced upon a tender leaf that stood on single stalk enough to shade the little frog. he waits for water stop and when it did the little frog jumps off the saviour stalk he croaks aloud and naturally escapes in grateful hop.
Of the complexities of nature how can one explain who can tell of the workings of the amphibian's brain why he often does sing in the wind and the rain his song more like a croak in the watery drain a frog's just a frog as many do say those who dismiss nature in their arrogant way our connection to nature they do seem to miss but i envy them their ignorance since ignorance is bliss about nature as me as much they do know i have lived many seasons but with little to show in knowledge of nature others i lag behind but an expert on nature perhaps one could not find a frog's just a frog you will hear many say but frogs are so complex in their secretive way.
Frogs are green like chlorophyll their eyes bulge out at you they can be mean and further still can fit inside a shoe. they have a land all to their own it ain't a small one, no so shake their hand 'cause they are prone to see you as a foe. they eat their legs and also snails and drink the beaujolais a frog who begs is one who fails be warned, that's all i say. a stereotype is something which applies to definition of all the hype it's really kitsch and now i'm going fishing.
You've probably heard the story of the scorpion who asked the frog to help him cross the river by giving him a lift on the frog's back. the frog refused but finally gave in after the scorpion promised he would not sting the frog, but he ultimately did. i am a different frog, who trusted a clever scorpion, who wore a lab's mask. in my case the scorpion's sting did not kill me, it only wounded me, causing me to run away to safety. and now the scorpion is back again, trying to gain my trust, but his crocodile tears no longer face me. i realize he can't help his heart, his rotten nature. this little frog has learned, not everyone that cries is nice, not every sweet word is true, not everyone has my best interest at heart, and that will save my life.
Is the life lived of a belching frog, more important than the one. sitting quietly on a lily pad, looking at its reflection. on a mirror smooth pond? or is the frog that belches, showing more appreciation. for the flies that are attracted. and the reason that a belching frog, could care less about an image reflected. but expresses a gratefulness for the feast, available to be eaten.
The fairy tale says, that every time you kiss a frog or is it a toad, it turns into a prince or a princess, depending on which story you have heard. i thought that i would test the theory. first on a frog, i tried, but nothing happened there. then i grabbed the biggest toad, gave it a great big kiss as you know. all i ended up with was a big wart on the end of my nose. so if you are looking for a prince or princess, do not kiss a frog or toad, because you might end up like me, with a big wart on the end of your nose.
Look at the frog so small and cute top to tail in his green suite never dry not always wet every child wants one for a pet only the newt for a friend swim in the pond from end to end deep under water breath held tight look at him swim such a delight hear him call all through the night a prince in waiting a king by right leaping high jumping long for his size he is so strong from lilly pads he loves to hop as he hits the water plip plip plop see him catch the fly swallow swallow with a blink of his eyes gobble gobble look at the frog so small and cute top to tail in his green suite.
When the rain pattered the frog started croaking the monkey on the tree warned 'danger is in ambush' she wouldn't listen too 'i know, my father keeps saying this' she said the monkey didn't ask 'is your father too a monkey? ' the frog got finished in one hiss so was she finished in one miss.
The frog proclaims unabashedly within hearing of everyone he brags that he has paid his dues and did it even before the last hour, paid much more than what was worth every bit of what was owed and more so, he held his head up high nothing else matters now the day is a mockery for him, beneath an imagined sun, basking in delight in a shrouded glow owning the dark of night, the cold of the puddle, an empty inheritance in creased parchment, he now croaks his incessant boast in a pond where day refuses to come.
And then a frog sang before the bog in that late afternoon. all of a sudden, its first loud song struck my ear, deaf for nature that day in particular. even if the rhythm was dreary, i could felt something unusual surging from that kind of surreptitious soul of mine.
I 'd like to speak, told me a frog about this shadow in the fog this shadow that is following us without haste, hurry, or rush i 'd like to speak, but its forbidden to tell and to reveal the end of a story never read never begun and never written.
I fell in love with a frog, who was sitting alone on the banks of the nile, mooning over the premature decease of his beautiful wife. he was sobbing his heart out, his lips convulsed with woe, dripping emotion, his chin atremble, the words buried in a raven black but deafening silence. i instantly knew he was the find of my ultimate search for love. a bathos unknown to those seeking earthly pleasures, a poignancy knocking vulgarity off its temporal pedestal. my dear love, dearest of all other loves, my love for this frog, please become a wreath a halo, a redemptive power to soothe all pain.
Just love your work and tell you what the work does it all for you just sit there do not even think or lift a finger your work hands everything to you in finished forms perfectly perfect love your work and everything is done without noticing the existence of time love your work the table comes to you all set and all you have to do is simply sit, eat and relax and wait kewl.
I've got the children to tend the clothes to mend the floor to mop the food to shop then the chicken to fry the baby to dry i got company to feed the garden to weed i've got shirts to press the tots to dress the can to be cut i gotta clean up this hut then see about the sick and the cotton to pick. shine on me, sunshine rain on me, rain fall softly, dewdrops and cool my brow again. storm, blow me from here with your fiercest wind let me float across the sky 'til i can rest again. fall gently, snowflakes cover me with white cold icy kisses and let me rest tonight. sun, rain, curving sky mountain, oceans, leaf and stone star shine, moon glow you're all that i can call my own.
Now all the truth is out, be secret and take defeat from any brazen throat, for how can you compete, being honour bred, with one who, were it proved he lies, were neither shamed in his own nor in his neighbours' eyes? bred to a harder thing than triumph, turn away and like a laughing string whereon mad fingers play amid a place of stone, be secret and exult, because of all things known that is most difficult.
Work is life. life is work. any work is not wrong. without work is worng. human every budy works wny way too work.s work is making you. work is given good life for you.and your's. so. understand too work earn money too work. live life with your work. love too work. learn to do the work. lovingely do the work.
I told my kids we'd see it, this movie, they couldn't wait. we finally saved the money so we started on our ''date''. they were so very happy to be on there way to see this show that they'd been saving for even more than me. standing by the corner, he came into our view. he looked so very helpless that i knew what we should do. i tried to just look past him, to keep my spirits bright. but, then i looked in the rearview mirror and knew what would be right. the kids were looking also, they got quiet and so still. my son's eyes looked so heavy as they simply began to fill. he said ''who needs a movie? there's good stuff on t.v.'' that's when i knew my kids would feel the pain of other's just like me. as we gave this man the money, he looked me in the eye. he blessed us all and watched us leave without saying goodbye. his blessing was well worth it, i felt it in my soul. i saw my kids' compassion shine and i've never felt so whole.
That time catches up on us all is surely not a lie he is too old to work and he is too young to die on retirement pension and quite bored with life he spends much of his time arguing with his wife on their fortieth year of marriage and love between them long dead with a son and daughter and seven grandchildren and old age ahead since the warm feelings of love in their life has gone cold they have nothing to look forward to but growing old he and his wife in their mid to late sixties and their best years long gone and only the will to live keeps them living on years ago they used to walk hand in hand to the park off of the street but nowadays out walking them one never does meet on his own in the pub he sits and drinks his beer looking rather unhappy and lacking in cheer.
Paragraphs, of words to be. written down, to fill a need. sentences, penned forth to read. hung on walls, for all to see. explanations, of the past. for the future, made to last. little words, that make us dream. fantasize, cry and scream. delivered to us, in a grin, read in ways, that chill the skin. serious, but sometimes fun. a poets work is never done.
Forget the past, however bitter be; tomorrow is yet in your very hands; but labor hard towards a goal truly; your dreams could turn true from some distant lands. let patience stay with you till very last; small bickering should not upset your mood; all cannot take the lane that is too fast; there isn't the time to waste or even brood. and when a hill in life is climbed by you; the glory, satisfaction are so great; nevertheless, you must condescend too; and try in life to do a greater feat. all days are same; we must keep working more; work harder till life takes you to the fore.
When i got married i had a rubber lizzard that i had for a number of years. the lizzard looked and felt real. so i said, tonight i'm gonna have a little fun with my honey bun. i slipped in bed and put the lizzard under the covers on her side of the bed. when i lay there in wait for the fun to begin. she came in and hopped in beside me and landed on that lizzard. she let out the awfulest blood curdling scream i ever heard.then she started to cry. then she screamed again. then she cried some more. then she finally got her breath. "o.k. you jerk. take that lizzard and get out the door." i put the lizzard in my dresser drawer before i went out the door.i thought our marriage had come to an end. i promised her i'd never do that again. all the people in town told my wife that she had married a clown that would never settle down. i learned something that night when we had our first fight. if you treat your wife with respect and don't act like a jerk, your marriage is bound to work and she will even iron you shirts. you can't expect her to earn your living. you've got to get off your duff and earn some of that spending stuff. you may not have much money. but you will alwyas have your honey. which is worth more than all the money. you've got to settle down and quit your fooling around. trying to paint the town. you can't sit in a bar. and make the payment on your car. the other side of the street may look greener, poison oak may look like four leave clover. but you will know the difference when it's all over. my wife and i have been married almost fifty years now and that lizzard is still in my dresser drawer.
Beautiful majestic wild horses roaming freely full of spirit we rope them break them brand them enslave them a form of jim crow spirit and freedom gone no longer beautiful majestic wild now just four legged robots the work of the devil man.
Work work and hard work there is no substitute of hard work only by hard work you can earn money and money is not a thing to believe money fetches good food virility beautiful wife and charity and all above have no eternity.
You work, work, work to provide for, and to live, then you buy, buy, buy you constantly spend and you give. then you work, work, work just to pay your bills and your debt, you work, work, work until you are tired and you sweat. you work to go on a vacation for relaxation and some thrills, but, then when you return home you have more debt and even more bills. so, you work, work, work to find more stuff to buy, then you work, work, work until the day that you die. living, it is just a cycle life it is just a quest you work, spend and buy then at the end of the day or life, you rest.
A glint of early morning sun reflected in the shiny waxed panels of the parked cars with blinding rays of light from the mirrored wings bursting star like on my eyes from a focal intensity only a pale shadow of the low lying god in my heaven which hung with unknown colour in a pale blue sky. the sole of my shoe crunched a gravel chipping as it pressed into the dry surface of the tarmac drive making a small mark in memory of my passing a butterfly with painted wings left its soft repose and dipped and rose upon the gentle blowing wind the same air that filled my body with breath and life.
Mamas don't let your babies grow up and work for disney, don't let 'em wear mouse ears, or sing a pop song, don't let 'em wear belly shirts, the whole thing is wrong. mamas don't let your babies grow up to work for disney. they''ll end up on drugs and be managed by thugs cos here's where it's at, mickey mouse is really a rat..
Hunger is fasting always eating bubbles asking for a people stick on which to chew. leaking tears of spice to mellow tast of you. sitting on a bay of sunken docks sniffing reused questions fixing clocks flakes of mind floating by a big deluge. baby fish in fluid takes no druid stones where crazy people seem to lay angle fish swimming close to shore hooked up with you. even a retarded fish can bend the rule floating in a sea bent ruler way to fat to throw you back.
Work in the morning work at noon work in the afternoon and work in the night. work, work, work one wakes up thinking of work eating and planning for work sleeping and dreaming of work. work, work, work work with passion work with obsession derive joy from work or take work as the sole end. work, work, work give work the chance never to rule over your life. work is only a tiny part of who you are.
My heart is beating i have a brush in my hand there is paint all around me your face i paint now it's done on the wall it hangs i'm looking at it and smiling my heart is beating faster it's beautiful it's my mom.
I am standing at your funeral ready to say good bye i am standing here ready to cry memories for me to recall of my first ball climbing tall trees skined up knees swinging high touching the sky when i returned your arms were there wraping me with warmth comfort and care. i am wondering why this could'nt last? ending days of my childhood past grave site train tears turn to torrid rain good bye mother there never will be another sadness is my care my heart has a tear.. outside waiting funeral hearse, taking from me, without coerce, your touch is far away angels guiding your way.
No drums, no marching and no bugles, not much crowd as expected only few relatives behind the anthill. the president of ants has sent a deepest sympathy that's saying; 'sorry, i am not able to attend your funeral as i have to be present in an elephant's wedding. '.
Darkness encompasses my space my future seen bleak, feral beasts hide not even a glow worm to throw light i see no chance of deliverance. through the mazy depths of gloom, i wade struck with the pestilence of rejection and hate hopes are now like shredded threads frayed away from a rope i seek shade under a leafless tree i hold on to a crutch as a prop i curl up like a helpless embryo floating and swivelling in lucid agony shutters of distress is about to close in before that, i will my own death in the absence of pall bearers i shall carry my orphaned corpse and walk the deserted road inching my way to the grave.
The funeral bell is ringing a reminder of our mortality farewelling a deceased soul one day 'twill ring for me ringing in the stillness of this cool autumn day across the rural city in the morning damp and gray. the funeral bell is pealing for one a last farewell and few sounds sadder than the slow peals of the loud funeral bell above the streets and houses it echoes to the sky for one bound for her or his last resting place the cemetery nearby. the peewees in the town park distinctive in their call and the magpie on a wattle pipe on this cool morning in the fall and for one who will not breathe again the eulogy is read and the funeral bell is tolling in memory of the dead. the funeral bell is ringing for one a last goodbye and on the clock of our mortality the hours just seem to fly respect to the departed is all that we can pay and for each and everyone of us a final night and day.
You told me the song to play at your funeral as if i can think that far ahead i haven't even held your hand or kissed your face ran my fingers through your hair or trailed them down your chest i've never looked in your eyes and told you that i love you your touch i've never felt nor the warmth of your body on mine but you told me the song to play at your funeral a grand assumption don't you think.
I thought if i took the flowers home flowers from a funeral for a friend a friend whose face looked unfamiliar unaware i was even there unsure if she'd really care for cotton candy carnations lavender last goodbyes a burly man carried the carefully concocted cascades of colorful blooms close to the dumpster the day after he, disconnected from the despair that dangled about my thoughts but thought well enough to stop long enough to catch my stare and spare the sprigs and sprays of fresh freesia from the squashing stench of the sanitation truck's crunching and handed them over to me like presenting a beauty queen her lavish winning bouquet at home, with the hum of a well working furnace i put forth gallant effort picking purple plumes from the florist's generic green foam that held her final farewell gathered, i did in diligent work each vase from a collection of years and brought to tears thinking if i watered them well placed beneath the light of my favorite window sill their fragrance to fill my sadly lit room maybe, just maybe she'd stay awhile, share one more smile before being ready to say goodbye even the most beautiful bouquets wither wilt and die.
Early darkness; as oil we drip on tarmac, a gathering in black fallen from the sky. with lemon faces we shadow the next. tears empty and clear; cutting out the jabber still alive we drift over cobbles. arms alongside too distant and too close, much too close. the crows send us back into the rain, a brass aside breaks the ring, a hole in life. we stare into; is that all?.
My funeral pen writes for me all of these words that set me free the pen that i shared for mourners to sign the pen that i wrote to turn back time the pen that i wrote the funeral plans while families cried i held their hands this pen has been held ever so tight by many seeing darkness yet others seeing light this pen holds memories dear to my heart bringing togetherness yet families torn apart copyright reserved may 2014 lyn paul.
A day to say i am sorry a day to say i love you a day filled with unending feelings a day filled with chocked emotions yielding myself to showers of tears the shortness of life yields to death not allowing us to gauge every friendship not allowing us to give thanks for the memories giving us to retain the mythical the magical thought of all this but can i feel solemnity a voice screams tribute tribute inside of me the screaming battles with the burning devils from hell cannot be heard pacify me and cool my thoughts with your comfort the place where you will go absence of conflict and strife the sun will shine again leaving behind the black and white vivid colors of an intangible arch stemming from the last down pour of tears a distant rainbow belonging to you begging me to run through fickle threads catching raining colors of your love from your absence voids, hollowness, and distressed wounds are being stitched shut smoothing healing balm covers like a blanket keeping you alive within me forever.
I told my kids we'd see it, this movie, they couldn't wait. we finally saved the money so we started on our ''date''. they were so very happy to be on there way to see this show that they'd been saving for even more than me. standing by the corner, he came into our view. he looked so very helpless that i knew what we should do. i tried to just look past him, to keep my spirits bright. but, then i looked in the rearview mirror and knew what would be right. the kids were looking also, they got quiet and so still. my son's eyes looked so heavy as they simply began to fill. he said ''who needs a movie? there's good stuff on t.v.'' that's when i knew my kids would feel the pain of other's just like me. as we gave this man the money, he looked me in the eye. he blessed us all and watched us leave without saying goodbye. his blessing was well worth it, i felt it in my soul. i saw my kids' compassion shine and i've never felt so whole.
I love chinese food, and chinese food loves me, but in my imaginary land, i am the queen. the clouds there are orange chicken, the grass is chow mein, i love my land, mostly because there's no candy canes. the mountains are huge potsickersand the trees are eggrolls, whatever i'm craving it falls into a bowl. it doesn't fall in big, it falls in small, i'll tell you how small, as small as a golf ball. it rains soy sauce, and the bushes are broccoli, the beef is a part, and that part is it's berries. whenever go there, it's always fun, so next time i go, you should really come.
Dusty roads are many, where gutsy people walk, muddy paths are countless, where trusting lives live, on the embankments of river, ravine and monsoon canals, millions of babies formed, born, grown and give birth, we are the tough species to conquer any other species, we have come a long way not to make it a short exit, let us celebrate our victory with the mother earth, where her treasure are being stolen for our mirth, diamond cuts a diamond; a heart wounds a heart, we, human, hurt our fellow human for our greed, millions roam on the urban jungle for the food, millions throw the food into the bin as a fad.
There is good food and good bed. there is fine wine and fine tune. by is a cute lady with a melody. you, as a king, are restless to taste. the sword of damocles hangs there. the poor have taste, no means. the rich have means, no taste. 17.04.2001, pmdi.
Without food i can not live food is dear to me. you can judge my faith seeing my food. you can know my secular actions in my eating drinking and in the way of living. food food and food food is the means to live taking food is my birth right.
I am in need of some food after taking something i will listen your love story. i am in need of some food after taking something i will dance i will sing o sun o moon o star o bird for a moment stay there. i am in need of some food food is the bare truth if anythig is to love love food love is necessary for life food is necessary for life's maintenance. i am in need of some food without food i can not do anything there is no magic no power only there is hunger give me some food my dear i love you then only i can utter.
Food and food, your food says what are you. take food, and that look before all what are you. food and food your food says about your past and about your future, my dear, here, you cannot hide yourself. food and food take food and express yourself.
I have been chasing that truck, for 2kms, now and i will be dead for the morsel the world cannot reach me, or the gods that cant make in my soil. why do these guys fight madly, brother to brother, friend to friend, i and my type of folks live and die, for the the beliefs and wrath they carry, billions on arms are here to fight, but not a grain to swallow, the land has become waterless and dry, even the rivers have flown away, as if scared of human madness, oh food, food when will you appear for our hungry souls, which sure will go to heavens, since our penance are over forever, and our sins have been wahed away for all the humanity by our hunngry stomachs.
Food for the body i know of men, who do not have enough, lacking food and drink, their life is rough day in, day out they struggle for food there is no time for any other good food for the ego i know of men who have enough food and drink so they have time for something else to think their egos are hungry for money, power and fame getting more, being restless, an endless game food for the soul i know of men who are contented with how they live they focus on soul and never cease to give to give love and support, perform acts randomly kind they are the ones who have at any time peace of mind.
Eyes do all that is needed with due consideration point is conceded but quest does not end in result sometimes hunger pushes more insult i find horizon so log and vast but happiness does not last i have lot more to find i can not afford to be kind but what is happening? is it bad beginning? i find no prey near the target my eyes are tired but how to forget? i shall fly higher to get closer to the object and act some days prove futile yet efforts must go on for a while i need to be more vigilant and search them in plants i shall go for search and come down as such let me hope i succeed in the day find the delicious meal any way.
Hundreds and thousands have toiled under the scorching sun of summer, to grow the food which so comfortably we eat. think of food as the fruit of labor of thousands of hours, rather than just rice and wheat. millions die due to lack of food, so is their fate, but we are lucky to have every time enough in our plate. we may never go to the fields to produce the food, but my friend 'food saved is food produced'. so lets take a vow today to put in our plate only that much which we can eat, so that even a single single grain may not go waste.
Love is the food of the heart. the more it flows uncircumscribed to all creation, the more the soul realizes he must stop eating once living beings. when he turns to nonviolent food his physical heart can gradually heal releasing gradually the animal fat, amyloid plaque, uric acid and other accretions in the arteries.
As we graze upon reality is there something we dont see while i sit and take a glance i wonder if its all by chance do this life we guide from the helm or is it set by another realm can we change the path we take or are we earthen bound like a lake looking beyond this life i live is there more i can take or give i guess i, m searching for a gate as i ponder upon my fate is there something i can do to make life better for me and you so far nothing i have found can unlock this chain that has us bound i have grown old and weak still the answer i have seek is there something that i ought or is it all just food for thought.
They say in egypt lived a man who dined on cheese and pickled ham and once he ate a caravan including horse and camel he ate all night and ate all day and all the people ran away fearing they would soon be pray to masticating ecstasy he went down to the market cross consuming all he came across and then when finished at a loss he ate himself with apple sauce.
The hunger pangs i feel are real. my stomachs growling to be fed, this is no quiet mute appeal refuses to be quieted. nouveau cuisine just will not do no pretty pictures on a plate i really need something to chew some prime beef steak to masticate. my stomach clearly understands exactly what it wants and needs expects me to obey its commands and as always it succeeds. a t bone steak with some french fries my stomach usually satisfies.
There were great men by whom the society has immensely benefited and yet it utterly failed to treat their descendants, who reeled in poverty and are forgotten. to honour the great after their exit is not remembrance of their names but helping of their ailing progeny. let his child get food before he gets fame.
'every person who smokes, is going to die. every person who never smokes, is going to die. every person who is 'overweight', is going to die. every person who is never overweigh, is going to die. every person who drinks alcohol, is going to die. every person who never drinks alcohol, is going to die. every person who fails to heed the advice of health advocates, is going to die. every person who devotedly follows all the advice of health advocates, is going to die. death is inevitable. doctors are powerless to stop it. yes, it's a fact.within the next 120 years, every person alive in the world today will have died. 6 billion people will die. there is nothing that medical science can do about it. doctors are not gods, despite what they may think. they will not, they cannot conquer death. universe is a big recycle machine.' and you small human being who really will know that you were here? after three generations you will be deleted from human memories. who will know that you have passed from the earth? time is the killer of all the memories and the natur is your killer. don't try to understand. try to give love and share. life is always bitter sweet get only what gives to you. if you want more you will never be happy. your life is the beginning from your end. nature does not recognize you as personality, you are a piece of the puzzle of life. you are not all the puzzle. your mission is just to give life and food to eternity. and the eternity is the reason that you exist.
Give me some food that provide and promote my life vitality strength health happiness peace purity give me sweet and juicy give me ghee butter raisins give me some food that i can eat drink lick and suck o my dear, you are my best food without chanting your name i can not live a moment come to me with food and provide strength to my heart and lungs and with you i am cheerful.
God has a body and light the universe is inside god's light and it is actually made of a little bit of saliva of god god's body cannot break into two pieces because of gravitational force if god's body had double mass than it has now then also god could not break itself into two pieces even god can not make enough food for himself that's why god is a little hungry and thirsty and upset.
Still in old italy 20 million tones spoils to market more money paid waste paid collected paid in dump charges can we not do better? can we stop criminal waste? can we end global hunger? food waste to market not just an italian problem crime waste a global problem?.
We proud of our nation and our culture we proud we have great history we have gifted with great knowledge we had great leaders and proud with great budha and his sacrifice the great gandhi a gifting, shared as a broken heart the great old leaders each carrying one with our heart of heart and wings in perfect harmony of music and great musicians untouched and beautiful. lifts from the soul heavenly bhagat sing feather fans of sacrifice when we visit rajghat in respectful ritual. we flies to an ending now? miss to the lights to a darken age a prayer for the light to shine to us.
Migrated culture in me there is something like blood i brought in my heart after the flood next visit i searched, was not found sample of what i know deepen fond was removed and buried under mud in me but it remains forever, is alive the changes in old way, not in mind old is fresh till i live, in bones, heart.
Inherent of heredity as heritage like ants gathering in heap and cultural feeling dressed us all with spirit of ubuntu its inheritance is our strength our whereabouts and our which is which our breakthrough and our future our undivided tension and our nation in colors custodians of clear custom traditionalists of tradition even life is traditional i see a happy compatriot here stubborn conventional conventionalist it the pulse of every nation it makes wind to blow world with excitement and it has water of life. our language outline ourselves we to talk to ourselves with it. culture is an intergalactic of our generosity we are united in drums and trumpets singing like the birds in the morning with hope and passion and ancestor joining us in tune cultural day will make us one and life joined us with happiness.
Himalayan mountains the snow ranges in heights stands there in pride makes a strong wall to my country a natural safety and boundary always people came for commerce and knowledge they studied here the great things thakshasila and nalanda universities which were the great knowledge centers sanskrit texts the source of knowledge various subject they dealt with the dedicated sages written the texts the depth of knowledge about the universe the stars, countries, people, seas they made their subjects for writing ayruveda the knowledge of natural medicine yoga and meditation a unique experience scholars on poetry, dramas, and dances abundant they written in texts the great text of economics that written chanakya the genius lived here the centers of learning budha monastries professed religion of peace and non violence may be the influence of snow mountains the calmful climate that gave inspiration himalaya stands ever in heights and proud as a silent witness of world happenings.
Let us not become bigotry that shall pain with past history we need to learn and move along peaceful path to prove see the result of intolerance blood flows with no patience now men want god's supremacy as if crown is in danger by almighty have we gone mad? have we feeling of dead? why do we misadventure? we have lovely future tolerance has no option it has to be strengthened with relation human being is to be respected the tolerance is to be acted no other culture can replace if humanity is to win the race let people go and profess the way they like to chase.
At this beautiful morning now, we are cultivating culture of light, this light is gift of god is adorable, beauty has defined justice of joy. cultivating culture we learn art, from past history to present day, at each moment at present in fortune, sun sprinkles rays of mercy of god. culture of light is light of wisdom, practicing awakening of self is nice, justice of love is revived with trust, culture of light is eternal and infinite. we live in this garden of god in truth, we obey his command everyday in heart, perceiving light we perceive his mercy, light sings his glory guiding us ever.
Humanity and culture yes, father wants someone to take care look after and ask or offer glass of water that only can done be by daughter this is an attachment that is with parents they want lovely daughter with some smile on her face daughter is most beautiful in the eyes of painful parents when they have no one to confide daughter rushes to take care of dad daughter is first choice as she keeps promise mother too wants daughter to be always by the side of her so daughter must follow and grow with father's guidance and take chance be poetess with lovely face and access to humanity and culture.
Culture based on listless lackeys tries exploiting basic instincts, fails to thrive. conniving skyvers harm harmonious hive, antagonistic feast, with furtive eyes divided between jealousy, surprise. mediocrity sets goals but can't survive, stagnating or backtracking, must contrive expedience, manipulation, lies, losing face, disgrace must realize that fragile struggles, space to stay alive, depends much less on effort or on drive than selflessness that spurns sly compromise. priorities protecting selfish rights sacrifice ethics, signal sleepless nights. fragility in public sphere is found duplicated in the population; lopsided give and take's mistaken, bound to fail time's test upon examination. temptation stretches tentacles across vital societal fabric, leaves one wan, alone to draw protective veil while boss whips wealth, strips health from poor, whose tale's soon done. persuasion's kin is rank manipulation of mind or vote. too few intact remain. who'd rock the boat's confined in isolation, cost high, salvation lost, what salves their pain? vulnerable today, tomorrow seems to rend men mediocre from spent dreams.
They were indeed simple people the people of the east a fine culture they did have the people of the east a fine culture the east should have given the rest when the west brought out the 'machine' the east brought out the 'human' today's world is not lacking in machine today's world is lacking in human today's east is sending 'productive men' all over the east should have sent 'human men' all over how did the east stray? when did it loose it's way? the east then found everything in simplicity simplicity was it's strength and beauty simplicity gave the east it's integrity simplicity never ever gave the east an inferiority today the east mocks the west the 'material' wealth of the west..has put to rest.the true spirit of the east we blame it on simplicity we say we were plundered due to our simplicity a handed down book on simplicity only became a liability..we say what the west had gained everybody did gain.the 'machine' what the east had lost everbody did loose.the 'human' today what are we in an 'un human' man is managing a dangerous dumb 'machine'.and that's the danger we are in.without a fine culture.
O you were once wild and beautiful when summer's rays reclined in your hair and your being blazed in valleys and hills. o you were a force so vital and rare when brief flashes and fragments of grace pierced the warm, feathered air and the light of love lit up your face. when crude flesh and fiery spirit were wedded in deepest communal bliss and your youth's blood morphed into roses in the sweet garden of promise that once seemed so fruitful and endless. o you were once wild and beautiful but now you're a ragged recluse degraded by the needle chill; lost in a twilight world of absence; removed from a world you once infused with colour and art and consciousness. now innocence has been badly wounded and despair corrupts our sacredness. yet i still cling tightly to the vast scope of your vision; in the spectral seas of prayer; in the righteous rage of hope in plagued streets placated by prophecy amidst the glitter, neon and concrete; amidst bleached ruins of modernity.
Culture of india varies from states to states, the culture may be dance, music, religion. the culture originate from past people, but modern people changing its style. people are ignoring their culture, with getting involved in different activities. they may be great in their job but not in their respect. this creates bad impact on future, with irrespective and indiscipline. please..have respect to our cultures, have respect to mother india. respect your parents and elders as they are greater and experienced then us. be disciplined man of this world and the life of cave to all readers god has given us chance to prove ourself good not bad. please be proud of your country.
What is culture? culture is refinement and polish, is inherited rather than attained though can be if one tries to perfect. culture is society, heritage and tradition, the family you are from, the heritage you have got, tradition carried forward. sometimes culture destroys in absence of nurturing, but instead of the things can be envisaged in the ruins and rubble.
Let us come together, let us work together, let us love each other. we are one and one, we should rise and shine at a time here. this is our earth, my dear, we all the creatures are living here with light with air and water, from up above the sky we should wait for nectar. mutual growth should be our aim and we should go to achieve this giving support to each other. as human beings we should take more responsibilities to deliver all good to all. the earth is our mother, we are all one family members, let us come together, let us keep connection to each other, let us contribute for better future, let us go upward with humanity and culture.
Education is good, learning is great one day everyone will have a university degree but the academia will not be so happy street cleaners with letters after their name cooks with literary degrees, and the status university gives will mean little, everyone is intellectually equal something must be done to stop this rot, perhaps wood carving will do, and leave the education to the masses.
It is in the culture. fed to accept, deception. everyday it's there and in the culture. fed to accept, deception. and to reject. the telling of truth. it's. in the culture. a feeding to accept, deception. oh, and. everyone expects to be deceived. and. everyone expects they should believe in lies. and despise. believers and the tellers of truth. it is in the culture. fed to accept, deception. everyday it's there and in the culture. fed to accept, deception. and to reject. the telling of truth. oh yes it's there and everywhere, in the culture. a feeding to accept, deception. everywhere and there to believe, a feeding of deception to receive. everyday it's there and in the culture. fed to accept, deception. and to reject and disrespect. the telling of truth. booted or diluted is the truth. oh. it's in the culture. and. the telling of the truth, few people do. oh. it's in the culture. and. the telling of the truth, few people do. oh. it's in the culture. and. the telling of the truth, few people do. oh. the telling of the truth, few people do. oh. it's in the culture. and. the telling of the truth, few people do.
Many guests filling home with talk and tibetan culture. a beautiful dog, tail wagging, hoping to greet each one personally. being frustrated behind a screen door, pacing excitedly back and forth with each new arrival. never having a chance to even say hello to one.
Tibetan monasteries falling in ruin, weathered, beaten down by the chinese, to provoke a life long tomb. destroying culture, trying to bury and forget, allowing for the insane jealousy. what will be the end of it all, when one day, nothing is left standing.
Gun culture life is moving very fast we don't know when will it last but it is going to mushroom we will watch growing crime in our room yes drug trafficking is on daily new methods are thrust on the kids are inducted for trade to be facilitated they get killed or kill this is not their will but new style is added the crime has flourished soon you will witness and find gloom on face to find our dear one is shot dead the culprits have then fled you have new culture to the future scene the kids will be seen yielding and showing gun.
We are all just just here looking all around around the world, we have come come to a land land of fortune fortune to all, we are all different different we dare, show us your culture culture is all around us us be taught, us be educated educated we will survive survive as many peoples peoples are very dear dear to our country country is our home home to very many many different cultures australian culture, of course.
The indian culture is very sound, it is based upon the family background. the bond of their relationship is such found, that we can smell the presence like the hounds. the indian families are generally spiritual, living in a joint family is traditional. love among each other is proportional, the partition of property makes them emotional. the support of the members is generous, their affection towards us is precious, their devotion towards us is fabulous, these things make me feel very specious. the strength of the family can even fight with the tide, where sadness goes away and hide. where even obstacles give them the side, being the member of such a family is my pride.
The celebration is on for simple man and really remembered as human who helped villagers as headman? no one remembers and offers so much of respect but for noble acts the story might have remained untold but whole of the village was told and retold about great man every year his loss was felt very dearly the village culture is different even today it is present the activity of head man is seen with keen interest ashe tries his level best only good people are remembered so the great tribute is offered on his death anniversary to remember his contribution and carry the impression.
Have no doubt when we talk about death is certain we want it to come without pain each soul has to depart as we are part of the divine theory and put in motion already whether you like it or not the solution has to be sought the life is to be spent in orderly manner not to side with evil or sin culture you shall have choice when raise voice about your past and present you acted as messenger sent from above such belief makes you carefree you have no reason to worry as each passenger has to get down when the destination is already known the death may knock in the early morning when warned by cock as raising alarm over the appearance of death god to take you away and free from load.
Enticing sounds luring my mind down avenues of another culture, seeing fascinating colors and festivities happening all around. arousing curiosity even more than usual, going into the midst of all that is seen and heard, while a proportionate amount of time is being relayed in thought processes of imagination.
Summer kiwi wine festival season chasing fans on classic hits winery tour singers centre stage in wine paradise singers also sing warm ups at all black games all blacks pose as men drinking beer not wine poets drink wine but poets are missing apparently no all blacks write poetry? apparently no wine makers read poetry? kiwi culture has not discovered poetry?.
Install any dishonest man to look after and protect the humans he shall oblige improve conduct and change people were stunned when saw a shepherd giving justice on the spot people dug out place and found holy crown seat people believed in his words as holy as from that of lord no one questioned his wisdom he was acting as if king of mighty kingdom it is place that puts him above race he feels holder of divine spirit improves his behavior and greets today scenario has changed leaders have poisoned the ears of the people by telling lies and filling their own bellies justice is sold in market many agents make it convenient you need to spend money or bribe we are returning old culture of tribes.
A heart breaks easier alone when no one sees you crying when no one notices at all that inside you are dying a heart breaks easier alone when they all think you're crazy that when you crawl back in your bed the whole world thinks you're lazy a heart breaks easier alone and there's no way to mend it to stop the heart from breaking more you simply have to end it a heart breaks easier alone without a love to heal it and finally the breaking's done when you no longer feel it.
Tell me why it has to be this way why i must face this life alone sanctuaries i thought were strong now lay crumbled around my kneeling form tears that fall down my placid skin hidden by the rain that falls from a broken sky behind blinded eyes i hear the echoes of those i loved in days now past taunting me and haunting me in the frozen air surrounding and slowly taking away a light forever dimmed as lightning flashes i see the woman i was float away leaving me withered and nothing more than an empty shell as the ones i held dear one by one turn away from me tell me why it has to be this way why i must face this life alone condemed to walking in the blackness until it finally consumes me and i fade to nothing.
So alone in my bed alone listening to nightly whispers alone in my thoughts alone standing in court alone i stand and fight alone i pray for rainbow lights alone in the morning i awake alone i celebrate my joys alone i cry out my sadness alone i voice out my fears alone in strenght alone in wealth alone in good health alone i try to understand alone i seek knowledge alone i share what is mine alone i try not to be alone alone when my time has come, i pass away.
Life is the cage we are all born into the zoo drives down the long snake in the rain, everyone sits alone in the park in the car in the theatre everyone sits alone and looks through bars of their flesh and bone no eager hand can grasp out of this no willing hand has the reach, we touch our flesh to the flesh of our cages, we lay down chained and little birds sing beside others miles away and barking we touch steering wheels as the lights cross our eyes we learn to believe the birth of shadows we drive, a line of slaves, down the road everyone sits alone.
All alone, no one here not even a soul is 5ft near a 4 player game being played by one and it is actually kinda fun 'i pick up my life and take it on a one way ticket wherever i go it's my path so i'll pick it' sitting here alone, by the windowsill but the air is bored, it must be filled one comes in, then comes three they have all come to join me but i was happy didn't own a bored bone i was happy when i was alone.
I hang my head in my burning palms, tears sting against my soul, searching for the calm. heartaches like never before, broken, so lonely and torn. never to see the light, no tunnel to be seen, sitting here alone, within my silent screams. no hand to reach for, no one to hold me close, i have never felt so alone. no one to pull me to safety, no one to turn to, just broken hearted, searching for life anew. no embrace, just tears that fall down my face. no guarantees on life or love, nothing but dark clouds linger above. the world tightens her grip with every breath i take, making the next step impossible to take. alone in a world, the void is here, taking over my being, taking my life, but in this void i lose the strife. haunting thoughts consume me, just looking through these tears, just wanting to be free.
Over the fence, the dead settle in for a journey. nine o'clock. you are alone for the first time today. boys asleep. husband out. a beer bottle sweats in your hand, and sea lavender clogs the air with perfume. think of yourself. your arms rest with nothing to do after weeks spent attending to others. your thoughts turn to whether butter will last the week, how much longer the car can run on its partial tank of gas.
Lying, thinking last night how to find my soul a home where water is not thirsty and bread loaf is not stone i came up with one thing and i don't believe i'm wrong that nobody, but nobody can make it out here alone. alone, all alone nobody, but nobody can make it out here alone. there are some millionaires with money they can't use their wives run round like banshees their children sing the blues they've got expensive doctors to cure their hearts of stone. but nobody no, nobody can make it out here alone. alone, all alone nobody, but nobody can make it out here alone. now if you listen closely i'll tell you what i know storm clouds are gathering the wind is gonna blow the race of man is suffering and i can hear the moan, 'cause nobody, but nobody can make it out here alone. alone, all alone nobody, but nobody can make it out here alone.
My heart feels like an empty shell washed up from the sea my mind feels like it's going mad from trying to break free and my tears seem like a thousand oceans and they're drowning all the bliss and my lips ache to be touched by a true loves kiss but i'm not alone.
You not alone, when you are still alone, o god, from you that i could private be. since you one were, i never since was one; since you in me, my self since out of me, transported from my self into your being; though either distant, present yet to either, senseless with too much joy, each other seeing, and only absent when we are together. give me my self and take your self again, devise some means but how i may forsake you; so much is mine that doth with you remain, that, taking what is mine, with me i take you; you do bewitch me; o, that i could fly from my self you, or from your own self i.
It is yourself you seek in a long rage, scanning through light and darkness mirrors, the page, where should reflected be those eyes and that thick hair, that passionate look, that laughter. you should appear within the book, or doubled, freed, in the silvered glass; into all other bodies yourself should pass. the glass does not dissolve; like walls the mirrors stand; the printed page gives back words by another hand. and your infatuate eye meets not itself below; strangers lie in your arms as i lie now.
Alone yes i am alone i will be give it time you will see i drink alone i sleep alone i walk alone too when you give up on me i know what to do i slice and i dice i cut me to shreds alone i tell i am alone i am.
If god has been good enough to give you a poet then listen to him. but for god's sake let him alone until he is dead; no prizes, no ceremony, they kill the man. a poet is one who listens to nature and his own heart; and if the noise of the world grows up around him, and if he is tough enough, he can shake off his enemies, but not his friends. that is what withered wordsworth and muffled tennyson, and would have killed keats; that is what makes hemingway play the fool and faulkner forget his art.
Alone i drift away, alone i walk a thousand miles, alone i fall asleep, alone i stare at the sky, alone i sit under a tree, alone i cry. alone i dream of you, alone i hope and pray, to god who is oh so merciful and powerful to let me find my way. alone i drift away, alone i live today, and alone i'll die someday.
Alone i lay on a wooden raft alone i stay in the dark alone i pray to survive alone i may not survive alone i look out the sea alone i wake up on the sea alone i seek out for help alone i may not survive alone i eat my dry food alone i drink the salty water alone i sit in the cold alone i may not survive alone, yes, alone i stare at the storm alone, yes, alone i live on the sea alone, yes, alone i wait for the rescue boat alone, yes, alone i may not survive alone, yes, alone i pray to be safe alone, yes, alone i call out for help alone, yes, alone i get on the boat alone, yes, alone i was rescued alone, yes, alone i lived on sea for months alone, yes, alone i walk ashore unaided alone, yes, alone i continue to hold the guinness world record for survival at sea.
Common interests brought us together, conversations on which we could agree. there has never been enough trust to discuss issues in which we'd disagree. our hearts don't have the magic connection that allow our brains to share the same waves. cupid has not struck us with his arrows, to each other's soul we are not slaves. we occupy the same space, living in orbit. our eyes meet across silence the size of an ocean, and while our intentions are in the right place, fear is the source of our eternal devotion. you don't know how much i need you. i don't know why i expect you to read my mind. it is amazingly easy to feel alone in your arms; the mystery is why romance is so hard to find.
Day by day, i wake alone, in a cold and empty bed, day by day, thoughts of you, keep running through my head. i wake and wish this day would be the one i see your smile i sit and wait to see your face, i'm living in denial. because i know that there's no way that i'll see you today, and as the sun begins to set, my hopes will slip away. as darkness covers this cruel world, my heart grows darker too, and i will whisper to the night how much i long for you. the stars begin to twinkle, lighting up the sky above, but the only light i long to see is the light of your love. i pray tomorrow is that day that i'm holding you tight, as in my cold and empty bed, i stare alone into the night.
I walk alone amongst the crowd my heart still bleeding, pounding loud through darkened streets, i walk alone i have no one to call my own i need someone to ease the pain to stop these tears that fall like rain alone i walk to myself i talk my teers tear apart my broken heart charles r. brunty.
I am much too alone in this world, yet not alone enough to truly consecrate the hour. i am much too small in this world, yet not small enough to be to you just object and thing, dark and smart. i want my free will and want it accompanying the path which leads to action; and want during times that beg questions, where something is up, to be among those in the know, or else be alone. i want to mirror your image to its fullest perfection, never be blind or too old to uphold your weighty wavering reflection. i want to unfold. nowhere i wish to stay crooked, bent; for there i would be dishonest, untrue. i want my conscience to be true before you; want to describe myself like a picture i observed for a long time, one close up, like a new word i learned and embraced, like the everday jug, like my mother's face, like a ship that carried me along through the deadliest storm.
Once there stood a castle, with towers so tall of stone, so strong and white glowing like ivory bone in the castle lived a princess so lovely and so kind many times she dreamt of him the prince she'd someday find when the time finally came and they stood side by side her heart sang with beautiful feelings that time could not abide they spent all their time together until summer came to an end he then kissed her and departed disappearing into the wind at nights she stood and waited but never once did he return her head was bent with sorrow her eyes swollen from tears for she knew he would not return tomorrow and she would be alone for all her years she thought she had given him her heart for what they shared was special and true but when sorrow came he left her for he knew nothing else to do the princess had nothing left to hang onto no tiny thread of hope she had no one left to turn to and no one to help her cope she went to the places they had been yet it was not the same without him the flowers no longer cheered her and the bright sun had become dim he hadn't meant to hurt her but the princess was lost in her own woe all she felt was betrayal in knowing he had to go but with time she came to realize he did what he had to do although her pain was horrible he felt that pain, too. the two had shared so much they had given all they had and knowing it was truly over oh, how it made the princess sad she hadn't thought she would truly lose him no matter how bad it may have been they were more than in love he had been her one and only friend one night she found a message scrawled on the castle wall. it said only, 'i love you, ' and the princess's tears began to fall. she knew she'd always miss him; he'd remain forever in her heart, and even if they weren't together, they'd never truly be apart.
Loneliness his childhood warms him up loneliness he warms up to his childhood loneliness childhood his heaven loneliness his childhood a repository of warmth meditation my heart on a sea of sublimity so lonely a poem helps fill out the emptiness loneiness the world a graveyard so lonely i cheer up myself writing a poem about loneliness so lonely i write a poem to fill out the emptiness.
A year has been passed since i left home again my life become lonely in the military barracks my life without you, left me with only tears i know that you never want to see me in tears but it's been so hard to be here without you when i am away from you, there is part of me dying and i don't know where to hide my tears although, the distance has kept us away but your memories keep on speaks to me always, it tells me that our love is to be loved no one makes me feel the way you do no one loves me so much the way you love me when i am stay at the door of your heart then i feel your inside flames that's burns my soul oh my love, let god speed my love and bring me again into your arms soon.
The day caleb died i was all alone lying in a hospital bed so white and cold bleeding though i was all alone the day caleb died i was all alone praying for someone to come watching the door hoping and praying but i was all alone the day caleb died i was all alone i almost died too yet no one was around and there was no one to hold for i was all alone the day caleb died i was all alone i prayed for god to take me, too but i didn't go i prayed for someone to hold but i was all alone.
Alone iam alone in alone island alone mew on alone palm tree in alone island alone shark surrounding alone island alone boat far away from alone island alone iam dying alone in alone island alone iam alone in alone island.
So many crosses, so little hope, so many puppets, praying for some thing they dont even believe in.where is your devels, where are your saints, where is your god, when you fill your body with drink, so many crosses, so little faith, so many puppets, waiting for.what?.
In the beginning our father was alone wanting company. so to himself said, 'i'll just create friends to suit my fancy.' they will all be holy angels having freedom of choice. these holy angels will be perfect in beauty having a voice. all these angelic beings will have wings to fly away. but i will set boundaries and limits where they are to stay. they will also have eyes to see where to stop. with ears to hear praises from the top. by now the angels were given the sense of touch. to the hierarchy in heaven, was loved very much. this sense of touch could be the feel of a wheel. boy what a deal. and among other things could be pleasure, with god's measure. this pleasure with god's measure, was their treasure. all these spirits were given a mind. to especially be kind. possessing abilities to voice their choice. think at a blink, even wink, not blind. hearing with ears even from behind. the rank of the cherubim was made of winged little girls and boys. these cherubs walked and talked with god who gave them toys. the boys played with balls. the girls played with dolls. these cherubs were happy, being content with all. god was pleased with what he saw. god gave all angels senses of smell and taste. instructing them they could lick in haste. but never to taste paste or waste. god gave angels given knowledge. this sixth sense not taught in college. the wisdom acquired, will be required. if so desired. so stay chaste. for the chase. being eternally chased. at this time there was no sin, which is vice. everything in heavens chorus was joyous and nice. our father is perfect so he didn't have to think twice. he made no mistakes that could not be corrected. when creating he got exactly what he expected. through his perfection is why god is always respected. every thing god created, never became outdated.
he could raise his finger, to invent some timber. or blink an eye, creating the sky. that perfect magic man could make something, simply out of nothing. god created no two things exactly the same. a female angel by nickname, was called a dame. god could create showers, for all the flowers. what was left of the rain, ran down the drain. after these showers. the man took to the dame. as a gift, these flowers. for the main spirit game, was to win the dame. then your spirit life and her name. would never be the same.
Amongst the flowers i am alone with my pot of wine drinking by myself; then lifting my cup i asked the moon to drink with me, its reflection and mine in the wine cup, just the three of us; then i sigh for the moon cannot drink, and my shadow goes emptily along with me never saying a word; with no other friends here, i can but use these two for company; in the time of happiness, i too must be happy with all around me; i sit and sing and it is as if the moon accompanies me; then if i dance, it is my shadow that dances along with me; while still not drunk, i am glad to make the moon and my shadow into friends, but then when i have drunk too much, we all part; yet these are friends i can always count on these who have no emotion whatsoever; i hope that one day we three will meet again, deep in the milky way.
Perhaps im done. with this world, with this moment of my life. my story is undone. twisted and not fun. mixed up in lies and crys. you shall never see the real me inside. i shall protect myself from any harm to be done. no more, for i shall stand and be the only one. ill start building my walls, no gaps, no holes no nothing. just me and these walls, i will close myself off from the world. its for the best i shall say. its for the best. babe, just know i love you so. i just gotta let you go. i guess, our time is not now. maybe im just foolish and shouldn't have let you out babe, you amazing. lord, help her find true love, for i cant give that to her. my lord, help her have strength and guide her to a good place. lord, help all those lost souls, for they need more help then i. i will survive. with these walls i will. i just need to be alone.
Whilst i alone did call upon thy aid, my verse alone had all thy gentle grace, but now my gracious numbers are decayed, and my sick muse doth give an other place. i grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument deserves the travail of a worthier pen, yet what of thee thy poet doth invent he robs thee of, and pays it thee again. he lends thee virtue, and he stole that word from thy behaviour; beauty doth he give, and found it in thy cheek; he can afford no praise to thee, but what in thee doth live. then thank him not for that which he doth say, since what he owes thee, thou thyself dost pay.
He stands alone now etched by time as though was meant to be his frame all bent and twisted for all who pass to see it wasn't always as it is when children came around to run and laugh and shriek with glee he revelled in the sound but age and weather took its toll and disease had hit him hard a surgeons cuts had saved his life for which he didn't charge and so he stands alone but proud to survey what could be seen the only oak for miles around upon the village green.
Im nothing without you im dead inside i cant move on i know cuz i've tried you threw me out the door im a lost soul forever moor these are my tears my tears of pain with out you my world is constant rain love is a lie theres nosuch thing all it is is a firey black ring you have lied to me but worse you've played with my heart you tried explain just please dont even start you said you loved me you said you cared how could you dismiss everything we shared so the damage is done and all you did was run i will never love anyone but you that day rain came and the wind just blew when i saw you my heart was sold but now i sit all alone and cold.
When i am alone, i think about you i think how much we are close to each other even we are far distance i think our love is in our hearts i think the good time we've shared together i think how important you are i think to share my ideas with you i think my last dance with you i think of my last kiss to you i think your love on me i think about you everyday and wanted to let you know i remember you when i am alone.
Oh, , sadness. your circle killing me.. and your memories waves flooded me.. my life is a sky without lights.. where is your yelling o happiness..? ? ? and in which wilderness, can i found you..? ? ? i am a star without sense. i am a candy without taste.. and here alone in that beach.
The clouds cover my heart, i am alone in hospital, nurses coming and out, i feel i am alone. even nurses here and there, i am out of the world, sad and pain hit my face, how bad to be alone. the doctor whispered to me, be brave, don, t afraid, tomorrow will be better, be strong as a stone. my mind had been ruined, i can, t thinking at all, the sky seems hazy, how sad to be alone. . seconds seem ages; the day a thousand year, the fear inside my body, told me, you are alone. suddenly i saw a shade, could that be my wife? could sons come to see, how sad i am alone. the shade became too close, o, god they are my sons, my love is coming with them, how bad i was alone. by love they covered my sky, by love returned my soul, their love grant me the strength, in front of being alone. tomorrow will repair my heart, tomorrow is a biggest day, even if i died that day. by love i am not alone.
Sitting alone, love bids me go and write; reason plucks back, commanding me to stay, boasting that she doth still direct the way, or else love were unable to endite. love, growing angry, vexed at the spleen and scorning reason's maimed argument, straight taxeth reason, wanting to invent, where she with love conversing hath not been. reason, reproached with this coy disdain, despiteth love, and laugheth at her folly; and love, condemning reason's reason wholly, thought it in weight too light by many'a grain. reason, put back, doth out of sight remove, and love alone picks reason out of love.
Alone in the woods i felt the bitter hostility of the sky and the trees nature has taught her creatures to hate man that fusses and fumes unquiet man as the sap rises in the trees as the sap paints the trees a violent green so rises the wrath of nature's creatures at man so paints the face of nature a violent green. nature is sick at man sick at his fuss and fume sick at his agonies sick at his gaudy mind that drives his body ever more quickly more and more in the wrong direction.
When i walk alone, i think of you my love when i walk alone, i walk with broken heart when i walk alone, i walk with sadness when i walk alone, i walk with my silent tears when i walk alone, i walk with my sorrow when i walk alone, i walk with my sad memories when i walk alone, i walk with my shattered dream when i walk alone, i walk with my hands lifeless love never walk alone but you made me walk alone you promised me that you will walk with me forever but you made me walk alone with my tears forever when the heaven stolen you from me yesterday all your promises are gone with the wind today, you made me walk alone with out you my love and i promise you, i will walk alone till my journey ends.
He was writing his sermon. he'd locked his room. he wanted none to break his thoughts. no one would ever disturb him. he was alone, alone, alone. he was fixing his false teeth, behind closed doors. he wanted none to peep in on his secret. no one would want to know if he had teeth. he was alone, alone, alone. he was counting his coins, in the darkness of his shabby hut. he wanted none to know his wealth. no one wanted his meager sum. he was alone, alone, alone. you and i are all like them, locked behind our own doors, not wanting to be pried into. not knowing how isolated we are. we are just alone, alone, alone.
I meditate achingly her delicate lips slowly sipping elegant imported wine. in lonely dreams, i weep at night wishing my hands were upon her hips. lovely flowers blossom in the afternoon; but while i linger unable to see her, nothing can make me happy.
A lonely tear falls down a smile turns to frown trickles down the cheek does not make you weak a lonely tear escapes a lifetime of mistakes a sad and lonely heart others broke apart a lonely tear is dried so many nights it cried a friend reached out their hand and tried to understand the lonely tear is gone life will carry on with love from a friend the lonely tears will end.
Lonely hours spent watching the rain like tears on the window pane. lonely hours wishing you were here with me as i gaze over another cup of tea. lonely hours spent alone, crying dying slowly because you are gone. 1979.
Above the lonely market dawn the sun begins to rise, and slowly makes its way into the glowing ember skies, amidst the clouds of burning gold and scarlet which now pass, across the heavens high above my sadness stays alas. and now i stand there all alone and watch the morning light, creep over all the rooftops and consume the dead of night, it shines upon the sleeping town where calmness fills the air, and lights the dark and empty stalls with metal frames so bare. the pigeons rest on rooftops while the litter's strewn around, the remnants of the day before lie restless on the ground, the paper cups and cans do roll upon the breeze that blows, and come to rest against a wall behind those empty rows. so still the rising morning now the shadows long and dark, the cold and empty marketplace deserted and so stark, i walk alone with heavy heart beyond the barren square, and look towards the church ahead its loneliness i share.
I am living in the darkness i feel so scared i feel unsafe i dont know what to do i cry everyday and night and i feel that i want to cry more and more non stop it really dark here i hear my mom voice but i cant reach her and i hear my friends calling me but they cant hear me i dont know what to do i start screaming and screaming but suddenly their voices r gone they leave me all alone in the darkness i start crying again and again and suddenly a light so weak appears, shivering in the dark i didnt know what it was i feel so endangered i saw an extended hand that wants to grab me towards its unrevealed body i ran away i hear a male vioce calling my name telling me that he wants to save me i turn and look at him i thought he was just like an angel just like an angel in a human body with flesh and blood he took my hand to show me the way when i was out of the dark he gave me a butterfly he gave me a butterfly and with it he filled my heart with hope gave me a reason to never give up just knowing that some one, somewhere actually cared about me, loved me that will give me all the strength i need to live to survive.
I am lonely everyday as i watch the world pass my way. i am lonely in my room as i stare at the walls and been thinking of you. i am lonely outside as i see you passing me by. i am lonely inside as i see that day you had died.
Lonely is the heart that never knows true love. lonely is the body never looked on from above. lonely is the mind that lost it's will to dream. lonely is the soul when no one hears it scream. lonely is the heart that beats within the chest. lonely is the body that soon lay down to rest. lonely is the mind that has no place to go. lonely is the soul that heaven does not know. lonely heart, body, mind and soul.
Since the fern can't go to the sink for a drink of water, i graciously submit myself to the task, bringing two glasses from the sink. and so we sit, the fern and i, sipping water together. of course i'm more complex than a fern, full of deep thoughts as i am. but i lay this aside for the easy company of an afternoon friendship. i don't mind sipping water with a fern, even though, had i my druthers, i'd be speeding through the sky for stockholm, sipping a bloody mary with a wedge of lime. and so we sit one lonely afternoon sipping water together. the fern looking out of its fronds, and i, looking out of mine . . .
A place by the fire in my old arm chair, i am alone with no one my fire to share. the crackling of logs burning bright, consoling me in my weary plight. shadows playing on ceiling and wall, ghosts past and present coming to call. outside the wind howls and moans. reminding me of my aching bones. i am in the grip of melancholy deep, just past rendezvous i could not keep. a fleeting glimpse of happiness long past, with the echo's of words spoken too fast. a candle in the window to light the way, to any lost soul that wants to stay. all are welcome to a place by my fire, this is my wish my one desire. loneliness is what i fear most, i am willing to play the welcoming host. come along guided by my candle's light, and help me pass this lonely night.
This is to show that despite people may feel lonely, they truly wallow in their own pity.how pathetic. the lonely soul wanders alone in the walks of life no other soul as his companion the lonely soul wanders alone in the daybreak he does his duties in the walks of life the lonely soul wanders alone in the life he meets many other souls who come to be unfit for the lonely soul the lonely soul wanders.
Alone without a cause. alone with no life. trying to kill her spirit that is beginning to die inside. alone in her hell. alone in her abyss. attempting to end her being as it pours from her wrists. alone without a chance. alone with no hope. watching the stained blade as she frees her soul. alone in the air. alone as she drifts. slicing so she can escape the nightmare's images. alone with no will. alone with no dreams. suicide killing her thoughts, silencing her heart's beats.
How bright it is on a friday, when i am away from everything that seems so wrong, when i am here in this haven and all the birds are in song. it does not matter if it's winter or spring, because i so look forward to everything.this place takes away the sadness of life and it's memories that cut right in like a blade from a knife. these two days a week that have become heaven to me, they take away that distance of far gone memory. then when it is all over the weekend appears and so does reality and all my fears. then tuesday is here again from a weekend so long, and all the birds are back in song. there are pictures that i want to paint with masterly art, but they are hidden deep within my aged heart. my life is my fortune because i am not dead yet, but the loneliness is there and the pattern is set. my weekends are lonely, but i manage to cope because i live for the days at the centre of hope. i.
We are always coming lonely and trying to be together for you and you only are flickering like the weather and dreams are too far away to be of any reality like a morning that meets a day only to be in its company the night is for both of us trying to find times thread and trying to catch up with every loss that comes to be with us instead like love that grows older and catches us in our while time is its many folder and every its timeless style we are always coming to change and letting the weather conclude every its beating blanches that gives every season its mood we cannot forget the crying in the hours many singing tone as this time's season is dying and we again shall be alone.
In the cold i will rise, i will bathe in waters of ice; myself will shiver, and shrive myself, alone in the dawn, and anoint forehead and feet and hands; i will shutter the windows from light, i will place in their sockets the four tall candles and set them aflame in the grey of the dawn; and myself will lay myself straight in my bed, and draw the sheet under my chin.
It doesn't matter how hard i try even though i'll be dyin inside look deep within and tell me what you find i just can't seem to hide these lonely eyes they say nothing's harder than life and those who live well are welcome in the sky there's something wrong and i wanna take flight i just can't seem to hide these lonely eyes now that you're gone away i think i wanna die i know you can see it, i'm surrounded by light i tried to tell you i'm fine but that's a lie i just can't seem to hide these lonely eyes as i see happy people go by i'm so confused here, sometimes i wanna cry i'm just a lonely soul lurkin in the lonely night and i just can't seem to hide these lonely eyes.
My lonely heart holds much despair emptiness emptiness is often found there my pillow is filled with tears and fears though we've been married for eighteen years my lonely heart cries night and day my husband's love seems miles away though we're together day by day my lonely heart cries night and days is there any consolation for my lonely heart?.
O so lonely are the days gone by. when others enter your life then you push them by. o so lonely when you were in control. to love them or leave them you were ever so bold. o so lonely while you sit alone. no one is there to make your house a home. o so lonely after all the hearts you break. did you ever think it was you who you'd really forsake? o so lonely when life was just a dare. you didn't take time to love you didn't try to care. o so lonely have you learned the rule? that its not just about you but it does take two. o so lonely why sit and contemplate? while others enjoy life its never too late.
As i started sipping my daily lovely coffee a race of memories just began in my mind of old days, the hard and the easy and looking at myself now with a tear in my eye just to find myself sad and lonely and as i walk down that antique street where my old little house was meant to be it feels hard to breathe just to know that i am out of it now and maybe maybe forever i would be like a rover that tells stories of how sad i am and lonely those stairs i used to go up and down everyday in fast rhythm used to be happy in my room i used to stay most of the time never thought that i would live in a tragedy but words are not useful now for sad i am and lonely though poverty was my company long ago but riches couldn't bring back honey the honey i saw in my sweet old days days of the poverty and agony believe me my friend riches won't give you a thing but to make you sad and lonely.
Come and join me, lonely people this moon is too cold to be seen alone in midnight, the wind stops nobody wake on the street and you there lonesome mind i sit next to you? come and join me, lonely people this world's silent and prepares to sleep in winter, the star sparks to bring the new eve of snow care about me lonely?.
Lonely for paris in spring all is so faraway to reach, a heart for joy could sing what memories should teach; eyes are wide in clearing blue all is such a joy to glide, it's always up to me and you what gets soft or amplified. be here and become strong all has its wandering ways, have an opportunity get along make the best of all the days; ripe your feelings and touch nothing else is more of hope, we have everything inasmuch as we work things out and cope. the days begin in nothingness with the cold pleasure at first, then there might be a new fresh a moment of thought we thirst; a day is asleep for awhile and then there's some awaken, hard in a lost hour to defile when a mind's occupied or taken.
When you're with him i lose my mind for your love is what i've struggled to find from the highest mountain to the valleys below wherever your love existed my heart would follow but now you're with him and i've lost my way without you my life is shrouded in darkness all day the object of your desire lies far past me for i am blind and he can see i am eternally blinded from reality for your love of me is just a fantasy i toss and turn when i struggle to rest for how can i rest when i'm not the best to be the best in your eyes is my only goal to be the tree in your flowering atoll i will best him i'll find a way i'll show you the true power of love someday but now i lie in the shadows, alone making amends and peacefully atoning for i know what i've done and what i plan to do all for the sake of you so forever i struggle to be the best in your eyes though i know your love is nothing but lies fantasy, reality blurred within maybe you are better off with him.
Lonely. how to describe it? maybe a leaf on a snow covered field, maybe a log in the middle of a lake, maybe a snow flake in the middle of june, maybe a tree in a crater on the moon, maybe a canoe in the middle of a forest, maybe a star in the middle of the day, or maybe me, in the middle of you.
Lonely man you need to discover this world which is beautiful be a part of this world you are setting your foot on the ground there are many opportunities out there for you do you know what you are looking for? lonely man grab a tissue paper out of your pocket and wipe the tears that are falling from your eyes it must be the cold weather that is doing it to your eyes you don't know yourself at all you need to learn to be open to yourself and to find out who you realy are this will be a mystery for you to learn about yourself lonely man the night soon begun and you went to bed right away after i had given you supper lonely man don't you know it is christmas? lonely man i don't judge you lonely man i know that you don't judge me lonely man see you tomorrow have a good night lonely man do you believe in god? lonely man are you a chrisstian?.
My inner sides are twisting, my heart is losing pace, my legs are always shaking, i no longer hold my grace. my mind is slowly bending, im crippled in by pain, my face is red and crumpled, as my eyes begin to rain. im turning from the living, and im racing to the dead, im spinning and im falling, my dyings just ahead. my heart is burst in agony, my blood is draining out, my voice is just a memory, i no longer scream and shout. my legs have no more feeling, i've hit the cold hard ground, and i'll lie here in a twisted mess, untill by love im found.
So many scars are slashed across me tears too many to number have been shed pain seems to be my constant companion misery always my only friend will anyone ever see past my imperfections or find my spark that has been dormant all these years is there somebody in this world who can see through the masks and discover the beauty that this weary soul posseses my heart is tired of the rigid solitude my mind is ready for the sun that only love can bring but if this hopeless dream shall ever be fulfilled only the spirits above seem to know.
The lonely soul wanders alone in the walks of life no other soul as his companion the lonely soul wanders alone in the daybreak he does his duties in the walks of life the lonely soul wanders alone in the life he meets many other souls who comes to be unfit for the lonely soul the lonely soul wanders as the days pass by the lonely soul became more lonely, with no other souls as his companion the lonely soul wanders alone in the walks of life the lonely soul decides not to die, but to face life in all its hardships the lonely soul wanders.
I want to show you rainbows and feel your soft touch on my cheek when they bring tears to my eyes. i want to whisper my love to you in the morning when everything and everyone sleeps for silence will not harbor lies. i want to hear your voice when i'm not with you as if it were my own thoughts and love was never alone. i want to see in your eyes the truth inside me so that everyday that i question i can look at you and know. i want to take your loneliness and paint it over with bright memories till only love is in view. should the stars appear for just one night every thousand years i would wait a lonely eternity to see them with just you.
Are you lonely tonight because your heart was broken? are you lonely tonight, shedding tears from all the emotion? please don't be shy. just tell me if its okay for me to dropp by. i'll be the man you've always dreamed of. i'll hold you close to me and show you love. i'll help you through your pain and sorrow. and after you wake up tomorrow, we'll take a walk near the ocean shore. as time goes by, i'll love you more and more.
Fly away oh bird of love carry your feathered gift unto another for my time is short gold has more meaning than thou i have no time for such matters of the heart perplexed and not granting the price i need my call is heard daily and i heed for its ransom is high it supplies me with a bed for one dinner by candlelight for only one so what need do i have for the grave holds only one.
No one sees and no one tries to find the pain in lonely eyes they're strong and bold they hide the tears that many people cry in years and yet at night when no one's there they cry alone but no one cares friendless days and last goodbyes lie in the heart of lonely eyes.
The evening was lonely for me, and i was reading a book till my heart became dry, and it seemed to me that beauty was a thing fashioned by the traders in words. tired i shut the book and snuffed the candle. in a moment the room was flooded with moonlight. spirit of beauty, how could you, whose radiance overbrims the sky, stand hidden behind a candle's tiny flame? how could a few vain words from a book rise like a mist, and veil her whose voice has hushed the heart of earth into ineffable calm?.
A lonely heart sets the table but is she a milly, a betty or a mabel. tea, coffee, cakes and ale but outside there blows a gale. sash cord windows rattling like chains, thunder and lighting tormenting her brains. a frail old lady who always lays up for tea but no one comes not even her family. as the rain pours down she gives a little frown as she looks at a photo in her wedding gown. a picture of love on her wedding day, a day she never wanted to go away.now all that's forgotton as the clouds roll together, will her lonely heart stand up to this gale force weather. she draws the curtains and says goodnight to the storm then sits by the fire where its cosy and warm. no visitors tonight she says to the cat who lay curled up on the fireside mat. again she views her wedding day and asks the lord to show her the way.then she holds the cat to her lonely heart so that they will never be apart. the dear old lady died that night and the cat now sits on her burial site.
This level reach of blue is not my sea; here are sweet waters, pretty in the sun, whose quiet ripples meet obediently a marked and measured line, one after one. this is no sea of mine. that humbly laves untroubled sands, spread glittering and warm. i have a need of wilder, crueler waves; they sicken of the calm, who knew the storm. so let a love beat over me again, loosing its million desperate breakers wide; sudden and terrible to rise and wane; roaring the heavens apart; a reckless tide that casts upon the heart, as it recedes, splinters and spars and dripping, salty weeds.
I've got you. you've got me. and we've got. dreams. i've got you. you've got me. and we've got. our dreams. together we can conquer, with our dreams. together we can make it, with our dreams. together life is better, with our dreams. and i've got you. you know you've got me. and together. we've got those dreams. oh yes i've got you. and you've got me. and we both together will fulfill dreams. together we can conquer, with our dreams. together we can make it, with our dreams. together life is better, with our dreams. no matter what the weather, we've got dreams. storm winds come blowing. but no matter what the weather shows, together we'll combat it with our dreams. storm winds come blowing. but no matter what the weather shows, together we'll combat it with our dreams. together we'll combat the storms, with our dreams. i've got you. you've got me. and we've got. dreams. no matter what the weather shows, together we will always know. together we'll combat it with our dreams. together we'll combat it with our dreams.
Easy it is to receive a bright sunny day, to then say what events could have been prevented. so easy it is when clouds of yesterday have passed, to admit a limited point of view. could have been broadened if more time one had. and easy it is to make repeated mistakes, as long as one knows they will be forgiven. but many are quick and too easy to offend, when someone is honest with a truth spoken to them. and deliberately mentioned regardless of the weather.
A glimmer of spring recedes, as winter rebounds towards furor sending off the cheerful malarkey to be draped with an abstemious simmer the rooftops bearing with tarmac become throttled with frosty garments with bars made of ice, and walls made of snow my sights claustrophobic and glacially narrow and in the blink of an eye you'll hear my voice gripe muttering nonsensical adjectives of indolent tripe but to be perfectly frank, this is good canadian weather the prelude of sallow lawns is disrupted by the siberian sawn waylaying afterglows for lost summers for rosy cheeks purchased from arctic dowers i've traded my hikers for mukluks annoyed by the downgrade of gear to shovel hours away, to keep contents at bay hunching over my back to find a parchment of clay that will deliver the spark, to enthusiasms drought emancipating my spirits which are the size of a mouse though to be absolutely blunt this is good canadian weather to savour februarys warmth shun caution towards marches girth for the balmy thrills of cupid coif unpleasant gifts from the ides never celebrate a battle in session when the odds are constantly threatened and mother nature's deck is blurring she'll call the house down on top of your jeering condemning us to return to hibernation and the chronicles of repeated complaining so in absolute fact, to the vault in my heart all of this muddle, is good canadian weather.
Every thing changes changes the face of relations in the markets of exchanging hearts the much known face changes into an unknown like the path you tread just before the sandy storm has any one ever refused to walk along with you who comes in the days of your sorrow has any river felt any scarcity of water in the days of flood? then, why the heart of men and women changes like the weather of melbourne?.
The weather is perfect for running. i think that i'll go for a jog. except i'm a little bit tired, so maybe i'll just walk the dog. but he seems too hyper for walking. he looks kind of hard to control. so maybe i'll leave him at home, and go for a leisurely stroll. but all of my socks are too dirty, and all of my shoes are untied. so maybe i'll sit on the front porch. or maybe i'll just stay inside. i see that my kitten is purring, and wants to curl up on my lap. it wouldn't be right to prevent her from getting her afternoon nap. it's comfortable here on the sofa. my pillows are cozy and deep. the weather is perfect for running. so that's why i'm going to sleep.
It is true that, older than man and ages to outlast him, the pacific surf still cheerfully pounds the worn granite drum; but there's no storm; and the birds are still, no song; no kind of excess; nothing that shines, nothing is dark; there; is neither joy nor grief nor a person, the sun's tooth sheathed in cloud, and life has no more desires than a stone. the stormy conditions of time and change are all abrogated, the essential violences of survival, pleasure, love, wrath and pain, and the curious desire of knowing, all perfectly suspended. in the cloudy light, in the timeless quietness, one explores deeper than the nerves or heart of nature, the womb or soul, to the bone, the careless white bone, the excellence.
The sun it does seem to be struggling through the dark gray clouds for to shine and though rain is in the weather forecast the day it is holding out fine 'tis the typical sort of weather one expects of victoria's fall threatening to rain very often though on the dry side overall a flock of silver gulls for food are begging by the forseshore on the pavement of the street some of them with part of one or their two legs missing and some others with very sore feet to infections in their feet they must be quite vulnerable their handicaps with them through their short lives remain their crippled feet must feel painful pity for them in their pain returning once more to the weather the sun out and shining again the weather forecaster may have it wrong today 'tis not likely to rain nature herself she is fascinating such insights from her we do gain yet we know so little about her as her ways as a mystery to us does remain the scientists are learning from her and artists and writers she does inspire and she always does fill me with wonder and her i can only admire.
The wattlebirds calling on the flowering gum trees on a beautiful day in mid winter of around eighteen degrees such beautiful weather for the time of year six weeks to september and spring is drawing near a pair of magpies with nesting material for their nest nearby make a whirring sound with their wings as they fly their young will be fully fledsged by early spring the wonders of nature is a marvellous thing with black, gold and gray feathers one cannot get wrong the beautiful bird with the ordinary song the new holland honeyeater searching for insects and nectar their chirpings one can hear on a beautiful day for july of the year september and spring it is not far away and we ought to feel glad for this beautiful day.
My dog lay asleep by the window lost in dreams of drizzle, i pat her head and watch the rain descend. cold november blows october forever away, and here am i, a melancholy warm sitting with my faithful old friend. the wind wails a mournful tune, a song sung sad when the sky comes weeping. the fireplace aglow holds the heart at home, as simply contented i and my old dog, together, lay sleeping.
Weather stops me running my nerves. i'll rather sleep under the leafy tree of amaltas. the scorching heat of the summer days and the penetrating sunlight will be gone, with its keen rays. the breeze will cool my restless mind and the shade may balm my fever leaving my grief behind.
From murky overcast sky rife with heavily laden cold comes out of nowhere brightness. the warm sun's face pushes holes through to reveal cornflower blue circles of bloom, bouqueting the day smiles begin undoing furrowed brows and start breaking frowns in two, increasingly. from nowhere folk want to hello and tension shows a release. murky weather moods have to go.
The weather warming up a bit it's getting warm today and people for the weekend will be heading for the bay to do a bit of fishing and relax by the sea to surf or go skin diving or have a sea side tea. it's nice to leave suburbia it's nice to get away if only for the weekend for a brief holiday to walk along the tide line salt water to your knees or sit back from the high cliffs and feel the ocean breeze. a weekend from suburbia to breathe the ocean air to lay out on the sand dunes on beach reclining chair a short break from pollution and the humid and noisy street down by the country coast line a different sort of heat. november is upon us and summer days are nigh and weather getting warmer the weather glass is high and not one sign of rain cloud in blue and sunny sky and myna's song sounds sweeter as spring goes laughing by. the traffic will be heavy on the coastal highway from 4 p m till after dark on evening of friday as people leave suburbia mum, dad and family and drive towards coastal country town for weekend by the sea.
On such a cloudy day why you are far away? lightning is writing in sky what i want to say the cloudy sky is like my gloomy face the thunderbolts are showing my distress the raindrops are like my sorrowful tears my soul is on your way like pioneers the murmur of the leaves is like my whisper please meet me in such a romantic weather.
Scorching sun may push us to stop and turn in pricking hot sand our feet might burn on our way, we may be stopped by twisting hurricanes and might be troubled by lashing heavy rains winter would be seething may haunt us with chilling cold and would try its every trick to check and keep us in its fold every journey has its share of hostile weather we are sure to overcome them if we try together we just have to keep the faith and trust each other our journey will have many more autumns and springs for weather 26 august 2009.
The leaves are blowing away up, up, and away they go. swish, swoosh, they go. like a dancing ballerina up, up and away they go way up , in the sky. the trees standing there, their branches all bare. the wind whistling throughout empty branches, the trees look scary, swish, swoosh, the wind is getting louder, throughout the trees it howls the trees are blowing from side to side like someone dancing swiftly, the clouds in the sky are moving quietly is the weather ever going to change, what weather it is today.
The first dark day of summer came sooner than i had hoped, i took one look at it and just looked back at me 'you're a total wreck' it said 'wearing a jacket in this overheated hell hole' 'you turned me on in winter' i replied i walked away from it soon after 'haven't i gone blind yet i wonder' aloud but i don't want to see out of my eyes anymore. just staring inside my own soul seeing how terrified i've become now i've got this sick feeling inside whenever it rains, and when it doesn't the perfect end to a perfect life but, with nothing on the horizon i forget about what's above and all i can think about is what i'm under, the only thing that ever makes any more sense.
I want no more nothing i want no more anything from you just let me be i will not fight to please you i just want to be me i will not copy you and make your same mistakes for i have already learned from them i want to be myself i want to be free i ask nothing of you please can you do the same.
Among the daisies sat the child, looking so ever meek and mild. mother sat down by the child, looked at her daughter and sweetly smiled. picking the daisies with the child, from those gathered a chain was stylized. around the neck of the child, she placed the chain of daisies wild. touching the daisies the deaf child, looked at her mother and sweetly smiled.
My sunshine, came to me on a day that it poured with rain, a little bundle so beautiful, so defenseless, that it took my breath away, dark grey blue eyes, that looked at me and, wisely seemed to say, i am here now, yours alone, life will never be the same. little hands that clutched my finger, and wrenched my heart away defiant mouth, and pink shell like lips, always knew what to say, through difficult times and trials, my sunshine has spread her light, been a little friend to me, loved me day and night, she sailed through life bravely and well, god 's child she surely must be, if ever i love someone too much no doubt its only she.
Why is the world at peace. this may astonish you a little but when you realise how easily mrs. charles bianco sells the work of american painters to american millionaires you will recognize that authorities are constrained to be relieved. let me tell you a story. a painter loved a woman. a musician did not sing. a south african loved books. an american was a woman and needed help. are americans the same as incubators. but this is the rest of the story. he became an authority.
Daughter of africa you are walking now and tread the path away from me daughter of africa you are touching now while my body is away from you daughter of africa you are moist now not knowing the stranger who enters you daughter of africa you sleep now while my heart yearns for you daughter of africa you are dying now and you finally remember me who cried for you.
If a daughter you have, she's the plague of your life, no peace shall you know, tho' you've buried your wife, at twenty she mocks at the duty you taught her, o, what a plague is an obstinate daughter. sighing and whining, dying and pining, o, what a plague is an obstinate daughter. when scarce in their teens, they have wit to perplex us, with letters and lovers for ever they vex us, while each still rejects the fair suitor you've brought her, o, what a plague is an obstinate daughter. wrangling and jangling, flouting and pouting, o, what a plague is an obstinate daughter.
Mother and daughter, are very close, they are best friends, and can be enemy's sometimes, they laugh and cry, call each other names, and mess around, and there still as close as ever, nothing will ruin their mother and daughter relationship, not even boys, they may keep secrets, from one another, but there still there, to care and help, their still mother and daughter. wrote about a mother and daughter love.
It has been ordained and inscription etched in bloodlines that i transport all your dreams through arguing rigmarole of veins verandah of my days filled with giggles of your dolls unbought unsold all of you is so much all of me.
When i die choose a star and name it after me that you may know i have not abandoned or forgotten you. you were such a star to me, following you through birth and childhood, my hand in your hand. when i die choose a star and name it after me so that i may shine down on you, until you join me in darkness and silence together.
I looked into my daughters eyes love and affection i could not hide. while explaining to her what life meant to me the tears started to roll very freely. choked up with emotion that i could not stop i told her what i struggled for and what i got. the two most beautiful women in my life my brown eyed daughter and my wife. this is what part of life means to me having my child and my family. although at times i may not seem to care for my thoughts may be elsewhere. my ears may be deaf, and my mind far away but my love is here to stay. so when i hear gods beckoning call let it be said to one and all. my indian spirit is with me, 'i will not fall'. my body may die, but not my soul for that is something that can't be put in a hole. my body may die, but not my mind for that will live throughout all time. so my daughter, don't you despair for i will always be right here. and when you're feeling down and out think of today and what we talked about. let your thoughts run free and clear and you'll feel my presence near. ' from one heart touching another. '.
I hear the name and my world revolves a name for angels beautiful beyond imagining a name of goddesses dressed in silk clothes the name of my angel wonderful beyond creation a name for my daughter if ever i have one to light my world as it does at the moment for truly its a name for angels.
Father and daughter spend some quiet time together in the living room shining through the curtain is the sun and outside is the glorious afternoon father reads to his daughter the poetry she loves father and daughter enjoy each other's company father takes his daughter by the hand as they take a walk outside father cares for his daughter and always wishes the very best to happen for her.
Bles't bee thy name, who did'st restore to health my daughter dear when death did seem ev'n to approach, and life was ended near. gravnt shee remember what thov'st done, and celebrate thy praise; and let her conversation say, shee loues thee all thy dayes.
A sister is your guardian angel if she's older, and your constant shadow if she's younger. she's your best friend in all your endevours. your confidant, protector of your heart, and secret keeper. a sister can also be your enemy; your best adversary at times of fighting. she keeps all of your secrets, even the tough ones. she's the one to tell you constantly how pretty you are, partly because you look similar in some ways. your sister is the one to call when that one boy talks to you; especially when he decides to break your heart. also she's the first one vowing to beat him up if he breaks your heart. your sister is your mother at a younger age and you are hers. not only is she your savior shall anything happen to you, she also knows what to do to make you feel better and wipe away the tears. a sister is your only friend when all others have walked out, especially when you need a friend the most. this is the person you shared your bedroom, and at any time when your body changes, the one whom you share clothes with. she knows what makes you laugh, cry, and most times is the one to make you laugh and cry. she gives you a firm grasp of life and tells you how hard love is so you don't go in blind. she has the qualities of an angel and will never leave your side. she's the one who understands every personal event life throws at you, for she lost the same loved one you did. to me a sister is all of these qualities rolled into two. for i am the lucky one to have two big sisters like you.
The woman i call sister is someone who is there the woman i call sister is someone who always cares. the woman i call sister can make me smile when times are blue the woman i call sister is someone very true. the woman i call sister by choice, is my best of friend the woman i call sister will be there till the end the woman i call sister is the blessing from god above the woman i call sister is the sister that i'll always love.
My sister always is not a good listener. what ever i need to tell her, she almost always isn't there. shrugging me away my sister always seems to be doing. i don't understand why? a helping hand needs to be. when i need someone it seems, you are there. yet, she doesn't see.that i try. she seems so blind.i try to confind. like to do, with you. my sister shows little interest in what i need, and pays too much attention in how i show it. she doesn't give me any time or day. how do you suppose i do. if i want to be freinds my sister won't let me. it leaves me very sad. and empty. neverless, it hurts and makes me feel like dirt. do i need to keep giving to show how much effect i do. i keep living without her, as close as we are never going to be. .between her and me things don't have to be this way. what must i do. i wish she could see that we're adults. i feel she still continues to insult. doesn't want me in her life. i use all my strife to have some kind of relationship with my sister.i miss her.
My little sister is always there when you need her. my little sister is the best little sister ever and i would not trade her for anything. my little sister has a way of making everyone laugh when they have a bad day. my little sister is one of a kind my little sister is annoying to, but i still love her anyways. my little sister is also my best friend. dedicated to my sister megan i love you 4 ever.
My sister she is my sister, not by blood but rather by love when i cry she wipes away the tears when i hide she takes away my fears always and forever will i love my sister faithful and loyal she does remain protecting me from a world of despise listening to everyone of my cries with arms wide open she nurtures me and keeps away all that is wrong she keeps me on track, never letting me stray to my sugestions she will never say 'nay' thank you my sister for all that you have done for without you all would be wrong i love you my sister, with all my heart i do the love for my sister is all true.
Sister, please hold my hand as we journey through this land together we stand, together we will fall no matter what, god will keep us together that will be the best of all sister, please hold my hand because without you i can't stand for we were put on this earth for a reason to go through every good and bad season sister, please hold my hand as our strength, together, builds each other to become strong so that our love for each other will last long.
You got my sister pregnant and refused to take responsibility. you told her it's her problem and now you have to deal with me. let's step outside and deal with this like men. when i get done, you won't shirk your responsibility again. you told her to have an abortion even after she decided to have the child. now i'm pissed off and i'm about to go wild. you refused to marry my sister but you will pay child support. or i'll beat the hell out of you and then take you to court. take my word when i tell you that it's wise not to mess with me. i weigh nearly two hundred pounds and i stand six feet three.
Love touch life with the charm of soul love as star shines as the rain falls love smiles thinking about love wondering if she love is strong in brother heart she said sweet talking man you mister sweet talking man yet the truth must be heard watch out love coming surrender try one love close to find what brings the sister to accepted the brother walk talk love feel the blessing of the eyes of love on life it about the sister with brown eyes smiles that warm the heart it about sister with the braids about skin kiss by yah love just right the shade darkness it a dream come to life in sister of soul.
Sister, sister save my soul sister, sister don't leave me alone. sister, sister he is here sister, sister he grows near. sister, sister hold me tight sister, sister put up a fight. sister, sister don't let go sister, sister stay with me. sister, sister don't please him sister, sister it's not worth it. sister, sister tell him no sister sister please don't go. sister, sister please come back sister, sister take off that sack. sister, sister don't give in sister, sister have faith in him. sister, sister wipe your tears sister, sister fight your fears. sister, sister please stay strong sister, sister you know this is wrong. sister, sister please forgive me sister, sister don't try to save me. sister, sister you are free sister, sister get off your knees. sister, sister please, don't forget me.
Here, i sit full of gloom all alone in my very own room it's enough to make me weep.. all because of that little creep sister is a rotten, horrid child and that is just putting it very mild she is bad to a great extent but its my reputation that is getting bent little sisters are a real big pain she ruins my homework after i've racked my brain she bothers me when i have a guest and always acts like a royal pest once she spilled a chocolate malt then told mom it was all my fault whenever we get into a fight i'm in the doghouse all the night that's the trouble with being old when there's trouble, you get the scold but wait, i wont be sad instead, i will be glad 'cuz now i'm mad at my dumb sister and her little but i'm going to blister this house will no longer be so wild because. i'm going to become an only child.
As i listen to that guitar scream sounds ring out my destiny a stronger power grabs ahold of me shocks me with a volt of electricity my intestance explodes onto the floor red blood begins to shadow my mind extacy brings out a whore her shattered innocence has made her blind dont cry little sister i can feel your need youre not to blame for your indecency dont cry little sister its not your fault that the demons within have tore your soul apart ill always love ya little sister youve done no wrong although the demons reach out to kiss ya never feel you dont belong.
My sister my sister, is not the best. my sister my sister, oh give it a rest. my sister my sister, stop with the drama. my sister my sister, dumb as a llama. my sister my sister, i'm not supposed to see. my sister my sister, dumb as can be.
Thank you sister for being there for me you were there in my time in need thank you sister for loving me you had my back when people comfronted me thank you sister when times got bad you stood by me as no one had and thank you sister like i have before but this time sister it means so much more.
She lived shut in by flowers and trees and shade of gentle bigotries. on this side lay the trackless sea, on that the great world's mystery; but all unseen and all unguessed they could not break upon her rest. the world's far splendors gleamed and flashed, afar the wild seas foamed and dashed; but in her small, dull paradise, safe housed from rapture or surprise, nor day nor night had power to fright the peace of god that filled her eyes.
On a stormy night in winter, when the winds blew cold and wet, i heard some strains of music that i never can forget. i was sleeping in the cabin, where liv'd mary fair and young, when a light shone in the window, and a band of singers sung. we are coming sister mary, we are coming bye and bye, be ready sister mary, for the time is drawing nigh. i tried to tell my mary, but my tongue would not obey, when the song so strange had ended, and the singers flown away, as i watch'd i heard a rustling, like the rustling of a wing, and beside my mary's pillow very soon i heard them sing. then again i called my mary, but my sorrow was complete for i found her heart of kindness had forever ceas'd to beat and i still am very lonely from summer round to spring and i oft in midnight slumber think i hear the same ones sing.
Im sorry for all the mean things i said im sorry for ever time i yelled at you. im sorry for leaving the house when im mad. im sorry for not being there for you. you shuldent be the one thats sick. if i could, id take away all the pain. all the meds, and the doctors visits. if i had the choice, i would rather be sick. you have all your life to live and all the time left. you dont deserve this no one does. to my little sister, im sorry and i love you.
There is a wise lady who inspires my life. this sweet woman is my uncles wife. she has always been there through thick and thin. she has never let me down even when things were dim. she holds the key that goes to my heart. no one else can get through, the walls just wont part. no one else will ever know exactly how i feel, but this wonderful lady has shown me best friends are real. she knows everything about me, both inside and out. whenever i need her, i only need to shout.
Sister my dear sister i wish that i could see you everyday, so you can tell me your not alone and heaven is okay, i need something to help me carry on, cause i cant except the fact that your gone, trying to hide the tears, because of my pride eventhough i'm dying inside, deep in my soul a sorrow haunted by every tommorrow, cause your not there waiting, its not fair my heart is fading, all i should of said will never be, never got to say what you meant to me, or to our whole family, so sister my dear sister i'll start living a better way, so you can welcome me home someday.
Cat stands at the fridge, cries loudly for milk. but i've filled her bowl. wild cat, i say, sister, look, you have milk. i clink my fingernail against the rim. milk. with down and liver, a word i know she hears. her sad miaow. she runs to me. she dips in her whiskers but doesn't drink. as sometimes i want the light on when it is on. or when i saw the woman walking toward my house and i thought there's frances. then looked in the car mirror to be sure. she stalks the room. she wants. milk beyond milk. world beyond this one, she cries.
My sister please dont cry my sister dry your eyes my sister don't end your life my sister your not his wife my sister he's cold as a snake my sister he's just a fake my sister everything will be better when you wake my sister ive seen the pills you take my sister he's full of lies my sister don't even try my sister your the one everyone likes my sister don't start a fight my sister it ends tonight my sister i need you, don't end your life.
She has a new sister who writes poetry a poet i will never be i am writing this poem as a plea that maybe she will contact me i know she doesn't like poems that rhyme so i doubt very much that she'll like mine i hope this shows how much i miss her oh but to be my sister's sister.
To my sister on her wedding day i am happy to say, you're love is peur for this man hear, and he wont throe her love away. they will be happy, i know so i am happy to say it is her wedding day.
I love my sister so dear to my heart, i love my sister even if we are apart. she does not feel my love for her, even though it is so apparent. she is like an darling angel, fluttering her graceful wings. i hope she sees my love one day, my sister so dear to me.
The ocean breeze with it's special aroma permeated the air. i felt lonely, empty, my sister's ashes now flow there. in my mind's eye, i saw her face and beautiful golden hair. oh how i wish she was also standing here. i feel somewhat at peace, though i miss her so very much, longing to once more feel her warm gentle touch. in my heart, i know she is surely gone, but in her children's faces, my beautiful sister lives on.
Sister sister my sister is funny she likes to eat money i can't wait till she goes to school she might have a lot of work to do i will have to teach her how to spell i never want to be in hell my sister is a tease she is always making me freeze she is so great i do believe in fate i am only seven but i know all about heaven my sister is almost two i will have to teach her to tie her shoes my sister i love to death she is sometimes a mess my sister i will never forget she needs to learn not to hit sister sister i love you so thank you for being my sister i will miss you so.
Greatness of a person is not measured by riches real importance lies in what the heart truly wishes accomplishing big things without love is useless continuous blessings when wasted become pointless enhancing one's wealth is not your sole dream i guess. boldness of character is not a guarantee right thing is made if applied wisely to see a fulfilled future that secures good retirement true happiness is not living in too much luxuries overwhelming zest is the freedom from worries. resources that you share for sake of charity it will be marked as gesture of good quality of one real sister like you who is godly.
Brothers and sisters all over here fighting got me thinking so much now im writing why is there so much hate in the world seeing all this killing makes my stomach curl we all need to pause and ask ourself, what are we really doing we are turning our world into ruin and what are we really proving who's the weaker or stronger human i think were fighting for a hidden goal but i'm being told so many lies it troubles my soul so much he say she say dont know which side to choose times have gotten so bad i can't even believe what i hear in the news at times i just want to bust my tv with a bat listening to all this the congress said this, but the media said that you wish you could say it was better in the old days but its pretty much the same thing just a new phase war is never a good thing but a world without war is still only a dream.
War.war.war. war can kill, war can be killed war can hurt, and war can please war is bad, and war is good war can bring death and war can bring joy war is like a game there is one winner and one looser war can be a bridge and war can be a tunnle war can blind, war can deaf war can help, war cant help war is a word that has no meaning war changes the world to great or bad war is a simple thing war is not evil or good war can be stopped, war can stop war can be nothing or it can be everything i've been in war it is not hard and it is not easy you dont need much to be in the war all u need is a heart full of pride and if u dont have that u will get shot and die.
There was peace before there was war that's when two parties fight for 'peace' and after the war there are two losers though one believes itself the winner and perhaps that is the most dangerous belief and which god ever declared war on men? if every woman in the world refused war the men would not have a chance in hell the hell of their own making.
I think it better that in times like these a poet's mouth be silent, for in truth we have no gift to set a statesman right; he has had enough of medding who can please a young girl in the indolence of her youth, or an old man upon a winter's night.
Where has the dreamer gone? off to war. and his dreams? he had to lay them aside. will he ever dream his dreams again? only after the war. will he win the war? only if he returns with new dreams. when will the war end? never. then how can he ever return home? only when he stops fighting. who will survive the war? no one at all. what kind of war is it? no one knows. who is the enemy? he is.
Depression is a fight or a flight depression is a theif that should be locked up depression steals. happiness motivation sleep your appetite it steals your view on life it steals how you view yourself sometimes it even steals your life.
Looking out across the land, i see a sight that is not so grand. a scene that is eerie and still, but as the sun set behind the distant hill, flags fluttered in the evening breeze, leaves rustled in the nearby trees. the memories of war came into view, fallen comrades and massive destruction too bringing back the horrors of an era past walking through those perished forms at last. rows of faded flags and crosses in remembrance of our greatest losses. all these buried souls did fight and die when the call to arms was extremely high. many have fallen and lie in eternal sleep, leaving posterity to ponder their keep. each flag and cross for a nation to bear in memory of a veteran under god's care.
Worlds worlds worlds so many worlds and in each world yet so many worlds and in each world war..war.war down to the tiniest creation each foreign world floats and sinks in its own world a world of nature a world of war ever ready to guard us against foreign worlds world world world yet each to his own world at least for now.
The whole green sky is dying.the last tree flares with a great burst of supernatural rose under a canopy of poisonous airs. could we imagine our return to prayers to end in time before time's final throes, the green sky dying as the last tree flares? but we were young in judgement, old in years who could make peace; but it was war we chose, to spread its canopy of poisoning airs. not all our children's pleas and women's fears could steer us from this hell.and now god knows his whole green sky is dying as it flares. our crops of wheat have turned to fields of tares. this dreadful century staggers to its close and the sky dies for us, its poisoned heirs. all rain was dust.its granules were our tears. throats burst as universal winter rose to kill the whole green sky, the last tree bare beneath its canopy of poisoned air.
Over at the river's bank stands my buddy, mellow frank, thinking of the german tank that he observed right where it sank they saved the captain, what a crank he chewed tobacco and he stank with two policemen at his flank the one a colonel, just by rank his stare was serious, almost blank the younger cop, looked like he shrank from the 3 stars of higher rank his name tag showed him to be hank the captain of the ship said 'wank' he'd set his sail at bitterlenk.
Roland cannot go to school, his brother needs the trousers, for shorts the weather is too cool no clothes for rabblerousers. the war was won by others, yup the piper must be paid i'll go around with paper cup no longer so afraid. we did respond to his sieg heil yes all of us were proud my brother walked the final mile the cannon shot was loud. mankind has surely, truly learned from all atrocities, perhaps so many bodies burned for man to have his peace.
'doway, doway', the soldier shouted, moving them on with much impatience, they were not able to go any faster, kids, handwagons and their lives' belongings were not salvation but a hindrance for them all. he took his filthy and mud crusted kalatshnykov and shot them all before they reached the town. 'what is the difference', he asked himself, a few more bodies in this war, and then he saw a timid movement in the pile of bodies, 'life', more out of shame and guilt he aimed again and killed the final remnants of the human spirit.
War not really sure what im fighting for but what i know is i want war no more we fight and we fight and we fight through hell, sleet, day and night ive seen mothers, sisters, fathers, and brothers ive seen aunts, uncles, cusins and so many others all sent to this far far away land supporting their country with not much pay in hand they dont do it cause they had to they do it for all american including you all the troops really want to know is that you care maybe a pat on the back or a thank you here and there.
There was crimson clash of war. lands turned black and bare; women wept; babes ran, wondering. there came one who understood not these things. he said, "why is this?" whereupon a million strove to answer him. there was such intricate clamour of tongues, that still the reason was not.
War. and war some more. war. and war some more. no one knows, what it's for, war. and war some more. the images seem to rule the day, war and generals, all the same, all the answers, seem so lame, all our reason, gone insane. war. and war some more. war. and war some more. no one knows, what it's for, war. and war some more.
I they gave us a war that nobody wanted the warnings unheard or simply discounted the men of the pentagon surely undaunted gave us a war that nobody wanted ii the weapoms of war are tested and counted military hardware displayed and dismounted allies ignored and the enemy taunted they gave us a war that nobody wanted ii divisions of men and weaponry flaunted ships tanks and planes in quantity granted by death and destruction civilians are haunted they gave us a war that nobody wanted iv prime ministers presidents and generals have ranted television pictures and news are being slanted voices are raised and slogans are chanted they gave us a war that nobody wanted v high powered weapoms and missiles are vaunted the guns have been fired and the bombs have been planted all shall be well when the foe is surmounted they gave us a war that nobody wanted vi when the conflict is over and the story recounted we'll forget the destruction and horror implanted but remember the soldiers and statesman enchanted by this terrible war that nobody wanted.
Turn, fortune, turn thy wheel, and lower the proud; turn thy wild wheel thro' sunshine, storm, and cloud; thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate. turn, fortune, turn thy wheel with smile or frown; with that wild wheel we go not up or down; our hoard is little, but our hearts are great. smile and we smile, the lords of many lands; frown and we smile, the lords of our own hands; for man is man and master of his fate. turn, turn thy wheel above the staring crowd; thy wheel and thou are shadows in the cloud; thy wheel and thee we neither love nor hate.
Waking alone in a multitude of loves when morning's light surprised in the opening of her nightlong eyes his golden yesterday asleep upon the iris and this day's sun leapt up the sky out of her thighs was miraculous virginity old as loaves and fishes, though the moment of a miracle is unending lightning and the shipyards of galilee's footprints hide a navy of doves. no longer will the vibrations of the sun desire on her deepsea pillow where once she married alone, her heart all ears and eyes, lips catching the avalanche of the golden ghost who ringed with his streams her mercury bone, who under the lids of her windows hoisted his golden luggage, for a man sleeps where fire leapt down and she learns through his arm that other sun, the jealous coursing of the unrivalled blood.
When god brings together, two people in a marriage, he encourages, many things along the way. to never be afraid, of the steps, that are directed by him. fellowship daily, be in a hurry for nothing, and always open to learning, one another, have much prayer, lots of patience, for this is necessary, to have a marriage of greatness. know the time for fruitfulness, as well as gentleness, and always be prepared, for a lesson in forgiveness. keep in mind one another's feelings. be willing to give all that, you can possibly give, doing all this, will help with faithfulness. especially when you realize, the best part of a great union, is having your life long, friend for all eternity. these are some of the keys, for a marriage made in heaven.
God grant a blessing on this tower and cottage and on my heirs, if all remain unspoiled, no table or chair or stool not simple enough for shepherd lads in galilee; and grant that i myself for portions of the year may handle nothing and set eyes on nothing but what the great and passionate have used throughout so many varying centuries we take it for the norm; yet should i dream sinbad the sailor's brought a painted chest, or image, from beyond the loadstone mountain, that dream is a norm; and should some limb of the devil destroy the view by cutting down an ash that shades the road, or setting up a cottage planned in a government office, shorten his life, manacle his soul upon the red sea bottom.
The days, the nights, flow one by one above us, the hours go silently over our lifted faces, we are like dreamers who walk beneath a sea. beneath high walls we flow in the sun together. we sleep, we wake, we laugh, we pursue, we flee. we sit at tables and sip our morning coffee, we read the papers for tales of lust or crime. the door swings shut behind the latest comer. we set our watches, regard the time. what have we done? i close my eyes, remember the great machine whose sinister brain before me smote and smote with a rhythmic beat. my hands have torn down walls, the stone and plaster. i dropped great beams to the dusty street. my eyes are worn with measuring cloths of purple, and golden cloths, and wavering cloths, and pale. i dream of a crowd of faces, white with menace. hands reach up to tear me. my brain will fail. here, where the walls go down beneath our picks, these walls whose windows gap against the sky, atom by atom of flesh and brain and marble will build a glittering tower before we die . . . the young boy whistles, hurrying down the street, the young girl hums beneath her breath. one goes out to beauty, and does not know it. and one goes out to death.
I love to go to grampa's house. he lives far, far away. it's hard to sit still in the car and it takes us two whole days. my grampa's fun is different. he doesn't run and play. but grampa's fun is special fun and i love him best that way. my grampa tells me stories when i sit on his knee about the games and things he did when he was small like me. sometimes he takes me fishin' in a boat out on the lake. we sing songs and then i giggle at the bird sounds grampa makes. my grampa knows the names of things like trees and plants and such. he shares the stuff he knows with me and i love him, oh so much. i wish grampa lived next door to me. he lives so far away. but i love to go to grampa's house though it takes us two whole days.
They are building a house half a block down and i sit up here with the shades down listening to the sounds, the hammers pounding in nails, thack thack thack thack, and then i hear birds, and thack thack thack, and i go to bed, i pull the covers to my throat; they have been building this house for a month, and soon it will have its people.sleeping, eating, loving, moving around, but somehow now it is not right, there seems a madness, men walk on top with nails in their mouths and i read about castro and cuba, and at night i walk by and the ribs of the house show and inside i can see cats walking the way cats walk, and then a boy rides by on a bicycle and still the house is not done and in the morning the men will be back walking around on the house with their hammers, and it seems people should not build houses anymore, it seems people should not get married anymore, it seems people should stop working and sit in small rooms on 2nd floors under electric lights without shades; it seems there is a lot to forget and a lot not to do, and in drugstores, markets, bars, the people are tired, they do not want to move, and i stand there at night and look through this house and the house does not want to be built; through its sides i can see the purple hills and the first lights of evening, and it is cold and i button my coat and i stand there looking through the house and the cats stop and look at me until i am embarrased and move north up the sidewalk where i will buy cigarettes and beer and return to my room.
Whenever i walk to suffern along the erie track i go by a poor old farmhouse with its shingles broken and black. i suppose i've passed it a hundred times, but i always stop for a minute and look at the house, the tragic house, the house with nobody in it. i never have seen a haunted house, but i hear there are such things; that they hold the talk of spirits, their mirth and sorrowings. i know this house isn't haunted, and i wish it were, i do; for it wouldn't be so lonely if it had a ghost or two. this house on the road to suffern needs a dozen panes of glass, and somebody ought to weed the walk and take a scythe to the grass. it needs new paint and shingles, and the vines should be trimmed and tied; but what it needs the most of all is some people living inside. if i had a lot of money and all my debts were paid i'd put a gang of men to work with brush and saw and spade. i'd buy that place and fix it up the way it used to be and i'd find some people who wanted a home and give it to them free. now, a new house standing empty, with staring window and door, looks idle, perhaps, and foolish, like a hat on its block in the store. but there's nothing mournful about it; it cannot be sad and lone for the lack of something within it that it has never known. but a house that has done what a house should do, a house that has sheltered life, that has put its loving wooden arms around a man and his wife, a house that has echoed a baby's laugh and held up his stumbling feet, is the saddest sight, when it's left alone, that ever your eyes could meet.
so whenever i go to suffern along the erie track i never go by the empty house without stopping and looking back, yet it hurts me to look at the crumbling roof and the shutters fallen apart, for i can't help thinking the poor old house is a house with a broken heart.
The winter sun, golden and tired, settles on the irregular army of bottles. outside the trucks jostle toward the open road, outside it's saturday afternoon, and young women in black pass by arm in arm. this bar is the house of silence, and we drink to silence without raising our voices in the old way. we drink to doors that don't open, to the four walls that dose their eyes, hands that run, fingers that count change, toes that add up to ten. suspended as we are between our business and our rest, we feel the sudden peace of wine and the agony of stale bread. columbus sailed from here 30 years ago and never wrote home. on saturdays like this the phone still rings for him.
Waking to the early morning sound of a single trolling motor off in the misty distance with the scent of pristine pine breezing gently through the open window; sunlight peeking through the rising mist slanting onto sand scuffed floors, a damp bathing suit lies crumpled in the corner waiting for another early morning dip; scent of good strong coffee drifting through the open doorway mixed with subtle lakey smell stirring senses to awaken and greet this lovely summer morning; soon barking dogs and laughing children will mingle with the incessant honking of canadian geese wandering aimlessly along the lakefront in search of tasty morsels washed ashore; i must go find my special mug. feet propped on the railing of the deck with chairback tilted against the sunsplashed shingles gazing out across the sparkling ripples; a sailboat in the distance dips dangerously toward the surface as the sail scoops water and the occupant dumps into the chilly wake up wetness; a yell from the startled sailor breaks the hazy coffee daydream it's time to snap out of memories and take up the tasks at hand. just another lake house morning.
I crave your mouth, your voice, your hair. silent and starving, i prowl through the streets. bread does not nourish me, dawn disrupts me, all day i hunt for the liquid measure of your steps. i hunger for your sleek laugh, your hands the color of a savage harvest, hunger for the pale stones of your fingernails, i want to eat your skin like a whole almond. i want to eat the sunbeam flaring in your lovely body, the sovereign nose of your arrogant face, i want to eat the fleeting shade of your lashes, and i pace around hungry, sniffing the twilight, hunting for you, for your hot heart, like a puma in the barrens of quitratue. translated by stephen tapscott.
Angel is a white shih tzu with patterns of white and gold, angel also comes to the names of ang, and angie i am told. mrs. gaylin is her proud owner along with her spouse, angel is really cute and quiet as a mouse. mrs. gaylin said angels needs a haircut soon, mrs. gaylin will take her for a haircut maybe at noon. now angel is a is a rescue dog mrs. gaylin also did say, they adopted her on one sunny day. going for walks angel does go, she is one of the shih tzu's at the condo. written by suzae chevalier on december 27,2011 ww.suechevalier.com ww.suzae.com.
She looks like she just came off a three day binge or some nice cruise never bothering to wash the ocean away. that dazed but satisfied look pleased with all that crosses her path she does not take part in my sorts of abuse. she will share the space with devils and spirits, but kindly refuse. a simple girl with outrageous beauty. what is it that she knows? where is that spot deep inside? that spot where she stashes strength? does it even matter with lips like that?.
Go ahead and buy yourself a drink a few more, and the pain will ease. as you kneel before the porcelain god ask yourself if it was worth it. was the momentary peace of mind worth the six hour hangover? and besides, it was only a figment of your imagination you were never really at peaces with yourself. it was just a drunken blur the pain was always there.
Your orange hair in the void of the world in the void of these heavy panes of silence shade where my bare hands seek your image. the shape of your heart is chimerical and your love resembles my lost desire. o sighs of amber, dreams, glances. but you were not always here. my memory is still obscured by seeing your coming and going. time consumes words, like love.
When artists wore a flowing mane, then, in a sentimental vein, with pastorals they lured the eye, or sad, sweet scenes of sea and sky. but now that hair sprouts from the face they chuck their paint about the place and, in the modern manner, seek to baffle one with the unique. i've often wondered if this surge of hirsute foam denotes some urge artistic that controls and sways the hand and brain to newer ways. for instance, might we not expect an artist in dundrearies decked in other manner to behave from him who wore a monkey shave? i've known but one of this quaint throng who wore both hair and whiskers long, but he, poor bloke, was short of cash, and wore a full beard and moustache that he might draw on this supply when price of brushes soared to high . but there are ways, it seems to me. to test my novel theory. if some brave man would range the land and catch a few of this quaint band and hold them captive for a while who knows what tricks of school and style one might evolve if, to each man, we gave a different hirsute plan? you doubt, perhaps? but all the same, there might be money in the game.
So many songs have been written about my love. the beautiful color of my true love's hair. the hair of a powerful beauty. black as a wormhole or as simple as a crayon. made of ions, electrons and protons, my love must have created all things for her hair supports everything. from the planets, moons, suns, constellations and universes. my true love has no prejudice or hatred for any one being instead love for all she creates. her face lights up planets and her waters house life while her skin supports all walking creatures and four legged enigmas. her eyes are stars gazers while her smiles are super novas and her beautiful black hair is simply the dark matter in space.
You can grow it or cut it. you can style it or leave it to blow in the wind. if it's long you can put it up. you can have a parting or leave it messy. it's a fashion. love life, love your hair.
I must have died a thousand times because everytime i see you smile i go breathless so i fell for you, big deal.i'll be the one laughing when you fall for me and i leave your heart drowning in a pool of tears and memories. i hope it's me that makes your body tremble at night when will you realize what your doing to yourself? you're doomed unless you pull yourself together you fell for my trap now time only tells how long i'll leave you in despair.foolish mistakes will lead you to make believe love and a tragic ending. but i feel i'm lost in a dream world when i look into your eyes congratulations you made me suffer. but it's your heart that will forfeit this game.
Its just one more story left untold, but, this ones different, its about a girl, whos hair was gold, she had a smile like no other, everyone thought she was happy, but little did they know, her smile was fake, she just wanted to leave, to go, be free from the pain shes in, her brother, 'he', 'him', emotionly bruised her soul, she wont let anyone touch her, fearing that she will lose control, her father, 'just another' so mixed up in alchol and drugs, he cant even tell how hurt she is, her eyes flood with red blood tears, her mother, 'there, but not' she knows, but doesnt help, trying to support a family on her own, too much stress, not enough fears, and the girl with golden hair, and a smile like no other? well, she struggling to keep it all together, crying herself to sleep everynight, having to deal with her brother, father and mother, so do you think the girl with the golden hair, and a smile like no other is really happy? well shes not, because her life is rather crappy.
Mother's hair has turned to silver her skin is all wrinkled and cold but i'd never trade my mother for the world and all its gold. yes her hair has turned to silver her face is all covered with lines but there'll never be another like this gray haired mother of mine. i think of all the hardships i have caused her to bare then i can see the reasons for the silver in her hair. mother's hair has turned to silver and her hard working days are done but there's still a smile on her face and a love for everyone.
Days i yearn to kiss your luscious lips delicious lips tasting like a reddish apple as i bite upon your watery tongue dark hair conceals your beautiful face your beauty resembles that of aphrodite praying you'll love this fool times trapped in my dusky hell you're there to show me the light days your sweet words inspires me compassionate words bringing hope to to this foolish sinner darken days, the moon shines on your caressive skin my stiff hands stuck upon your bosom while you remain silent in the lace bed.
On the beach of dreams, we sit watching a never setting sun. never wondering how long our love will last, or how much time, we have. our dreams stretch out forever like our love my dear. our hearts beat as one whenever you are near. each day as the sun rises, i want to return to the beach. the beach of dreams, which both of us share. 17 march 2008.
April cannon beach the sea lions too taken up by the sights april cannon beach we join the sea lions in their songs of praise oregan coast march a fountain of whales every spring, gray whales make their way north from the breeding grounds of baja california to the summer playground of the bering sea. traveling about five miles per hour, it takes the whale some three weeks to make the journey, passing the scenic oregon coast in late march and april. stop in cannon beach to see haystack rock, the artsy little hamlet of yachats, backed by verdant cape perpetua, and sea lion caves, where you take an elevator down 200 feet to view hundreds of sea lions squawking on the rocks.
Fat dragons spoil the fitches, plead says john, before i take the beach boys away. fat dragons put on a suit, wash teath, and drive away, into his own private hell. plead says john, before i take the beach boys away. fat dragon gets old, have some kids, goes to work, comes home with his hands on fire, and repeats what his father did to him. plead says john, before i take the beach boys away. fat dragon silently flys away.
Beach volleyball today. you wear your cap to protect you from the sun. you wear your beach shorts blue shorts with big white flowers prints. you walk barefoot. and then you decide to walk straight to the internet cafe. and you are here now. you do not like anybody else. cruel world. hot sun. your flight is still tomorrow morning. another loud night. an impatient self trying to be completely silent. shut.
Oh they won't let us show it at the beach no they won't let us show it at the beach they think we're gonna grab it if it gets within our reach and they won't let us show it at the beach but you can show it in your parlor to most anyone you choose you can show it at a party with your second shot of booze you can show it on the corner wearin' overcoat and shoes but they won't let us show it at the beach no they won't let us show it at the beach friends ah they won't us show it at the beach oh they're sure we're gonna grab it if it gets within our reach so they won't let us show it at the beach but you can show it in the movies on the cineramic screen you can show it in the most sophisticated magazine you can show it while you're bouncing on the high school trampoline but they won't let us show it at the beach but if you've got a gun it's legal to display it on your hip you can show your butcher knives to any interested kid but if it's made for lovin' then you'd better keep it hid and they won't let us show it at the beach.
My owners they took me to the beach they parked facing the sea it was in reach but i was ready to make my escape as the whole journey a plan i did make my owners they opened the car door and i lept and shot out quickly before they could do anything to stop me i was cleverer than they thought they see my owners they stood there staring in disbelief they hadn't time to even clip on my leash i charged happily up and down the sand lucky for them it was a beach with dogs not banned my owners they decided to ignore me it was easier to leave me play by the sea i barked at the waves telling them not to taunt they kept coming then going they me did haunt my owners they just watched from afar i knew however i was still under their radar sea gulls they rose to the skies when i approached waving their wings screeching at me they reproached my owners they started call me back i noticed a picnic they'd started to unpack i headed their way hoping for food that exercise had got me in that hungry mood my owners heads turned as i just shot past they tried to catch me but i was too fast for i had seen something better you see it was over the road and meant just for me my owners now they shot up shouting running after me but i was too fast and enjoying things you see for in the garden just over the road lots of holes rabbits had burrowed my owners now however much they did shout my temporary deafness had just broken out i shot in and out of the holes oh what fun as from different holes appeared my head and my bum my owners were now getting cross why i don't understand i'm still at a loss but eventually as i shot out a hole strong hands caught me my fun they had stole my owners put me on my long lead and muttered because i was very dirtied but i will always remember my day of great fun my time at the seaside and what i had done.
At your side, i will stand, together we'll walk, through the sand. with the setting sun, and a summer breeze, reflecting our love, on the open seas. a walk on the beach, i will share, hand in hand, we walk with care. making our hearts, strong and brave, along with the passions, of thee ocean waves. together in love, our souls will teach, and guide our future, as we walk on the beach. for i am in love.
To the beach, my dog and i run, play catch frisbees, just for fun. umbrella's to block the sun, waves crash upon the sand. my dog chases gulls that try to land. sky so blue, sand so white, my dog and i, were up at daylight. winds are warm and blowing slight, ocean sprays, dog strays, sand blows, through our toes. it gets cool, the sun goes down, my dog and i, head back to town. it's time we leave the beach to rest. after all, we were just a guest. all the birds have flown away. we will come back, another day. just me and my dog, to play.
Waves crashing on the beach sand in my toes sun setting trees swaying throwing rounds rocks in the water lying in each others arms birds on a log crabs crawling along the waters edge our footprints through the sand scattered like the stars in the sky.
Standing on the beach we are standing on the beach watching the sunset slowly go down with this slow blowing breeze and waves rolling across our feet with you standing so ever close you in front and me just behind with our hands so ever inter twined with your hair blowing in my face it smelling so ever saccharine i loosen one hand reach up and pull your hair aside then i lean my head so ever slightly towards your sweet smell neck then i begin to lightly kiss it from top to bottom i can notice the chill bumps across your exposed skin you moan so ever slightly as to give your approval you softly curse my head as to want me to continue this so ever lightly kissing of the neck.
On a far away beach at dawn your face is etched in the stars that dot a sky about to lose its black mirrored as a reflection on a luminous sheet of sea at low tide the image skittered like sand pipers dissolving as the first rays of an impatient sun scattered light on the slate gray sand a harsh westerly blew to shore and slapped my face assails my nose with the briny redolence of shoreline waste from afar clam diggers sat on empty pails digging and poking with bamboo spatulas the water logged sand i heard your voice mingle with the twittering of the shore birds as they skipped and darted leaving their v marks on the glistening sand i thought of my easy chair, my garden, i thought of your smile.of home a harsh westerly slapped my face, a briny redolence assailed my nose.
That beach where we sit together beside the sea where our hands stretch out to be held again like yesterday is actually a vow, a promise that never shall again the sea and the earth part like two lovers taking opposite ways the sea licks the thighs of the earth and the earth surrenders in utter pleasure.
Palilan, jimenez, misamis ocidental circa 1996 here sit on this shore watch the silver tips of the rumbling waves pushed by the wind who do not hold back their wings and forever bidding goodbyes and forever abandoning my old blues and are probably concerned.
We went to the beach to get wind in our hair to stand on the sand and simply to stare. to let the surf tickle toes and dampen our clothes as we played 'run away' from the wavelets at play. we went to the beach to climb on the rocks find cool shallow pools where we'd take of our socks, and peer in the waters to see what we might find that the waves of the sea, had last left behind. we went to the beach to find coloured shells the kind that when placed to our ears make the sound of the ocean appear, and gathered rocks that we never would find in the places we walked, for most of the time. we went to the beach and all that, we did find and the smell of the salt refreshed our tired minds. i'll never forget the laughter and sounds and the freedom to run, on that wet sandy ground. we went to the beach my family and i and there we were one, with the ocean, the beach, and the sky.
I dreamed about an easterbunny on zuma beach, where it was sunny. she would have graced big city malls and told me she liked matzo balls. by which she meant those oval eggs that hang off males, between the legs. though dark of skin her real home was not the southern town of rome. hugh hefner was her dear old dad he'd started this attractive fad. down in australia they have bunnies surrounding little shacks called dunnies. they are the ones whose nether hole has been designed the novel role of laying eggs, some green some yellow for white man and the coloured fellow. back to the bunny at my feet, she said that she was glad to meet a hunk like me, so well endowed and might she, kindly, be allowed to cuddle up close to my skin where we could share in wicked sin. i saw the sadness in her eyes and, being better than those guys who would have jumped at this small chance i did remain in mental trance until those bunnyhands caressed the little curlies on my chest. such loneliness and such despair it was so cruel and unfair, of god to make her in creation and then prevent all fornication, thus someone had to give her aid that's how on zuma i got laid.
Many have trod this sandy beach seeking for shells. along the shore their footprints merge in shifting sands. rising and falling the ocean sighs and washes all. i stand alone at water's edge. i have no shells. looking back i cannot tell the way i came.
When you come with a knife i wish to be killed you kicked, and left for ever a betrayel a sad cry and left here nobody looks sadly, she come with a pale rose she knows they say we must fight to keep our freedom.
Freedom is something we take at times for granted, it is only when we have lost it do we see how precious it is. walking down the street feeling free as can be, but suppose we could not do that. how would we feel? if our voice was choked by oppression. what then? never take for granted the things we enjoy the most. the freedom to live the way we choose, for one day in the future we could lose it unless we are careful in the things we do. 24 april 2008.
Everyone has choices you can choose to be good or bad you can choose to do the right thing or the wrong thing you can choose to help fight this war or you can choose to ignore it if you fight you can choose how most choose weapons but they create more problems than they solve for they hurt the innocent few choose their voice it is a wonderful choice but only for those few who can be heard heard and taken seriously i choose a pen so i may write it all and it will be there for all whom choose to read you see we all have choices good or evil love or hate fight or ignore right or wrong which will you choose?.
Many look on what constitutes freedom one might say differently what seems free to you may not seem free to me to be ruled by your own people to you as freedom does count but in the true meaning of freedom that to little amount. to be ruled by your own people may be seen as quite okay but if you have to be careful with the words you do say then you are not a free person despite about it how you may feel your idea of freedom to me does not appeal. of love of country you are one who brag and your patriotism you carry in your national flag but despite this your government you seemingly fear and they only tell you what you need to hear. patriotic songs and ballads many like to sing and to their admiration of freedom fighters they fervently do cling and if that's your idea of freedom well that suits me fine though your ideas on life are quite different to mine.
Travel light a friend once said to me, 'yeah right' i thought with my big screen tv, but over the years i've changed my view, now i know there are very few things truly essential to you. each move i disposed of more sentimental tat, it became easier as i realised, don't need this, don't need that. then one summer's day i was forced from my home, loads more had to go, into storage went some, now i live in a hostel with limited bits, eight months on, the stored, do i need it? with every possession also comes responsibility, burglars shot to save a five pound dvd, so now i'm working my way to cut off the slack, i want to end up with just a rucksack, then i'll have freedom, true freedom to roam, wherever i lay, that'll be my home.
Country as free as a bird born in a free world you would think i have it all you would think im also free well let me tell you something im always questioning who i am never realizing what im worth others make me feel so small threatening to take my sense of being away combing away my truest self away i see so many faces, all smiling smiling faces looking at me all i have is this one question will i ever be free in my own body? will i ever find my truest self i need to escape this normality the survival, of my soul depends on it im falling to the shadow of normality this society has killed my individuality.
You are freedom god's freedom child on every field inside you on every level inside you on every dark or bright side inside you absolutely marvelous god's freedom child full of happiness, prosperity and gladness full of good or bad experience you want to have all of them. take them take them all. such an easy way to take goodness and gladness much easier than to take evil and harm much faster, delicate and without end. you are freedom. you are a mind of goodness, knowledge, experience, wonderful feelings independence and render. discover yourself, give yourself give your freedom to others all over the world. be freedom.
A view of a vast land enriched with daffodils free as the breeze blows with fullest dreams of its own a panoramic blue sky suspended are the cumulus on guard like the proud angels roaming the horizon with faith a mystic gushing waterfall splashing crystal mist flows bathing the earth with vitality invigorates all creatures therein had freedom not been suppressed by those whose hearts are full of greed then man could have lived a zestful life and not suffer the turmoil mounted by evil.
We enjoy full freedom in india even the cows and bulls are free jaipur was witness to this theory recently a tourist from argentina was attacked and mauled by a bull in a highly busy street of jaipur the tourist succumbed to injuries the biggest irony was that the man had come to jaipur with lady love to celebrate his birthday in style.
Freedom, as every schoolboy knows, once shrieked as kosciusko fell; on every wind, indeed, that blows i hear her yell. she screams whenever monarchs meet, and parliaments as well, to bind the chains about her feet and toll her knell. and when the sovereign people cast the votes they cannot spell, upon the pestilential blast her clamors swell. for all to whom the power's given to sway or to compel, among themselves apportion heaven and give her hell. blary o'gary.
I could write volumes on all i've seen of desolation and despair but for what good purpose no, i can not spread doom for the world is full of such loneliness and gloom when compassion should rule my lengthy prayers go up above for peace for one and all my fellowmen, choose freedom ah, sweet freedoms steadfast call.
If ''the truth shall set you free'' then i have earned my wings. i finally have faced my past. even the dark and evil things. i don't need your forgiveness or your patronizing smile. i know that i must do this. i've known it for awhile. a part of me was frozen yet now began the thaw. i'll show you i will make it. just stand and watch in awe. there's nothing i can't conquer no hill that is too steep. i'll prove i'm a survivor. that's a promise i will keep. if ''the truth shall set you free'' then i have earned my wings. i finally have faced my past. even the dark and evil things.
Thinking can never be free stems from the conditioning deep in our minds cultural.social.literary tree glued to us putting us in a bind we think our thoughrs are free but are they really? ? any books or poems for that matter that we read or the ideals or the principles that we lead are all rooted to the mind thats been fed all the learning from the life we have led every thought being a result from that whats the newness, may i ask? ? just be aware of what that signifies observe what it means, do not fight try and slowly uncondition the mind without a conflict that can make you blind make the mind still, remove all thoughts remove the veil of words, maybe it blots? ? a flash of understanding, a rapidity of insight when mind is not burdened by its own noise it is the memory that really interevenes challenge and response in between a chattering mind cannot understand truth. which is like a thief creeping into a still night.
Whilst your soul dances, beneath the cradle of heaven's stars, the tall grass gently caresses your ankles. with the hand, that is bound by no chains, and the eyes, that see the heavens the skies behold. neither the cloud, that flows in a rhythmic pattern nor the bird who is set off course by another. you are the wind, you are the one, to control your own fate, because you are free.
It is spoken man is born equal and free to a degree the world disagrees some foresee what others cannot see freedom is walking away with glee we have a right to christmas with a tree we have a right to enjoy a shopping spree we have a right to travel the land and the sea we have the right to an educational degree stop the silly talking whilst freedom is walking freedom is not a jubilee freedom is not a guarantee who says freedom is free? it is spoken man is free of thought without the need to fear higher courts some have spoken and finally resorted to hide their thoughts from being reported we have a right to a chosen culture we have a right not to be tortured we have a right to nationality and security we have a right to be part of a minority stop the silly talking whilst freedom is walking freedom is not part of community freedom is never an informality who says freedom is immunity? we want opinion without distinction we want a world without discrimination we want a kingdom of utter freedom we want it in all shapes and form stop the silly talking whilst freedom is walking stop the silly talking whilst freedom is mocking ww.sylviachidi.co.uk.
Freedom, oh precious freedom, we ask not why we hold it so dear we just take it, for freedom is like a sweet laughter within your soul. it's like a soft gentle breeze on an autumn afternoon, when all is right with the world. freedom is the flame that burns down within our souls, can the flames burn within the souls of all, or must the flames be drowned with tears of sorrow and pain? for i shall not pass through this life in vain. let freedom warm the souls of all mankind, for as i walk in the autumn of my life, i shall reflect on my yesterdays and hope for our tomorrows. for the reflections of our lives are like looking through an hourglass of everlasting time, all moments are cherished. oh let us listen and embrace the souls on fire, all souls are cherished.
Heart filled with love heart filled with fire to have her one dream her inner most desire she will never tell she will never say a word because the bird of freedom soars in his eyes she must not disturb a life unlived a dream untold this man she cannot get this man she cannot hold but still she has hope hope of living her life and hope of dreaming her dreams hope that one day he may see freedom the same she sees in him she cannot love another nor hold another's hand she prays every night he'll just understand she feels freedom around his presence that feeling she gets no where else his dreams are reality his life is being lived because he has freedom as it is.
They caught them. they were sitting at a table in the kitchen. it was early. they had on bathrobes. they were drinking coffee and smiling. she had one of his cigarillos in her fingers. she had her legs tucked up under her in the chair. they saw them through the window. she thought of them stepping out of a bath and him wrapping cloth around her. he thought of her walking up in a small white building, he thought of stones settling into the ground. then they were gone. then they came in through the back. her cat ran out. the house was near the road. she didn't like the cat going out. they stayed at the table. the others were out of breath. the man and the woman reached across the table. they were afraid, they smiled. the other poured themselves the last of the coffee. burning their tongues. the man and the woman looked at them. they didn't say anything. the man and the woman moved closer to each other, the round table between them. the stove was still on and burned the empty pot. she started to get up. one of them shot her. she leaned over the table like a schoolgirl doing her lessons. she thought about being beside him, being asleep. they took her long gray socks put them over the barrel of a rifle and shot him. he went back in his chair, holding himself. she told him hers didn't hurt much, like in the fall when everything you touch makes a spark. he thought about her getting up in the dark wrapping a quilt around herself. and standing in the doorway. she asked the men if they shot them again not to hurt their faces. one of them lit him one of his cigarettes. he thought what it would be like being children together. he was dead before he finished it. she asked them could she take it out of his mouth. so it wouldn't burn his lips. she reached over and touched his hair.
she thought about him walking through the dark singing. she died on the table like that, smoke coming out of his mouth.
They have brought saddam to justice and handed freedom back or at least that is what you tell me to the people of iraq but i always thought that freedom included freedom to live free of fear whilst every day from iraq of more deaths through violence we do hear. if you think iraq is such a great place to live in you should try living there and with the basic freedoms that you now enjoy your notes you can compare for you do not seem enlightened on matters of liberty on your ideas of iraq i for one could not agree. and your ideas of freedom seem quite laughable to me how can one even know of basic freedom if of fear one can't live free you should spend your next holiday in iraq with your wife and family otherwise your ideas of freedom i cannot take seriously. when you talk of iraqi freedom talk is cheap and words are easily said the only news we hear from iraq is of more iraqi dead as a holiday destination iraq i would not recommend unless of course you are suicidal and you wish your life to end.
Please, don't chastise or stone me, or force me into a fiery grave. instead, let me present my views freely to those who are steadfast and brave. let my words echo across the land, a right that we value and hold so dear. may my words be uttered without reprimand, speaking emphatically free from fear.
Precious like time, fragile like a baby. a dream, a vision, a fantasy, an individual's most valued possession. enabling yourself to soar through the horizon. hopes coming true, doors opening, chambers unlocking. feeling inside unexplainable, merely looking further towards forthcoming. no past, no present, only the future in the beholder's hands. opinons differ in everyone's eye. easily taken away, earned by heart, an everlasting promise.
If destiny is manifest and fate is set in stone then nothing that you'll ever do is down to you alone you can't be blamed for following the paths down which you're led when choices that aren't really yours are scything through your head it's not your job to sympathise with every victim's plight perception is subjective there is no wrong or right if your mind is built to fit a predetermined state it's not your fault you're overwhelmed by other people's hate but instead of being constrictive destiny makes sense unfettered by choice, the conscience flies free from consequence.
They say i have freedom i can do what i want they say i have freedom to speak how i feel but how is it freedom to be judged for my deeds and persecuted for speaking revealing my thoughts how is it freedom to fear being called strange to think different thoughts to the people you call friends i live in my mind i hide in my brain i don't dare to speak out again and i'm free to be lonely and misunderstood i'm free to be hated and shunned this is the freedom this is not freedom it cannot be freedom to hide from the world.
To stand forth in strength; the strength of wisdom, the strength of knowledge, the strength of power, the strength to stand tall, the strength to say nay, the strength to be proud, to be strong, able and wise, down this road true freedom lies.
Wrapped inside a little womb, struggling to be free, the butterfly soon left its cage. nevermore a worm to be. born anew to be a sign of beauty, grace and life. a light among a gloomy world and hope in the midst of strife. oh, butterfly, with wings outspread, glistening in the light. show us how to fly with ease as you begin your freedom flight.
Soldier, soldier, cries the child my father is a freedom fighter he is fighting for me and my family he is giving his life for his home land the sun rises and falls on him our enemies have fallen in numbers as dawn comes we will be free form our enemies we will have much to celebrate soon we don't eat even in the hour of noon the reason? that our hearts are with father we will be like him when we grow up our land will be at the top we will earn respect form the on lookers and as a child, i cry for other fathers.
Freedom to love again. freedom to try love again without thinking about the past. freedom to think without worry. freedom to dance to my new found love.. freedom to feel the touch of another man heart and soul. freedom to forget the past. freedom to cry without any sorrow. freedom to walk with out trials and trubulations. freedom to be along and think in peace. freedom to start a new life feel with love again. thank you for freedom.
To all our soldiers past and present, god bless glory to the american flag, long may she wave so many have been covered with her when they've gone to their grave so many of us have taken for granted that our freedom will always be we tend to forget those who have kept that right for you and for me a soldier will stand and fight all night to keep us from harm while some of us sit at home and refuse to lift an arm some sit around and complain all day how wrong this war must be while a soldier pushes that aside to continue to fight for you and me some sit around and complain about the food their going to eat while a soldier works straight through hungry and weary on his feet while you sit around and complain about what you have or where you live remember what a soldier somewhere for you is about to give a soldier stands tall and proud and ready for the fight we must stand strong behind them through their hard and arduous plight lee greenwood said it best 'the flag still stands for freedom and they can't take that away' so give thanks to our soldiers out there each and every day.
So many people around me. the ones i love and the ones i hate. i have the freedom. i have the freedom to love. i have the freedome to hate. the freedom to care. the freedom to concern the freedom to worry the freedom to be hurt the freedom to be sad the freedom to be happy the freedom to say what i want to say. all of these freedoms i have. all of these feelings i have. you could do anything with your freedom. let the chains break. spread your wings and fly away. don't let anyone get you down. make sure you use your freedoms correctly you use your feelings and freedoms to make friends and the right choices. understand your freedoms and feelings. we have the freedom to do what our hearts yearn to do.
The freedom to have my own mind, without others trying to influence me. the freedom to be loved, and not hurt. the freedom to be accepted, and understood. the freedom to make mistakes, and not be judged. the freedom to walk with my head held high, and confidence without others trying to tear me down. the freedom to be me.
The shots fired out the scared soldier dashed back to the fort he had witnessed enough he had only went to 'experience' war and now he wanted to go home desperately he had made friends, lifelong they were good people then came the battles the first six didn't take any of his best friends, only people he knew but that last one took charlie charlie was his most treasured friend but charlie was slowly dying a painful death back at the lines was charlie lying helpless in a pool of blood surrounded by bodies that were badly mangled as his the new soldier had a choice to take refuge at the fort where most of the 'bravest' men had escaped to or risk his life for his new friend the young man died that day 'cry freedom, ' he declared boldly as he rushed to the lines the shots fired out and the man was thrown to his friend's side on the ground ''thanks, man, ' said the dying friend 'i knew you would come' those brave men died fighting for our country for our families today cry freedom in america for more will die if we keep fighting so help with the war cry freedom.
Sometimes our destiny rides the silver trail to nowhere, and then we find ourselves back at the beginning to start all over again. fate chooses our destiny and what it will be, but lets us think we were the one to choose. 20 october 2009.
The silver swan, who living had no note, when death approach'd, unlock'd her silent throat; leaning her breast against the reedy shore, thus sung her first and last, and sung no more. farewell, all joys; o death, come close mine eyes; more geese than swans now live, more fools than wise.
Gold gold is the fever metal for the love of gold shining in their eyes men resort to violent base morals gold lust will turn men's hearts to savage beasts gold is not a beautiful metal of salvation curse of death men's gold haunts generations of men silver silver is redemption metal thirty pieces of silver payment price for betrayal of prophet christ in blood of christ silver is granted power over evil silver is metal used to kill demon souls silver not gold is salvation metal with power to slay evil.
Slowly, silently, now the moon walks the night in her silver shoon; this way, and that, she peers, and sees silver fruit upon silver trees; one by one the casements catch her beams beneath the silvery thatch; couched in his kennel, like a log, with paws of silver sleeps the dog; from their shadowy cote the white breasts peep of doves in silver feathered sleep a harvest mouse goes scampering by, with silver claws, and silver eye; and moveless fish in the water gleam, by silver reeds in a silver stream.
Nothing should be remembered if that was not offered nothing should be thought over if opportunity was denied ever the past should not to be taken seriously the present should be spent continuously there has to be no break with on going process all doors should be kept open for future access the river water flows with no aim the shore is knocked but nothing more is there to claim the destination is never thought of still it flows with carved path and pass through let us be the last to think before ship gives way and starts to sink no hope should be allowed to fade until there is silver line to find the shade think if we were to spend life in easy manner there was no scope to learn for beginner as it was providing everything in smooth way what was left then in life to try hard way?.
They say every cloud has a silver lining and every true friend a heart of gold. in some moments of distress, we do not often see what is there before our eyes. our judgement is clouded and our worries conceal what others try to give us in hope and unconditional love. the silver lining in our friends is not always visible and sometimes we are too blind to see it there. 4 april 2009.
If i were a nickel then i would like to be a dime that could rise up to be a quarter of one fourth of a dollar and if i were a dollar i would wait to be a million as that would be the sum equivalent by which your love resides me yet i am just a penny with idealistic prospects that one day i shall triumph and be your lucky silver dollar yet a penny can wish.
Silver spoon, or no food on the spoon, well to do, or merciless goon? noon day sun, or midnight gloom, what spells success, or imminent doom? we are all the same, yet, not the same, black and white, what's in a name? born to live, or born to die, why do some laugh, while others cry? if, in his image, we all are made, why do some prosper, whlie others fade? why are some chained, while some are free, does he smile at you, and frown at me?.
Only an ugly silver bullet can kill a pretty soul because the other nasty bullets don't kill, only a silver bullet can perish an innocent soul somewhere on earth, only a superstitious silver bullet can turn a sweet soul into a deadly one, only a bitter death comes with the silver bullet anytime, anywhere, and everywhere, all other bullets are rusty and fake except the silver one which kills immediately an innocent refugee or an innocent soul somewhere, and in a word, a nasty silver bullet can turn the good soul into a dead soul immediately anywhere.
A man was crucified. he came to the city a stranger, was accused, and nailed to a cross. he lingered hanging. laughed at the crowd. "the nails are iron," he said, "you are cheap. in my country when we crucify we use silver nails. . ." so he went jeering. they did not understand him at first. later they talked about him in changed voices in the saloons, bowling alleys, and churches. it came over them every man is crucified only once in his life and the law of humanity dictates silver nails be used for the job. a statue was erected to him in a public square. not having gathered his name when he was among them, they wrote him as john silvernail on the statue.
Do we have any option? to play the part in relation the role assigned is unknown mistakes are considered of your own for any mischief you are blamed for any misdeeds you are shamed not a single act brings an honor you are condemned therefore the life stage is of different type you can not shout or hype over the success in open as it comes all of sudden sometimes you are driven to the extreme corner even sometimes you are raised high your wings are ready to fly not all people are born with silver spoon so many struggle hard in afternoon under hot sun they are subjected to hard for not good return but joy and happiness is sweet in turn it is good to be part of circus play as character with trust it is with intense desire to prove successful life is projected as beautiful and wonderful.
A night i will commit a most ungodly thing i will commit suicide with the poison i keep a night i will commit my last dropp of blood i will commit suicide because you did too i will commit my suicide tonight at sunrise, on the roof of hell, i will commit suicide with a poison of silver sleep as i take the syringe and fill it with the one dropp of the poison i begin to taste it before it touches skin the syringe is filled i place the needle in my skin and i press the back of the syringe down the silver liquid passes through my system i feel no pain i am now dieing lights show around me as blood passes my lips the one i love is next to me but i can no longer hear his voice my eyes close and i see only darkness my commitment to suicide has been fore filled. i dropp the syringe as i fall to the city street below me the poison from the silver sleep is now upon me forever.
Moonlight shatters the crystals disperse flakes of winter fright's curse grey clouds of nowhere silver world awakes to the silver sun beams to the silver birds of song silver world awakes not to pleasure not to rhyme silver world awakes to sorrow to the silver tear drop, crying and with every tear the color fades and more silver becomes the day spindling more silver the silver devils play and in my castle i hear the cry the sharp shrieks of broken delight the blinding light the shivering fright and in my castle i hear the wind that humbles the calls that corrodes my walls the silver hissing wind driving nails into my coffin the silver hissing wind a dead heart will never soften meaningless are my dreams evanescent dreams grey clouds silver world faded clockwork, clicks the hour passes, the hand ticks and i awake into my dreams decadent reality, bursting seams the clock now stops and forever so till i return but i shall not go.
Shimmering orb of mystic light flowing energy into me my earthly spirit to take flight earth, wind, flame and sea. lady luna join my dance power fueled by rhythmic chant circle formed with passions lance incantations forth from my rant pregnant mother full of sight wisdom circles within my hand your magic i call this night time's hourglass has no sand mirrored visions reflecting truth dreaming thoughts of controlled rain hidden flames bursting from youth music fills the night over again nature's breath caresses my skin the wind blows through me spirit called from within blinded vision now does see moon full of sliver flame flowing words of rain earthly woods of willow's pane the seas can never be tamed carry our voice in our spell let the elements be free golden truth we must tell mystic power flows in me copyright 2006 a.j. mckinley.
Silver coins piled on the table just enough to get him through nights of sleeping in the stable working daylights with the crew. he had killed the great falzini fastest gunman in the west, first he blew away his wienie next slug hit him in the chest. he would hang if they did catch him though the sheriff was a drunk, and the one who could just match him had been taken from his bunk. suddenly, the horses heard him, sneaking in just like a thief. half asleep it briefly stired him then he came to major grief. bullets from a big revolver tend to shorten human lives this one was a problem solver. he had come to take the coins.
You can say words that can make people very happy and you can say words that can make some people very upset, what you say reflects your pretty thoughts or your ugly thoughts, people judge you depending on what you utter at a certain time, if you say pretty words anytime, then your words are reflected in the mirror of life otherwise all your words are nonsensical, words can win hearts and minds and at the same time can lead to bad things, so what you utter reflects a pretty thing or an ugly thing anytime and anywhere.
Across the silver lake of dreams, a malevolent pixie sits, with rod in hand, and line in water, trying to catch the rainbow, with its pot of gold. his line of silver thread, strung out and invisible, against the water, holds the magic of the world, forgotten by mortal command. here we see a dragonfly, of rainbow colours glide, inches above the waters, of the silver lake of dreams.
It's very hard to pronounce and the prince's name is legerdemain. his patchy wallet contains a picture of madonna and full of rubbish. he is not a cherub it seems. the scars of his wrist a handiwork like tattoos of different handcuffs he wore. his pidgin english and the moisten heart does somebody could understand? then he will be surprised. he is a pickpocket and one day he found his deceased mother's photo in a stolen wallet and he said goodbye to his sorrowful career.
I bought a pair of silver sneakers so i could run on god's golden road. the laces were spun of shinny silver thread and tipped with the purest of purest gold. i could run faster than the speed of light everytime i placed them on my feet. the feeling they gave me when i ran was a feeling noting could ever beat. i joined in running heaven's marathon with my number placed on my back and chest. to be viewed by all god's angel's cheering me on to finish my spiritual quest. i worked so hard to get to see this day the one where i could run on god's golden streets. and to hear the angel's playing heavenly music while wearing those silver sneakers upon my now angelic feet.
Mother's hair has turned to silver her skin is all wrinkled and cold but i'd never trade my mother for the world and all its gold. yes her hair has turned to silver her face is all covered with lines but there'll never be another like this gray haired mother of mine. i think of all the hardships i have caused her to bare then i can see the reasons for the silver in her hair. mother's hair has turned to silver and her hard working days are done but there's still a smile on her face and a love for everyone.
I closed the door to my heart threw the silver little key into the great big rapied waves of the pacific ocean i went on my way out in the world of unknown never going to have the same heart again he walked though the hot sand leaveing foot prints for the world to see swam out in the rapied waves of the ocean to find the little silver key to this day he is still seaching for the little silver key fighting to find it.
Racism and rank are humanity's shame all people should be equal and the same but in my lifetime this will never be in the human world of inequality the person born into a so called royal family should be no more equal than the likes of you and me but human society is not structured in this way and such is life as some are known to say the facts tell us so and facts do never lie that human beings are mortals and all born to die the billionaire like the pauper to the reaper's scythe must fall eventually death comes to one and all in the human world inequality of rank and race seems sad to say will always have a place.
There once was a scruffy old pig, he loved wearing his barrister's wig. made from hair of a mare it had style and much flair and it made his square head look quite big. he would walk in the forest to find any critter equipped with a mind. the he'd lecture on law and the evil he saw and how so many critters were blind. it was wrong for the rabbit to claim that the fox was a bastard in name. and the hawk did object to the great disrespect that the mice showed as part of the game. there were horses of course, some were white, others brown and of different height. and the birds, oh dear god, some where certainly odd there were glow worms that lit up the night. well, the pig wore his lipstick in pink, he had found that it helped him to think. in the end he surmised that they all were disguised and that some went as far as to wink. so he preached to the not yet converted that a real and truly concerted, and big effort was due to correct this snafu, and that racists were really perverted. 'just a moment, ' a voice was now heard, ' i am an owl, and a very wise bird, god gave ears, eyes and nose to us, don't you suppose that your stance, mr. pig is absurd? '.
We all must bring our racism to end. a message to all, i long to send. the colors of the world, all join as one. for the lord is our shepherd, and we as his son. christ made all man in the likes of him. so please let us all, "end racism".
We have met before and you closed the door imagine the pain i had to endure so this is my song for i have done no wrong we have met before and you left me feeling sore my only crime was to be black so while the wind keeps track there are no words that can offer a cure this is the bit i call internet shit and it doesn't take one with wit to understand the racism that sweeps the floor a picture and some words is all that i wore and you never even found out if i was a bore we have met before immediately you thought of me as unpolished and raw and the negativity just flowed in waves more and more a picture and some words is all it takes for you to conclude that i am a complete fake and in your narrow minded head you have baked internet racism leaving me with a sour taste wide awake.
Pressure of racism flows from mouths of those who proclaim to be politically correct and who are in fact, just the opposite. they are found to be most often, the bigots and racists filled with hatred, anger and jealousy. a relationship between all people should be looked at as equals and not by color or nationality at all. maybe then this imbalance of all people will straighten itself out, and rightly so. this hatred for all mankind needs to be ended and the only way to do this is to realize we are all equal in the eyes of god. it is our human failure alone that purports this war of racism here on earth.
It would seem racism abounds everywhere. in this century and from the earliest times. suspicious of others who do not belong. different culture, customs or language. outsiders like the barbarians were despised. not only for their appearance and culture but they didn't speak greek. today, the can't breathe movement must be applauded. there is no room for racists in civilised societies. the world is now a smaller place where infringement of human rights is instantly recognised.
Geography and racism i have only seen africa from the deck of a ship sailing by what i know comes from books white men meeting in darkest africa the merchants followed soldiers and colonisation racism is contagious and it settled in the mind of europeans the illness widened to include everyone not white now we live with our trespasses it truly is a burden.
Wise words from a wise old fellow for as long as i live i'll recall he said if you are a racist to one race then you are a racist to all you cannot be a racist to one race and claim you are not racist in any way few racists like to be called racist we are not racist you hear them say. racism is born of ignorance and ignorance we know to the ignorant is bliss that difference make people more interesting the point of that some seem to miss our days can be measured in minutes and our lives can be measured in hours and those we look on as different their blood is no less red than ours. when some people talk of a fair go they do not mean a fair go for all but a fair go for their own kind only in their ways some are very small people should not be disadvantaged due to their place of birth or their race in the human world of the future for such there will not be a place. that i do pity those who are racist may seem quite a strange thing to say in the darkness they surround themselves with they seem to be losing their way in shaping the future of the human world any part they are not destined to play their thinking it does seem outdated in the multicultural world of today.
I'm not a racist, i just don't want, to live with them what makes you think, they want to live with you, see, it's them, they are bloody racists, i wonder why, they don't want to live with me i'm not good enough for them it must be they want to take away my house my land, my car my livelihood, they are not only racists they are just damned theives, racism is all about theft they would rob me of my place and equal space i'm not a racist, there are just too many of them next thing you know, they'll want to run the show and tell me what to do, make laws and rules, sit in judgment, take a share of the cake. racism is an economic war, dressed in cultural bias a crueler form, of personal nature, adding insult to injury.
The racist cloaks his loathing thoughts behind deceiving eyes those men who once wore hoods and robes today wear shirts and ties their methods changed but yet and still, their mission is the same today they lynch with politics, the racist's favorite game divide and conquer is their plan to keep minorities from seeing that the forest lies just shortly past the trees racism lurks within the press, courthouses, banks and schools black folks convinced that all is well have certainly been fooled a racist underground exists, a chilling fact indeed they seek to kill, steal and destroy, we can't let them succeed.
Racism racism all great foolishness to those that perish, black and white, god the master plan for flesh and blood, ain't nobody telling me black and white hast that distinguish, in my own understanding, history is a beauty of humanity to live and to see, the simple life we lead, so short and hard by our own making, what is the basics of racism? like nietchze said, we are the gods to wash the earth, if we kill the black or white, when will we see the power of god in us, since a power of god is revealed in man, let us see the earthly volition as dynamic, half and half, we all are people that share the same earth, this planet is so beautiful, whilst many waste time saying of racist, that power will fade, but love in secret will never perish, love hast that unlimited, no half missing, most intellects be half missing, but to release the burden of racism, let's all improve on our character, that the positive vibe's may make the sword increase, love is power of the word, all race one, all blood from same brothers and sisters, can't you see that you can never fathom all the secrets of the world? if we all say we all know, surely we all say that we all insane.
When those victims of racism are cruelly abused, their faces look so sad and they don't know they are used. a fear of things makes them inept to protect their space. sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place. the crisis and the wars made these people immigrants. discriminated, blacks and whites look so innocent. their stolen generation grows and lives in disgrace. sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place. they need equality and peace in this world to live and they pray to have the mercy and love our lord can give. to protest in the streets, they run their life steeplechase. sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place.
A newborn babe is racist free. racist levels that fill one's mind come from others like family, flowing ever through humankind, as long as stark races exist. seeking the minds ever to fill, racism will seek to persist, where it can flow, racism will. minds filled full will do racist acts, from minds filled part way, racist speech. most often the racist attacks thought after thought, while silent each. either a racist is or not, either by deed or word or thought.
Yes i know what you mean yes i understand how you feel yes some events in world history. should never be forgotten should always be remembered least this evil happens again. but two wrongs do not make a right reverse racism is still racism bigotry prejudice intolerance injustice racism in any form is a crime against culture ethnic diversity our entire race humanity.
They knew of racism and police abuse and for retalitation the kellys they had an excuse ned and dan kelly's sister kate was raped by a man of the law in the dehumanizing of the kellys that was the last straw. the lawman who raped kate kelly for his crimes did not pay and before condemning the kelly gang and bad things of them say if the same thing did happen to your family than they did would you have acted differently? in the old beechworth prison where ned kelly served time for horse stealing that does not seem such a great crime in a small draughty cell on an earthen floor he slept in worse living conditions any dog never kept. ned and dan kelly, steve hart and joe byrne paid for their ill fame and each in their own right a legendary name and though all of them did go to an early grave it can be said of them that they did die brave. glenrowan where the kelly gang made their last stand a historical old town in the southern land disrespect for their families the lawmen did show and things might have been different for them did they receive a fair go.
I was in my office one day and an old black truck driver came my way as we were talking a ganster walked in cussing all the white men the old black man looked at him he said boy where have you been i was born in racial segragation whipped day in and day out you do not know what your talking about i am tired of you so called gansters crying about racism you were never put in a cage like a hamster you get scholarships business loans affirmitive action cars and cell phones i had to work my tail off to earn the things i have you just cry racism and they give in to your lies while you laugh i forgave the white people along time ago they were fools that needed to know what wrong was done now they try making amends and we in turn reversed the racism become a real man watch over your family work hard and honestly earn your keep god will make you reap forgive the past help make the future last love your brothers and sisters respect your elders end the hatred you did not earn the hatred that i once scorned because hatred will eat you inside and stupidity like racism will never die. because your actions keep racism alive.
The racism erases the beautiful memories and it believes in the perfect world the racism is a too big and horrible problem it is a wrong and impure mistake the racism is a bad and public thought the racism is played by the poors of reasons the racism doesn't live in the jungle but it lives in the modern society i'm against the racism the racists are cursed because they are false for me the racism resides in the hate for the innocents the racism is lost war for me the racism doesn't exist in a citizen world for me the racism is a terrible suffering it can't stand the harmony and the heart of a bay it survives in the evident darkness the racism hates the comfortable and hospitable villa the racism serves the big evil it doesn't use the magic it wants to destroy the balance between the people for the angels the racism is a shame and a bright lie.
Some things never change suppose life is this way racism is still rife in the human world of today racism through religion and nationality and culture and race is now as was always a human disgrace all children are innocent and free of sin yet many are disadvantaged by colour of skin racists in their ways are so very small too big for their thinking the beauty of a fair go for all, racists have poor sense of self image and low self esteem yet many non racist people in the world it does seem many people to the higher self remain true and their dream of a fairer and more enlightened world they pursue for racism through religion and culture and nationality and race in the human world there should not be a place.
Ever since modern man drove the last neanderthals from their cave's into the sea the straight's of gibraltar have witnessed what man in his quest to rid himself of what he fear's the most that when he dies he doesn't die but spreads instead this curse that none should live and living died each culture's night.
The cold emotion of a species fuming in rage against god who allowed colour to appear and multiplied races among nations in a spectrum of light where colours merge and dissolve into one human species the cold emotion of a species with clouded eyes that sees only black and white declaring war against a species that thrives in the diversity of its colours the flowers that shape nations blossoming in their millions into one human species the cold emotion of a species with no logical explanation with no religious extrapolation with no physical justification with no spiritual destination.
I see the sad color of racism not every other day but every minutes of the day i see the serious mental and physical damages that this cancer has done throughout the ages and is still doing to our beloved human beings others treat our people like they are leftover beans on a pet's plate. our people deserve respect fairness, justice, acknowledgement compassion and better treatment our sisters are tired of being left out on the deck our siblings are often harassed senselessly, persecuted falsely accused and relentlessly prosecuted at one time, they were hunted by the system at other time, haunted by an organized medium created to destroy, ravage and annihilate to ridicule, punish and discriminate i see the color of racism, when the police for no apparent reasons stopped, frisked and handcuffed our homeless, elderlies or our law abiding citizens, like it was open seasons to hunt for mule deers or bears, who behave like enemies of the civilized society. i see the sick color of racism when our people are not hired not for being unqualified but because of their skin color; they're quickly disqualified dismissed, fired or terminated. i see the monster of cynicism every minutes of the day. the arrogance is unparalleled beyond belief. the racists forgot that god only created one race one human race, one human race their false pride, their ignorance is unleveled and their audacity, incomparable. i see the colors of racism not that i want to search for them, not that i want to find them most of the time, i simply cannot evade or escape them it is not easy to ignore the litanies of bad or negative mannerisms the bigots easily function like lethal venomous vipers that suck out the emotions, and that destroy all positive characters i see the ugly color of racism not every other day but every minutes of the day.
Its hard to be me. everything isn't what it seems this facade of happiness.its not real on a day to day basis, there's no average meal soup kitchens, and a bag o' food from a church standing in line for hours, my pride it hurts. a new pair of jordan's, i wish, i dream and you people wonder why i seem so mean dealing with diabetes takes away strength i had after yelling and screaming, i'm depressed yet mad. alone i feel, completely alone. searching for a sense of being, this earth i'll roam maybe i could change things, if i were back a kid. but i'm 19, and i'm nothing so i don't want to live.
Life, the wonderful dream never meets with reality till its final moment called death every day we dream of conquering new continents and kingdoms without realising all are illusions and without realising the final reality will one day envelop us so finality is the true reality.
Life is life, however it would go love is love, no matter what would occur love is growing more with every hearts beat feelings of my heart could never change love is life, life is love you can enjoy them as much as you want.
A life gone by.suspectedly self sustaining it ignited self.self immolating courageously it pass itself by. its another life.time. it is now ethereal, it is now ephemeral it is now euphoric life after life, a span of a rainbow, its a, , , shipwreck of a life time, we are gona swim out, , , , riding on the sea waves, waves lashed high and might.rocked the ship surf the same waves, , , , , , current under our feet.buoyant swim ashore.wonderland. this is my utopia.my after life.another.time.
A life, a journey without passion and affection emptiness inside gloominess outside dreams fly away reality is a blur a life, a journey without passion and affection lying outside dying inside holding on to a belief nothing but a dust a life, a journey without passion and affection time passed by nothing gained everything lost.
The best thing in life is life itself. how we live it determines our role. the good the bad and the indifferent. even a sure thing becomes i don't know. the hopes the dreams the nightmares they're all important parts of the game. the only rule is there are no rules. and every one of us is to blame. so a bit of advice i give to you. on your journey through the looking glass, leave the future to the future. and the past to the past believe in yourself. believe in god. and make an effort to do it right for tomorrow is promised to no one. and this just may be you're last night.
It has neither a beginning nor an end you can never predict where it will bend. life is a teacher, it will show you the way but unless you live it.it will run away. if you have no fear of living, you will find no fear of death and you will not mind. you have to feel the agonizing sorrow and feel the pain only then it will heal and you will be whole again. it is in every leaf, in your smile, in your tears in your toil, in your triumphs and in your fears. just enjoy the journey without looking back savour the senses and you will not lack. truth is more in the process than the result liberates you from thought and you can exult to see the truth in the false, thats the key to understand, without changing it.just let it be love life, live it and it will set you free.
Store up for a while what things you might need just for few weeks no more you see we've lived with the sins of greed and lust we don't need anymore to be blamed on us just do it slow that way from where it might flow it might be here faster for others you know. some planted early it won't be too long so just the staples in case something goes wrong and point out the toxins planted in the way so others can see them as they pass here today just point them out as you pass by no false accurasations for our goal is high the lord's prayer our father which art in heaven hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our sins for we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us and lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. amen. life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life life.
Traveling the highway one summer day looking at the land along the way but there was something wrong that should not be it could happen to anyone even you or me there stood a man waiting for a ride with shaggy clothes on and with no pride we will call him joe, we hope he don't mind looking at the ground hoping something to find carrying all he owned including his home with a bag in each hand ready to roam he stood there waiting to go to the next town nothing was found but he looked very sad he got a ride to a wooded place said thanks to the driver with a smile on his face he took an old blanket laid it on the ground happy to be home again, the best around that night he looked at the stars so bright giving thanks to live the rest of the night he got up in the morning with nothing to share hoping to talk to someone with love and care.
The experience of faith affects all the faculties and yet transcends them all. spiritual life is not mental life. it is not thought alone, nor is it a life of sensation. it is not merely a life of feeling, nor does it exclude thought and feeling but elevates all in love and in faith.
Life is a dream to some. drifting without a goal. life is a tragedy to others, without knowledge of the soul. life can be what you make it. with courage undaunted and strong. if you try to do the best you can. instead of just drifting along. life is earnest, life is demanding, when we live by universal law. for the laws are unfailing and true, for the flawless action we feel awe. universal law was in the beginning, and will last for ever more. when we live by these laws life will cease to be a chore. so live a life of one who knows, that unseen laws govern all. then your life will run smoothly, there will never be a fall.
When love resides in heart the head makes body to dance life enjoys moments tic tac tic toe tic tac sharing and caring reaches at peak flower bloom, bird sings, music notes flows everywhere tic tac tic toe tic tac the beauty of this life dances in tiny things wearing the shawl of happiness tic tac tic toe tic tac.
In the tranquility of hope and divinity of love that binds us to feel the inner self churns the butterfly moments though we met umpteen of times we drown to search, what we lost found the new us in every sight mystical the experiences, at different levels felt the warmth of your companionship in every breath. though let down by the one whom you trust. fall in love, long for the real one love is life, life is love.
Life is too short to be spent griping about the past, things you don't have, places you haven't seen, things you haven't done. life is too short to be spent holding grievances against another, finding fault in your brother, counting the wrongs done on you. life is just long enough to enjoy the beauty of a sunrise the smell of wet earth and the sound of laughter after a long day's work. life is just long enough to practice compassion and generosity, to comfort the grieving, to lend strength to the fainthearted, and direction to the lost.
This expression that life is love and love is life is very ancient pronounced by ancient seers. but we have lost contact with this love in the modern age. our distractions like sexual attraction, running after money, unstable emotions, religious dogmas, are very strong in us having strange roots. return to our true nature in the experience of the true spirit.
Teachers are special, they enable. teachers are speakers to adults predestined in life. teachers are single or married. teachers can be, a husband or wife. teachers are specially able. some men teachers smoke pipes branded 'dr. grabel'. i had a foster mother, who earlier in life, was a teacher. it was a most erred way to end the life under god's own nose. t'was breast cancer, that god gave to loving families of many women, as his last lonely unacceptable unwanted answer. disease does not be easily accepted or does it happly please. teachers in life should always get pay raises. teachers, police, and firemen, always need pay raises and also much and many people's praises. teachers, they are the best. teachers, they hand out many a test. teachers, ya gotta love them, than most of the rest.
Nature and our planet are special sacred holy the life blood of all earth life. when nature struggles humanity struggles when nature dies humanity dies. already industrial pollutants diminish life quality global warming super cell unleashes disasters. catastrophic arctic ice melts slow global ocean currents sea levels. rising inundate coastal agriculture eighty percent of earth's mega cities are sentenced will. be swallowed under salt seas rewriting destinies of countries changing the shape of continents swallowing low lying islands. eating once familiar coastlines of the world.
I love life.. but i hate my life. i love life it's very beautiful but my life is a living hell for me life. why do i love life but hate my life that's what i ask myself all the time. i'm loving life but hating my life ever minute more and more. i love life but hate my life..
A student life is a golden life, truly it is told. the student who has a golden crown of his study. would be a great man in his life with a great hold. otherwise an idle student becomes a wild rowdy. every student should use his time in a proper way. if he kills his time, surely time itself always kills him. such student repents in life every moment of a day. a studen must think that his time is a golden rim. to be a dr.an engineer, a lawyer or a politician. time makes him all for all to become more of thing. golden time of a golden life even makes a muscian. one who neglects this period of life becomes nothing. this period has a great charm to make also a magician. a life is in the hands of a student to make him something.
Life' it's not easy, it comes with its bumps and its grinds. picking us up at times in our lives then kickin us straight from behind. but one thing i've noticed as time goes by the humor that you behold god has bestowed a magnificent gift that never makes people grow old.
When the sun shines life goes on when the rain falls life goes on when the sun shines or the rain falls life goes on. when you're happy life goes on when you're sad life goes on when you're happy or you're sad if you're good or if you're bad life goes on when you're laughing life goes on when you're crying life goes on if you're laughing or you're crying if you're' living or you're dying life goes on.
Life is after all life whether you lead peacefully or with full of strife it has to be spent either way casual or with noble and purposeful way life can never have different yardstick even birds have understood when they speak arrival of their new born in the nest as if to celebrate it with fun and live at best how nice they take care of new born? even rich or poor also enjoy same way even if life is fully torn it is natural and almighty has given the same sense of feeling and interwoven let us not enlarge area of operation as it gives rise then to deterioration if one can't look after its own affair at home how can he withstand outside pressure and welcome i picked the sense of birds and evaluated how peaceful was their life and nicely related? to build nest in time and take full care even to face the presence when some one goes near or dares in blind quest we sometimes sacrifice real happiness that may make him restless and not shown on face if life is given for peaceful living and with purpose it must be made amply clear and must be chosen let is build high rise buildings or make living in space it has to be made with sense barring the mad race after all it is for our living and that must be borne in mind love, affection, relation are all for us not to go blind.
And so my poem begins as life as lower class waking up to see the clouds dark and the summers cold wishing to change wishing to make a difference but i have nothing in life not even anything admiring those will all and those with any how it feels being someone with nothing at all.
Don't remember, still can't recall, the fusion of gametes. the beginning of, a unique life form, the creation of me. nestled in the womb, secured in the sac, the nature of oblivion. the precious first, inhalation of air, the birth of me. senses overloaded, functions overdrive, the unfolding of truth. i crawl i walk, i ride the tricycle, the cycle of life. peculiar surroundings, familiar voices, the currency of love. aspire inspire, abstract piece of art, the decor of personality. challenges unfold, confusions aplenty, the march of faithful soldier. all in one, one in all, the one of infinity. a spark in the heart, a gleam in the eye, the roar of the calling. craving to give, forgetting to take, the charity of love. move forth run swift, rise up fly high, the vastness of space. to chuckle to laugh, to sob to wail, the subjectivity of time. from ashes to ashes, from dust to dust, the dimensions of existence. let there be love, let there be light, the recipe of germination.
Those in music for the long haul are chime web symphony enchanted because music is an inseparable part of their intrinsic soul giving being music is a timeless passion when you feel reference kiwi artists tim finn, dave dobbyn music is breath of life for life artists music is timeless music which addresses scale entrapment felt human conditions. who we are where we are our societies perceptions of our societies our realities thinking mind does not outgrow curiosities interactive sing gifted perceptions music transforms through generations insight life quickened mind survives gift love artistically giving survives survives immortal ravage time tests music is breath of life for life artists.
Life is stupid, life is dumb life is cruel, and devious to some see the steeple, hear the bell i speak of religion, short of which i've fell feel the beggars sorrow and his pain see the crippled limping with his cane hear the babies, crying in the street feel saddened when you hear about the children dying in the heat think about the sadness within our heart it seems almost fictional, almost an art with all these problems, whose to blame carelessness and greediness, have brought upon us shame life is stupid, life is dumb life is cruel, and devious to some.
Life is temporary, so temporary that it is like something that you see and then don't because it has escaped like slippery water from the hold of your hands, ephemeral like a mist, like a fuming vapor from boiling water, like an air that merely passes by your gaze like the wind that comes and goes away from your window like a cloud that drifts away from your roof, like a leaf that falls from a tree, like a flower that blooms today and tomorrow goes away in the wilting petals life is so temporary like the ticking of the clock that you hear at night when again you cannot sleep this is life this is my life it is so temporary and with all my heart i will hand it to you as a gift take it take it do you think that my life now exends your life? do you think that you with my life can live a litlle longer? take it take it it is all yours because i still love you because i have long been dead in this pain of you not loving me despite.
In a round way of life what does a man need? a woman to be call a wife? or a plot to grow some whets? just lie down in the night with your eyes gaze at the light knowing nothing could be done with your might and ask yourself is that all to life some think life is all about making wealth or having a family with good health they gain all they thought but is like joy as melt still the same life is to be felt they try to seek for other solutions but it becomes a greater situation is like life is a place without salvation that is the a place call the world now let talk about my place call the word u don't need to be in the dark nights where satisfactions have great might because you have come to the light just believe in jesus and shine so bright.
A concept followed by us since ages skillfully adopted and managed that we lead double standard life to beat the people with words of double edged knife some people are expert in putting false front they may have all comforts in life yet show it as absent may live with poor standard as if they have nothing in fact they are misleading self for something they may show to others that they are sympathetic worry about human sufferings and feel pathetic politicians fall under this category and thrive they get hand on big rehabilitation programme to survive even doctors prefer honorable service they devote few hours in charitable places their main objective is not to serve needy but call them in their clinic just to show they are not greedy teachers hardly stay in school to teach many good lessons they may take on hand to preach they may concentrate more on out side tuition classes they have worn the mask to fool the masses traders put label as honest suppliers they adulterate food and prove as liars they play with the health of people only poor people suffer and land in trouble country suffers the field of budget allocation the aid does not reach to the people in question it makes way straight to fund managers politicians are eager to grab as scavengers the social service has become tool of unsuccessful the person, who has failed in life, comes forward to do needful it is strange and funny to witness such scoundrels but they are well disciplined to offer orchestrated tell.
I dont know the purpose of my life i am a giant, i am carrying the earth on my back i fighted in my battles and never be beaten rabid winds got on my frozen body bad people, people talked to me lies beautyful women, eroticly, lustily kissed me all of them thiefs of a scene of the film of my life all of them something wanna get of me i dont know the purpose of my life but i know when this time will come when the purpose, ethical or not i will understand, i will conquer, i will succeed a breeze will make me fall, with no purpose.
Through all the ups, all the downs, some will be there, some can't be found. if they won't care as they should, so be it. this is life in the way that i wish to see it. you can give your all, or you can try not. when they decide to leave, what have you got? you build it up, then it breaks away. this is life in the way i see it today. days come and go, true hearts stay close. without happiness, love is an imitation at most. you haven't stayed close, it's hard to love you, this is life in a way that is sadly true. to leave behind such a feeble mind, forget it and pursue someone real. this is my goal, and in time. this will be life and the way that i feel.
Being released from the womb of a woman we walk towards another to be chained again none is dependable none is lovable life is a coplex road walls, stones, mud, water. life is a groaning running through graveyards free, imprisioned imprisioned, free only a desire weeping alone in solitude life is just like life with no comparison.
Thunderous mountains brought forth from slumber. clashing on air in the midnight mists of souls spiral to the depths of the earth seek the mother to grasp the answers instill she has the questions pondered never ending whispers amongst the winds embraced by the musical tenors of every season fiery skies rape the sleeping beauty all is in a tither, patiently awaiting solace come it will, when the heavens divide the earth maker of life shield the eyes of the innocents twisted agony ceases this day exodus has come no more worship to life.
Where there is life there is love where there is love there is life life and love are like pigeon and dove love and life are like husband and wife a child when born can not survive on his own has to be nourished has to be nursed has to be wrought up has to be brought up this has to be done for human race to go on only love sees this through those who fail to offer fall through life is about nature we are all part of its pasture the pasture is too precious and beautiful to be destroyed by a handful we should all strive for joyful life we must all unite for peace and happiness to ignite.
Life is what life is with you life is the deepest love of life life is the nectar of the result of sacrifice and life is life when it is going towards supreme eternal atmosphere life is life happy and opulent in life life is in nutshell different sacrifices.
So my question to you is simple and yet sharp as a knife, are you living a life of death or the death of your life? is death coming suddenly, or are you just wasting away? which of these morose questions holds the truth i cannot say, with one hand you're watching your life decay, on the other you're waiting for your last day, whichever of these statements you feel is true, the end of your life is all it comes down to.
Some people have a childhood garden filled with green and growing things some people have a childhood garden filled with purple peonies mine is sere throughout the year nothing grows here some people have a childhood rainbow a sea of colors all aglow some people have a childhood rainbow red to violet in a row mine is gray bow of clay without a ray some people have a childhood temple covered with a million treasured dreams some people have a childhood temple a sunny wat of gods and kings mine is plain squats in the rain functional 'n sane where childhood memories abound life flows vividly around where childhood memories have fled hearts lie dead.
My childhood garden my childhood garden lush and green it was so happy it made me scream my joy and hopes and all my mopes my childhood garden my childhood garden with the ups and downs when i jumped i could not touch the ground with my purle ponys it made it homey my childhood garden my childhood garden flying high with the little lies the grass fine up in the sky my kite my childhood garden my childhood garden now in the past i now know that it can never last now as i get taller it was differnt when i was smaller my childhood garden.
She does not know that rooms are bleak and bare, that poverty dwells with us all the while; it is enough for her that i am there to praise her little deeds, to sing and smile. she does not know that heartache hovers near above the place where lie her dolls asleep, that eyes grow wide and dark with naked fear and life seems such a tired trust to keep. sunlight to her is earth's most precious gold, daisies and buttercups are jewels rare, a clump of mignonette is wealth untold, her crown a wreath of flowers in her hair. no banquet hall in all the bounteous land has half the glory of a picnic spread out on a shining beach, with sun and sand, wind in her face, and seagulls overhead. oh, may our hearts be glad for common things, whitecaps at sea and tattered driftwood piled, finding in these the peace that heaven brings. grant us the simple wisdom of a child.
Rays of light flow through the glass, flittering memories of the past. of happy times and playful things, like a baby bird spreading its wings. flying through the sunlit air, without worries without cares. its simple nature so soft and calm, beckons everyone like a charm. a little fox running through the trees, fields of flowers and their bees. so close to heart and yet so far, a child's life is like a shining star.
I use to sharpen the teacher's pencils i erased the chalk from our classroom boards. i always waited for you out at recess by the swing sets or under a sliding board. i carried your books for you to class like any good friend would do. but one day you forgot, of who i was in that time that i knew of you. my name is of no importance now i'm a face you wouldn't even know. but as children sharing cookies and milk these are those childhood memories i hold. your desk was right in front of mine i remember the smell, of your braided shampooed hair. and when you were home, with some sickness unknown i made sure to go sit in your chair. i carved my initials in the top of your desk and surrounded it with a heart. was hoping one day, while you were away to give your initials their beginning, their start. i was moved and never got my chance to finish what was i had started. but one day i hope, to send you this note telling you how sad, that are lives have parted. maybe you'll find, some memories of mine in a moment you bring to thought. then you will see, what your memories have meant to me in a childhood memory of me you lost.
I miss my old home it had a broken mirror i couldn't see my face i miss my childhood it had a broken memory it was a lonely place but it felt comforting we have one childhood whether it's good or bad we remember those days and all the fun we had but it could also be ugly the way it was for me i was picked on alot they made fun of me now i'm getting older but, i'm still a child this world gets colder for each and every child.
It would be good to reminisce of all that's lost from childhood afternoons, can they return to me, i miss those endless hours that are now in ruins. it does return now, gently, still perhaps in all the drops of a warm rain yet we've forgotten what it will remind us now of riches and no bane of seeing and just living without care like creatures yet as humans with no fear and filled up to the locks of children's hair a figure of a thing, it would appear. the shepherd's loneliness then, in the end weighed down with endless distances today and called as if ordained, touched by a friend a lengthy thread of images, astray in which it is no use simply to dwell there is no memory for us to know and to a stranger, childhood thoughts will tell of afternoons, where life itself was slow. written 1906 in paris my version of a translation.
Memories of childhood. such a wonderful, hazy, warm feeling, special memories, filled with love come welling up, and send my senses reeling, aromatic fragrance, wafting up from the kitchen, aroma of my mothers cooking, father getting ready for work, how handome he is looking, i'm ready for school., hair plaited, clutch my little, sisters hand tightly bags perched securely on our backs and off we go, skipping lightly, lessons and studies, dilligently done, supervised by dad, but always fun, carefree, happy times were those one could do, what one chose. the familiar house, and the close kinship so many friends, and closely knit friendship, no cares, no worries, they were not for us, only love and protection, and a special fuss, what wonderful years i can never forget a happy childhood is an important asset and now we are grown. only memories are left. when we are feeling down, or nostalgic, just go back to those magical years. relive those times, that sparkling innocence, that time, devoid of from doubt and fears oh childhood.so quickly did you fly your very memory makes us sigh. and remember.and smile, and feel content for the godgiven wonderful years, so well spent. oh childhood, i hope i have been a good mother, what i learnt from you, i hope i have given another, a treasure for my children, to recall, and to cherish a treasure to revel in and sustain, when we perish.
There is a place from our childhood; we like to visit now and then, to recapture our youth, through the years that has slipped away. a place that has a magic touch, even through the years it has changed. a place where sunshine, still dances on the water of rippling waves. where the wildlife still gather, free from harm. a place of solitude, where you can find a little peace of mind. a place within a city that has not been strangled by any human hand. somewhere you can while time away, with dreams of another day.
Memories of childhood prattle sweet, strange, funny utterances incomplete; toddling walk on the faltering feet, falling down, the same to repeat. the fondly fight among the siblings, pulling one another's strings, shielding us to mom we cling, affectionately she sweet kisses flings. later through sweet sour we wade, asking mom for sweet lemonade; never bothered about sun and shade, all the day with friends we played. when came back in game hurt, with all sort of soil on shirt; silently and stealthily came in home dad's scolding on us large loom. passing away of grandpas of great grief it was a cause, of saving grace they were straws, that day our grief we couldn't gauze. the memories of childhood sweet or sour, make a person bloom as crimson flower; when i think of the affectionate bower, i feel as fresh as if i just had a shower.
Up on the hill in the posh areas where the victorian villas were set back from tree lined roads, the gas lamps in the streets were wrought iron, carved and elegant. the lampleerie would open them and light each lamp one by one. as each glowed with a warm soft light they seemed like necklaces; shining jewels beading their way around the night. down near the docks the tenements were dark and dank. their closes shadowed with children's ghostly fears. but every night at twilight our leerie came down from the hill. with his long pole he stretched up, turned on the taps. spluttering flames first blue then coming to brilliant life, spreading wide arcs of welcoming light. and all our bogeymen took flight.
When he asked about my childhood i knew not where to start. the scents began to flood my head while strangling my heart. my mind has instant recall on those certain horrid scents. like overflowing ashtrays in a car with blowing vents. the smell of all night parties mixed with the scent of a strangers love. the sour stench of sweat and tears it's hard to rise above. the pungent smell of beer breath in a young girls sleeping face. the memories of childhood are not so easily erased. some things are burnt in memory no matter how we fight. he quietly put a scented candle on the table in plain sight.
I missed out on having a childhood went from a little girl to womanhood. i think the way my parents raised their children was only the best of what they're parents could. i always felt like their cinderella always cleaning, ironing and straightening up it seemed. taking care of my little sisters and brother never spending time to be just that child which i need. i always felt that i had missed out on something and searched for that missing link throughout my life. been married too many times to speak of been a mother to two sons and a loving wife. i always promised myself not to repeat what and how i had been raised. but to give my sons all of my love with respect and love and praise. to allow them to be a child the best child that they could be. and always keep myself in check remembering that missing part of that child in me.
How advanced they are, these children of the future, like small adults, within their tiny frames, they grow up in a fast 'speed driven' culture, where 'learning pressures' change their kind of games, where is their childhood, in all this hurly burly, where is their pure untainted view of things, why do they have to grow so old, so early, and lose the joy that only childhood brings. our childhood was filled with thoughts of joy and gladness, we lived our lives, oblivious to the world and all the hardships, wars, the grief and sadness, we stood, waiting for our lives to be unfurled. we had time to grow, and gain an understanding, of each new phase, each change along the way, as we grew slowly, our senses all expanding, so with clarity, we slowly changed our play. we had a framework on which to build and flourish, slow and steady, this was no rushed affair, taking each step, then step by step to nourish, our childhood, so finally adulthood we would share. what will become, of these 'new century' learners, i doubt if they, a dreamy childhood see, will they then tell to all those bright discerners of their own, how they remembered their childhood to be.
And as we grew older childhood became so distant we were too busy being great, being brilliant that we stopped seeing but were we ever young and crazy what were our teenage years but the yearn to be older to be established, free from fears we just kept getting colder youth is not a matter of age but a state of mind fully live each day or soon you'll find you can't honestly say 'it's not yet too late'.
An open space, pitted with ditches, jagged places, filled with debris. we were warned not to play there but what child could resist it? there we built palaces from which princesses were rescued; plains where cowboys fought indians. among the ruins we played hide and seek, cops and robbers, kick the can, and other childhood games. in summer we climbed mountains, explored new continents, hacked our way through jungles. in winter we sledged on icy slopes, had vicious snowball battles. and when it rained we made paper boats that sailed a brief moment, then sank in muddy puddles.
Childhood is rare unlike a bear childhood is fun unlike eating a bun childhood is like fire like the excitment of getting hired childhood is like honey like a hopping bunny appreciate childhood like when you first stood appreciate childhood.
My mother tells me about it, and i also remember a bit, the time when i was too innocent, the time which was superb and excellent. i used to play with my toys, and my life filled with happiness and joy, life was then exciting and alluring, but now, it is becoming boring, i cant't forget those days of mine, in darkness of my life, like the jewels, they all shine, by chance, due to good deeds of mine, if god will ask me for my wish at any time, i will wish to become smart and good, but my first preference will be my childhood.
We shall not ever meet them bearded in heaven nor sunning themselves among the bald of hell; if anywhere, in the deserted schoolyard at twilight, forming a ring, perhaps, or joining hands in games whose very names we have forgotten. come memory, let us seek them there in the shadows.
Homework, said my teacher, is to write a poem, about your fondest childhood memory immediately, i began to shake and within minutes a cold sweat had come over me i had dreaded, absolutely dreaded, this day, this moment in time. i thought perhaps i might find an excuse such as dogs dying or broken water pipes i wondered if i dropped the course would i get a rebate? and then it dawned on me the perfect line. i'm afraid i've had amnesia all these years.
Some call it checkers, i call it draughts. don't play with me if you think it's just a game and you don't mind losing. i play a mean game. i play to win. old peter salaveros taught me when i was a boy. we played on a scrubbed table in the seamen's mess, just him and me. we played seriously. neither of us smiled.
Happy childhood memories the best memories of all and my younger years in millstreet i will always recall on evenings in summer up to the mid fall in the townpark at the west end we played gaelic football my friends of my youth where might they be today like me have the years left them balder and gray though some of them in the home parish did stay in life one might say we just went our own way since those days so many years have come and gone and time does not wait it just ticks on and on many of the friends of my youth i may not see again though good memories of them with me does remain and in fancy i chase the football up and down with my happy young friends in the park of the town.
It is thirteen years today since you sent me on the home depot mission gone only twenty minutes well thanks for not shooting me when you turned that shotgun on your self it was hard getting the catholic priest to give you mass but you are situated proper now not burning hot inside the box as you thought. thanks for your car, condo, stocks, bonds, most of all thanks for paying off those credit cards before. i grew up to be just like you.well almost.
I am free from all the things i have done to me i am free to fly to spread my wings and soar the skies i feel my heart has come to life i feel as if i must be high for i have never felt this way what is this thing that liberates? success. is the answer. i thanks allah for all he has done to me, thanks for giving me my moon.
Thanks to you i can no longer open up and let my guard down thanks to you i wonderif the next man i meet will be online fooling around thanks to you i question if he will also be looking for the next best thing thanks to you i have no hope in what tomorrow could bring thanks to you i trust no one thanks to you my days are no longer fun thanks to you my tears still fall like rain thanks to you everyday my heart is in pain thanks to you i obsess about what is so unloveable about me thanks to you i am a prisoner to my oun obsessive thought and you hold the key thanks to you i have picked myslf apart thanks to you i dissected every piece of my heart thanks to you i now reside in an emotional tomb thanks to you within my heart love will no longer bloom thanks to you.
Thanks for playing with my feelings, how i wish i could stop my heart from beating, thanks for playing with my heart, at least to you this was a fun part, you have left me broken, with my eyes filled with tears and fears, at least you are whole, with smile on your face and not a sight of fear, to you i was just a game, that you tried to win and succeeded, now that you are bored you've left me deserted, thanks for playing with my head, your sick little mind games, you kept me guessing, till the very end, thanks for playing with my emotions, according to you this was my weakness, thanks for your fake love, thanks for pretending that your cared, thanks for strengthening my belief, that love is nothing but a pain causing pill, thanks for showing me that friendship is something that does not really exist, thanks for breaking my trust, for opening up, for sharing my thoughts, for placing my trust on an unknown soul, thanks for opening my eyes, you honestly showed me that love too like friendship is something that does not actually exist, thanks for showing me the right path, a path where to help is to hurt, to love is to lie, to share is to sin, to smile is a crime, thanks for showing me, a man with a heart is not a man at all, thanks for proving that i'm a fool, to have trusted you, i will hate myself, till the very end, for loving you.
Dear father in heaven, today i'm not going to ask anything of you. i want to praise you lord and give thanks for all that you do. as of late father i've asked you for many blessings and you have granted many of them father. you helped my daughter find her way and open a wonderful art shop, oh lord i thank you. you kept my children out of harms way lord and showed my grandson the error of his ways bringing him back on track lord, i thank you. you granted my grandson, my daughter and myself a trip to nova scotia this year lord, i thank you father. you made sure my mother isn't suffering with her leg father. you saw to it that david harris came home from the hospital and is recovering nicely, i thank you father. you took care of some issues for my friends shelley and her new husband michael lord, i thank you. father god, i'm sure i've missed some, but you know what they are and that i want to thank you on their behalf. father god, thankyou for all the wonderful things you do and most of all father, thankyou for your precious son 'jesus'.
I give thanks a moment too soon words spoken too early undiscussed plans lead to unprepared decisions i live to wish, hope and dream i plan to go further with my life live large and be successful yet god gives what he knows is appropriate for me a blessing he granted no man may curse a gift he giveth no man may taketh away a plan he made no man may override.
What i told you i told in confidence never to be told again expecially not to the person it was about you agreed with me then you go and tell her what i said make her mad at me you got mad at me the last time i decided i could not trust you we had our first big fight i dont know if i can handle the fact that you betrayed me once more you hated her too now? i am the bad guy, destined to be that forever i wish i could trust you, but i doubt i can gee.. thanks 'best friend'.
Thanks for being there thanks for being, you, thanks for giving me the joys and smiles from day one, thanks for helping me enjoy the atmosphere here. thanks for correcting me when i was wrong, thanks for helping me follow the guidelines to survive, thanks for helping me try and cope with people around, thanks for giving me the courage to stand up on my own. thanks for all the advices, thanks for lending me your ears when i was upset, thanks for teaching me ways to hold on to the end, thanks for the love and care you showed. thanks for the wishes you have for me, thanks for the prayers you pray for me daily, thanks for the candles that you lit for me, thanks for the appreciation, thanks for not keeping a fence between, thanks for the confidence you have in me, i will miss you and all the funny things you ever did, the little naughty things youever said, i wish you the very best for you future endevour, thanks once again for everything. with lots of love and prayers pyari dated on 23rd june2007.
For the stillness of the morn our joy when tiny lambs are born gardens full of glorious fowers i humbly thank the heavenly powers. for thoughts of golden days gone by the lark ascending in the sky babbling brooks and gentle streams i humbly thank this land of dreams. for the magic hour you said 'i do' glamorous nights all spent with you the echo of our baby's cry i humbly thank the lord on high.
Thanks dad for helping me through my darkest times thanks dad for picking me up when i mess up thanks dad for believing in me thanks dad for giving me hope to pull through and keep on going thanks dad for hugging me when i hurt thanks dad for encouraging me to do my very best and thanks dad once again for loving me for who i am.
Thanks for not giving up on me like everyone else. thanks for picking me up when everybody was looking down on me. thanks for wiping the tears from my eyes when i cried. thanks for being the farther i never had in my life. thanks for putting my shatter heart back together and keeping it. thanks for always being there for me. thanks for showing me love when i did wrong. thanks for showing me that good things can happen even for a person as myself. thanks for showing me right from wrong. thanks for my future you restored when you decided to fix my life. thanks for all the love you put in me. words can not explain what you mean to me.i love you pops.
I saw you, you. not an outward imitation, but you, inside. your radiance filled my world, and my thoughts were you, just you. and, you made me happy. thanks. and if nothing else happens, that did. and that, makes you worth more, than anything, i could ever hope for, or want.
Thanks for being here, even though you're on the phone. thanks for being here, so i don't feel all left out alone. thanks for being here, to talk away my fears. thanks for being here, to wipe away me tears. thanks for being here, you're so dear to me. thanks for being here, that's all anyone wishes someone to be.
Thank you, thanks for looking after me thanks for having someone to look upto and admire thanks for giving me time thanks for giving me space thanks for giving me advice thanks for making me laugh thanks for making me cry thanks for making me sing thanks for making me sigh thanks for giving me everything you can thank you.
I remember a time filled with bliss a time that i will always miss we were together, just you and me that time has quickly passed i thought our friendship would always last now i'm trapped and falling to my doom i can see my godforsaken end, i can see it loom i need you here i need you to brush away my every tear and now i realize, i'm falling for you even i can't believe that it's true so save me now before i die save me, before i heave my last sigh.
Thanks for making me comfortable. on my first day at hospital. thanks for standing like a friend, when i felt lone and when my hope was about end. thanks for giving me courage, when i felt weak and scared. thanks for wiping my tears. when i cried just before surgery, as i was filled with all fears. thanks for taking care of my life, when i felt that i am about to die. thanks for the help you lent, when i was helpless like an infant. thanks for all the cleaning and feeding, when like a cripple i was lying. thanks for treating me with a smile. when i cried and even turned bile. thanks for supporting me, when i was abate. thanks for standing by my side, when i slept late. thanks for all your help, during the times when i tired to take care of myself. thanks for making me smile again. and making me realize the pain was not in vain.. thanks for listening, when i wanted to talk. thanks for encouraging, when i started to walk. i have no words.i have no ways. just want to let you know. i will be grateful always.
Ruthlessly the judgement was pronounced a shameful death sentence to be carried out at the place of a skull for all to see and mock him despite his innocence, clearly proved beyond all doubt despite his goodness to all and sundry despite his love to everyone this judgement was upheld by all but with joy in his heart he embraced his death so that the will of he, who sent him, may be fulfilled so that all, including his execusioners, will be reconcilled to the creator so that no soul will be lost this is a sacrifice that is beyond all sacrifice a sacrifice of life which was exceptional lord jesus christ, thanks for your sacrifice.
I started out long ago with a handful of dreams, but through the years, every one of them vanished or so it seemed to me. they say that chance plays a big part in our lives, and it was by chance someone recognised me from an old photograph now my dreams have returned and slowly each are coming true. just as i turned away from the road a head, i have turned back to greater things. once i abandoned my life, felt it was going nowhere. thanks to chance i have found myself again and a brighter future somewhere. 10 april 2008.
You make me want to give up you make me want to stop trying you say you dont care so why are you still here? no thanks to you im better now no thanks to you im stronger no thaanks to you i laugh harder you thought you could control me well you had to think twice you thought i would break without you but really im fine no thanks to you.
Thanks for all who commented and thanks for who inspired me, who let it be from top 500 poems thanks for that sailor who left his mermaid on that island while waiting under one tree.. thanks for who let my tears fall when harshly criticized me.. thanks for who felt me. what does matter is being able to reach you.to share you my thoughts and my aching heart's beats..
Thanks for letting us know that we are not going to see you tonight you are going to miss out the fun but if you have other plans for today we understand it is not our job to tell you how to run your life either so we leave it up to you to do it all we know that you have to feel happy with the things you want to do any time during the week.
I don't know how you do it, your calm tone and your different views. no matter what's happening you make me think i can do it. these past few weeks have been hell on earth, i needed you and you were there. every time i needed your help, you were there for me. every time i needed a favor, you did it without thinking twice. every time i need advice, you gave me wisdom i never could have thought of. whenever i was down, you cracked a joke and made me smile. whenever i felt totally confused, you lit my way. you were the ray of light through the dark, the feeling of joy in the sorrow, you were my lifeboat after the wreckage, you gave me hope even in the bleakest of times. look what i'm trying to say, is thanks for everything. i really can't describe it, it's nice to have someone truly care. if you ever need help, you know where i am. if you ever need a favor, i'll be there. friends till the end, and i mean every word. friends till the end of time, partners through anything. through thick and thin, happy and sad, best friends never say die.
I thought that my thanksgiving would be ruined because my cat ran away. but he returned last night and i give thanks for that today. i'm thankful for god, my health, my parents and my cat. my kitty is heavier than a chunk of lead because he's fat.
While reading these poems my heart wanted to cry as the words and the meanings brought a tear to my eye remembering the innocence of childhood which i as a teen greatly misunderstood. plz do not stop pouring out youre heart because in mine youre poems will always have a part.
Thanks for this and thanks for that thanks for the known and thanks for the unknown thanks for the things loved thanks for the unloved thanks thanks thanks thanks for people of all shapes and sizes thanks for the hearts small and large thanks for the talents and gifts of every soul thanks thanks thanks even when life deals us lemons, we give thanks and make lemonade. even when the dark clouds loom ever so close to our person, we give thanks. nothing or no one can stop us from giving thanks. so in this, we give thanks for the wisdom and grace in being able to give thanks.
My thankfulness for the sacred text you have engraved on my obelisk the hieroglyphics carved means so much in my journey to the seven seas you stood to be my beacon on the storm you stood as a tree seeing my history thanks once again for the friendship painting my days really worth remembering.
Hey dad look at me now, look at how i've grown. opps i forgot your not around, i guess thats why i'm always feeling down. so thanks alot dad. i can't believe you left mom and i, i wonder when you left if momm ever cried. so thanks alot dad. momma said you were always alot of fun, dad, would you have stayed if momma had a son? so basicly i hate you dad the only thing you left me with was a stupid yellow rabbit. so thanks alot dad, i hope i can see you again, so i can slap you in the face, so you'll know that twelve years with out you, felt like a turtle race. so thanks alot dad.
The castles of salzburg the prairies of prussia the tundras of russia the rivers of arno ang the volga the towers of france and america the snow in dubai and the islands miniaturized in his world all these beautiful places she says, she had been there except the place in his heart. she is so sorry. she has not seen love there.
I feel impelled to say a big 'thank you ' to all my ph friends. who've inspired me to continue to write, through to the bitter end. though simple be my poetry, complexities adrift, , , , i am thrilled my words of heartfelt emotions are giving you a lift. so once again to one and all your comments make my plight a pleasure to continue with my inspired need to write. lovey dovey mush at times not everyones cup of tea. but inbetween i aim to suprise just you wait and see. there's a lot more to my hidden talents.. i keep bottle up inside. no longer does this lady feel the need to hide. . . thanks to you all on poemhunter i can't believe i started off with one poem and now have over 70. where did they all come from? ? ? i suprise myself at times.
Thanks for the memory, for a man; golden history, lived a life full of misery, a true man; soul of ivory, a riddle; unsolved irony, a hunter, an artist, a dad, truly had given me all he had, and me? were i that bad? did i really made him sad? no, he didn't curse me in his bed, but had forgiven his wayward lad, a talent, a poet a musician mad, and he'll forever remember that, his last wish; in all that he'd said. thanks for the memory; i really appreciate your sympathy.and this is for history.
My father said along long time ago he said son take a good look around and see how beautiful this land is and don't let anyone bring it down because this is your home once my home until i got ill but before i die and you bury me under this hill let me tell you a story when i was looking for a place to call home i would walk miles until i found a spot to dig and i was gonna build it on my own build it on this great land and i will build it with these hands and when i'm done gonna hang the flag so high so all could see who ever might come let freedom stills lives the way our founding fathers wanting it to be and still till this day we are still free thanks to the man and women who fought and gave up there lives for us to stay free the way our founding fathers wanting it to be so son be proud of your home but most of all your freedom.
Red balloon floating through frames of thirties celluloid dusty red dreamtime black feet dancing rhode island red bustling scratchily in the poo speckled straw red back hiding in the cupboard spinning her web marxist red hiding under the bed spinning in the fifties red shoes shining, dancing dancing till death carmine red shining on clowns' noses audience laughing red wine dancing on drunks' noses everyone laughing the red queen running faster and faster growing smaller and smaller deep red roses, richly perfumed always remind me of you i love red.
Rest and look at this goddamned wheelbarrow. whatever it is. dogs and crocodiles, sunlamps. not for their significance. for their significant. for being human the signs escape you. you, who aren't very bright are a signal for them. not, i mean, the dogs and crocodiles, sunlamps. not their significance.
She dug a hole planted some seeds kept them watered picked away the weeds soon in time they started to grow to her surprise she had a whole row she loved her bushes they grew beautiful and green admired by all for miles they could be seen one day she fell sick no more water no weeds were picked when she didnt come anymore the bushes knew that something was wrong but they knew what to do they grew bigger and bigger stretching for a mile they had to find her to just see her smile one day they stopped growing they reached this place knew she was there just couldnt see her face one small flower grew among the miles of green one beautiful red rose was to be seen a symbol of their love for which they had saved one red rose they placed upon her grave.
Staring at a single read rose, so much beauty not as much to be wasted on someone as beautiful each thorn a reminder, love can hurt but each detailed petal a bounty of great beauty take this rose from my beloved fingers never cover the red for the beauty will then be hidden from the world at which it came never hide your beauty for each day should it be shared with the world prooving each rose has the beauty of your smile this single red, red rose my single loving heart take it as a token of the love we will forever share.
Chinese wedding two red candles burn though the night wax sizzles, drips, drips with our red hot passion for each other drips, drips fluidly down the bar the whole night drips, drips, with each pause of our desire each hug of our affirmation for each other drips, drips with our thirst for each other drips, drips and clings to the bar, warm as our bosoms drips, drips solidifying the night into our assurance for each other drips drips till the morning turning the night into an ecstatic tour de force, a union crystallising in a mass of bliss resting quiet on the base of two exhaust candles.
I have bright red angry screams. not within the voice of me. but in the cuts on my arms. i cut and cut. now my scream is out and free. my screams are nasty red cuts. angrier by the day. each cut is my my bright red scream. every cut a new scream. screaming louder and louder. the bright red scream. sets me free if not for long just for a while.
If i gave 5 birds each 4 eyes i would be blind unto the 3rd generation, if i gave no one a word for a day and let the day grow into a week and the week sleep until it was half of my life could i come home to my father one dark night? on sundays an odd light grows on the bed where i have lived this half of my life alight that begins with the eyes blinding first one and then both until at last even the worn candles in the flower box lay down their heads. therefore i have come to this red shirt with its faultless row of dark buttons, 7 by my count, as dark as blood that poured over my lips when the first word of hope jumped and became a cry of birds calling for their wings, a cry of new birds. this is the red shirt adam gave to the angel of death when he asked for a son, this is the flag moses waved 5 times above his head as he stumbled down the waves of the mountainous sea bearing the tables of 10, this is the small cloth mother put in my lunch box with bread and water. this is my red shirt in which i go to meet you, father of the sea, in which i will say the poem i learned from the mice. a row of faultless buttons, each one 10 years and the eye of the bird that beheld the first world and the last, a field of great rocks weeping, and no one to see me alone, day after day, in my red shirt.
I like red it dances for me rolling down my fingers so pretty red the way she dances so pretty the red makes it better the floor shiny with red in patterns i can see them like butterflies or faces dancing across the patterns making new patterns she makes them singing red so happy with the singing and dancing the red dances with her like the rain on my window red so much red my whole world red my hands red her pretty dress red the floor and walls red redredred so happy and red she sang from the red on her throat like a flute or a fountain so red red red red dancing spasms to music on the floor and in my head red whole world red redredred.
Across the red sky two birds flying, flying with drooping wings. silent and solitary their ominous flight. all day the triumphant sun with yellow banners warred and warred with the earth, and when she yielded stabbed her heart, gathered her blood in a chalice, spilling it over the evening sky. when the dark plumaged birds go flying, flying, quiet lies the earth wrapt in her mournful shadow, her sightless eyes turned to the red sky and the restlessly seeking birds.
Red flags the reason for pretty flags. and ribbons. ribbons of flags and wearing material reason for wearing material. give pleasure. can you give me the regions. the regions and the land. the regions and wheels. all wheels are perfect. enthusiasm.
A single red rose lays on a grave, for someone buried there. it spoke of love, that would always remain strong, even though the loved one was now gone. it spoke of something lasting, beyond our living days. tells the story about love that never ever fades away. the love that seeds devotion, even after death. that single red rose spoke to me, of all the things, we cherish most, and how much each of us. would like to have that loving care, with a single red rose for all to see and share. 14 june 2007.
The meaning of just one red rose it's plain for all to see it is just this, my love for you and what it means to me so take this rose and with it's love be mine, if near or far remember too my love for you and stay the way you are i miss you and the days grow long when you are out of touch so take this rose and always know i love you dear, so much give a thought to me each day love as not passed you by feed your rose with teardrops if to love me makes you cry there will be no love stronger a love known by so few from the one, who gives you this red rose and all it means to you good luck, good health, god bless dear may i see you every day pray my love be always with you till the last rose, fades away.
The evil demons scream inside nowhere to run nowhere to hide they continue to grow from deep within making you commit sin after sin darkened images flash through your brain as fast as lighting pouring like rain they attach on to every nerve making you prepared and ready to serve.
I always saw, i always said if i were grown and free, i'd have a gown of reddest red as fine as you could see, to wear out walking, sleek and slow, upon a summer day, and there'd be one to see me so and flip the world away. and he would be a gallant one, with stars behind his eyes, and hair like metal in the sun, and lips too warm for lies. i always saw us, gay and good, high honored in the town. now i am grown to womanhood. i have the silly gown.
Sinister craving pierce within wicked humans laugh no more tantalized too long from temptations ready knife thrust, to carve the soul mortal cry from fleshless bodies clawing their way to the ground above the heavens weep for the children gone wings of heaven burst into flames saviours' love dies today choices fed the evil side shrieks of terror swallow the night demons dance to their master's victory turning back is now forgotten welcome to the kingdom of hell.
Half close your eyelids, loosen your hair, and dream about the great and their pride; they have spoken against you everywhere, but weigh this song with the great and their pride; i made it out of a mouthful of air, their children's children shall say they have lied.
Im here bounded for life come to me break these chains that hold me back help me bring my life back i know, i kno this may all frighten you but please free me from this life of torment cause if you dont i will surely die with these final words out of my bloody mouth who will remember me now not as this decaying evil soul that i most proudly show but as this peaceful hearted man that i desperatly hold withen these two sides of me fights for everlasting control good vs. evil if one finaly wins will i still be me or would i become pure good and bring forth peacefull things to the end my life or will i become absolute evil to remain bound to my chains for all eternity as these being my final words just go and leave this hideus creature bound in chains for the sins he has made.
The desperate man just got rid of his only daughter her crime she is a woman his reason he has no money to offer as dowry her problem no bridegroom was willing to marry her without any compensation his solution get rid of the problem this was reported in a local newspaper.
There's a beautiful angel sent from up above but she's and evil angel the heavans call her love this beautiful angel she falls down from the sky looking for someone to torture on the wings of a butterfly this angel seems to find you wherever you may go she lands upon your shoulder and love she does show this angel is evil she gives you love then takes it away leaving your heart always empty for her love is never here to stay this angel has hurt me many times before so i'm closing my heart completly it will be broken no more.
There is evil in the powder room there is evil lurking in the halls there's evil everywhere you look it even pentrates the walls it cares not who it helps or hurts it's running rampant in this place there's so much damage being done it's such a horrible disgrace.
When the love was great, the pain is even greater than your mate when the love was inseparable, the longing will be utterly unbearable when the love was all you ever had, the hole and emptiness will be enough to make you mad when the love was sacred, pure the pain will be enough to endure love is evil it's true i see i lock away my heart with a key.
When we speak of good and evil we know not what we say as we all have those traits in us or to me 'twould seem that way our so called honourable leaders who condemn crimes of hate in truth only condemning what they've helped to create. more bombings in indonesia and iraq and afghanistan every day and people dead and many left with horrific injuries does it have to be this way? where there is want, exclusion and discrimination only anger and mistrust to be found and for violence of the extreme sort poverty can be a breeding ground. when war men dropp their bombs of death on foreign cities it would be far better instead if they dropped large parcels of food containing rice and milk and meat and bread the results would be far better we receive what we sow we cannot expect respect from others if respect to them we do not show. when we speak of good and evil we only speak of how great we are for to bomb foreign cities our government's war planes travel far and violence breeds more violence or so it would appear and peace is suffocating in a world ruled by fear.
Glory to thee o lord on high o maker of all that is holy and true over creation your rule will apply divinely inspired in all that you do vail of perfection shattered in two evoked by the one who gave us breath vanquished from high, yet spared from death into the depths this dark angel fell left unopposed as the ruler of hell.
If you look for evil good you cannot see for your eyes only tell you what they want you in others to see of good and bad races you keep telling me but your opinions are different to mine we see things differently. i've worked with those of different races and backgrounds and in truth i can say that people as a whole are quite good in their own way of different beliefs and cultures but i found them to be okay if you show respect for others respect to you they will pay. when you start comparing races you i do not wish to hear your ignorance on such matters only based on your fear of those you see as different to you difference you cannot embrace 'tis wrong to condemn people because of their race. if you are only looking for flaws in those who are different to you then flaws you will find to the good that is in them you do become blind in this multicultural world your thinking renders you as small one must admire those who believe in a fair go for all.
A child abused a gift from god refused, insanity at its peak, makes young and vulnerable weak. beyond the scene of laughter a murky cry of torture. it pains to see, a child humbled and scared, with pain in the eyes, unspoken fear of shame, and a broken pride. a gloom of darkness around him spreads, afraid to trust and, mind never at rest, shadow of torture tears his being, all his life he sees himself dieing. a childhood thus, pain imprints in mind, what ever happened, to that glorious smile.? a child gift of god, a blessing for parents, a laughter in the home, dont lose him, to the darkness of fate take care of him, it is never too late.
Am i evil, for having these thoughts in my head.? am i evil, for thinking things of dread? am i evil, for not believing what you do? am i evil, for ripping people in two? am i evil, for simply speaking my mind? am i evil, for leaving you behind? am i evil, for trying to do things right? am i evil, for giving you a fright? am i evil, for leaving you alone in life? am i evil, for not wanting to be your wife? am i evil, for doing the things i do? am i evil, hang on, why am i asking you?.
I am an angel. i am of no good. im an angel but more like a parasite. i feed on your fears. i pray on your insecureities. i feed on your despare. i am your demon angel. i live to make your life hell. it is a story left unsaid. i and only i no. i am here to destroy you. i hate you. for i am the angel of depression. and i will eat away at you day by day. one day i will destroy you.
Rises in the east, sets in the west cheers by friends, denounces by the law once who taste it, never got rid of thee try for my heart, why it's so hard. no songs that i could sing, and they are came up with real things drugs' like crap never bring positive feedback desire for a fabulous life, but who has stolen my wife tic tac, tic tac we shall go, but where do we go?.
Evil on a night like this evil tasting like a twisted wish evil paralized upon the ground evil tates the tears of fear evil tainted sounds of cheer evil dripping down; your blood of hate evil tearing down your helpless fate evil swears that by the night's end evil won't say it was all pretend evil because death will follow you evil until full content evil pleasured to full extent.
I know a lady called misery. that is me and my life. i encountered an angel called evil. she was rotten to the core. she gave me depression. she gave me suicidalness. she gave me hell. shes an angel full of evil. she came after me. within the darkness of the night. she wants to kill me. she wants me dead. she'll have me dead. shes taken over my mind. shes over riden me with evil.
Evil, is to hunt 'you.' smell you. nameless is 'evil.' evil, .unawakened slides inside 'invited'. out of reach, touched bloated within your womb. evil, sweats you out, in taste reaching down you check. trembles, hand in night, is to dawns wasted light, in wait sucking you inside, to rest. evil was it, 'you'it's eye to weep 'milky'you hunger, it. evil, will not wait, forever on you to reach down, close the fold, it's now. evil will never be satisfied, with one you are 'evil'drawn to all that's evil.
Adam and eve were overcame by satan in the garden of eden since then man has been possessed by an evil spirit which quite obsessed to tempt and drag the soul to damnation but jesus had given his life for our salvation. everyone is prone to commit mistakes no good man is his life has never done fakes especially at times when something is at stake life, honor and love are those posted out for the take we all succumb to temptations to satan's evil wishes forgot that jesus' s blood cleansed all our blemishes. everyday life's tribulations have got into our way filling us with sorrows, frustrations and dismay exciting the demonic instincts lurking inside us compel human to do bad things which are unjust becomes evil curses himself by blaming the lord why man was born to hurdle the pains of the world?.
Cant believe she did that the bitch turned into a rat had her under my roof, protected her for 3 years and all i have to show 4 it are empty tears and a court case thats how the do it in my race all i wanted to do was teach all she did in the end was leech money. tme. my good nature. she turned into a evil rapture praying on my good heart did a good job of tearing it apart but im a soulja and i don't hide and run 4 cover especially not from the rapture and her witch of a mother i'm preparing to draw my sword and take the head off the rapture that will be the kodak moment will capture it will be slow and she will endure much pain i yern 2 c blood drawn from her vains and i the end when im asked 'what caused this destruction to begin.? ' my response 'it wasn't me. twas the beast within.' and how is this destruction going to stop? when i witness the last blood drop.
Feeling evil evil on a night like this evil tasting like a twisted wish evil paralized upon the ground evil tates the tears of fear evil tainted sounds of cheer evil dripping down; your blood of hate evil tearing down your helpless fate evil swears that by the night's end evil won't say it was all pretend evil because death will follow you evil until full content evil pleasured to full extent.
Evil doers will tear love down, spin love round and round, like a whirlwind. but hold onto the love, if one knows it to be true. do not listen to the lies, deception, or untruths. and yet, there is some consolation, there is some purpose to life. there is the lovely destiny, that's waiting on the other side. it's full of love and truth, shining brightly as a star. but the only way to find it, is to follow the strength, and beauty of the heart.
Be positive that is welcome but never push away negative thought to come let it enter and settle down then you think of your own same way allow negative people come near keep no grudge or fear they may harm no more as you have sufficient power to counter never get swayed over they may be finding excuses or cover you must win them over they shall be friends forever it depends how you tackle it is just and honest struggle wicked people have never won race as they have many thing to hid on face you are bright and shining every thing you are defining in nice and convincing way that is your style and distinct way so keep all kind of people around you and in circle sometimes they are needed to fight evil evil always wins over lesser evil.
Evil days. jealous eyes. the world's alive with hateful spies sent to see my spirit dies because it might be something. wonderful. evil days. haunted nights. i feel naught beyond these blights upon my soul, my heart, my mind, left by people afraid to find that i might be something. wonderful. evil days. wicked dreams. tears drench my pillow to the seams that are frayed from pulling, pounding, and pain that floods my spirit like poison rain falling from the lips of sneering foes who fear i might be something. wonderful. evil days. hopeful dawns. i will arise to face these pawns of malicious fate, that trembling power that grows more nervous by the hour, realizing that i'll not be drowned, i'll not be burned, i'll not be bound. his chains can't hold me, his shackles won't hinder. and though my heart is fragile as tinder it has ignited with fires invincible. one day they'll see i'm something. wonderful.
Am i evil for believing what i do? am i evil for not agreeing with you? can't i be right and you wrong, maybe your weak and im strong am i evil for having dark skin? am i evil for not being your twin? can't i be white and you black, maybe i have what you lack. am i evil for not being like you? am i evil for being a nail. and u a screw? can't i be the screw and you the nail maybe i'll succeed and where you fail maybe your the evil one and im the good and ur the one whos misunderstood.
'tis not the violent hands alone that bring the curse, the ravage, and the downward doom, although to these full oft the yawning tomb owes deadly surfeit; but a keener sting, a more immortal agony will cling to the half fashioned sin which would assume fair virtue's garb; the eye that sows the gloom with quiet seeds of death henceforth to spring what time the sun of passion burning fierce breaks through the kindly cloud of circumstance; the bitter word, and the unkindly glance, the crust and canker coming with the years, are liker death than arrows and the lance which through the living heart at once doth pierce.
How can you expect me to sit here, and not say a word? i want to punch your lights out, i want to make it hurt. do you enjoy making people feel bad? yes, you make us feel like crap. do you get off on hurting others? your a stupid friggin' witch.
There's this girl with evil red eyes and dark brown hair i keep seeing her in my head and as i rasied my head from the toilet i looked in the mirror and my eyes were red just like hers has the demon within me been haunting me?.
So innocence is just a lie born, broken, we die and why did evil enter this world wearing my face? chaos, wind, love, all forming but not formed blood star, leaking children eating sunlight, vomiting night for pities sake turn on the light for pities sake turn on the light.
I hear the tap . . . , tap . . . , tap . . . , of the tropical rain, way down south . . . further than the rio grande. i can hear it, deep in my mind, from way back in my native land, back where i was born . . . when i was there. and the tap . . . , tap . . . , tap . . . , fading away through dancing droplets on the ground, i will always hear, until i arrive at the place, where forevermore, i will abide.
I hear leaves drinking rain; i hear rich leaves on top giving the poor beneath drop after drop; 'tis a sweet noise to hear these green leaves drinking near. and when the sun comes out, after this rain shall stop, a wondrous light will fill each dark, round drop; i hope the sun shines bright; 'twill be a lovely sight.
The great light cage has broken up in the air, freeing, i think, about a million birds whose wild ascending shadows will not be back, and all the wires come falling down. no cage, no frightening birds; the rain is brightening now. the face is pale that tried the puzzle of their prison and solved it with an unexpected kiss, whose freckled unsuspected hands alit.
The melancholy year is dead with rain. drop after drop on every branch pursues. from far away beyond the drizzled flues a twilight saddens to the window pane. and dimly thro' the chambers of the brain, from place to place and gently touching, moves my one and irrecoverable love's dear and lost shape one other time again. so in the last of autumn for a day summer or summer's memory returns. so in a mountain desolation burns some rich belated flower, and with the gray sick weather, in the world of rotting ferns from out the dreadful stones it dies away.
When i wake up my sleepy head i've got my trousers on in bed i'm first at the breakfast table hair a mess and clothes dishevelled eat my cornflakes and fly but always kiss my mum goodbye so she'll tidy up my room where all around the toys are strewn leave the door upon the latch so i can sneak back in and snatch the biscuits from the biscuit tin an apple, pear or mandarin, in my pocket squashed in half is a mars bar that will last and keep me going through the day so i can stay outside and play muddy wellies in the rain playing marbles in a drain games of football in the park staying out till after dark on my bike out for a run with my mates i'll have some fun knock on doors and run away or writing down car number plates build a campfire in the woods be a cowboy, robin hood with a band of merry men make a tree hut for a den i was unique i thought one day until i heard my father say when i was young it was the same muddy wellies in the rain.
Suddenly this defeat. this rain. the blues gone gray and the browns gone gray and yellow a terrible amber. in the cold streets your warm body. in whatever room your warm body. among all the people your absence the people who are always not you. i have been easy with trees too long. too familiar with mountains. joy has been a habit. now suddenly this rain. anonymous submission.
Sleep falls, with limpid drops of rain, upon the steep cliffs of the town. sleep falls; men are at peace again while the small drops fall softly down. the bright drops ring like bells of glass thinned by the wind, and lightly blown; sleep cannot fall on peaceful grass so softly as it falls on stone. peace falls unheeded on the dead asleep; they have had deep peace to drink; upon a live man's bloody head it falls most tenderly, i think.
Different little different days mysteries along the way. another time without a rule, another guilty crowded school. to remember life alone so free, to be the captain of your ship, another quiet sea. another laughter without shame, another cleansing rain.
Comes from the dark cloud that makes a noise loud rain, cold rain tinkles so softly like a slow moving train rain, happy rain enriched the dry land with many a soft hand rain, shining rain like the clumps of water pearls that comes again and again rain, heavy rain relieving the overpowering heat whether a hill or a plain rain, dumping rain filling the street with water turning it into the overflowing drain rain, drizzling rain making the children cheerful forgetting all their pain.
Rain rain rain, up above from the skies youu come, as drops of joy as drops of sorrow as a shower of blessing from the heavens. rain rain rain, pitter patter pitter patter on the window panes, thunder and lightning fill up the skies creating an orchestral symphony. rain rain rain, with wind, sun and clouds, seven colors you bring together and joy in our hearts. rain rain rain a miracle to a drought a curse when in glut, tiny silver crystals trickles from up above.
The tree tops are dead and so are the roots it's the rain they dread also the shoots the rain is like acid it eats it all away should be more placid would help in a big way but one day the trees will be gone it seams all the people do is yawn but when it is black, dark, and no bark we'll wish we were sitting in a green park.
Rain, rain, rain, come again and again, in the winter, in the summer and in spring, come with joy, fall with happiness and go with sorrow, rain, rain, rain come again and again. rain, rain, rain come to relive earth's pain, rain, rain, rain come to make nature happy, rain, rain, rain come to make livings happy, rain, rain, rain come again and again. rain, rain, rain don't go away, rain, rain, rain i hope you will stay, rain, rain, rain come again and again.
Rain, rain, fall today, wash away my debts to pay, cleanse me of my sins i pray, rain, rain, fall away. rain, rain, fall away, wash away the blood today, wake us from this dream i say, rain, rain, here to stay. rain, rain, here to stay, keep the sin of hate at bay, love is coming here to stay, rain, rain, fall today.
Let the rain kiss you let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops let the rain sing you a lullaby the rain makes still pools on the sidewalk the rain makes running pools in the gutter the rain plays a little sleep song on our roof at night and i love the rain.
When the sun comes after rain and the bird is in the blue, the girls go down the lane two by two. when the sun comes after shadow and the singing of the showers, the girls go up the meadow, fair as flowers. when the eve comes dusky red and the moon succeeds the sun, the girls go home to bed one by one. and when life draws to its even and the day of man is past, they shall all go home to heaven, home at last.
The moon still shines like that of ages old, holding distant secrets like a tale yet to be told, the sun in all its blinding beauty continues to lend us its rays, enriching us with memories of those blisfull youthspent days. the sea still massages the sandy golden shores, passing from the sea gods ever open jaws. the rain still travels from open blue skys, showering the land as the sky god cries. the wind whispers words of both hope and depair, in hope it strokes the heads of ours so very fair, the moon and the sun and the sea the rain and the wind, do what they have done since time began, yet man, yes man has changed grown more hungry, and in turn has robbed the earth of its enchanting energy, man has bombed, and slaughtered, and destroyed, man has teased and tested and toyed. and as i, a man am washed by the nightly visit of rain, tears of fear fall in unsison with the cloudy droplets, i was not meant for times like these, i am a passer by a silent hooded journey man, swaying in the comfort of the invisible breeze. wanting and waiting with poetic patience, to be taken away on the wings of timeless words.
The rain has ceased, and in my room the sunshine pours an airy flood; and on the church's dizzy vane the ancient cross is bathed in blood. from out the dripping ivy leaves, antiquely carven, gray and high, a dormer, facing westward, looks upon the village like an eye. and now it glimmers in the sun, a globe of gold, a disk, a speck; and in the belfry sits a dove with purple ripples on her neck.
Rain, rain please pour on me rain, rain please set me free rain, rain don't let the sun shine through rain, rain my heart is now a pit of goo rain, rain blow the ocean breeze rain, rain sway the forest trees. rain, rain don't wash away rain, rain i wish you could stay rain, rain don't let the birds chirp or the children play. rain, rain please stop time today. rain, rain do you understand my sorrow? rain, rain please be here tomorrow.
I look above hot tears kiss my face the sky is crying stars are out of sight i look at you hopelessness falling from your eyes and pain of losing is tattoed on your soul you seem so preoccupied, not noticing me i close my eyes you'll never know what i feel as we stand here crying on a night of anguish and rain.
A dark cloud of rain drifted into my life and for some time, i felt good, happy. i no longer felt lonely. i thought life would go on happily in one long, long stretch of time. but when the cold, harsh winds of change started blowing, the cloud of rain had to drift away. life is still going on in one long, long stretch of time. i am not lonely. i can't say i am sad or unhappy. but you have left a void that would take me a long, long time to fill.
Rain on me, my god rain on me. make me naked. pour your rain on my body in my soul on and in my heart and in my intellect. i want to be wet with you, my god. rain on me my god rain on me.
The soldier is given the order to run by the officer 6 miles away the soldier is killed by a machine gun whilst the officer is 6 miles away the soldier is left lying on the ground by the officer 6 miles away the soldier is buried without a sound while the officer sleeps 6 miles away the job is done the war is won by the soldier,6 feet in the clay.
Dear, soldier boy, how i miss you so. i think about you everyday, and when you're coming home. dear, soldier boy, i hope you write back soon. tomorrow's sarah's birthday. her party starts at noon. dear, soldier boy, i love you more each day. my love for you grows stronger, the longer you're away. dear, soldier boy, i haven't heard from you at all. maybe i will get a letter, by the time of fall. dear, soldier boy, june 15,2008. they told me you were wounded, and they got you help too late. dear, soldier boy, how i miss you so. i think about you everyday, and why you didn't come back home.
I was a union soldier. the battles were long, bloody and tiring. i often had streaks of blood all over my uniform. at times i would feel down. really down and depressed, full of despair and gloom. but one time, this family took me in when i was wounded at gettysburg. they pretty much saved my life. they saved me from dying on the road. their little boy would look in on me with his big bright blue eyes. he always shared his iced tea with me. i would watch him rock back and forth on his wooden horse, amazed at how the years had gone by since my own childhood. i went back to visit the family after the war. i was saddened to find out that the little boy had died. scarlet fever just up and got him. a lump formed in my throat, my heart felt like it had been crushed. i just cried and cried. i felt i could almost drown in all those tears. every time i drink some cool iced tea i remember that little boy.
I can see a soldier's mother knitting quietly in the lamplight, her precious thoughts are for another who has been sent away to fight. she is remembering a tousled haired boy running through the house to play. she is remembering the heartfelt joy of washing and nurturing him each day. she gloried in his every little achievement for he was her flesh and blood. it was only temporary bereavement when he would come in covered with mud. sometimes he rode a stick horse all over a vast front yard range. he was rounding up cattle of course every detail he took care to arrange. somtimes he rode till it was night searching this range for his cattle. he was never far from his mother's sight for she loved watching him ride high in the saddle. these were the magnificent glory years of a tousled haired boy and his mother. as she knitted she saw through her tears a mighty little cowboy unlike any other. now he has gone down to the battle to fight for his country and his home. but he has not forgotten the front yard cattle and the mighty range he used to roam. with the bursting of every bomb and shell he remembers those who loved him so. he remembers his mother's supper yell and her precious face that would always glow. she was a broken hearted mother when this cowboy soldier never made it home. she thought her heart would smother as she knelt in prayer on the range he used to roam. there wasn't any fine oration there wasn't any beautiful song. this boy had met his obligation and he stood above the throng. today i believe this cowboy is exploring the range in his new home. i believe our precious lord is adoring a cowboy who has a brand new range to roam.
The militant soldier boy lies dying. in shame, his body lies in disgrace, because he could no longer face the innocents. the innocents, the ones who died at his hand in that foreign land. he saw them in his dreams. he saw them when he was awake, or walking about his hometown, his place of safety, his refuge. they stood beside him at the altar of his church, and when he was at work, until he could no longer face the innocents. and so, with his soldier boy's tattered honor gathered about him, his heart gave a sigh. he decided he must die, shamed and alone, like the innocents. dedicated to all soldiers who must live with the horror of death. scarlett treat, march 26,2007.
I walk with no man, i always walk alone my soul made of fire and my heart of stone i have no pain, ignoring all that i feel with bones of iron and nerves of steel this is what i portray, fooling you all my emotions so strong, my defenses so tall but inside i'm weak, having unsettled war not knowing why i battle or what this is for this war is unending and cease fires are few no shots are heard but damage is true what is going on here, what is this for i'm a lone soldier in a private war.
As i gasp for breath, and realize, i've been hit, it's my time to die. i crawl and heave, and try to run, in the passing rays, of the setting sun. my arm is wounded, my leg is broken, blood is everywhere, my clothes are soaken. i try to stand, but start to fall, i hear my leaders, retreating call. the gun fires stop, as quickly as they came, i just want it to end, the burning pain. my men, my friends, i start to cry, they left me here, alone to die. i wander home, where my song is sung, i know they'll greive, for i died to young. but i'll be here, for in heaven lays, the rising sun, and the new sun rays.
Stay calm soldier do not panic stay calm soldier and think of what you were taught you're too young to die my soldier you're too young to leave run soldier from the danger ahead run soldier don't be brave you're too young to die my soldier you're too young to leave fight soldier the enemy that fights you fight soldier and make it though the day you're too young to die my soldier you're too young to leave come home soldier i miss you terribly come home soldier to me and your family you're too young to die my soldier don't ever leave me.
'twas the night before christmas in a war over seas a soldier said a prayer by his bed on his knees he said 'i don't wanna be here but i can not leave lord please let my family have a great christmas eve' this soldier i speak of will have christmas alone all that he has is a package from home inside of the package was a great surprise it was a picture of his family he wiped the tears from his eyes his wife left a note that said we are all alone the kids miss their daddy please hurry back home his six year old daughter gave a teddybear to her dad along with a note that said this will help when you're sad the soldier picked up his gun and went back out to work and then he noticed a kid that looked like he was hurt the soldier said 'what's the matter kid, what is your bother? ' the kid responded by saying 'they just shot my father.' the soldier said 'i've got something for you, to make you less sad' then he pulled out a teadybear and said let this remind you of your dad the soldier went on his way to continue to fight and said 'merry christmas to all and to all a good night'.
The soldier fights for the hippys rights to protest against that soldier the soldier fights for the politions rights to send that soldier to war the soldier fights for buisness mans rights to make money the soldier fights for the policemans rights to arrest that soldier the soldier fights for school kids right to know about past soldiers the soldier fights to so that you may all sleep at night the soldier fights for religion so that you may all belive what you wish and yet the soldier fights on the soldier fights for his flag, for his country, for his life.
Soldiers hang around near borders all around to save a nation from intruders, fight with adverse weather and spies of enemies they can not hang around near press club or elite clubs and they belong to a different class altogether.. salutations to soldiers july 17,2009.
In his heart he holds courage, in his hands he holds our lives. a brave soldier he may be, but only at the the front lines. he is weaken by all the death, he is haulted by there souls. for he knows in this battle, hatred rules one's goal. he does not fight for hatred, he fights for there lives instead. cause he knows hatred has no value, when so many are dead. as he lays in death, knowing it will come, he glances at the sky and makes peace with all he's done. for on the battlefield, life is as precious as gold. and one must always choose should it be friend or foe? he closes his eyes and hopes in his death no more victums will fall. but, in his heart he knows his country one day will call. for a brave soldier to take the front line and give there his life as he, he just hopes all are content knowing a brave soldier he will always be.
I lived my days apart, dreaming fair songs for god; by the glory in my heart covered and crowned and shod. now god is in the strife, and i must seek him there, where death outnumbers life, and fury smites the air. i walk the secret way with anger in my brain. o music through my clay, when will you sound again?.
Your freedom he fights for you to keep so you will be safe while you sleep you condem him for being wrong yet the soldier always stands strong while you have the right to complain a soldier will fight for you, in the pouring rain while he leaves his family behind they are never very far from his mind remember every negative word you say for you a soldier keeps terror and bay while a soldier he may die while a man he will not turn a blind eye.
He was a brave soldier he died young and brave and for more than six decades he lay in his grave and still at the dawning of each war memorial day at his grave site a young bugler the last post does play. known as the unknown soldier one without a name still he had a mum and a dad just the same and when he did not return home when the fighting was done they grieved at their loss and they wept for their son. the war to end all wars of all wars 'tis said but more wars are fought and we have more war dead and at the grave of the unknown soldier the last post is played and to honour the war dead another parade. old war men do tell us young soldiers fight and die for freedom and liberty that is a lie they went to war when young they are now old and gray some grow old not wiser some are known to say. that they were fighting for freedom and justice they believed to be true and they were quite gallant to give them their due but many deprived of their human rights in the world of today and that does seem a very sad thing for to say. with heads bowed old men showing their years in gray at the grave of the unknown soldier at the dawn of the day in silence do listen as a young bugler the last post does play for one who fought and died in a war far away.
I was just a man. i was not cruel or heartless. i did not live with hate. i merely did what you asked. my last night, was not in the arms of my lover. my last day, was not in the land of my father. my last thoughts, were not of my mother. my last words, were never uttered. i did not seek glory. i had no need to find riches. i was not a coward, i did not fear death. i paid the cost of one life, i cannot really say why. i soaked my blood into another man's soil, i looked for the last time at another man's sky. when you see my name upon a wall, do not cry, i knew, that it was my job to die. i expect no sympathy i just ask, remember me.
The soldier fights for the people, the soldier fights for good, the soldier fights against evil. evil fights against the soldier, good fights with the soldier, the people help the soldier. the soldier fights for the politicians, the soldier fights for his country, the soldier fights for his religion. the politicians send him of to fight, the country supports his strength, his religion holds him back.
I wanted to become a soldier an army of one to please my father and excite my juvenile ambition but all i have seen is dead children and old men i have aged in a few months and found bitterness my tent buddy is dead another statistic for the army a bad dream for me and horror i will never forget in forty years will i still cry at my companies dinners wonder why i was there at all will i be uncomfortable to be with as i cannot forget the commandment, ' thou shalt not kill '.
I have a toy soldier that sits high up on my shelf, i'm not allowed to play with him, so he sits there by himself, he looks so alone, yet so handsome and tall, as he watches over me. fighting for us all. i wish that i could reach him, just to tell him that i care, but, i am yet too small to reach him way up there, even though he can't hear me, i pray for him each night, i pray for peace on earth..so he won't have to fight. as i grew taller and wiser, i begin to understand, that the toy soldier upon my shelf was a picture of a man. as i reached out for it, i was able to finally see that the toy soldier that i admired.looked just like me. our soldiers are not wooden, they have a family somewhere, they have wives and children and parents who care, and though they can't hear us, we pray each night that our toy soldiers.won't have to fight.
As the dawn begins to break, i see headlights the farm is just a ways down the road i wonder if she knows, i'm coming and i wonder , if she is there alone it's been a year since the war called me i went away to do what i had to do it's been a year since i held her in my arms it's been a year, shes had time to choose i've seen many soldiers get the letter letters from someone that said goodbye and each time the mail when it would come i would brace myself and worry if i got mine now it's been a year and i'm coming home but time can change ones mind sometimes and if shes waiting like she said she would then today will be the day i make her mine i kept every letter that she wrote in battle i kept them close to my heart she has always been the world to me i couldn't imagine my life with out my sweet heart as i pull into the drive i can see someone has raised a flag with one lone star and i can see a banner just beneath and i read as i pull up in the car ' the love of my life ' ' is fighting for your life ' ' dear god ' ' please let him come back home to me '.
It's good to feel pain, it lets me know i'm alive. roll with the thunder, know that i'll survive. march on i'm a soldier, no matter the war. keep my head up i'm a soldier, i'm tough to the core. my fear is my weakness, let my weakness be gone. i know i'm a soldier, i've been one all along. we are picking our battles, fighting our wars. we hold the weight of the world, our minds and bodies are sore. but push on i'm on a soldier, the stronger of some. a soldier of life, in an army of one. it's good to feel pain, it lets me know i'm alive. take the jolt of lightning, know that i'll survive.
Home furthest off grows dearer from the way; and when the army in the indias lay friends' letters coming from his native place were like old neighbours with their country face. and every opportunity that came opened the sheet to gaze upon the name of that loved village where he left his sheep for more contented peaceful folk to keep; and friendly faces absent many a year would from such letters in his mind appear. and when his pockets, chafing through the case, wore it quite out ere others took the place, right loath to be of company bereft he kept the fragments while a bit was left.
As the silence fell, the birds began to sing the soldier tries to stand on his own as the blood trickles down his arm he looks and he see's as he stands, he finds he's all alone his friends are all about him at his feet the enemy has perished from the seige from the field of battle he searches the fields and trees with a sigh of relief he drops down to one knee with one good hand he fumbles his radio must get command on line, must let them know he hears a voice on line that says bravo twenty three report your twenty and status would you please the soldier leans his back against a tree and streaches out before him his tired feet he says, sir, the positions held, it is ours to keep defended now by one beneath this tree the voice it says that help is on the way the soldier hesitates, as a breath he takes across his legs he lays his rifle down chambers a round, then comes back to say sir, i see a dozen men they come i'll try to hold this ground but i'm just one i'll try to hold them back, but i don't think i may when you come sir, please, pray my soul to take when the help it came they found beneath the tree the young man in his twentys no longer breathed and out before him scattered on the ground were a dozen men, dead enemy were found the captain he walks up to the tree the soldier's hand was warm he finds heartbeat he said men if you can, you must try to save this man and they did, for this soldier he was me.
Fallen soldier all alone fallen soldier far from home. trickling down his face a tear, forgetting how it feels to fear death and all it's fate and glory. now it's here, no need to worry. fallen soldier all alone fallen soldier far from home he's one of those they'll all forget; the life he lived, the goals he set, the ones he loved, the ones who wait to see his nearly forgotten face. fallen soldier all alone fallen soldier far from home now breathing's just a waste of breath and living's just a waste of death as he searches for a new address; a brand new home free of loneliness. fallen soldier all alone fallen soldier far from home lying motionless on the ground, the battle raging all around. for now he is not all alone. this fallen soldier is welcomed home.
I was born a soldier, to protect some place, that was never my own. i was the perfect soldier, until he came along, and ruined it forever. he was my celestial soldier, he was my first true love. milady fate has a cruel side. she ripped us apart forever, so i became what i hated, the perfect soldier once more. so in the end i have become, my own celestial soldier, for i can never have my own again.
Time or fate may separate friends, lovers, but friendship or love that's true will ever thenceforth continue to live forever, true love conquers the odd with its power. as time passes by, things change with the time, every moment, hour, day, month, and year, all things have their turn to change with the time, life, time, and events change with the years. everyone, everything, have a time and day, a time to change, end, begin a new day, change is life, the course of life everyday, all things change, and we change with them all days. only the eternal one is constant, all things in the universe, inconstant, but despite it all, love is important, the world may change, but true love is constant.
I had no time to hate, because the grave would hinder me, and life was not so ample i could finish enmity. nor had i time to love, but since some industry must be, the little toil of love, i thought, was large enough for me.
A solid rock may look stationary deep inside its atoms electrons move. things change from time to time. the universe appears still to the eye planets and stars keep on moving. things change from time to time. what i think now is not the same as fixed thoughts of yesterday. things change from time to time. objects move experience teaches knowledge provides new points of view. things change from time to time.
Time flows like the perennial river time rides the crest of a wave in the sea time's space its fourth dimension time's elastic keeps on bouncing time's a sponge absorbs all spills time sleeps time wakes up time walks time runs time races time stands still time flies fast time has past time has future time never stays in the present time creeps time ticks time tricks sometimes good sometimes bad time's night time's day time's dark time's bright time's heavy time's light time's easy time's hard time blinks like eye time beats like heart time makes yoktosecond large time turns exasecond too small time lets one fall time makes one rise time's magic time brings one to life from nowhere time makes one vanish in an instant time's all that we know time's everything else that we don't.
I have floated on the water of my life with time. i enjoyed every beat to know that it's life. now, i float with a consciousness, it's life which makes us float. time is the flow which stops at the door of our death, time is the flow which runs until we cease leaving life.
Debate and rate with added weight while patterns picked associate a crime of rhyme debating time the pros and cons in sad sublime the base of space with time will race future coming it's pacing grace fulfilled from where in space or air separate lives two fabrics fare?.
A future time, a future place here on earth or out in space the doors are open if you choose to learn the skills that you can use computers you use every day atomic medicine is here to stay a walk on the moon is a thing of the past we're on our way to the stars at long last radar, and laser, and quasar, and such, these words sound strange, but they mean so much learn these things, and many more see what wonders the world has in store don't let folly lead you away from learning the skills you need so today have fun in your life, but don't learn with sorrow that the fun of today won't feed you tomorrow be good to yourself, and study with zest, and, soon, you will find you're ahead of the rest a future time, a future place here on earth or out in space the doors are open, come on through learn the skills, it's up to you.
And the time will be our time to pray and the time will be our time to learn to love the people here on earth and the time will be our time for us to learn to get along with the people here on the earth and the time will be our time to unite the world by bringing peole together all over the world and our time will be the time to share some food with the homeless people that lives in the street here at home but also we have to learn that we could end up like them if we don't watch our money.
Distanced by dreams, of yesteryears life, days come and go, like a waves short life. hours slip through thoughts, as sand slips through fingers. i wish the world would slow. time to think and plan for tommorow. as eyes succumb to the weight of the night, morning emerges with it's sharp light. days drift into new days, each one a stage of plays. there is no time to look and to love, faces flash by with eyes to the ground, i am not herei make no sound.
Memories arrive unannounced in the head, much inclined to hold in thrall, let them bounce about, and fill the mind. those thoughts when young, energy filled, i watch hope to be like them as further along the pathway i go to my destiny. those times of reaching maturity, now being singularly able, and thinking one's immorality to be and remain ever stable. watching those depart who want to stay leaving me more and more alone. seeing them all here today but tomorrow gone, no semblance or clue of where, old friends lost in space, they've gone now, left us unaware, the only clues hope and faith.
Time, cruel time, come and subdue that brow which conquers all but thee, and thee, too, stays as if she were exempt from scythe or bow, from love or years unsubject to decays. or art thou grown in league with those fair eyes that they may help thee to consume our days? or dost thou spare her for her cruelties, being merciless like thee that no man weighs? and yet thou seest thy power she disobeys, cares not for thee, but lets thee waste in vain, and prodigal of hours and years betrays beauty and youth t'opinion and disdain. yet spare her, time, let her exempted be, she may become more kind to thee or me.
A time to laugh, a time to cry, a time to love, a time to sigh. the love we feel is put in us to stay, love will make us stronger each and every day. a time to fear, a time to learn. a time to trust, a time for concern. the love we feel is real and pure, love is the answer and sometimes the cure. a time for planting, a time to grow, a time for knowledge of the important things we must know. love is you love is me. we are one and always will be. my love for my fellow man, will never grow dim, i'll trust, i'll laugh and at times i'll cry with him. now i know why love is put in me to stay, for real love is not love until you give it away.
Time and time and time again i've sought a perfect rhyme time and time and time again it just comes to me when those times and times and times and times i've searched for that one word i think that writing poetry is something quite absurd you balance on the tightrope and then sometimes lose your nerve.
Night closed my windows and the sky became a crystal house the crystal windows glowed the moon shown through them through the whole house of crystal a single star beamed down its crystal cable and drew a plough through the earth unearthing bodies clasped together couples embracing around the earth they clung together everywhere emitting small cries that did not reach the stars the crystal earth turned and the bodies with it and the sky did not turn nor the stars with it the stars remained fixed each with its crystal cable beamed to earth each attached to the immense plough furrowing our lives.
Time has no conclusion it will never terminate time waits for nobody seems we are always late in our dimension of eternity time is our future and its infinity back to present day the hours transcend the seconds hop by time is our friend so as time ticks by and the young become old, pull up your sock's and wind your clock's.
Life is shifting time to time as from birth to death we do we work whole day and take rest birds search nest at evening. who stays on rent or leaves old home is searched to establish some feel nice in villages near some search town and some cities. shifting is associated with habit in migration we see necessity sure life changes and dazzles in search some do not attach mind in world. shifting of mind from the dark this proceeds towards pure light to revive faith and establish we look forward god's wisdom sure.
We'll heap gardenias on the stage and sing together only the true songs from the heart like a petal folded down to mark this space, this transition others made before us too. and in the chapel of ourselves recall the universe we studied the pale green halls and feel one course finished, another yet to start and so we pause like trembling stars in the early evening and wait to play our part seal off the exits that fear may not enter in this day nor war nor sickness tragedy that bears so many away too young. god make us sure in the way that we must go but now hold us still in the rose bower of this hour and let the spell be cast through mingled prayers and tears that makes the fragrant moment last and last beyond the felling of the years. mary angela douglas 13 april 2020.
Time to leave the ivory tower we shall climb higher and look further we're leaving our salad days behind and start chasing our dreams ahead give an embrace to the unknown future opportunities are always hidden in dangers lift our head and spread our wings to touch the sky and reach the stars the moments we spent together the memories i'll always hold dear would it take long to recognise me if we happened to meet after years?.
May graduation day fill your heart with feelings of accomplishments this day, to bring you peace of mind and happiness in every special way. may the fond memories of school days glow warmly in your beloved heart where the cherished classmates will forever play a vital part. may graduation day be extra special with elaborate pomp and show, may the procession of elated graduates create glee and parent faces to glow. may the ceremony for conferring diplomas, the cards and acknowledgements and flowers fill the day with pride and immense joy and delightful and meaningful hours. may those you love and respect surround you to share your moments of glory this day, may the accolades of graduation day come into your life to forever stay.
He has triumphed the rough and rugged road and the obstacles that lay therein. he has shown the world the heavy load could not get the best of him. good luck, my son, may god's blessings be yours in the years to come. no mother has prayed more sincere prayers than has your one and only mom.
A journey to remember a trip so full of laughter memories unforgetable adventures so beautiful its time for fun its time to try its time for sun its time to fly there are good times and bad happy moments and sad we used to cry together we always comforted eachother its time to leave its time to try its time to grieve it time to say goodbye.
White highlighted by purple and gold upon our arrival, we nervously walked through the threshold her arm safely secured the couple that would never be every glance down the aisle greeted with a smile it meant so much to me procession drags on with haint of praise narrated by nastalgic songs parchment recieved with pride a bitter signature on a note tha bares goodbyes with a flash my progress is cemented in time the fire is in us tonight applause shows thier respect whats next for us? my graduating class relief settles in, with words of love to much crying never enough hugs i saw her i heard her words and met them with an embrace choked up the words bled sincerity and truth my chin on her shoulder arms wrapped around tight 'i love you' hands down that long awaited beauty made my night hesitation was key i replied never mocking i hope she believed me the after math was filled with ash my freinds ahd fire in thier lungs the dramitic lives and the pride of the young the fire blazed high and well speech flowed 'we gave em hell' separation was not a notion all we have is what we left milestones and broken homes senceless acts of innocents trials by fire drama and laugh hold to it live, learn from it we cant get it back.
When we got through our scholastic years and have returned to youthful stomping grounds hello again to the sweet reality of being extramural relieved from reading tome upon heavy tome wanting in words to describe the relief the completion caused from the rigors and hardships of a disciplined way of life the august halls of the alma mater a prison now behind us and the parchment scroll did seem irrelevant to our lives then the college library had rude graffiti on its mottled walls the carillon pealed from fractured bells tinny hymns a heavy yellow pall spread clammily on the quadrangle the dean was in disrespect, the faculty tainted, we were sure but what of the mind, the nurturing of which, we unknowingly, surreptitiously had been honed to face the challenges of a reality then far imagined clearing the muddled glasses of youthful views soon we realize that the years behind the ivied walls were not stones wasted and skimmed in an algae filled pond later as we mused and pondered complexities of existence that would have stunned us dumb had we not persisted.
Graduation. it seems so long ago that we were in kindergarten eight years ago. ending elementary school, going on to high school. many things have happened i'll always remember them. our parents have stood by us all these years, encouraging us in love and support. i wish i could relive those moments. but it is not to happen. use your time wisely. you will treasure it.
Graduations are for those selected few. relax your future is in view. at last you've reached the finish line. done all you need. so stand and shine. u are among the very best. at school you've passed the final test. to stand proud amongst your peers. in time you've learned to face your fears. on with your life. your diploma in hand. no better view from where you stand.
Does much to serve the good that we receive' when embarking upon the pulpit honor your perseverance; your kindness for others; as well as the respect and integrity you have shown to the men and woman that have invested in your future. hold your head high, you have reached the goal that you have challenged throughout life.
It's a time top rejoice on all your achievements it's a time to look back on what you have done it's a time to move forward it's a time to realize you'll miss it so much it's a time where you'll smile and cry both at the same time it's a time to say goodbye to those who changed your life it's a time to those you don't want to leave it's a time of graduation the day you've been waiting for the day you worked so hard for it's here you made it finally standing there in your cap and gown friends and family looking on with tears in their eyes tears of happiness and pride calling out your name as you get your diploma the biggest smile on your face the ceremony is over now time to party be with friends and family and know in your heart and mind you made it this moment belongs to the graduates all graduates young and old from first grade to college this moment is yours be happy be blessed be ready for the rest of your life.
A gentleman or so he seemed a graduation present was his need from me my cherry was his goal given his way he would have stole that which is precious for me to save until my special wedding day he kissed and asked, and i said no he reached, he touched, and i said no he pushed and grabbed, and i said no he tried to force and i said no he didn't stop and i said no then with my knee i did said no now he is hurt and i should go so all his cloths i gathered fast through the window they did pass and past his friends must go his ass.
I'm not kicking on expenses, now the sewing time commences, i will buy chiffon and laces till they say they've got enough; sure her dress for graduation shall excite the admiration of the masses who behold her; it shall be the finest stuff. she shall even carry roses, when her high school training closes, for she's worthy of the finest that there is in all the town; but i sometimes sit and ponder of the days away off yonder when her mother graduated in a simple gingham gown. i have watched the fuss and bustle, and this ceaseless rush and hustle, and i've listened to the planning of this graduation dress, and i know when all is ended, she will make a picture splendid, and i wouldn't be contented if she didn't, i confess. but i still recall the other glorious picture of her mother, with her cheeks as pink as peaches and her hair a golden brown, as i gazed at her enraptured, and my heart, i know, she captured on the day she graduated in her simple gingham gown. i'd be laughed down if i said it, in such matters they don't credit me with knowing what is really very swell; i can picture now their faces, if instead of silk and laces, my preference for gingham, i should tell. but with me it's grown a passion, and in spite of style and fashion, and what women folks think needful, i insist and write it down, i shall never see another quite so charming as her mother on the day she graduated in her simple gingham gown.
Two years and i'll be gone. being a sophomore is rather boring. i spend 5 of my seven classes snoring. it's kinda weird to think that in two years, just two school years, i'll be facing my fears. i'm gonna graduate with a mediocre college degree. this is how my school years will end for me. i'm smart enough to pass but to slow to grasp. i can play quite a few instruments, that could help. and at least i haven't failed. it's gonna be different living on my own.
As the years in our lives pass by, we come closer to our lives so gatsby, yes, i am talking about graduation day, a day filled with mixed feelings of our life's way, a day so inspiring for some, yet so disheartening that it may make one feel completely gone, but there is light at the end of the tunnel, as we may notice some dreams of us bubble, so let us not lose hope, and instead work hard every other day, to reach closer to our lives beautiful way, and this will make our lives so bright and gay.
Graduation, an aspiration an empowerment and a pathfinder where a bright future one can expect with lot of hopes, and much efforts the great universities, colleges the studies, assignments, and all graduation, the parent's concern on their little ones future their own life ambitions, all included the books, periodicals, charts the computer skills, the libraries the mind wandering with all materials beautiful concern for knowledge.
Before, you were a child. trying to know everything in the world. experiencing new things and working out problems. making new friends everyday. always so energetic and full of speed. loved to watch cartoons on the weekends. would go places with your parents. now. your all grown up. moving through life as if being lifted into the sky. making your own decisions. learning good and bad, and hanging out with friends more often. a lot more homework and a lot more responsibilities. wanting your own way. falling in love, and getting a job. then before you know it, your already graduating. the happy memories from before stay with you. the pictures of the past are kept in your heart. the soft graduation music starts playing. then. it's time. as you walk down the aisle, beautifully dressed, you think, my life as a young adult has begun. i wonder what lies ahead of me as i go down the path. then, before you know it, it's over. your nervousness has passed and your finally moving on. soon to go anywhere you want to. soon to be independant. your whole world spins as you try to think of the past. the future confuses you, but it's ok. your just flying through life.
Graduation day is a long awaited day for both parents and the graduate graduation day is a day of dream come true the dream of parents since the child has born. the joy and the pride the parents feelings would be wordless. all their effort to provide their children with the best has been successfully fulfilled and paid off. it is a climax day of a graduate all the faces will be bright with smiles hands will be holding tissues to wipe away tears of joy will be flowing the graduate will be showered with bouquets of flowers well wishes and best wishes a day to be remembered now and then.
Six years have past you finally done last this is the beginning not the last keep walking fast till next graduation of class my heart was filled with sweet alleluya of thousand of red roses aroma when you saw me your diploma you didn't turn down the sacrifices of your mama we proud of you antonia stay strong never surrender all thing happend with god power never stop say a prayer faith unto him forever.
12 years of school and now it's close to ending i'm going to miss all my friends who'm are still attending the dances were fun and the privilages were sweet i'll never forget those who i did meet so long to all my teachers who'm gave me great advice go for all the gold.
Graduation melvin banggollay greetings to all our dear graduates who sipped education's bitterness after many years of an ardent quest at last, you behold flame of success. hail to all that excelled their best to prove their worth in their interest unmindful of the trails and sacrifices only to secure a future so bless. congratulation to all our dear parents who never failed in their promisses to educate their children amidst all mess but never surrendered to give the best. but indeed, today is just the beginning of a more ardous challenges unending as you will be pushed forward seeking opportunities with all your learnings. some may be lucky to land for a job in line with their educational preparation but some are prone or forced to just grab job totally strange to their education. but be not afraid to sail beyond uncertainty paddling and roawing with tears in the way for who knows just a distance not far away glitering smile of gold awaits you patiently.
Graduation is it a a happy event or a sad one coz after what i've experienced today it must be painful seeing my friends wave goodbye promising ourselves not to be separated by life i hope this promise will never be broken no matter where our dreams take us no matter how many times life tries to separate us we will always be great friends never strangers i hope after the great times we've spent together it was before that farewell moment i felt so sad when i saw an empty class i never thought this moment will ever come i wanted a full one now when i think of graduation the first thing that comes in my mind is who's gonna accept my selliness? who's gonna calm me down when i'm drowned in my hot tears? who's gonna tell me that everything's okay even though it's not dear fellows, graduating is not all about school but it is graduating from the life of teen age graduating from late childhood moments to something more challenging something more fierce but with the pictures we had in mind of those times of sharing a laugh will make it so much easier the fact that we've been through a lot and these three years have made us stronger it made us fighters it shaped us into a hard rock so be proud of what we have done don't cry over spilt milk after all, this life is a short journey but we are doing our best to make it taste better so now i can say that graduation is a moment of a lifetime in which we were transformed into ourselves.
All things within this fading world hath end, adversity doth still our joys attend; no ties so strong, no friends so dear and sweet, but with death's parting blow are sure to meet. the sentence past is most irrevocable, a common thing, yet oh, inevitable. how soon, my dear, death may my steps attend, how soon't may be thy lot to lose thy friend, we both are ignorant, yet love bids me these farewell lines to recommend to thee, that when the knot's untied that made us one, i may seem thine, who in effect am none. and if i see not half my days that's due, what nature would, god grant to yours and you; the many faults that well you know i have let be interred in my oblivious grave; if any worth or virtue were in me, let that live freshly in thy memory and when thou feel'st no grief, as i no harmes, yet love thy dead, who long lay in thine arms, and when thy loss shall be repaid with gains look to my little babes, my dear remains. and if thou love thyself, or loved'st me, these o protect from stepdame's injury. and if chance to thine eyes shall bring this verse, with some sad sighs honor my absent hearse; and kiss this paper for thy dear love's sake, who with salt tears this last farewell did take.
My birth unplanned unwanted my growth unacknowledged unnoticed my achievements unseen unnoticed me unnoticed unwanted my cries unheard unanswered my tears unseen undried my pain unacknowledged unhealed my suffering unnoticed unacknowledged my attemptes unseen unnoticed my heart unloved unwarmed my soul un cared for unloved my life unneeded unwanted my existence unwanted unacknowledged my blood undried unseen my scars unhealed unseen my death unacknowledged unnoticed.
You gave me love, you breathed life into me. after i found you, i've found all hapiness. ever since my heart found shelter in your eyes, i felt as if i really live, i really exist, i was a dream, i've become real for you. no more grouse i hold agaisnt destiny, now that i've known you from so close. now that i have you, i've found a world of joy. in your eyes i have seen myself in this world. i really live, i really exist, i was a dream, i've become real for you. i love you.
You can never lose that part of you our hearts were beating as one you nourished me made a home for me when i gazed upon you i cried for a moment i needed to return inside bringing comfort so much to teach longing for speech you make me stand tall even when i fall our lives together eternal connection that cannot be broken even in separation not just for set backs you are my inspiration through my creation though i fail often to show it you are my devotion.
Families, when a child is born want it to be intelligent. i, through intelligence, having wrecked my whole life, only hope the baby will prove ignorant and stupid. then he will crown a tranquil life by becoming a cabinet minister.
Hope is like a harebell trembling from its birth, love is like a rose the joy of all the earth; faith is like a lily lifted high and white, love is like a lovely rose the world's delight; harebells and sweet lilies show a thornless growth, but the rose with all its thorns excels them both.
No religion will bring it to you no merchant can supply it. no king may decree it. no empire implores it it cannot exist until they are gone it will not be born until the will of man is broken when religion becomes the tool of nature when merchants live with the forest. when kings hear the song of the earth when empires dance to the rhythms of the people it cannot live until all we know is dead it will not know the light until the long day is done. peace.
In an open field i sit, my life has turned to shit; as i take this blade, and i make my slit. in the light of the moon. i'll end my life here tonight; enthralled to watch my blood flow, under pale moonlight, at midnight. a deep angled cut, to make things right, as i see this blade, reflecting the light. staring up at the moon, my mind will depart soon; it's almost time for me to go, soothing feelings of vertigo. may my blood. seep back into this earth; ending my life. returning me back to birth.
You that on stars do look, arrest not there your sight, though natures fairest book, and signed with propitious light; our blessing now is more divine, then planets that at noon did shine. to thee alone be praise, from whom our joy descends, thou chearer of our days, of causes first, and last of ends; to thee this may we sing, by whom our roses from the lilies bloom. upon this royal flower, sprung from the chastest bed, thy glorious sweetness shower, and first let myrtles crown his head; then palms and lawrels wreath'd between; but let the cypress late be seen. and so succeeding men, when they the fulness see of this our joy, shall then in consort joyn as well as we, to celebrate his praise above, that spreads our land with fruits of love.
Look in my eyes, what do you see, beauty of the inner me. deep down in your heart, what do you feel, the beauty of a love that is real. touch my hand soft and tender is a beauty that makes you surrender. listen to my words, what do you hear, beauty flowing through the air look around you to your left and right all you'll see is beauty tonight kiss my lips, what do you taste a beauty that would never waste run your hands down my body while looking into my eyes listen to my loving words as my beauty conceals no lies.
I am black i am beautiful inside and out i am black i am beautiful my voice is medium toned, i try not to shout i am black i am beautiful i don't let anyone put me down i am black i am beautiful though sometimes i may act as a clown i am black i am beautiful i'm filled with such pride i am black i am beautiful i'll make such a wonderful bride black and beauty that describes the outside of me nice or mean, you have to decide to me and most people i am nice inside i am beautiful, i am black i am black, i am beautiful.
You say that you can picture me sitting in my chair. what is it that you picture when you look from over there? do you envision beauty or an ugly, wrinkled hag? does my skin give off a glow or do my wrinkles sag? it's strange to think you picture someone you've never seen. i could be short and squatty or maybe tall and lean. what is the face that's given to represent this poem? is it of a beauty queen or just a garden gnome?.
Squire adam had two wives, they say, two wives had he, for his delight, he kissed and clypt them all the day and clypt and kissed them all the night. now eve like ocean foam was white and lilith roses dipped in wine, but though they were a goodly sight no lady is so fair as mine. to venus some folk tribute pay and queen of beauty she is hight, and sainte marie the world doth sway in cerule napery bedight. my wonderment these twain invite, their comeliness it is divine, and yet i say in their despite, no lady is so fair as mine. dame helen caused a grievous fray, for love of her brave men did fight, the eyes of her made sages fey and put their hearts in woeful plight. to her no rhymes will i indite, for her no garlands will i twine, though she be made of flowers and light no lady is so fair as mine. l'envoi prince eros, lord of lovely might, who on olympus dost recline, do i not tell the truth aright? no lady is so fair as mine.
Beauty arise, show forth thy glorious shining, thine eyes feed love, for them he standeth pining ; honor and youth attend to do their duty to thee, their only sovereign, beauty. beauty arise, whilst we, thy servants, sing io to hymen, wedlock's jocund king. io to hymen, io, io, sing ; of wedlock, love, and youth is hymen king. beauty arise, beauty arise, thy glorious lights display, whilst we sing io, glad to see this day. io, io, to hymen, io, io, sing ; of wedlock, love, and youth is hymen king.
Your beauty makes my heart skip a beat. from the anticipation of when we meet, your beauty knows no height, your beauty is my delight, your beauty is in your eyes. under the southern skies, your beauty is in the smile on your lips, your beauty is in the curve of your hips, your beauty should be in my arms. until the morning sun warms.
I went for a walk with my love down to an old vacant lot she took me littered, and broken up it made me sad, made me think of myself i asked why she took me there she silently smiled and took my hand led me to a place the pavement was cracked the ground heaped with garbage old and new near a makeshift shelter that some one had left she kissed my tears away told me to smile when i asked why she told me to open my eyes leaving me confused she said to look at the beauty surrounding us then began to point the doorway of the crude shack was open, and the was a spiderweb moist with the morning dew small dropp formed at it ran down and it was beautiful a few feet away there was a daffodil growing, thriving despite the battered tarmac through which it found a way standing tall and proud as well it should and it was beautiful just then we looked up and what did we see a blue jay landing atop the roof and began singing it's song the sun was rising peaking over the horizon painting it red, orange, yellow, and even violet the sky was it's canvas and it was beautiful she took me home pointing at many other things while we strolled home when we got there i thanked her told her she was beautiful she stood me in front a mirror telling me to find the beauty there we stood for many long minutes i looked, i saw, i contemplated the sorrow carved into my features the gentle wonder in my eyes the scars life has left upon me and it was beautiful.
Know celia, since thou art so proud, 'twas i that gave thee thy renown; thou hadst, in the forgotten crowd of common beauties, liv'd unknown, had not my verse exhal'd thy name, and with it imp'd the wings of fame. that killing power is none of thine, i gave it to thy voice, and eyes; thy sweets, thy graces, all are mine; thou art my star, shin'st in my skies; then dart not from thy borrow'd sphere lightning on him that fix'd thee there. tempt me with such affrights no more, lest what i made, i uncreate; let fools thy mystic forms adore, i'll know thee in thy mortal state; wise poets that wrapp'd truth in tales, knew her themselves, through all her veils.
She lay safe in my arms her eyes closed in sleep, i gazed at her beautiful features to me they are certainly unique. her lovely long eye lashes, her complexion like a rose, and that irresistible cute shaped nose. i bent over to kiss her soft velvet like skin, the aroma that exuded from her body made me feel really good within. i am a lucky guy to have such a beauty lying by my side. i drifted of to sleep feeling a certain amount of pride. i was awakened in the night by an almighty yell, it was my beauty crying like hell. i jumped up startled, and looked around and found her dummy lying on the ground.
The bleak of winter leaves me among despair thier is only anger and chill in the air no happiness or laughing just grey clouds and bleak white sky dont let it all take hold of you for it has a strange beauty within. a cold beauty like a beautiful woman with an empty soul. in the winter i walk the slushy streets alone i see the children play making angels and happy as if it were may they seem to love the cold but oh how this changes when you get old winter is still beautiful in that strange cold way everytime it comes around thou i feel i'm going to fade.
If beauty thus be clouded with a frown, that pity shines no comfort to my bliss, and vapors of disdain so overfrown, that my life's light thus wholy darken'd is, why should i more molest the world with cries, the air with sighs, the earth below with tears? since i live hateful to those ruthless eyes, vexing with untun'd moan her dainty ears; if i have lov'd her dearer than my breath, my breath that calls the heav'ns to witness it, and still must hold her dear till after death; and if that all this cannot move a whit, yet let her say that she hath done me wrong, to use me thus and know i lov'd so long.
Most people find beauty in looks, but i find beauty from the written words in books. i find beauty in the sun set and sun rise. i find beauty in three small dog's eyes. i find beauty in the motion of the sea. the green fingers of mother nature are very beautiful to me. i find beauty in my friends laughter. i find beauty in stories that end happily ever after.
Can beauty remain beauty without light? no beauty survives without light in sight to endure the pangs sharp of age in flight, for fair with folly dead plunges at night. when beauty blooms into beauty divine, showered with wisdom married to light to shine, to border of no ending on the line, lifted is beauty's life onto cloud nine. life valued more in thought than gold man eyes, beats thrones, castles held in esteem that dies. vessels with covetousness, wrath, spite, lust, pride, greed, sloth do sink into oblivion wide. life is nature, who stores light in sublime. such beauty saved as truth lives on with time.
Some say beauty is only skin deep, and to some this may apply. outward appearance is not real beauty, i'll tell you the reason why. for true beauty lies within the soul, and comes from the heart. it comes not from what can be seen of us, but what we may impart. true beauty is not how we may adorn ourselves, others to impress. the true beauty of each of us, lies deep within our breast. if we let jesus christ dwell in our heart, and evermore abound. peace, love, and beauty that comes from the lord, will everywhere be found.
Theres a poem in every flower, a sonnet in every tree, a tale in every lifetime its just for you to see. theres a lyric in every brook as it rushes over rocks, theres an ode in every nuance, as loves wonder unlocks, theres rhythm in every sound, every beating of a heart, theres poetry in every union and every couple who are apart and just as there is wonder in every new life created there is sadness and regret, for the unsaid and unfeted just listen for the music that your ears cannot hear, just strain yourself for the melody thats so far and yet so near the wonder of the creator, the magic of the divine is there to feel, for all of us, to soon be yours and mine.
Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder beauty is in all things. beauty is in the sky. beauty is in the water ever so blue. beauty is the winter when trees are covered with snow. beauty is the summer when you smell and see the flowers grow. beauty is all things big and little. beauty is in all things, black and white. beauty is in all things, you and me. beauty is all around us.can't you see?.
Beauty is a gift of god love and affection beauty and warmth pleasure and comfort beauty is a desire of lovely face and heart beauty is a melodious tune beauty is art what is beauty without love and affection beauty is happiness of a kind nature such a beauty aishwarya rai has impressive and bold eyes if she can be beautiful so can u be be gud and have some fun being beautiful is a kind of a duty beauty is of love and affection not any kind of rejection.
Even as on some black background full of night and hollow storm in cloudy disarray, the forceful brush of some great master may more brilliantly evoke a higher light; so beautiful, so delicately white, so like a very metaphor of may, your loveliness on my life's sombre grey in its perfection stands out doubly bright. and yet your beauty breeds a strange despair, and pang of yearning in the helpless heart; to shield you from time's fraying wear and tear, that from yourself yourself would wrench apart, how save you, fairest, but to set you where mortality kills death in deathless art?.
Beauty imposes reverence in the spring, grave as the urge within the honeybuds, it wounds us as we sing. beauty is joy that stays not overlong. clad in the magic of sincerities, it rides up in a song. beauty imposes chastenings on the heart, grave as the birds in last solemnities assembling to depart.
Beauty is the sensation of your heart skipping a beat, when eyes full of mischief glance at you. beauty is the smile which appears on your lips, when you think of the way he smiles at you. beauty is in the heart which touches another beauty is tender hands holding each other beauty is strong arms holding you warm beauty is in water, beauty is in weather, beauty is in air, beauty is in life beauty is in love, beauty is in wind. beauty surrounds you days and nights yet no one knows beauty's heights.
If i had a son i'll show him care so as to have love i'll give him money so as to have more id show him compassion so that he'll be my companion i'll teach him spanking sothat he'll know his wrongs i'll show him life so that he'll learn to give i'll show him the world so he'll supress his greed.
He was anyone, everyone's son. a splendid, strapping lad with a smile to make an angel blush; so innocent, shy and wide. there was goodness in his every gesture, and in every stride of his bold step; as he marched off with his regiment to a war not of his making, but he went. without complaint he went, believing it was his duty to fight beside his mates; even if the odds were great, as they died in their thousands like slaughtered sheep. sheltered by the somme in an unmarked grave where memory saves forgetfulness, that, and his final letter are all that remain of anyone, everyone's son.
My son, you can make it although i am gone you are not alone god will see you through all of your trying times as he sits on his throne my son, you can make it please hold to god's unchanging hand being here was not one of god's promises so it was meant for me to go when the master made his call i couldn't say no my son you can make it to where i made it for we will meet again face to face when your work here is done and thy heavenly father makes his calls for you to come one home my son you can make it.
I hope my little brother is nothing like you your a monster that feeds on innocent minds why are you so up tight let go of me thats all you hear little bro try to stay strong don't pick up that mans bad ways i wish i could over come that man he a beast a dog unbearable can't understand me let my brother be free of you and your bad ways.
His father a decorated soldier a noble hearted one and he the ballad singer sings of battles fought and won a true chip of the the old block when all is said and done he has his father's d n a and he is his father's son. 'tis not to listen to war ballads that i have come in here i came in for to quench my thirst with a cool frothy beer he ends another war song to another loud encore yet why do they applaud him and beg him to sing more? his songs fire the patriotism in them by keeping old wars alive and ballads of old soldiers insure that wars survive the songs he sing are very old and have been often sung of brave men who risked their lives in war and of brave men who died young. he sings of young men who went to war that was the choice they made these old men now who on war memorial day march in the big parade with their bravery medals on display they won't leave old wars die the war that was to end all wars another old war lie. the son of a war hero of war he choose to sing though too much of patriotism is not a healthy thing a true chip of the old block when all is said and done he has his father's d n a and he is his father's son.
Kai, my sensitive son. an old soul. so much to teach. my son intelligent, quick witted, cheeky too. at times i will dispare, what to do. my son. my son. whom makes my heart burst with joy. my son, my only boy. inquisitive looks, lust for life. my son. this little man of mine, could not be more precious were he made of gold. my son i steal into his room at night, to watch him sleep. lent to me by god. mine for a while to keep. my son.
He is serving three years for armed robbery but the mother says my son is not a crim he is not the one who robbed the uptown drug store for someone else the cashier mistook him my son has told me that he is not guilty and what he tells me i always believe he is a kind, honest and loving person and does not use guns and is not known to deceive the mother believes her son has been wrongfully imprisoned she says my son should not be serving time my son was mistaken for a lookalike person he was not anywhere near the scene of the crime of course she believes what her son did tell her even though her son told her a blatant lie and she will go on believing he has been wronged right up until the moment that she die you will not find a love truer or greater than the love a mother has for her daughter or son she stands by them through their trials and tribulations her offspring in her life are number one a good mother will stick up for her children despite what others of them have to say she will always be there for to support them when all others from them turn away her son has served a third of his three year sentence she visits him every second day she says my son he is not even guilty for someone else's crime why should he pay?.
Mr pierce the butcher got news his son was missing about a month before the closing of the war. a bald man, tall and careful, he stood in his shop and found no bottom to his sadness, nowhere for it to stop. when my aunt came through the door delivering the milk, he spoke, with his quiet air of a considerate teacher, but words weren't up to it, he turned back to the meat. the message was in error. later that humid summer at a local high school fete, i saw, returned, the son still in his uniform. mr pierce was not there but was as if implied in the son who looked like him except he had red hair. for i recall him well encircled by his friends, beaming a life charged now doubly because restored, and recall also how within his hearty smile his lips contained his father's like a light within the light that he turned everywhere.
When i am alone, without my son, i cry, i change, i am alone again, without anyone to love, love is the most valued posession, without my son i am nothing, but i am relieved, without my son, i feel free to go and come as i please, nothing to hold me down, nothing to hold me back from anything in my day, because i am without my son, my days return to being empty and pointless, because i am without my son, the sun doesn't seem as bright and trees don't seem as green, without my son, a pain in my chest is getting worse as i feel as though i can't breath, skipping breathes, and now i can't catch my breathe, because i am without my son, i can't sleep, then i sleep too much, i hardly eat my world is upside down, because i am without my son, i am dieing the slowest of deaths, because i am without my son.
The prodigal son has returned open arms and smiles welcome him at the door he calls me on the phone telling me hes coming finally ready to be back at the end he says something it means everything to me 'i love you. '.
You're standing in the doorway. your workday is all done. he waits to see you everyday, this boy that is your son. he hopes you will go fishing. he hopes you'll shoot the gun. he just wants to be with you, this boy that is your son. he is your spitting image. to him you are ''the one''. he hopes to be just like you, this boy that is your son. you show him what a man is. you teach as you have fun. you are admired as well as loved by this boy that is your son. you've got a friend forever. until the world is done. then, still you will be holding this man that is your son.
Why does it have to be this way but i love him anyway when will he stop when will he learn i just dont understand. he makes his life so uneasy it that suppost to please me why does he do the things he does to fight for a love he once lost. my head hurts from all the stress when all i asked him was to get dressed. comments please.thank you.
I'd known her all my life, nursed her for seven years night and day yet when last night i lay down to sleep i heard myself say as if to someone else, what a splendid lady, i wish i'd known her better.
Though i only had you for a month, that time though short, will remain in my heart, and mind for a lifetime. you were so young, sweet, adorable. you smiled, even up until the end. i held you in my arms as you took your last breath, tears rolling down my cheeks, and falling upon your tiny little body. if only i could have done more than just holding you, and stroking your cheek, and telling you we would meet again someday far into the future. mortality, what a cruel gift which can be taken away in the blink of an eye.
The answer to do you love me isn't, i married you, didn't i? or, can't we discuss this after the ballgame is through? it isn't, well that all depends on what you mean by 'love'. or even, come to bed and i'll prove that i do. the answer isn't, how can i talk about love when the bacon is burned and the house is an absolute mess and the children are screaming their heads off and i'm going to miss my bus? the answer is yes. the answer is yes. the answer is yes.
Son of hidden sun lead them with invocation isn't with flying lizard that will make you more sincere son of hidden sun enforce them with patience isn't by force that will make you more devout son of hidden sun gaze that hates you as best friends not as enemy that will make you more love son of hidden sun reply they angry with love isn't with resentment that will make you more patience.
A dad, a son, one life, one love, a road, all alone, one last strife, from above. dad's ticket has been bought, dad's heart has been shot. unfair, son cries, dad dries. shaky hands rub son's face, with embrace, dad whispers words, in son's ear. another tear of the son falls, on dad's palm vanishing with rainfalls. can not breathe easy, blood flows from dad's body. dad smiles and looks his son, as his hand falls on the ground. eyes stay glassy and empty, a tear dropp stays still on dad's eyelash. tears in son's eyes, dad slowly dies, in weak son's hands. by the road purple lilies smile, red roses seem to die. son takes a sweet lilie lies it in his father's hand, and whispers slowly; 'i know, i know, me too dad'. last dad's words; son, i am sorry, i never said, but i.
My son i am here i cannot protect you from the world. my son i am here i can only love you no matter what my son i am here my love unconditional on this you can rely my son i am here to guide and to teach you and now you must fly my son i am here life can be difficult i hear your cry my son i am here changes are painful never forget who you are my son i am here maintain the faith in yourself and in god my son i am here self acceptance is yours do not fear my son i am here.
Just give the world good morning, wish for the sun to shine, don't give the wind the warning, he knows that we are fine. and give the helpless, hope, and give the poorest, dreams, don't give the weakest, dope, don't give the frightened, screams. raise your hands upon ones, give them what they deserve, tell them that even guns, ruin the world we serve. don't shake the earth so hard, don't send us fire, burns, you always put in guard, to fear for what one earns. and as you say good morning, and make us all apply, your rules, and if we're mourning, never tell us goodbye. you know that love is god, you see us from above, and you think that is odd, we know. that god is love.
My son is sleeping and god is with him long legs all over the bed big hands on the blanket sixteen not a boy not a man how can this happen? motherhood is a mystery and a miracle god is painting a masterpiece as i am watching.
Happy birthday son melvin banggollay today is your birthday dear little child of mine whose touch tells me go on, ' dad be happy' even sometime life seems so full of malady and with cowing thunder forcing one to insanity while ocean of tears flows with much agony. son, i have no other gift to give you today i am so sorry i can't give you even just a candy for i have nothing left even just a single penny but i give you a love full of gold and sweet honey that will always be there to care you till eternity. i love you son, my little boy on your 2nd birthday i pray to god that you'll be blessed with humility and be crowned with strong faith to the almighty that when you grow up you'll be the man i want to be a man of virtues serving god and humanity. may you have more birthday to come my budoy long live my dear little son. happy birthday.
Our son the soldier how great a man he must be to be joined in the fight to set another part of the world free our son the soldier so very proud of you we are to all of us who love you, you will always be our shining star our son the soldier so far from home and in a foreign place just close your eyes to see a familiar smiling face our son the soldier so very far away we will all be waiting with open arms on your coming home day.
On august 26th in the year ninteen fifty three god and my wife gave a son to me a special son we knew from the start and from that day on joy has filled my heart our teachings about values, honesty and life were installed but mostly by my wife our son was a blessing a gift from above his special charm, thoughfulness and especially his love his efforts and determation to obtain his goal we watched with pride as they did unfold now as a man and a father himself his wife and children are more precious than wealth so remember our son as you open each new door as much as we love you god loves you more author hewitt hardy.
How would you have us, as we are? or sinking 'neath the load we bear? our eyes fixed forward on a star? or gazing empty at despair? rising or falling? men or things? with dragging pace or footsteps fleet? strong, willing sinews in your wings? or tightening chains about your feet?.
Black man in america for to long our chains held us so tight beaten down as far as the dust chained to the night black man in america can't you see we free now at least physically but freedom isn't free if we still enslaved mentally black man in america stand up and let your voices be heard your families are calling you because they don't deserve to be deserted or mistreated let us be stronger than they because the greatest retalation is providing a successful way for your black babies and mine to have a brighter day they are calling out to you heed their cry and respond favorably to them saying here am i black man in america we must continue to wage this fight and let our hands be strong and our fingers do the fightin' black man in america a success you must become because without success our freedom wasn't really won black man in america stand up and be heard its imperative for you to provide the light for a brighter day that your children so richly deserve black man in america.
America is red, white, and blue, the colors that stand so brave, and true. men in battle facing death, men in the world provoking crime, and theft. america stand up on your feet, hold proudly out the flag, tenderly, and sweet. america is home of the true, of people at peace like me, and you. red is for the blood in battle we do shed, white is for the peace we all share, but sometimes we seldom even care. blue is for the sky where our fathers have gone, and stayed, watching us as we fight for peace both night, and day.
America, oh sweet home of mine glories beaconing fine my heart longs for you your path way i dream to pass thru. america, this dwelling of bountiful opportunities other lands merging for your treaties. beauty of all sought lies in your calling terrain eyes for glory can never look in vain. america, these victors at battle field all from god, you obey and yield. you traces and fight the test of time, and glance at echoes of time. america, i accomodate you in my vacuum remaining no way for others complaining. now, my muse waxing lyrica all for you america.
As i looked out the window birds soar across the sky, o how i envy their freedom, their realm ever so high. i remembered america's liberty, and how this country began, when settlers came and started a new life with their clan. and now, so many many years later, this world a dark place. but america is still shining, with all it has to face.
Wonderful land that makes us one fantastic place where everyone chases glorious as it is, a home where everybody belongs you have been the pot of the potter hat a dream that every race has raised alluring to the autumn spring, where winter awaits the crystal clear of summer a beauty that my heart gives the start of my journey's part amusing, my soul rejoices the scenery that offers me fall let my life make the same a moment where i remain stand still, dear america you await me, till i meet freedom that you give life as we live, thing has to believe, nation has to live cherish america.
It's great to live in a country big and strong it doesn't matter if you are young or old our thoughts are as good as gold where we go on land or sea we can always be happy and free free to express our thoughts and then even express them over again to different people no matter what color or race in america for them there is always a place to make a home for their families to roam the fields; the woods. the countryside especially the young man and his bride for seniors and teens in formals or jeans who ever it may be remember we can always be free just like a bird chirping, singing happily. like chipmunks in the wood calling to his mate and being good. good to his family and grandpa talking to his emily pondering over ideas and thoughts galore and, off to bed and listen to him snore taken up in the morning early light whenever it is nice and bright in america where we are always free where in new york harbor stands the statue of liberty her hand raised high toward the sky where our planes in freedom fly where all of us want to be america for you and me liberty and freedom will never end i'll get down on both my knees and bend to thank god i am an american in a country great and grand who wants to be anywhere else except in america where we can do so much expand america will always be my land.
Life is cold life is shady ima black in america still getting treated like a second habd citizen life is so unfair my flow is never heard never felt cause i am black in america i study keeping flowing creating styles cause i cant stick with one style but life is cold america still wont let me be happy until they beat me mentally call me names make me feel bad for being black i am just going off life is shady ima done with this.
Like any other changeling she was waiting to transform waiting for her arms to curl into flaps waiting for another set of legs to emerge standing before the mirror of transformation with the decal in the upper corner of the glass of a white winged unicorn suddenly the thought of morphing frightened her a bit as she thought of the impossibility of being in the ballet or riding on an airplane to visit her aunt she crossed her fingers canceling her wish to be a unicorn she spun three times before the magic mirror and closed her eyes hoping that when she opened them she would just be herself and wondering as she did this exactly who or what she was.
Im lost, ive been this way, ten years to the day, i still cannot find what i am looking for until, i found my mirror, at first i overlooked its powers, but i suddenly saw the beauty i saw hope, something save my from my terror i grow excited, i dance around, hoping that i do not break it hope that do not destroy this beauty or seven years of bad luck will befall me, but if i do not dance with it, i also fear that it will no longer want me it may betray and leave me lost once again, lost.
Seeing is believing. whatever was thought or said, these persistent, inexorable deaths make faith as such absent, our humanness a question, a disgust for what we are. whatever the hope, here it is lost. because we coveted our difference, here is the cost.
I really miss, my broken mirror it's like having a black empty space i have bought a new one, much clearer i thought i would see a new face it's the old face just have to get nearer but the old one it will never replace.
Mirrors, awful things, yet beautiful at the same time, they show you what you wish to see, yet not always what you may like, they show the truth, the harrowing truth, that leads to many deaths, and to many futures, some great, some dire, some over before they even begin.
Mirror, mirror looking back at me is a face of pure wonder her eyes are a dark brown and full of youth and naivety curiosity and independence her curls falling down to her shoulders mystery in every strand mirror, mirror reflecting somebody that i can't even recognize she pretends and she lies she runs and she hides she knows she's greater than that but she doesn't do anything to change it mirror, mirror show me who i am show the inner self that's beautiful and blooming the girl that's not afraid to be herself show me my purpose show me my life, my mistakes and my regrets so i can fix them throughout my life mirror, mirror amaze me with truth who are my real friends, sticking by my side who are my foes, betraying me with their lies amaze me with my future to keep away any surprise. mirror, mirror one last time, tell me why i seem to feel so empty inside why i'm filled with these questions and why i have no answers mirror, mirror on the walls of my heart.
I look at this girl before me she's familiar, yet unknown she's reaching out to touch me she's abandoned and alone she's living in a nightmare her eyes are tightly shut she can't stand to see her pain caused by those she used to trust she tries to speak, and cry for help but her words will not come out it's like nobody can hear her no matter how loud she shouts i'm the only one who understands the torture she's been through her mind's been toyed and played with and her heart has been abused now if her heart is broken can i put it back in place? can i wipe away the teardrops that are falling down her face? can i erase the memories that are deep inside her mind? can i take away the hurting that she's suffered all her life? and can i make her smile when all she does is frown? can i pick her up and hold her when she's lying on the ground can i hide her imperfections if they're all she ever sees? how do i tell her she's pretty if she doesn't know what it means? and if she wants to be alone am i supposed to follow? how do i turn the light on if she's hidden in the shadow? and if she turns to walk away do i try to pull her nearer? how do i help the person that i see inside the mirror?.
Once again she stands motionless her eyes searching for something. something of beauty she can hold; everyday searching, too many times told it's not there. so she, lost in that eternal stare peruses the fine lines, the brows, the cheeks. but what she seeks is not found in a reflection. she needs a stare deeper within where the ugliness lies snug in a lack of hugs and affirming words; a bonafide love for the awkwardness, the less than perfect nose and the cheekbones not so high, the words that don't come out quite right. for the mirror is a terror to a dissatisfied, unsettled heart that cannot see beauty beyond the physical glare. she must learn one day to search much deeper there where she'll see contentment smiling, finally understanding this is the purest prettiest reflection ever known and ever shown.
A mirror hung upon a wall. a man, quite handsome, also tall stepped up to look inside the glass and gave himself the nod, the pass. he saw exquisite, handsome features superior to all other creatures. black hair and pearl white teeth to smile amana suit completes the style. his nails were short and manicured flat stomach muscles had endured so many sessions of the crunches and, from inside, martini lunches. two diamonds hung from his sleeves and maple golden rings, like leaves adorned pink ears and looked expensive his jewellery was quite extensive and in addition, on his arms two rolexes, with loud alarms. he stood and looked from head to toes but did not know a mirror shows to all the world just your outside what counts is all the things you hide. for mahnaz whose poem inspired me as much as she does.
When you look in the mirror what do you see. a reflection of yourself or the opposite of thee. someone who finds fault in the decisions that you make. who thinks that you're the imposter, that you're the fake. . how do they deal with the problems that you face. do they do it with better logic and grace. or do they just ignore them and make light of it. bury their head in the sand and end up in the shit. it leads me to think of frosts 'the road not taken' when the morning comes and i awaken. but who knows what way the future roads lay. i am who i am, come what may.
I stare into the mirror. staring at what looks like me, but isn't. that's not my reflection. it's the appearance i thought i hid. it's the screaming i hear inside my head. it appears in the mirror. an apparition of the past. the thoughts i feel became physical, no longer mental. my eyes stared back at me. that sad, lonely face appeared. and for an instant i saw my strength. the strength i thought i lost a once strong person on the outside becomes how she feels on the inside. lost, but with a glint of hope. barely there, tiny in size, but nevertheless the strength i need to move away from the mirror image.
When i look in the mirror, what do i see? a beautiful human being staring right back at me when i move grade to grade, what has been shown? my smartness and how much my progress has grown when i read a book, cover to cover i always go back to get another some may ask, how do i dress i may answer, i dress to impress when i go out i present myself with pride you can tell by the way i walk, stride for stride when you look in the mirror, what do you see? i see a beautiful human being staring right back at me.
He continues to ponder and his wife moves next to him. she looks.they look at themselves looking through the fog. she has a meeting she says in about thirty minutes, he has something too.but still she has just stepped out of the bath and a single drop of water has curved along her breast down her abdomen and vialed in her navel then disappeared in crimson.unless they love then wake in love who can they ever be?their faces bloom, a rain mists down, the bare bulb softens above the glass, so little light that the hands mumble deliciously, that the mouth opens mothlike, like petals finding themselves awake again at four o'clock mid shade and sun.
Mirror, mirror on the wall. who will be ready to catch her when she falls. mirror mirror you see im not big nor tall. but tell me please, tell me i can be her all. mirror, mirror i resemble pitiness you say. but i've learned to accept and thank anyway. mirror, mirror cant you see. i don't think i can be what she wants me to be. mirror, mirror with your reflection so dim. why must i fault, why must i sin? mirror, mirror with you being so precise. can you spare me some knowledge, lend me some wise? mirror, mirror i love your recognition. but please let this noose end me with submission.
Mirror, mirror on the wall why can't i be the smartest of all mirror, mirror on the wall why can't i found true love at all mirror, mirror on the wall why can't i stop cutting myself mirror, mirror on the wall why do i feel lonley all the time mirror, mirror on the wall why do i feel stupid every day mirror, mirror on the wall why do you make me feel sad all the time.
They say that mirrors are gateways to a parallel universe and i think this may be true because although we look alike, i am nothing like you. i wish you could be the mother that you used to be instead of being with that man, you're dirt beneath his feet the saddest part is what could have been you could have been my closest friend you could have been the greatest mom all if you had just stayed strong. you used to be so beautiful now youre skin and bone your voice is thick with toxins, i can hear it on the phone. you'd be so proud if you actually cared if you made the right choices and were actually there i won; t blame myself anymore and i'm done staring at the door just waiting for you to come back changed to have your priorities rearranged. in a world where you put your children first is a world where my brother and i wouldn't have to hurt and i worry every single day that i'll lose my grip and become that way but then i know its just a thought i would never give up after how long i've fought i don't want to end up like you and i wont. i refuse. do you even know how much i've cried? over the hate and of the lies? my mirror, mirror sets me free. i'll never be like you but forever will be me.
When you look in the mirror it scares you to see your reflection a worthless human being who drags through the day and wishes nightfall would come quicker so you could hide that ugly face the window to your soul where people can see the rotting insides so much rejection and pain its too much a simple punch a loud smash and that ugly reflection is no more than a shattered mirror.
Alone i lay on a wooden raft alone i stay in the dark alone i pray to survive alone i may not survive alone i look out the sea alone i wake up on the sea alone i seek out for help alone i may not survive alone i eat my dry food alone i drink the salty water alone i sit in the cold alone i may not survive alone, yes, alone i stare at the storm alone, yes, alone i live on the sea alone, yes, alone i wait for the rescue boat alone, yes, alone i may not survive alone, yes, alone i pray to be safe alone, yes, alone i call out for help alone, yes, alone i get on the boat alone, yes, alone i was rescued alone, yes, alone i lived on sea for months alone, yes, alone i walk ashore unaided alone, yes, alone i continue to hold the guinness world record for survival at sea.
In the sea caves there's a thirst there's a love there's an ecstasy all hard like shells you can hold them in your palm. in the sea caves for whole days i gazed into your eyes and i didn't know you nor did you know me. untitled poem drawn from the book of exercises. all translations by edmund keeley and philip sherrard.
Shades of green and aqua blue the sea painted a thousand hues beneath thundering ocean wave out of the reach of mariners graves a living testimony swims in majesty once the rulers of the sea a whale song rings from beneath the ocean a song of praise and true devotion to the god of creation and of the sea a sea being robbed by cruel thieves the whale song drifts silently away the hands of man have silenced their praise as god looks down in his majesty as tears trickle down on the silent sea.
The old moon is tarnished with smoke of the flood, the dead leaves are varnished with colour like blood. a treacherous smiler with teeth white as milk, a savage beguiler in sheathings of silk the sea creeps to pillage, she leaps on her prey; a child of the village was murdered today. she came up to meet him in a smooth golden cloak, she choked him and beat him to death, for a joke. her bright locks were tangled, she shouted for joy with one hand she strangled a strong little boy. now in silence she lingers beside him all night to wash her long fingers in silvery light.
White caped waves in the curl of the sea smell of the ocean air on the white sandy beach. colors of the sky roaring of the sea walking in the wet sand with my hair blowing in the breeze. rolling of the waves splashing on the beach seagulls flying over in the roaring sea. reflections from the sun casting colors upon the sea splashing of the waves that roll under my feet.
Who lay against the sea, and fled, who lightly loved the wave, shall never know, when he is dead, a cool and murmurous grave. but in a shallow pit shall rest for all eternity, and bear the earth upon the breas that once had worn the sea.
Oh sea, why do you deliberately pound the rocks along the bay, sending showers of white foam up, in a cascade of spray, can you not cease your travels, churning incessantly, surging back and forth, always longing to be free. oh sea, why do you keep hold of such impatience, in your hands, forever turning restless, racing for the sands, then teetering up the shingle, and rushing back again, shifting shells and pebbles, and layers of sandy grain. oh sea, why draw it all towards you, like some almighty tongue, devouring it in mouthfuls, then spewing it among the coves, caves and crevices, which are found along the cliffs, dispersing all the creatures, living in the rifts. oh sea, you are gigantic, so powerful and so wild, and yet at times you're gentle, just like a little child, you command our admiration, your vastness is immense, but you are so unpredictable, your energy intense. oh sea, you are the great expanse, of the oceans of the world, we treat you with respect, when your anger is unfurled, your boundless depths are fathomless, holding secrets still, your waters are so mecurial, subject to your will. oh sea, it is a pleasure when your tides flow, to and fro, to sit and watch the sunsets, over waters all aglow, to know your restless feelings, to accept your endless task, and yet to try and understand, what you keep behind your mask oh sea, who owns the tranquil blues and greens, and violets too, that in your watery world to us, gives such a wondrous view, we know your unleashed mighty force, the course you have to take, the storms, the squalls, the hurricanes, these terrors make us quake.
oh sea, we know of other words like tranquil, calm and still, times when you are peaceful, with no need to thrill, contrasts are your constant plan, your order of the day, and admiring you, we would not have you, any other way.
My father and mother, two tiny figures, side by side, facing the clouds that move in from the atlantic. august, '33. the whole weight of the rain to come, the weight of all that has fallen on their houses gathers for a last onslaught, and yet they hold, side by side, in the eye of memory. what was she wearing, you ask, what did he say to make the riding clouds hold their breath? our late august afternoons were chilly in america, so i shall drape her throat in a silken scarf above a black dress. i could give her a rope of genuine pearls as a gift for bearing my father's sons, and let each pearl glow with a child's fire. i could turn her toward you now with a smile so that we might joy in her constancy, i could bury the past in dust rising, dense rain falling, and the absence of sky so that you could turn this page and smile. my father and mother, two tiny figures, side by side, facing the clouds that move in from the atlantic. they are silent under the whole weight of the rain to come.
It seems the theme this yuletide. as thought up by some folks, is "let's keep christ in christmas", say, are they making jokes? i've always thought from childhood, that this was his birth date, or so that's why my mother said, our folks did celebrate, am i all wrong? is this all new? or are we coming back, from down the road where we turned off, and maybe lost some track. i find that if i close my mind, to worldly pleasures here, that christ is christmas all the time, each day throughout each year. but if by chance you've lost your way, then wash the slate up clean, give credit to those folks who thought, of this years, "yuletide theme." but when all of this is over, and yuletide lights go out, let's not keep christ in christmas, but each day from here on out.
I hung the decorations and i trimmed the christmas tree. what really means the most of all is that you're here with me. you make the season special without spending lots of dough. your neverending friendship means more than you could know. i can't say what it means to me to share this special time. i thank god for another year that he's let you be mine. let's deck the halls and celebrate with family and friends. but, lets take time for you and me before the season ends.
'twas the night before christmas. with a blanket of white. that covered the earth all through the night. the trees sparkled like diamonds. with a glitter so bright. that each little twinkle made its own christmas light. a hope and a prayer a white christmas would be. awaiting the dawn so all could see. the beauty and joy a white christmas does bring. to the holiday season as carolers sing. for twas the night before christmas. god answered your prayer. with a blanket of white. placed with god's loving care. ".
Sitting in front of the fire, auntie flo's reciting a story, it's one about her first christmas as a newly wed, the same one she broadcasts every year, but no one is listening. uncle fred, 'out to the world' snores rhythmically on the sofa. mother exhausted, having cooked the lunch, without help, as usual, stifles a yawn. dad, brow furrowed, is trying to piece together eddy's lego set, whilst eddy glowers, after all, it was 'his' present. joe, playing with a set of 'disco lights' is sending flashes of colour across the room, straight into grandpa's eyes, making him feel even more bilious after having consumed too many chocolates. grandma's knitting. grandma always knits on christmas day, and every other day, come to that, probably yet another scarf for what she believes is still the war effort. the cat, curled up on her lap, purrs contently, oblivious of the knitting needles, waving precariously in front of his sleepy eyes. susan is gazing at the tv screen, . glued, for the umpteenth time to, 'the sound of music' movie, singing every song, word for word, at the top of her voice. 'turkey was nice', said auntie, 'i was given too much', moaned grandpa, belching loudly. 'your problem is, you never can refuse a second helping', said grandma, 'so it's your own fault'. mother grins and asks, 'would anybody like another mince pie? '.
In presence of the multitude, i have shown barring no gift, for what hath i worth thy child. in glance of many gifts bestowen, frankensence, muir, silver, gold, for i posses nothing worth lord. in tater clothes i bow mother mary, and confess the birth of virgin son, yet words fall short of glory be. as thy man joseph smiles upon, watching o'er thy babe jesus, i surrender in humilitance unto my lack. in moment chance hold thy hand, of the child that taketh my place, for this tiny babe shall wash me clean. in this childs eyes my saving grace, in his fathers hand thy mercy proclaims.
Once upon a christmas day, a sense of cheer and joy were in the air, music aroused the spirit everywhere. decorated trees and colorful lights strung, on the mantel the children's stockings hung. once upon a christmas day, greetings were extended with smiling faces, fond thoughts that my memory embraces, many wrapped gifts in full array, an annual tradition on this holy day. once upon a christmas day, carolers were singing from afar, while in the heaven appeared a bright star. this christmas came on a snowy day leaving memories that will forever stay.
Christmas list and christmas wish all apart of the christmas theme without any of it its like there is no meaning but im here to tell im here to yell that christmas is not all about you christmas she get you in the spirit for what you need to do help the poor help the needy help the ones that dont get this or that help the ones that have that and this christmas is not all about you if i need to yell or scream to tell you what christmas means i will i promise because christmas is not all about me its not all about you just what you need to do.
Dear, look to the christmas angel atop your christmas tree. then all your wishes will come true, when she smiles down on you. listen to the bells of christmas ringing throughout the land the church, the school, and sleigh bells, too, sounds of love.old.yet.new. in the middle of falling snow and sparkling crystal rain when winds blow cold against the frosted window pane there's a pleasant warmth felt everywhere in the merry christmas glow since all your christmas blessings dwell as spirits in your heart; become as santa full of mirth. spread peace and joy on earth.
So, this is christmas morning. everyone is here. i don't really understand it cause it isn't very clear, but mom and dad are happy, there's pretty ribbons everywhere, lots of things that they call presents and even paper i can tear. they keep showing me this new stuff, balls and books and even soxes. they don't seem to know how fun it is just playing with these boxes.
Once again it's christmas time, time for us to be, busy wrapping presents and setting up the tree. it seems we have so many things, to think of and to do, we may forget that christmas, has a deeper meaning too. a meaning that goes far beyond, the things the eye can see, such as holly wreaths, mistletoe, and gifts beneath the tree. for these are only symbols, of what happened christmas morn, when in a little manger, god's only son was born. god put him here upon this earth, with one idea in mind. to put new hope around the world, and love in all mankind. so even though we're busy, and have many things to do, let's not forget that christmas, has a deeper meaning too.
After dark near the south dakota border, the moon is out hunting, everywhere, delivering fire, and walking down hallways of a diamond. behind a tree, it ights on the ruins of a white city frost, frost. where are they gone who lived there? bundled away under wings and dark faces. i am sick of it, and i go on living, alone, alone, past the charred silos, past the hidden graves of chippewas and norwegians. this cold winter moon spills the inhuman fire of jewels into my hands. dead riches, dead hands, the moon darkens, and i am lost in the beautiful white ruins of america.
Coloured lights and tinsel. hang from almost every branch. card with little jingles. also make their stance. an angel stands on the top. looks down with peace and good will. the tree is almost ready now. to stand by the window sill. 14 nov 1978.
I have a little husband and he is gone to sea, the winds that whistle round his ship fly home to me. the winds that sigh about me return again to him; so i would fly, if only i were light of limb.
Where did you go when you left that day do you know i'm still crying do you know i still pray the last words you said were please hold my hand then what happened next i just don't understand you just went to sleep but where did you go i've been crying and waiting and missing you so you weren't ready to go i remember you said that it's gonna be years before you were dead we had plans for our future we had plans for today i still can't believe that you've gone away i miss you each minute of everyday are you not allowed back if i ask and i pray i'll forget about my future i'll live in the past and then my dear husband forever we'll last i love you so much i would give up my life then we'll always remain husband and wife x.
O thou most high who rulest all and hear'st the prayers of thine, o hearken, lord, unto my suit and my petition sign. into thy everlasting arms of mercy i commend thy servant, lord. keep and preserve my husband, my dear friend. at thy command, o lord, he went, nor nought could keep him back. then let thy promise joy his heart, o help and be not slack. uphold my heart in thee, o god. thou art my strength and stay, thou see'st how weak and frail i am, hide not thy face away. i in obedience to thy will thou knowest did submit. it was my duty so to do; o lord, accept of it. unthankfulness for mercies past impute thou not to me. o lord, thou know'st my weak desire was to sing praise to thee. lord, be thou pilot to the ship and send them prosperous gales. in storms and sickness, lord, preserve. thy goodness never fails. unto thy work he hath in hand lord, grant thou good success and favour in their eyes to whom he shall make his address. remember, lord, thy folk whom thou to wilderness hast brought; let not thine own inheritance be sold away for nought. but tokens of thy favour give, with joy send back my dear that i and all thy servants may rejoice with heavenly cheer. lord, let my eyes see once again him whom thou gavest me that we together may sing praise forever unto thee. and the remainder of our days shall consecrated be with an engaged heart to sing all praises unto thee.
My darling can't you see? how very much you mean to me? on this our day, i've come to say; i love you more and more each day. mere words alone, cannot express; the love i feel, the tenderness, the joy, and happiness my dear; in knowing you are always near. when you are down, and feeling blue; i hope the sun comes shining through, to cheer you up, and make life glow; because my dear i love you so. may the lord bless and keep you in his way; and guide your footsteps day by day; and may your cup of life overflow; because my dear i love you so.
My life, my body is now shared, but, it seems so fair, as marriage made us pair, even though i dont always tell you, i love you, glad am married to you, at times we are rough, at times we are soft, but, you always have a big heart, that makes our love grow stronger, i am lucky to be part of your life, i am honoured to be your wife, you shared my good times, and at bad times stood like a rock, i dream about our sweet yesterdays, and our beautiful tommorow. never thought i could be loved so much, but, you made me feel, year after year. everyday, now i pray, for the every new life, i remain your wife.
I will love, cherish, and take care of you all the days of my life. for you have consented to be my wife. i will honor and respect all your beliefs and thoughts, for which you stood and fought. you did not let anything distract or sway you from your beliefs, which gave me a sense of relief. because if anyone was able to sway you in your younger years, we would not find happiness and cheer. you are strong, just like me and you captured my heart and set me free. and now that we are united as one under the eyes of god. i vow that we will never part. and this will be the beginning of our brand new start.
If ever two were one, then surely we. if ever man were lov'd by wife, then thee. if ever wife was happy in a man, compare with me, ye women, if you can. i prize thy love more than whole mines of gold or all the riches that the east doth hold. my love is such that rivers cannot quench, nor ought but love from thee give recompetence. thy love is such i can no way repay. the heavens reward thee manifold, i pray. then while we live, in love let's so persever that when we live no more, we may live ever.
O lord, thou hear'st my daily moan and see'st my dropping tears. my troubles all are thee before, my longings and my fears. thou hitherto hast been my god; thy help my soul hath found. though loss and sickness me assailed, through thee i've kept my ground. and thy abode thou'st made with me; with thee my soul can talk; in secret places thee i find where i do kneel or walk. though husband dear be from me gone, whom i do love so well, i have a more beloved one whose comforts far excel. o stay my heart on thee. my god, uphold my fainting soul. and when i know not what to do, i'll on thy mercies roll. my weakness. thou dost know full well of body and of mind; i in this world no comfort have, but what from thee i find. though children thou has given me, and friends i have also, yet if i see thee not through them they are no joy, but woe. o shine upon me, blessed lord, ev'n for my saviour's sake; in thee alone is more than all, and there content i'll take. o hear me, lord, in this request as thou before hast done, bring back my husband, i beseech, as thou didst once my son. so shall i celebrate thy praise ev'n while my days shall last and talk to my beloved one of all thy goodness past. so both of us thy kindness, lord, with praises shall recount and serve thee better than before whose blessings thus surmount. but give me, lord, a better heart, then better shall i be, to pay the vows which i do owe forever unto thee. unless thou help, what can i do but still my frailty show? if thou assist me, lord, i shall return thee what i owe.
Screw the fate that makes you share a man. one cuddles under cotton blankets; the other's cold. every now and then, well, maybe or maybe not, once or twice a month, oh, it's like nothing. you try to stick to it like a fly on rice but the rice is rotten. you slave like the maid, but without pay. if i had known how it would go i think i would have lived alone.
Battered husbands too exist a wife kicking his strong feet slapping his rugged jaw insulting him in front of his friends and shouting at him while talking breakfast she collars him and spits on him, his decency trampled like a rug at the door where she cleans her feet from all dirt where she stamps on his privacy i see him smile through all these, as though nothing really matters, nothing to mind nothing to be taken seriously she was once beautiful a face he always adore something wrong went somewhere, she went wild in the desert of her longings she fell on the deep abyss of her mind she lost her senses on some unacceptable pains she cries in the wilderness as though her soul is taken somewhere else and here he is this battered husband watching him with so much understanding her doctor will be coming again today for her injections.
Husbands, from the very foundation of the earth were given the right to be head of their homes. they are leaders, builders, protectors, and providers. you see, their shoulders are wide and their arms are strong ready and able to lift and carry any load. they've been purposely equipped to do and be. they were created in god's image. therefore they speak god's word over their wives as a cleanser. she was taken and formed from his rib a place so close and dear to his heart. they are warriors. they are a strong foundation of any home.
You're my husband what i'll never meet you're my husband what i'll neve see close to me you're my husband with whom i'll never speak the nicest words for you will never be heard my tender caress will never be felt my love to you will shine in dark and no one will feel it 'cause i want to give it only for you, my honey you'll never call me your baby no one tender word for me i'll never read from your lips could you tell me why is it so?.
Husband and wife wives are considered as an obedient they live happily and serve at present the husband and children are taken care of despite you dig at her and make laugh generally husbands are blamed for taking views one sided go to her only for sexual abuse give all what is needed to defuse the tension she has lot more things to take into account the pressure is on to mount she hides pain from mere devotional point "ideal wife" as she prefers to be painted children may stay inclined husbands too very heavily fined for not caring ailing partner this is really bad factor let us be reasonable some of the accusation invite troubles as husband has to earn and maintain despite taking jheavy economic burden.
Trust me with your pain i promise i'll take nothing in vien trust me with you heart i promise i'll never part trust me with your soul i promise i'll never let you go trust me enough to let your guard down i promise it'll only make me love you more trust me and i promise.
What have i done to lose your trust? can you please explain to me. why is it that you seem to think i'm trying to break free? i don't yearn for my freedom. i feel free in your arms. don't let those thoughts control you. i'm aware of all lifes harms. you'll never be forsaken. i'll always remain true. it hurts me when you don't believe. i'm forever loving you. i feel the pain you're feeling but, i am not to blame. it's just jealous emotions. i love you just the same. i won't give in to jealousy. you know me way too well. my loyalty won't falter surely you can tell. you don't need to be worried of things you cannot see. you gained a wife forever the day you married me.
Someone you love should be someone you trust. not who want lust. someone make you happy inside and out. not someone who make you sad and leftout. someone who care about you and like's to do what you want to do but you have to do the same too. that my peom i did my best so now i must rest.
The trust that happens as night to the sky looking into the darkness as the cries of the pain falling as the dew as tears of love and i shine in wetting as the rain of faith in trust as the light of faith tunes to the faith of love yet intense leading the love like a rising sun in the sky.
Trust not one when you want your work to be done. trust god even when he shakes a nod. don't trust your eyes they may tell lies. trust is sacred but not hatred. 'trust' is a five letter word but its as sharp as a sword.
He used to love you so much, slowly, when u said you hate to rush, yes, he followed all your decisions, to recognize the flow you follow, so that he can love you the way you wanted, with a pure heart, without any bad intentions. you were very lucky to have had fallen in love with him, cuz every second you spend with him, he counted, cuz when you're with him, all the grey clouds are nowhere to be seen, cuz when giving you his everything, he never hesitated. you and him, started out wonderfully, so perfect that people was so envy of your relationship, everybody, even your best of friends you thought you could believe, spread rumours that caused you to trust them more than him, he was so dissapointed even though he loved you, it seems. you slapped his face for something he didn't do, then he ran back to his home and cried cuz thinking of you, he thought you trusted him as much as he did, he thought he had loved you as much as you needed. at the end, you found out that the rumours were untrue, sad and worried that he will hurt himself, you drove so fast in hopes of finding him, but suddenly, a huge and fast truck, you ran into, and the last thing you saw was his beam. you let the memories fade away, but that was what he always hope not to happen, he still misses you until today, and hopes to see you then in heaven.
What is trust? who can we trust? can we trust our loved ones? can we trust each other? do we need to earn trust? can i trust you with a secret? can we trust our police force? can we trust our political masters? can we trust what we hear? can we trust our eyes? can we trust the camera to never lie? is trust very important to you? without trust what do we have? can we trust our landlords? can we trust our children? can we trust our friends? without trust, there can be no friendship. without friendship, there can be no trust. do you trust me? is trust the most important factor in a relationship? i trust that you will forgive me this one time.
Trust trust many have found trust trust no where around trust trust is what many say trust trust here i lay trust trust in my ear trust trust i cant find you my dear trust trust is hard to find trust trust are you apart of mankind trust trust im calling to you trust trust please give me a clue trust trust i need my love trust trust she came from up above trust trust what do i do trust trust do i believe my boo trust trust am i right trust trust please show me the light trust trust your driving me crazy trust trust your just to hazy trust trust i will find you trust trust i will never find anew trust trust help me out trust trust cause with this love i dont want to wipeout trust trust sarah's is my heart trust trust she's a beauty of art.
Trust is when i believe you. turst is when i love you.. sometimes trust is scary. and trust makes one worry. but i trust you baby.. soo don't be sad, but be happy. sometimes its hard to believe. but when my trust in you comes through, oh what a relieve. most importantly, your trust in me. you always make me see. that in the end of the day. i shouldn't believe in hearsay. i trust you.
Trust is but a word but it still has meaning trust is a feeling thats always worth achieving trust is a must yes i know that ryhmes trust is trust it shows your mine i always will trust you i hope you can do the same because my trust for you is fueled by the love you have for me.
Throgh out your life you will meet people that will make fun of u behind your back. so be smart and dont tell some people your secrets and your fears. becuse if you piss some one off they might tell everone your secrets and fears and they will use them agenst you. if u what some one to trust you you will have to trust them first so be carfull with what u tell others. becuse they will try to piss u off. so you will mess up in life so they will try there hardest to get u upsit with your life and you will try to get killed be for your time. so dont let others control your life and do your best to succed in what you do.
Don't you trust me, don't you dare. you'll soon see, that you shouldn't have cared. why did you place, the trust on my lap? should have let it an empty space, and then you wouldn't have been in my trap. you should listen to me when i tell you, trust me not 'cause i will disapoint. i'll leave you all torn up and blue, and i'll beat you trust and disjoint, you heart as it will rust, 'cause i will be the one, who betrays your trust. and that is when your trust is done.
We had trust, but i blew it i said things i didnt mean said i'd do things i had no intention of doing but intentions dont matter when trust has been smashed. words can hurt even without actions but can my actions repair the hurt done by my words? i want to say im sorry i want to show you im sorry i want to regain your trust i want you.
Since when weren't you there? what was i to do whos my friend whos not i guess i just don't know anymore i'm hurt and sad but you don't care you just forget about me block me out of the picture just tell me you don't like me not infront of my so called friends it'll hurt me anyway but i have to know just one thing though, who do i have to trust?.
Why does your heart grow doubtful dear? tense and beating, full of fear. i keep with me your everlasting love, and bless the day god sent you from above. you remain my angel and i feel that i must, tell you that within you, you have my trust. my love is the tide, your soul is the shores, you have my heart, do i have yours? i'll belong to you till the very end, and you will forever stay as my lover and friend. it has been so good like this from the start, so darling please, trust me with your heart.
So many things are said, so little of them done, yet trust me? so hard to do, please do not say that, it hurts more, than any truth could, you have ruined, my trust in people, my trust in friends, say what you mean, say it to my face, do not play those little games, because; one day you will, take it too far, and i will snap back, and trust me, you will not get up.
Just trust him when you can't see, just trust him and believe for he is with you through your shadows of doubt. he is with you and will bring you out. just trust him, when the loneliness chills, just trust him, and follow his will. he will surround you with blankets of love, he will whisper from the heavens above. just trust him and you will find that he carries you through the storms of time. just trust him and finally be free as he lifts you up and helps you to soar higher and higher. you are not alone. lean upon the lover, as you walk through the desert. lean upon the lover, trust in him alone. for when you lean on him, you learn to see how things are meant to be. he carefully guides you by still streams and brings you through valleys low, until you know and discover the depths and the heights of his great love. monday, january 31,2005.
Who can i trust with my deepest secrets? who can i trust when my world falls apart? when everyone's lying and deceiving who can i trust with my heart? should i trust no one but myself? to keep my life i must be circumspect. keeping quiet, telling no one but god, he already knows the effect. i'll never believe the people again, the people who have hurt me once before. the saddest part is i'll never be trusting of anyone any more. how can i be certain that i won't be hurt? how could someone hide themselves so well? when everyone's lying and deceiving, how can anyone tell?.
This is the story of the total trust you gave me and i lost i was a bad thing i never used to think more than once i dropped and you helped me on my feet up and then again i didn't care and walked in that very same dark track you pushed me to show me the light and that there is a better track straight, bright and no one can dropp in it in front of you i walked in it but still the dark was what i wished you saw me walk to the light you gave me your total trust you never thought i'll go back to the dark after i knew that there was light but too bad i did you somehow saw me in it and all the trust you gave me i lost because you saw me dropp again but it was a bigger drop you told me help yourself out this time i really regret but you said to late you've dropped and only you can help yourself out because if i help you you'll return back to it that very dark scary track and here i'm begging you to help me out of it and you'll see me in that light never wanting that dark life please help me out and give me ur forgiveness after i take allah's.
Trust is a very big word you think you know that person but do you really know them? you think you can trust your bestfriend but you turn around and they stab you in the back you think you can trust that special persont but they do the same but black mail you you think you can trust your family but they lie and stab you in the heart you think you can trust everybody but really you dont know who to trust anymore so dont trust any one any one at all.
You do all you can, to make it on your own and you need someone, will feeling all along god will bring you through the storm and the rain just keep you head up high, and the sun will shine again just trust in him believe just trust in him hold on tight just trust in him believe just trust in him everything will be alright life can get hard, but you made it this far if you trust him, when theirs noone else around i know this, because i lost my way just keep the faith, because tomorrow's another day just trust in him believe just trust in him hold on tight just trust in him believe just trust in him everything will be alright god will pick you up, when trials come your way it may seem hard, you can't make it through day that's when you just have to say please restore me, when i pray just trust in him just trust in him just say it's o.k just say o.k.
Tell me why should not i cry just tell me why all my life like a dream passing by they all say give it another try tell me why i dont want to live but still i try i dont want to die but still i try no one is there for me but one thing gets me going the sweet innocent smile it says oh come on dont you dare to die the hope is still alive come on lets be together lets give it a try i cant live for ever then why should not we try lets be together lets give it a try why should not we love each other why cant we just give it a try oh come on all you people if not then tell me why?.
As when love eternal as flowing dazzles blue by the faith of truth deeper yet ripples either and transcended by the bliss as mystery of love as the myth when yet reasoned by the rainbow as revered by the faith of god all placid into the trust seems by the trust intense alone. the lonely ship when floats in night in the midst of deep sea in its direction taking all its fathom by the depth reeling by the waves in its room as it happen when does as intoned fizzles by the fear when fledged in the mute corridors of silence as the eternal swing as in spring neither from impulsion it smacks nor by the compulsion it glues but by the inner whispers it blooms as latching on to the one another yet unknown to the mortal glance as reviewed from beyond and beneath as the clouds come raining the grins over the greens slushig the sorrow.
Im scared to trust now. i had my trust broken many times before. i was left a broken girl. i still am broken inside. i simply cannot trust. its not you its me. my trust cant be broken again. so dont ask me to trust cos i cant do it. im to scared to trust.
Love is trust even when it comes to lust. that feeling of butterflies dont make up for all your lies. you lose the trust when you cheat it makes me feel defeat. trust in love because its as rare as a dove. when we get in a fight in the middle of the night dont tell me that you love me that doesnt make everything all right. love is not sex expecially when its in a text. phone sex dont count i hardly know what its about. screw your fondling it dont do a damn thing. love is sticking together no matter what the weather love is holding me tight in the middle of the night.
I am all alone, no one knows me, i walk close to a cliff, waiting to fall, waiting to jump to the waters below, waiting for the courge to end my hell of a life, i have no friends, no family, no one to love me for who i am, wanting to die.
If only i'd understand your true intent. but with a broken trust, was it all meant? i always think we'd make it to the end started believing, tried to comprehend but here you are flaunting your escapades completely forgotten i watched love fades broken trust this heart will never mend all these pain wielded inside my head.
Trust.why should i trust when i lose trust in everyone everyone i trusted has betrayed my trust i feel as if trust is but a word with no meaning why should i trust someone when they never believe me they say they trust me but its just a stupid lie why o why should i trust when nobody trusts me.
Can i trust the love of my life or will she leave me to die will she help me or will she leave me can i trust a person unlike myself yet like myself to the heart yet i can not part is she trust full with my life even in this troupled life.
"trust love even if it brings sorrow. do not close up your heart." "ah no, my friend, your words are dark, i cannot understand them." "pleasure is frail like a dewdrop, while it laughs it dies. but sorrow is strong and abiding. let sorrowful love wake in your eyes." "ah no, my friend, your words are dark, i cannot understand them." "the lotus blooms in the sight of the sun, and loses all that it has. it would not remain in bud in the eternal winter mist." "ah no, my friend, your words are dark, i cannot understand them. ".
Trust is a light that shines in your eyes bright and flickering as a candle in the breeze trust is the brown sparkles shone through all like stars at nightfall trust is when you cheer me and keep me laughing through tears better then anyone trust is making me feel like marilyn whilst i feel like liza minelli on a drip trust is everything i feel with you everyday in love always that is what trust is.
Take a look inside my heart look deep the truth will be clear i'm terrified of you my trust has been broken before i couldn't shield myself from the pain but, are you different will you be the one to make it alright please forgive me for this i can't trust you even if i wanted to prove to me you're real show me you're true tell me you'll always be there for me maybe i can put my trust in you.
I do not allow people into my heart. i do not trust them to not tear it all apart. i do not trust people not to hurt or betray me. and so i protect my heart by locking the gate and hiding the key. in all of this mistrust i can clearly see that one i truly do not trust is me.
You say you love me, and i want to believe again. we said i do, in better or worse, that was not true. when i look in the mirror all i see is a lie and hurt. i go to sleep in pain, i wake up in pain. when i am not near you i wonder, i hate this doubt. i had trust, i had faith in us. i gave, you took. this is not what i thought marriage would be like. i thought you were the one person, i could laugh with, talk with, cry with. i thought we had it all, and now its cold and dark. once the trust is gone, do we ever get it back. i hate this, i hate this feeling of not being enough. i always thought love was enough, i finally opened my heart and soul, perhaps that's what life is all about, all about the people you hold close, and the time they will betray you. suzy skoda.
I trust you father to provide a path for me to walk, . and wisdom to ignore the fools, . let them laugh and let them talk i trust you father to instill a roadmap for my life that steers me towards the rightous few and spares me pain and strife i trust you father to remind me of my own free will, that pitfalls lie within my path, that i must climb uphill i trust you father to accept that sometimes i grow weak, and thrist for waters of this world, and other love i'll seek i trust you father to forgive my sins in jesus' name, and when i die my soul will rise, and salvation i can claim i trust you father.
Will you trust me when i gone will you trust me if i left you alone will you trust me if i told you i love you will you trust me if i say i never let go will you trust me if i let it show. will you trust me if i cast away your worrise will you trust me or you just let go cause this is somthing i need to know. will you trust me if i say i need you will you think everthing is true.
I knew the truth about me without any facts i knew things would turn bad luck always comes back i fell for the lies thinking someone could care about me still i didn't feel right until things become clear before you, i was sad and dejected with you, i almost started to smile because of you, broken by picture trust me, i've been here i let myself fall trust me nobody loves me at all the worst is over now i make myself bleed my mood doesn't let me feel pain but blood is everywhere, just like rain i'm going away now trust me, it's for the best.
Yes, her laughter rang hollow but they stayed right behind, one good reason to follow was that some were quite blind. ah, we hate the assertive in a woman at that, throwing glances so furtive at her dress and her hat. if we look past our noses we may see a bit more; even tulips and roses may appeal to a boar. it's a boomerang's giggle as it homes in on you will you dance, will you wiggle or go hide in the loo?.
Three things that make my life complete are love, laughter, and you, my sweet the laughter has lasted since day one loving you darling, has been so much fun whether it's giggles at the kitchen table or all out laughter wherever we're able each and every laugh, a symbol of our love you're my everything, all i ever drempt of our love, now that's a bit more serious shining through when our laughter is delirious starting the day with love's tenderness saying goodnight with a sweet caress love, laughter, and of course you. you bring into my life the other two from the day we met, and for every single day love and laughter in our lives will stay.
Tenderly i set the trap with words to catch the flight of her laughter. her laughter flew up into the air turned into an enormous bouquet each petal a butterfly until my mind fluttered with each delicious delight and the room became a gilded box that housed the treasure of her laughter floating out of the window until it touched the stars.
Your laughter blew into my life with swift surprise. it spun happily around me, whirling with dizzy speed. its breeze licked and kissed at my ears. entering quickly, it found places in my mind, my heart, my soul. it raced in, filling me with a whirlwind of joyous anticipation.
Just to hear your laughter, i would throw myself off the highest cliff on the western coast and as the waves carried my broken body away i would turn my head back in your direction because after everything we have been through, the pain the tears the sacrifices the goodbyes i need to know that you will always be laughing right before the ocean pulls me below the surface for good the wind catches the faint sound of your voice you are laughing so hard i can practically picture the tears of joy streaming down your face. darkness follows and there is nothing left but a broken body filled with memories finally, amidst the saltwater and seaweed you are free, and so am i.
Laughter is a pleasant sound, it spreads joy all around whether you're young or old, laughter can be like magic to our souls, whenever we're feeling sad laughter can sustain us so that things don't seem quite so bad, if we give into laughter, it can be like a cure for something that seems impossible to endure so any time your spirits need a lift fill yourself with laughter and you will find, a much happier person with a peaceful frame of mind.
What would i do without laughter? a sad place indeed, it would be. the funnies..the sillies..whatever it takes for the sound of laughter. never laughing at someone else.. only sharing together the humor of the moment.. makes a lighter load to carry of the burdens we face.. if there is also a little laughter.
Laughter the best of human tendencies and outlet of emotions one cannot avoid laughter throughout his life the individual who is incapable to laugh in such feelings that makes the mind in humor and happiest and best of moods may be somewhat wrong in his mindset so says the learnt ones laughter a perfect mechanism and outlet to vanish tension stresses and strains of human feelings we have to avoid so laugh so much when you feel it good and in such mind no one is bothered to question your freedom of laughter but always keep the laughing with pure awareness without making negative feelings to the nearer ones the most successful men of world leaders and intellectuals were capable to laugh in good spirit and making other happy the secrecy behind their success being the laughter follow their ways of tendencies of expressions of laughter the real success will be to you no doubt remember.
How glorious new beginnings are of love and life and laughter you made your wish, you caught a star it's happy ever after the love that's yours is immense it's only worthless things your losing no more sitting on the fence there's no better path for choosing the light you have beside of you it guides you from uncertainty you'll no longer be asking who you'll be sharing with eternity when the darkness falls from up above you'll be shining like a star so bright because you've found your own true love you'll shine on through the night.
The sound of laughter is a thing of beauty for laughter spreads the very gift of joy that people they are drawn to happy people is not that hard for to understand why since everybody wishes to be happy and laughter it spreads happiness around and only the heartless could not like the sound of laughter for laughter is a very happy sound, than laughter there is no more happy feeling laugh and the world laughs with you seems so true but if you feel sad and for yourself feeling sorry the saddest person in the world is you even your friends would rather not be with you if they see you as one who worship gloom the happy people attract people to them and in their presence happiness does bloom, the sound of laughter sends out laughter ripples it is a sound one always loves to hear and laughter it gives rise to smiling faces and never fails to fill the cup of cheer the sad one who feels comfort in self pity is the one others do not wish to know but if you are one who laughs away your worries your friends in numbers seem to grow and grow and who could not but love the sound of laughter to it there always is a joyful ring it seems to send happiness out in ripples it is a joyful and infectious thing.
The children are playing football in the park off of the street the joy in their laughter it does sound so sweet 'tis true youth is such a marvellous thing like the flowers of the fields that bloom lovely in spring. the joy of their laughter bring back memories to me of happy boyhood days of any cares free in the town park on summer evenings we kicked the football such wonderful memories are good to recall the years went so quickly and time did not wait and i've grown grayer and slower and i'm putting on weight the future belongs to the youth of today though they too will grow to learn that time quickly ticks away. some of those i went to school with now with the dead lay and some are grand parents and their grand children play the games they themselves played they run up and down in pursuit of the football in the park by the town. as i walk to the bottle shop for to buy beer the laughter of the children playing football i hear their best days approaching and mine in the past but time keeps on ticking and nothing does last.
The late afternoon sun slants down in the corner where grandpa stands always to against his winter simmering still, in his folded wrinkles, pure age's laughter laughter, every time in a glimpse, we giggle together till the eyes full of water till the water stirring with more laughter laughing in another corner, my dear grandma secretly collects this again to her life drama.
If a person can laugh at himself for any foolishness, they have done. that person is a happy person who can always laugh with the world. the laughter can be infectious and then more will laugh along with them. the more the smiles are raised happier our lives will become and safer our world will be.
Not with libations, but with shouts and laughter we drenched the altars of love's sacred grove, shaking to earth green fruits, impatient after the launching of the colored moths of love. love's proper myrtle and his mother's zone we bound about our irreligious brows, and fettered him with garlands of our own, and spread a banquet in his frugal house. not yet the god has spoken; but i fear though we should break our bodies in his flame, and pour our blood upon his altar, here henceforward is a grove without a name, a pasture to the shaggy goats of pan, whence flee forever a woman and a man.
Rain falls from heaven and we catch it on our tongues we laugh a proper laugh noses are cold hand stuffed in pockets to keep off the chill we laugh a proper laugh walking and talking we laugh a proper laugh a boat passes and we stand still to watch it passes us by like the years since your first cry and we laugh a proper laugh sticks are thrown flowers are picked and we laugh a proper laugh we walk heads flung back mouths wide open to catch rain that falls from heaven.
The laughter in your heart would melt a melting pot would rise a sunken ship save a lady in distress lead the lost to find their way cause pain to go away your laughter is my laughter your heart, my heart two risen ships of ladies of lost from laughter of pain let us unite these good things.
I buried your heart one fine spring day and planted a sighing rose above it. perhaps some would water it with tears and fragments of memories and sorrow, but not i. pain is but trickery and loss but a product. what tears have i for passing time? fearlessness is my virtue and laughter my answer. i am twilight and my eyes are twinkling. i buried your heart one fine spring day and planted a sighing rose above it. my heart turns to stone; it serves as a marker for you. fear not, for it is time.
One of a kind this cheerful sound a child's laughter wherever it's found from the giggling of a baby in a playpen to the laughter of a toddler again and again a child's laughter can bring a smile to one who hasn't done so in such a long while i know because that one was me until my daughter's laugh set mine free a child's laughter so gleeful and pure an innocence adults miss for sure laughter that can bring back the past and memories of a youth that flew by so fast a child's laughter can bring out the best of most any man when he's depressed cause his spirit that's fallen to soar until at last he laughs once more.
We need some laughter in our lives since laughter makes us happy i know this bloke he never smiles like baby with wet nappy he always seems so close to tears for him i do feel pity financially well to do and spiritually poor many like him in this city with a lovely school going daughter and a beautiful wife he ought to feel lighthearted but happinness out of his life 'twould seem has long departed a millionaire many times over his business it is thriving but about him he has the sad look of one barely surviving he needs some laughter in his life since by laughter he's forsaken without laughter happiness sleeps on and never does awaken materially wealthy but spiritually poor he always looks sad and lonely but such is life as some do say and he is not the only wealthy person for to feel this way for him i feel some pity for he is a poor man in some ways one of many in this city.
I crave your eyes, your laughter, your touch i crave the smile of your eyes the warmth of your breath the scent of your eyelids and the kindness of your touch. i crave the opening of your lips the agreement between your smile and your tears i crave, i crave the voice in your laughter the melodies of your finger tips and the dialect of your eyes. i crave your eyes, your laughter, and your touch without it, i am the sound of an empty journey without it, i am the missing petals of spring gardens, without it, i am the tears of winter clouds, without it, i am a woman without her skin.
X should the wide world roll away leaving black terror limitless night, nor god, nor man, nor place to stand would be to me essential if thou and thy white arms were there and the fall to doom a long way.
I am much too alone in this world, yet not alone enough to truly consecrate the hour. i am much too small in this world, yet not small enough to be to you just object and thing, dark and smart. i want my free will and want it accompanying the path which leads to action; and want during times that beg questions, where something is up, to be among those in the know, or else be alone. i want to mirror your image to its fullest perfection, never be blind or too old to uphold your weighty wavering reflection. i want to unfold. nowhere i wish to stay crooked, bent; for there i would be dishonest, untrue. i want my conscience to be true before you; want to describe myself like a picture i observed for a long time, one close up, like a new word i learned and embraced, like the everday jug, like my mother's face, like a ship that carried me along through the deadliest storm.
I wish i could take a quiet corner in the heart of my baby's very own world. i know it has stars that talk to him, and a sky that stoops down to his face to amuse him with its silly clouds and rainbows. those who make believe to be dumb, and look as if they never could move, come creeping to his window with their stories and with trays crowded with bright toys. i wish i could travel by the road that crosses baby's mind, and out beyond all bounds; where messengers run errands for no cause between the kingdoms of kings of no history; where reason makes kites of her laws and flies them, the truth sets fact free from its fetters.
Is there a man who never ate his daily bread with tears, is there a man whose destined fate led to the land of fears? is there a man who never loved another human being, is there a surgeon, scrubbed and gloved who operates unseeing? is there a man who steals and robs who hesitates but kills, a killer who so loudly sobs about all mankind's ills? is there a man good in his heart who will not compromise, or is he just another tart a man made up of lies? is there a god, so good and pure a holy, but free sample, that he could guarantee a cure by heavenly example? are all the gods up in their sky completely apathetic, and are they of indifferent eye besmirched by anaesthetic? is there a world that we foresee that could approach perfection, or does the fault lie painfully with faulty gene selection? there is no god, no world, no man who'd make us only proud, we need a new god, one who can come down from his high cloud. a god who doesn't sit and snicker about our bad behaviour, nor raise his finger, scold and bicker, can we please have a saviour? and will he pardon my advice to scrap all dna and i don't care if this defies the rules he may obey. is there in all the universe a bigger, sadder mess, if not perhaps he could rehearse new plans, where best is less. 'cause i am certain he does know this world must be destroyed, all new ones will be pure, and glow forever overjoyed. no blame shall fall upon him then for all the hasty dealings he did when he created men good luck, god, no hard feelings.
The world is a beautiful place to be born into if you don't mind happiness not always being so very much fun if you don't mind a touch of hell now and then just when everything is fine because even in heaven they don't sing all the time the world is a beautiful place to be born into if you don't mind some people dying all the time or maybe only starving some of the time which isn't half bad if it isn't you oh the world is a beautiful place to be born into if you don't much mind a few dead minds in the higher places or a bomb or two now and then in your upturned faces or such other improprieties as our name brand society is prey to with its men of distinction and its men of extinction and its priests and other patrolmen and its various segregations and congressional investigations and other constipations that our fool flesh is heir to yes the world is the best place of all for a lot of such things as making the fun scene and making the love scene and making the sad scene and singing low songs and having inspirations and walking around looking at everything and smelling flowers and goosing statues and even thinking and kissing people and making babies and wearing pants and waving hats and dancing and going swimming in rivers on picnics in the middle of the summer and just generally 'living it up' yes but then right in the middle of it comes the smiling mortician.
Try to praise the mutilated world. remember june's long days, and wild strawberries, drops of wine, the dew. the nettles that methodically overgrow the abandoned homesteads of exiles. you must praise the mutilated world. you watched the stylish yachts and ships; one of them had a long trip ahead of it, while salty oblivion awaited others. you've seen the refugees heading nowhere, you've heard the executioners sing joyfully. you should praise the mutilated world. remember the moments when we were together in a white room and the curtain fluttered. return in thought to the concert where music flared. you gathered acorns in the park in autumn and leaves eddied over the earth's scars. praise the mutilated world and the grey feather a thrush lost, and the gentle light that strays and vanishes and returns. translated by renata gorczynski anonymous submission.
Yo no naka wa kutte hako shite nete okite sate sono ato wa shinuru bakari zo in this world of ours, we eat only to cast out, sleep only to wake, and what comes after all that is simply to die at last.
I perceive the world as a playground where dawn and dusk appear in eternal rounds in his universal form is a plaything the throne of solomon the miracles of the messiah seem so ordinary in my eyes without name i cannot comprehend any form illusionary but is the identity of all objects my anguish envelopes the entire desert silently flows the river in front of my floods ask not what separation has done to me just see your poise when i come in front of you truly you say that i am egotistical and proud it is the reflection, o friend, in your limited mirror to appreciate the style and charm of conversation just bring in the goblet and wine hatred manifests due to my envious mind thus i say, don't take his name in front of me faith stops me while temptations attract inspite of kaaba behind and church ahead i am the lover, yet notorious is my charm thus laila calls names to majnu in front of me 'dies' not one though the union is a delight in premonition of the separation night alas, this be it, the bloody separation wave i know not what else is in store ahead of me though the hands don't move, the eyes are alive wine and goblet, let them stay in front of me says 'ghalib' conscience is companion and trusted friend don't pass any judgments in front of me.
Here lies the body of this world, whose soul alas to hell is hurled. this golden youth long since was past, its silver manhood went as fast, an iron age drew on at last; 'tis vain its character to tell, the several fates which it befell, what year it died, when 'twill arise, we only know that here it lies.
The world's an inn; and i her guest. i eat; i drink; i take my rest. my hostess, nature, does deny me nothing, wherewith she can supply me; where, having stayed a while, i pay her lavish bills, and go my way.
No longer of him be it said "he hath no place to lay his head." in every land a constant lamp flames by his small and mighty camp. there is no strange and distant place that is not gladdened by his face. and every nation kneels to hail the splendour shining through its veil. cloistered beside the shouting street, silent, he calls me to his feet. imprisoned for his love of me he makes my spirit greatly free. and through my lips that uttered sin the king of glory enters in.
I sit here alone, in this dark place. my mind has gone crazy, my heart's in a race. i sit here alone, with my thoughts gone mad. i feel i'm insane, my life's turned bad. i sit here alone, as people pass by. i scream to be heard, but can't and cry. i sit here alone, i'm all messed up. i have no control, it's time to give up. i sit here alone, i can't hold on. i'm losing my grasp, my sanity's gone. i sit here alone, my freedom is here, the struggle is over, i won't shed a tear. i sit here alone, i shall never see light. i have only darkness, in my own world tonight.
When you look for peace then the peace lies within you when you search for peace then it is not hard to find when you want to keep peace alive then you allow white doves to fly over you when you make peace with others then the whole world live in your heart when you let peace be in the world then you live in wonderful world when you allow peace flow around the world then your hateness will go and love will flow when you open the door for peace then peace welcome to your lives. let the peace prevail in our wonderful world.
Long walk at night the breeze freezes my spirit the moon warms it up pulling at my poetic soul the crickets sing their poems to the night a million other insects contribute their share to loosen up the night for lovers, husbands and wives while a tide of words too creeps in all directions in my mental sphere saturates the poetic bar of the intellect waiting to be strummed into verses the rhythm swims along with them as i write out verse by verse the moon my friend shares its light the night wind inspires lovelorn stars wave all the way a million light years away heralding the birth of a song sparkling, twinkling guided by intricate orchestration of the night before gracing the written page long walk in the night even the insects with the lamps start to lend me their lights between the twinke of the stars they dance, sing, beat out a dance.
Innocence stolen without my permission innocence gone without my submission innocence lost through another's plan innocence no longer for another man innocence turned to hatred and fear innocence gone, no man can come near innocence taken from a little girls heart innocence replaced by mistrust, you thought you were smart innocence dissapears like dew in the sun innocence faded before it's begun innocence obscured like a cloud over the moon innocence ripped away too soon.
Does anyone listen for the cries of the innocent does anyone care about the young and the old do we have to pretend we didn't hear the babies cry do we have to pretend someone cares for the old or do we do something now for the young and the old.
Oh lord forgive me for what i have done i know you shouldn't go eye for an eye but what would you have done listen to my confession and tell me what i should have done i see you in the morning i see you in the night i see your face but i never see your eyes you took away my innocence you took away my life i knew some day we'd meet again but this time i'm a man i saw you hurt someone i said i'd die for you then i pulled the knife and killed you you took away my innocence but i took away your life.
As the baby wakes frm his bed he sees the world arnd him wonders what is here and why it is, he moves on to see things, less complex to understand what is goin on he understands only two emotions of love and pain both of which stay with him in loss and gain he conveys evrything in laughter and cry like we grown ups have never bothered to try the way he is and his innocence makes me wonder ah wht a day to live afterall to see a boy of such wonder his evry movement is observed with such care tht even people dying want to glare his laughter is such a medicene tht any disease can be cured by it aryan the continuation to this is the early years' another poem followed'.
Curiosity grows, finding new ground temptation breaks all resistance dark discoveries flood in innocence swept away sinfull satisfaction sweeps over curiosity laughs, temptation has won sources change, sin remains innocence is dead, replaced solemn days, no surprises the sun shines over cold flesh a warm heart beats, needing joy content for now, a mind wanders innocence has been lost.
The eye of the sunflower stares into the clear skies; acres of bright, yellow effluence mimic the voice of innocence. red earth weaves a dissolving silence into the wilderness of the valley. the phantoms are exiled to meditation by the voice of innocence. in the chosen web, stirs a fly, vanquished to submission. the pastures of winged worlds are closed and the prey trembles with the voice of innocence.
I am bound and broken, lying bloody on the floor. no longer with innocence, i'd had before. i'll be forever changed, by just one thrust, a penetration of hatred, to rip away my trust. you abuse my body, my soul and my mind. with one careless shove, you start to grind. as you begin your assault, i close my eyes. soon it will be over, so sure i want to die. my tears begin to fall with each wince of pain. i wonder why, what have you to gain? as i continue, to push you away, your pace gets faster. your eyes turn grey. slowly you stop, with one final thrust, my heart is torn; i no longer can trust. i feel the hatred flowing into me. now so dirty with filth, i seem to be. you wickedly laugh, as you rise from the floor. you wipe yourself on me, then head for the door. now here i am beaten, broken, and bound, lying on the floor, uttering no sound.
She calls school shkool, never afraid to wake me up, comes to me when weeping, complains to me when hurt, showing me the things of joy, in the morning, waves bye, celebrates my arrival, brings smile with her smile, makes worried with her silence, cute little daughter of mine.
Cry of innocence night when deep by the lightening rose yet promises the rambles of smile darkness walks through the silence rain still tears all mute by the blue the waves yet dazing on the beach call when defrayed by the impulse love still snaffles by the crooning moments seems to defuse by the bliss the reeks when fester by knowing when reconciled by the reef of reason star yet blinks to its lap when swings sun in its rise by the warmth in redolence breath of silhouette yet subtle intoned even intense by embracing the whispers vale of tunes when shimmers from all secrets the clogging undertones the cry of innocence.
Innocence, innocence oh why do i cry? innocence, innocence where is the truth over the lie? innocence, innocence can the ground keep me down? innocence oh innocence, who keeps pulling you down? fail to the system my innocence was taking away i wish for it back each and every day as i lie smothered underground i could have survived if innocence would have stayed around my shelter, my ground, and also my roof which was designed only to protect my proof evidence is submitted only to help when i turned to look into your eyes you left seeking wealth only to leave me inside an empty chamber filled with so much mainly anger my disappointment is perceived as rage it's just a craze to be taken out of my misery released from this cage innocence, innocence oh why i cry? innocence, innocence where is the truth over the lie? innocence, innocence can the greed keep me down? innocence oh innocence, who keeps pulling you down? negative interior emotionally inferior why does my freedom have to be destroyed over material? looking at innocence and it seems so strange. looking at my situation and realizing nothing will change. pure injustice trail is not the same. taking mental pictures placing them inside a frame. when they enter hell hopely they burn in flames. i will never be the same. to death what is gain? to bondage what is a chain? innocence was slained as they screamed out my name i'm asking for change got death in exchange pardon my scream and kicks forget about my innocence freedom involve tricks and i can't help but laugh my innocence is the only reason i got stabbed on this slab as i'm sliced in half reaching for the innocence that i have been trying to grab yelling out so unjust voice yells out hush and rush into my embrace as they revive my spirit and touch my face. is it god or innocence that i chase? innocence, innocence why do i cry?
innocence, innocence where is the truth over the lie? innocence, innocence can greed keep me down? innocence oh innocence, who keeps pulling you down.
Gently he took her by the hand and into the forest glade he led her; the setting sun glinted all around the babbling brook was the only sound he laid her down gently beside him and wrapped his coat round her shoulders she would gladly have stayed till infinity as he took away her virginity the smoke from the campfire curled up as the dying embers burnt away the only evidence left behind was the imprint of bodies, two entwined.
I flicked of the tv at a news report about another child lost in innocence no more i was once an innocent child living so happy till i was dealt one of life's blows and just like the children i learn of today losing their innocence that's torn from their souls it drowns us all in the degradation of life i want to scream i want to shout make all this carnage stop why do you ask? would i even bother to say? i just want you to know what its like for a child to lose in themselves the innocence of gold you cry with a passion inside your lost soul you know not what to say you know not what to do you feel so alone you feel so used you hide all your secrets and you cry every day and pray ever night oh god take my life you drown in your sorrows every single day and wonder each time what have i done in my life? to deserve such cruelty that's dealt this cruel life but life goes on you learn to be brave you learn to ignore your family and friends you learn to ignore an out stretched hand i know i am lucky to be here today so i advocate for children still trapped in this fate.
Love is delicate, as like the petals of a rose love is innocent, like the purity of a rose love is delightful, like the smell of a rose love hurts, like the thorns of a rose. love begins, like a seed. and like a rose, if you water it; it grows.
Her face is beauty yet marred by the pain in her eyes. the tears she sheds fall to the ground like liquid diamonds and shatter there alone. and i cry for her stolen innocence. tis a beautiful thing, the raw purity of innocence in youthful bloom. it's meant to last forever. meant to eternally bless those endowed with such a gift. but when choice is stolen and beauty turns to brokenness i weep for its stolen innocence.
I lost my innocence. not once not twice but more times than i can count. it was becuase of bastards. bastards who wanted to hurt. i lost my innocence and gained pain. on the day you raped me. i lost everything. lost my innocence. lost my life. lost my happiness. lost my way of being. you raped me. you didnt lose anything. you gained the power. i lost every thing that day. all i was to gain was pain. i lost more than one thing. i lost my innocence. but gained the pain.
You stolen my innocence as a young child the painful memories filled my childhood with tears, hurt, and pain the unbearable pain the hurt you put me though you lost nothing you gain power i lose my innocence lost my life lost my happiness gain nothing but pain my childhood forgotten my childhood lost my childhood stolen by a man that was my moms friend you voilatd me you molesed me more then i can count on my hands and feet you took the innocents out of the child and left pain.
Secrets hidden well, to cover up the shame, memories suppressed inside, to bring relief from the pain. nightmares constantly present, to remind that the past is real, sickness retching the body, to release the disgust she feel. pasts that still haunt, both at day and by night, lives forever altered, by something far from right. child left alone, trying once again to be whole, this unforgivable devastation, forever tormenting her soul. many questions yet unanswered, she still sits and wonder why, was there a reason, a purpose, to the cause of her wanting to die?.
I heard too many songs of love, and i'm sick of love sometimes i lie to be like everyone had you ever told someone a big lie? and you had believed it only one thing to be known, everyone lies don't forget it but some of them lie because they are breathing on lie and some of them wants to be like everyone by lie i'm the antilove, i'm the slayer venom, i'm the killing poison i can pick my soul it falls in front of you i don't want to be sweet innocent thing innocence is weakness only one thing to be known, everyone dies don't you think it but some of them die because they don't deserve life and some of them want to die because they didn't live hurry up and lock the door, look back if no one's there? so, wear your escaping cloth, you can't run you can hide just kill yourself because you're dead in my mind you don't belong to me, you belong to yourself i lost my soul so long ago.
The waiting, the suspence everybody is feeling so tense. accused and blamed all emotion has enflamed. worry and upset you are the suspect. time and space in that moment or place. comfort and support someone there at every thought. now its all done break a smile your not the one. rhys ullah.
Secrets, secrets lies, lies she sits in her room, and cries and cries. there's no more trust in this girl's heart. she finally found out that life isn't perfect. she lived in dreams, as children often do. but she crawled out into the world everyone knew. things that once were. happiness once known; the truth of it all. to her was shown. her little heart will never trust again. she'll never know a real true friend. no more trust, for no more lies. she'll sit in her room and cry and cry.
The innocence of childhood it is a marvellous thing and all children are untainted in their life's early spring but by the time they've reached their teens their innocence they've lost and the experience that we gain from age always comes at a cost. when children lose their innocence they lose their gift of joy the joy that comes from innocence in every young girl and boy compared to us young children see life quite differently of the guilt of corruption they are completely free. i have such happy memories of when i was a boy my childhood years were happy years but time just seemed to fly and the experience that i've gained from life it came at a great cost for i lost something beautiful when innocence i lost.
Innocence taken by those who thought that it was ok to lie by those who thought nothing matters innocence taken no longer available innocence unable to ever speak again innocence silenced to soon innocence taken there's no truth over the lie innocence taken by those who thought i'll be the same again by those who thought its ok to kill by those who thought it's ok to take innocence replaced by fear and mistrust innocence disappeared before it came innocence taken by those who laughed at every cry by those who had none innocence reflecting a little girls eyes innocence taken away without my permission.
Looking to the sea, it is a line of unbroken mountains. it is the sky. it is the ground. there we live it, on it. it is a mist now tangent to another quiet. here the leaves come, there is the rock in evidence or evidence. what i come to do is partial, partially kept.
You always looked straight past me why couldn't you see the truth he's been doing this to me for years on end taking away my youth. now my innocence is gone forever and he's the one to blame the only way i see i can get it back is to get a rope and hang. he's hurt me so badly so many times, in so many ways and even though it's in the past now it's still hurting me these days i'm proud to say i've survived this long but it all must come to and end my heart is just too broken to go on and doing this will help it mend i love the ones who loved me back and this is all that's left to say, i hope to see you all again in the afterlife someday sabrina perry.
The seed has been planted inside the earth the seed will grow at the instance of the sow the spirit has been awaken and life has been granted another soul to enter into this world of adversity with lack of water and lack of the sun rays of light will the seed develop will the seed sprout and after the nine harsh months into this world the flower came only to be picked by apathy and thrown away two blocks away with no guilt nor sense of fear with colors bright and scent so sweet no sins committed an altruistic soul and mind witnessing death before the taste of life seeing the dark instead of light creation of life sparked the match that lit the candle of decay.
Hopefully it shall be your last pose beside an old thai wall that separate the pure from the prude the promiscuous from those still wanting to be one without thinking of any possibility of unrest or regret now i must shed off my hypocrisy like a black coat on a warm weather in this tropical part of the world i must accept, i am seduced and i am throwing all my education away naked, i plunge into the river of my own destruction now, the arms of oblivion shall embrace me and history shall erase the name that i have embossed in the sands of my own time.
Truth, the real god not that we have made does not want a facade of the limited and narrow world that we parade it asks for a mind rich in innocence that doesnt have a scratch of experience a mind free from time a mind free from grime it wants a being whose heart is full rich, clear which does not get pulled by jaded and petty eyesight just capable of intense feeling in all its might be sensitive with your nerves your eyes, your body, your voice, your ears see the beauty of the tree, the smile of the child the agony of the woman without a meal, the animals in wild unless you do, there is no intelligence it doesnt come with knowledge or experience comes with sensitivity and observation a mind rich in innocence.
Lay me down tonight. don't mourn for my passing. i sold my soul to evade the light, there's nothing left worth redeeming. i remember a time, smiling child, picture of perfection. in joyous resplendence, you danced. born in day, but even your light wasted away. lay me to rest tonight. don't weep for my losses, i sold my heart to escape the pain, there's nothing left of me to save. i remember a time, foolish child, see what befalls the flawed? in the absence of light, you changed. born in day, but reality eroded your heart away. hide me away tonight. don't beg for my forgiveness, i took my life to escape from you, theres nothing left of me tonight.
Quiet. soft. full of peace. no vandalism. no wrong. no sorrow. no pain. it's my field of innocence. it's my life. the place i dream about. i know i am very young, to early for me, but when i pass. i will go to this world. heaven, though, i like to call it field of innocence. i don't know why. seemed fitting. the innocent are there, resting in the quiet peace, with our lord jesus. i know someday i'll go, and when i do, i want to go to heaven. my field of innocence.
Innocence is not an absence of legal guilt innocence is not freedom from specific wrongs innocence is a quality state of freedom from sins guilt loss of innocence no integral part of maturity necessary coming of age awareness of world pain suffering evil innocence is not absence of normative experience innocence is not ignorance not knowing evil innocence is affirmation a naked sinless nature innocence is choice verification of brilliant divinity light.
I'd love to wish you, 'happy everything', i want to kiss you, 'bless everything' i need to sing, 'happy everything' i want to shout, 'happy everything', to you the sun is out, bright blue is the sky. nothing out of place, were all gonna try 'happy everything' people sing. 'happy everything' the priest chant..'happy everything' the kids cry. 'happy everything' everyone wants..'happy everything' everything is happy, we are all so glad. everything is happy, please don't be so sad.
I know you will reflect upon your life today. the happiness can wait so can the candles on the cake. they flicker as if to tell you fibs of optical illusion and icing, creamy pink and sugarsweet. so, have a piece, a smaller one should go onto his china plate across from you, where loving eyes observe aglow, like a contented bull la vache qui rit, in human form eat up, dear allie, he will do all dishes of next year for you.
Last day of school, going to the pool. first day of spring. didn't get a bee sting. birth of a first born child, weathers going to be mild. all the home work is done, my football team just won. the war is over, poppies in the clover. our chicken laid an egg, got money don't have to beg. end of the week, it's friday. girl friend got her bouquet. oh oh what a happy day on holiday, goin away. going to be happy and free, and jesus love's me.
Birthdays comes and goes in every year but few remains with us as golden memories its a special day to celebrate with loved ones although, the years carry our age away but every aged year brings happiness into our heart life is full of ups and down, weary or teary but life goes always with smile instead of frown the candles have been blown off to say good bye to old year and then the cakes is cut to say welcome to new age the birthday song sung to forget the world and the birthday wishes keep pouring to live more when the birthday gifts are overflowing on the table and impatient face is glowing to open them. dine and wine are served unlimited music followed by dance to remember unforgettable day 'happy birthday to you' that is last words that we hear from each and everyone and again the drums are silent for another year to come.
Happy birthday happy birthday happy birthday how old are you today? happy birthday happy birthday all the girls can stay happy birthday happy birthday turn and shake away happy birthday happy birthday let's jump around and play happy birthday happy birthday you need a holiday happy birthday happy birthday wish you well each and everyday copyright 2005 sylvia chidi ww.sylviachidi.co.uk.
Happy birthday blow out the candles and make one wish since it's the day where you get your way while everyone pampers you with gifts i'll be sitting here and only left to think if we were together maybe this birthday would mean so much to me as well. even though im invisible to you you dont know me to you have your friends, the love for music by your side well, happy birthday stanger for someone with a broken hearts god knows how it feels he doesnt even know how much i care, how i cant stop but just stop and stare its so hard.so hard to just tell him the truth happy birthday stranger happy birthday, my love.
898 how happy i was if i could forget to remember how sad i am would be an easy adversity but the recollecting of bloom keeps making november difficult till i who was almost bold lose my way like a little child and perish of the cold.
I'll tell you what is wrong with me i hope you will not weep happy dreams of marder are enchanting my nights sleep nothing wakes me late at night sedatives stopped all that i wouldn't even wake up if you hit me with a bat my dreams are filled with bloodshed the massacre won't stop i can't restrain the pleasure i gain from spilling every drop i've killed the guys who've pissed me off every worthless sot killed franks, and jeffs, and many bobs, and a guy whose name was lott my method is machine gun as they lined up in their cue perhaps they are all lawyers thinking i'm the next they'll sue maybe the media has trained me to be less sensitive to my fellows humanity or maybe i have inherited a relatives insanity no matter what the truth is i chalk it up to fate it's better to marder in your sleep than dream of a face you hate happy dreams of marder are giving me good nights rest nightmares filled with violence excite my heart the best happy dreams of marder are where my nights are mired it's silly but i dream of killy when im truly tired beau golden 1988.
Bring back my email, lordy, bring it back. i never meant to send it, i never meant to press that press key and i never meant to let him see my wildest wish, sent hurtling through the ether like a comet, trailing harmful fire, streaking like a rocket whizzing and shrieking and exploding in the air for all to see, for him to see, and now he knows and now he knows and yes i wanted to, he needed it, he must have known, his face blanched like the moon.
I'm only happy when it rains without a cloud in the sky i'm only happy in these chains all that i can do is cry i'm only happy when i bleed it let's me know i'm alive i'm only happy when i need just myself to survive i'm only happy when i dream of my long lost love i'm only happy when i scream at the heavens above i'm only happy when i'm alone at war with my brain i'm only happy when i've known that life is just pain i'm only happy when i'm lost and i can't find my way i'm only happy when i've crossed the path of disarray i'm only happy when i see death is my way out i know i'll be free i have no doubt i'm only happy when i'm told that i've gone insane i'm only happy when i hold all these thoughts in my brain i'm only happy when i sleep and go out of my mind i'm only happy when i'm in too deep i'm only happy when it's me you cannot find.
I cant wait anymore night getting longer forever more waiting for a new start new begining to play my part resolutions to make promise to never break chance to make things right future prosperous and bright new year fills my heart with hope delighted am i for the new leap i welcome 2007 the new year wishing you all a happy new year happy new year jibin joseph.
Happy in sleep, waking content to languish, embracing clouds by night; in daytime, mourn; all things i loath save her and mine own anguish, pleas'd in my hurt inured to live forlorn. nought do i crave but love, death, or my lady, hoarse with crying mercy, mercy yet my merit; so man vows and prayers e'er made i, that now at length t'yield, mere pity were it. but still the hydra of my cares renewing, revives new sorrows of her fresh disdaining; still must i go the summer winds pursuing, finding no end nor period of my paining. wail all my life, my griefs do touch so nearly, and thus i live, because i love her dearly.
Yes, he gave the nod, to the two of you then and he found it not odd he'd created these men and he christened him todd and assigned him to mary, what was scripted by god cannot end up contrary. from the down under land we do send our wishes but you must understand that you'll still do the dishes on this day of your birth 'cause you do have great skill and for what it is worth keep your house very still. be it known that the reason for a man's volunteering cannot be seen as treason just some smart engineering. you can see she is busy writing great poetry so don't be in a tizzy, let her spirit be free. may the day give you pleasure and the cake a success you do have a great treasure and a poet no less.
Happy new year, happy new year to you, say you, wish you, bid you with the benediction, but revel you not in new year revelries just as revellers do after being rowdy, taking to full, emptying wine bottles, consuming more and more wine, just as drunkards do dancing and enjoying to end themselves.
My dad hides his whiskey in the toy closet beside the plastic planes and under the fake grenades he hides the gin beneath the book shelves where frank and joe hardy catch their first underage the vodka he gently places behind the outside freezer next to boxes, crates and forgotten chores but the scotch, the scotch he keeps near the kitchen to grab on his way .to the nuts in the cupboard.
Is there always a happy ending, to every song and a story. some are happy, and others weep, and then there are those, that finish in glory. is there a happy ending, to every day, maybe not, when your filled with grief and it's not stopped raining, and the sky is grey. happy endings are made by you it's how you work, and go about it, can make that ending come true.. just be yourself, however small, and smile when things get out of tune, a happy ending, can be found. then life becomes, just one honeymoon.
I want to speak of happy things, like flying on love's wings, like sitting beneath the palm trees as we talk about the birds and the bees. i want to be happy again, to remember things from way back when, to speak excitedly of here and there knowing that i truly haven't been anywhere. i don't want to worry, i don't want to fret, i want to be as care free as i can possibly get. but in this world i live, nothing seems to give, happiness is just a word, and a life without fear is just plain absurd.
It's true that in one life one can't achieve what he wishes, or can reach his goal. it's true, fire in cold may take lives. and water drowns if it flows over head. still, life never bans fire and water. hope and despair dancing between sunshine and rain, never stop us to move forward. we cry, we laugh, we fall, we rise, we hug life to say yes to death. none is foe, none is enemy, alone we come, alone we go. keeping a chuckle on our lips, we must say, may happiness lie everywhere, in everyone's life. happy happy new year friends.
Today i met a lonely girl with a touch of magic i've been waiting for someone like her i'm so happy she let's me know of her love i give her all of mine my angel sent from above i tell her all the time cause i'm so happy now what was once 2 lonely souls tonight we sleep, arms in arms i found someone to love and hold i wonder if she's happy love is here, just in time my dark world has begun to shine wherever i go, i want her near cause she's what makes me happy how long will this love last? still can't believe she's mine so attractive with a past so tragic i'll do anything for her just as long as she's happy she seems to hold and kiss me less i feel so cold, her lips are blessed i hope she never strays from me she's what keeps me happy she wants to free, it's in her eyes away from me, let her decide an eclipse is what she sees in mine cause love has made me happy then came the day, i lost my heart she's gone away, forever we part i find myself back in the dark where nobody can be happy i would hold you in my arms no other hand in my palms i thought the love of ours would last she wants me to be happy forget about me life has been tragic im'a wait in the rain for you just to see you happy i'm stuck in a world where demons grab me they stab me .but im'a wait in the rain for you as long as you're happy.
To be happy is to be happy with oneself. to be happy is to be free with your thoughts and aspirations. to be happy with oneself is to have that inner peace of mind acceptable to change, being able to play your part in life's forever changing game. to be sad with life is to be discourage with life. do not be discouraged be encouraged to have no cares no worries. so be happy life is a colorful growing tree which leaves change colors everyday. find your color and grow your tree to be all you can be.
Into the unending work line comes a new beginning of tolerance of adverse attitude, surfing the taste of temper and luring smile timing comes as it waits the gain that deals beyond, human aspiration, the lasting praise gains no one. but the soul that leads to the ground of sayonara in the most astounding halos of goodbye filled up the nice smile and return the forever respect of the one who seat in the throne; the table and the pen recite no one and see's the gratitude and the work done even the night is gone understand the boss, and jam what ever floats in the air; knowing the good in the decision it gives on your job the best goes flattered in the hand, the whole things bless with fun feel good, and save for a day, the fresh comes in a wonderful awesome morning for you to stay, take always the boss legacy, and chant the melody that brings your pleasant moment with whom the blessing comes in a spectacular happy day the work is not yet over, always thank that the day with your boss will be a great moment to stay and as you whisper a prayer, let this be the connecting line of another life to spend with wisdom to live stop, pose and confirm. as you say amen.
Sweet dreams and happy memories, a love that's good and true; a home to care for tenderly; a song to sing that's new sweet dreams and happy memories and friends to join in mirth some tears to give to those who die, and smiles to greet each birth. sweet dreams and happy memories, to win a game or two. the faith to know that spring will come, the strength to wait it through. sweet dreams and happy memories, to do what there's to do for joy is living day to day, to make sweet dreams come true.
My hero is many, my hero is one. my hero proudly holds a gun. my hero fights, my hero kills, my hero falls out in the field. my hero laughs, my hero cries, my hero tries and tries and dies. my hero is dirty, my hero is smart, my hero charges towards the front. my hero's a soldier, my hero's a marine, my hero's a sailor riding across the seas. my hero's an airman, my hero sacrifices, my hero loves. my hero is mine.
Ten years ago he was a hero a parade for him in the town but now he is seen as a has been they built him up and dragged him down where are they now when he most needs them him they no longer wish to know he now is one of the forgotten their hero of a decade ago. when he kicked the winning goal in the final he done himself and the club proud the band played for him in his hometown and the cheering for him it was loud alcohol now is the only comfort of a man who was a sporting king his glory days for him are over his praises they no longer sing. some of him say he once was a hero his brown hair is now turning gray and though only in his mid thirties he has known a far better day in his honour they had big parties to him their toasting glasses they did raise but now they have another hero another one that they can praise. ten years ago he was a hero when he was in his glorious prime the town councillors sung his praises and the poets by him inspired to rhyme the goal he kicked for his club in the final happened to be the winning score but now he is yesteryear's hero though he is only thirty four.
I just sat there trying to hold in all my emotions i didn't want to give in. but then you showed me bottling up emotions doesn't always work it only leaves you feeling like a totally worthless dork. so i gave in to you and told you what was going on and together we fought this thing that was going terribly wrong. you gave me the strength i needed to just carry on without you, my happiness would be gone. you were my shoulder to lean on you knew just what to say you knew when i needed a hug or i just needed you to pray. so i want to thank you for always being there even when i myself have forgotten what it's like to care. thanks for putting up with all the things i've put you through you are truly the greatest friend i have ever knew.
Crossing the battlefield early today amidst bombs dropping, bullets flying, i saw a soldier kneel to pray amongst the wounded and dying. i could see a cross on his arm as he knelt in the slimy mud, he seemed not to show any alarm binding wounds, giving blood. an enemy tank rumbled by crushing the wounded and the dead, a soldier crying,"am i going to die? i'm badly wounded in my head." the medic crawled over to him looked, then bowed his head in prayer, he watched as the lad's eyes grew dim then covered the body with loving care. a shell exploded at his side shrapnel ripped into his chest, on the field the medic died thinking, "lord, i did my best. ".
Our two hearts beat as one, forever glowing under the sun. so rise once more, but shed no tears. i wasn't afraid to give my life for someone so brave. do what you can, and never give in. it will take but one second for my gift to end. live in the present, not in your past. the future is approaching far to fast. never be afraid to do the right thing, even if it means dieing in pain. the world needs more heros to stand for our cause, freedom and happiness aren't a mirrage, their real and so is the price we pay. losing more friends with each passing day. someday freedom may be free, but as of today its up to you and me to pay the price with our lives. so stand tall in the face of terror, even just one soldier can make a difference, because no soldier is alone, our hearts beat together. so don't be afraid my friend, i'm right there with you on the front lines, so don't be afriad i'm not far behind.
When i was a little kid about 7 or 8 years old there was this girl. she was a lot older then me. she took care of me when my foster mother and father had a break. she was really caring and polite. i was really fussy but she got me what ever i needed. she showed me there is good out there. so i tried being like her. there was one time she let me steer her car, she still had control of the gas and the brake, i thought it was the coolest thing. when i grew up i noticed when you had no control over anything, you can have control for just a little at a time. you start to know your mistakes. when i was steering that car i was swerving, but i had her to correct my mistakes. her correcting them for me while i was by her side, i learned it a lot faster then i would of on my own. now we aren't that close to each other, and i started to forget what she taught me that one day. i didn't like how i was treating other people and i thought about stuff to be a better person. i thought and thought about it and i remembered what she did for me. i was changing a little at a time. there was a lot more then what i wrote in this story. i don't know how to thank her, maybe this story will do more than i think. thank you for being my hero.
You're my hero; you saved me. i believe in the change their might be. came upon the frightning storm throughtout my days. i can't believe how much i've overcome, it feels like a haze. horrifying moments where i feel like i'd lose all hope. coming this far, i didn't think i'd know how the hell to cope. i've seen the worst of the worst, and it sickened my mind. but look at all the people in my life; they're my ray of sunshine. i was pushed on my own feet, and got knocked on the ground. now that i have you.i'm no longer in the 'last and found.' it takes a long time to realize the good comes from the bad. no longer look back at my life, and have the need to feel sad. damn, if i couldn't say if you weren't in my life, i don't know where the hell i'd be. i got someone knocking on my door, and it's my hero that i see. it brings a smile to my face knowing certain people haven't given up on me. try to be in my shoes, and see if you would've made it through. you'd look at that girl, pass her by, and think who woulda knew. well now you know and know what's in my heart too. you're my hero, and i'd never lose you.
When u r alone with an empty dark heart thinking of your hero to come and save u from darkness u will keep thinking along if he would come or not if he would listen to your heart thinking and thinking and thinking thinking with no hope never know if he would come or no until thinking drove u far far far away from the world so when u feel like hope is gone no one hears u suffering from inside no one know that u r about todie and that loneliness is destroying u just look inside u then u finally see the truth that a hero lies in u a hero will take u from loneliness come on be strong u have waste so much get up and enjoy your life a happy no ending life.
A hero in the ordinary world, washes dishes in the sink adventure softly whispers 'the world dies without thee' the dishes clatter chipping and cracking. paralyzed the hero stands. this voice, all too familiar, echo's his deep yearning. 'save the world, and be a change. you watch the world like tv. not liking the show, but too lazy to reach for the remote.' shaken, he falls to his knees no confidence to fuel him. who is he to touch lives, and improve the world? adventure screams, 'rise to thy feet ye vagabond, flourish your glory, before i pass thee by again. '.
The shells burst around me, my first battle has begun. i could tell with metal flying this was not for fun. i flopped in a hole that was tilled with rank muck, surely i thought this would bring me luck. bullets came closer, soon i knew this burrow was not so hot. i prayed, and i prayed god made them bad shots. one tore my shoulder, i decided to flee, crawling through the mud till a medic i could see. a ticket to home this wound did impart. now i'm a vet and a hero with a purple heart.
Suppose we all do look at things differently the hero to you not a hero to me your hero renowned for his skills at football yet the hero to some not a hero to all if on everything we did happen to agree how utterly boring indeed we would be our different ways makes us more interesting as some like to say no two look at life in exactly in the same way you have your own hero and that suits me fine but your sort of hero could never be mine of our different views on life i am all too aware and so little in common we do have to share we don't share common friends or we don't share common foes which makes us seem more interesting one would have to suppose.
From meelin he came to millstreet town to die for ireland with a bullet in hie eye and though more than eighty years since then have come and gone the name of brave mccarthy still lives on. he died in agony and painful pain, his blood flowed down the flags of millview lane if every irishman were half so true then ireland now would have the thirty two. and though his only reward was the grave mccarthy died for ireland and died brave he could have turned and ran away that night but he stood and fought for what to him was right. the irish republic is a part of europe now and our ministers to europe's big men bow if he'd survived and still lived on today 'twould be interesting what he'd have to say. in meelin stand a monument to the name of the man who brought upon that village fame to the noble hearted one of great renown who fought and died in famous millstreet town.
Superman my hero is just like my friend it was just what i want him to be superman my hero is giving us hope he is keeping us free god's nation is in chaos but there is one man that can save us all superman my hero he flied many times a day in the sky he touches heaven just like the birds do superman my hero i am so proud of him superman my hero i pray for you every day you have a job, i have one too i will tell you what gets me through strenght, love, and peace i pray for peace where i am going to be for you and me kids at school sending postcards to those who died overseas in the war superman my hero keeping busy is what i need to do and keeping busy these days seems to be the tool i want to make the hour go fast so i have to keep myself busy superman my hero doesn't live in fear but i do superman my hero makes sacrifices also like i do superman my hero is landing from the sky right now he had a perfect landing superman my hero i light a candle for you may god always bless you superman my hero to the world you gave so much love superman my hero you are an hero superman my hero what are we going to do when our time is up here on earth?
superman my hero your spirit will always be alive in me you have given your spirit to me and everybody else here on earth superman my hero i am dreaming every night with you i know someday my dreams may come true that's why we are fighting for and doing what we do to save our world superman my hero i hope that others will learn to love you and respect you like i do superman i hope others will respect our believes and not judge us by what we do or by what we haven't done yesterday, today, or tomorrow superman my hero stands in a shiny sea superman my hero wants a world were he dominates and he knows that our land will liberate a shiny city on top of the hill superman my hero fighting evil and saving people also superman my hero has a free will to help those in need superman my hero it is time to remember what freedom means it is time to choose freedom and embrace the future it is time to choose life it is time to look after those in need because charity begins at home superman my hero i know that together we will get through tough times sometimes we just need some courage sometimes we need a little prayer sometimes we need a helping hand so we can finish our daily tasks superman my hero let the light shine in your heart, my heart, and all the people here on earth superman my hero it is a lucky day because you are of flying again like a bird in the sky superman my hero miracles we will see one day superman my hero black outs all the town is out of lights left in the dark traffic lights are not working we can't cook our food we have to eat can food for a few days we have to survive some how some how we will get through this ordeal and you are flying high above in the sky the only thing that is shining at night is the moon superman my hero i know that nobody will live forever superman my hero you were meant to fly superman my hero i sometimes feel powerless superman my hero once i need to get out and put my foot out of my door i know that fresh air is good for me and everybody else i have dreams and desires superman my hero once a while i just need to get away from the computer my desk and my computer my favorite hide away superman my hero will take me to a place that i never been before superman i believe that we were meant to be friends superman my hero i must speak now or forever hold my peace superman my hero snow, wind, and rain won't bother superman my hero because he always dress up for the kind of weather he is smart and wise superman won't melt but he might freeze in the winter because the days are much colder than you ever imagine superman my hero.
Most boys have their sporting heroes and mine played gaelic football the mighty mick o connell the greatest i recall but mick o played for kerry and cork my favourite team and to play football good as him was many school boy's dream the finest gaelic footballer that i have ever seen not rough or hard in any way but classical and clean and though that was many years ago and far so far away of great player from valentia the memory with me stay. when mick o's playing days were over he faded from the scene but memories of his playing feats will remain evergreen his high fielding and kicking and his passing of the ball the complete gaelic footballer the greatest of them all. he never hogged the limelight he seemed so quiet and shy but he was sporting hero to many school going boy and even many who did not support kerry will still tell you today that valentia's mick o connell was the best they had seen play. my hero played for kerry and cork my favourite team and to be good a player as him an early teenage dream but as a gaelic footballer i never made the grade and i won't be remembered for any game i played.
My hero, my hero didnt have any special powers, because my hero didnt fight my hero didnt have any wings because my hero didnt fly my hero didnt have any special costumes because my hero didnt like any heroes my hero is diffrent than any kind of supercreatures my hero is just an ordinary humanbeings my hero makes me smart my hero changes my future my hero makes me know something because my heroes is my teachers. god bless you, teachers.
A hero thinks of others before they think of themselves a hero will die to protect a hero can be of any age, any colour a hero can be man, woman or child a hero is courageous, loving and brave a hero will never complain a hero can be made in one act of compassion or years of tender loving care some hero's are remembered, whilst many are left forgotten hero's are angels in disguise, saving precious innocent lives i dedicate this poem to pvt steven freund, officer kevin tonn and all fallen heroes.
My hero bares his nerves along my wrist that rules from wrist to shoulder, unpacks the head that, like a sleepy ghost, leans on my mortal ruler, the proud spine spurning turn and twist. and these poor nerves so wired to the skull ache on the lovelorn paper i hug to love with my unruly scrawl that utters all love hunger and tells the page the empty ill. my hero bares my side and sees his heart tread; like a naked venus, the beach of flesh, and wind her bloodred plait; stripping my loin of promise, he promises a secret heat. he holds the wire from this box of nerves praising the mortal error of birth and death, the two sad knaves of thieves, and the hunger's emperor; he pulls that chain, the cistern moves.
Unique friend imposible to find, caring and loving for the ones who are, the protector of broken hearts, a true hero in my world. seems to be perfect for us, but that's only what the eyes can see, 'cause my heart can see something else, a vulnerable soul under it's shield. my perfect hero has his sectrets, unknown for the ones who see with the eyes, my hero is becoming weak with the time, but he can't realize. the mind inside my hero, keeps feelings hidden, for the ones he must protect, to trust, and not be afraid. a red rose in between many white, similar to the others, but never the same, feeling lonely on the inside, wanting to hide and not to face the truth. an exquisite prey in the jungle, afraid of the hungry predators, keep trying not to make any noise, just avoiding to be haunted. i can see him with my heart, and i see his fears and his pain, i understand he is only being human, i still love him the same, and still he is my hero.
No one sits with him he doesnt fit in we feel like we do when we make fun of him cause you want to belong do you go along his pain is the price paid for you to belong its not like you hate him or want him to die but maybe he goes home and thinks suicide or he comes back to school with a gun at his side and a kindness from you might have saved his life heros are made when you make a choice you could be a hero heros do whats right you could be a hero you might save a life you could be a hero you could join the fight for whats rights, for what right, for whats right no one talks to her she feels so alone shes in to much pain to survive on her own the hurt she cant handle overflows to a knive she writes on her arm wants to give up her life each day she goes on is a day thats shes brave fighting the lie that giving up is the way each moment of courage her own life she saves when she throws the pills out a hero is made you could be a hero heros do whats right you could be a hero you might save a life you could be hero you could join the fight for whats right, for whats right, for whats right no one talks to him about how he lives he thinks that the choices he makes are just his doesnt know hes a leader with hte way he behaves and others will follow the choices hes made he lives on the edge hes old enough to decide his brother who wants to be him is just nine he can do what he wants because its his right the choices he makes change a nine year olds life heros are made when you make a choice.
Where he lives none does help you when you are down the one out of work in the poor side of town a young man in his early twenties with life struggling to cope though of finding employment he is not without hope. disadvantaged by the suburb he lives in and his postal address such things potential employers do fail to impress but of searching for a job start he never does cease to try of courage in adversity none of him can deny. one cannot say of him he does not do his best and he showed his true courage when put to the test he saved a baby girl's life in a house fire in the unlikely hero so much to admire. to save a grateful parents child life he put his own life on the line yet an offer of an award for bravery he did decline of saving a young life he did not make a big thing and his praises he does not wish others to sing. in the factory he worked in his job he enjoyed 'til when the company went into receivership he became unemployed but to the victim mentality he is not inclined and he will keep searching 'til a job he will find.
He has just turned fifty his fastest pace slow he is not the man he was twenty years ago when they used to toast him at the local pub and he was the hero of the football club but time it did not wait for him time it ticked on and he can only talk now of his better days gone when he was his football club's number 1 player and he could run as fast as a wildborn hare and though he has such good memories of the past the seasons came and went and time went so fast whilst yet not an old man his hair is quite gray and clearly he has known a far better day two decades ago when his hair was dark brown he was a big hero the toast of the town.
I was told to draw my hero something to fight away the bad while kids drew weapons, superheros, hope i drew a candle instead an amazing ally my candle was archnemesis it burnt blinding enemies with light pointless, but i was hurt it burned bright in my darkest hours my little waxy friend it brought light into unknown corners onto doubt it would decend through the dark my candle led sheding light on all my fears my hope once frozen now flies free for one and all to hear 'why this hero? ' you may ask why simply, its a fact i'd rather face my fears you see, then try to push them back.
When you see a hero, what do you think of the hero? 'the hero is amazing' 'the hero saves lives' 'the hero is a bad person, not even human.' 'he stinks and i don't like the hero.' people love the hero, they love the hero cause he saves lives, they love him cause he protects the city, some people don't like the hero cause they are the ones who do crime. crimes like murder, kidnapping, stealing, sell drugs, rob banks. but the person who hates the hero the most. is the villain. the ones who hate the villain the most is the people, the hero never takes a life, the hero doesn't hate the villain, the hero wants to help the villain. the villain knows he needs help, but the villain doesn't want help, the villain has been through an emotional life, the villains hates everyone. everyone knows a superhero story goes, the villain ends up dead.. everyone must know this.. sometimes all the villains were once heroes.. you die a hero, or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain.
Regimental sergeant major james corrigan mc, a regular soldier in world war one, was mortally wounded whilst saving another. he got an appointment to see the king, and the millitary cross for his bravery. my grandpa died of his wounds. this upright man who i never knew, was my hero as i grew up. i heard the tales, handed down, of deeds of daring do and saw his imposing figure, in pictures all faded and torn. i've read of the somme and passchendaele too and its hard to think of him there. its beyond imagination to know, the carnage and hardship he saw. a family man with four young children, and the grandpa i never knew.
He always wears his war medals on his coat of them he feels so proud and he has a hearing problem the reason he talks so loud he says i'm a world war hero of which some don't wish to know of a battle fought in europe more than six decades ago. i often see him walking in the park or shopping complex with his long term wife devoted to him even in old age they have lived a long life when he started talking of his war years i could not bear with him long though he is the inspiration for the making of this song. i do not doubt he means well or in his young years he was brave but far too many of his comrades went to an early grave to me war is antiquated and it never solves anything though only of war heroes old war balladeers do sing. he thinks he fought for freedom who told to him the lie for so called freedom young men go to war and for so called freedom young men die twenty six million people in refugee camps what sort of freedom have they and human rights abuses rampant in the world of today. on anzac day as usual he will be at the front of the parade and he will love the adulation when much of him is made with his war medals upon his coat for everyone to see he may well impress some people but not the cynical like me.
When i think of my favorite song, it is hero, by mariah carey. to me, the hero inside me is my mother, because when i feel i am facing the world alone, she is always there. hero as i have traveled this long road of life, there is only one person in my life who i could really depend upon to make me see right from wrong; she would always make me see the real me and for that i thank her. she taught me that all i had to do was to look inside to find my true self; i never really knew what she meant, but as i get older. i have begun to understand. the first time i heard this song my mom came to my mind because she is my true hero; she's been there for me through it all, the good and the not so good times. she always told me that the sorrows that i felt would soon subside and that true happiness would find its way back to my heart. and then my hero comes along, it was my mother all along, she gave me strength to carry on, helped me cast my fears away when i felt all hope was gone. she said, 'just look inside yourself and you will see a better you.' she has always stood beside me in everything i've had to do, be it right or be it wrong, she's been there to see me through. she tells me, search within my self and a hero i would find; when no one else reached out to help, my mom would always lend a hand to guide me down the right path. when that hero comes along, i have strength to carry on, and my fears are cast aside because i know i can survive with her strength to carry me through life's dark and stormy sea. so when i feel all hope is gone i can finally see the truth and that is that a hero lies in me, because you, mom, were there to guide me through.
lord knows my dreams have often been hard to realize, but then she would always to me say, don't let them take your dreams away, hold on to them oh so tight for tomorrow always comes, in time. you'll find a way to make your dreams come true so as i sit here writing, mom, i want to thank you for all the times you have been there to pick up the pieces of my broken spirit, to help mend what needed mending, and most of all for your love, you see you are the true hero in my life. by melissia ann senter.
If you judge him do not judge him harshly or why judge him at all since the darkest of memories are his to recall many of his comrades around him under gunfire did fall their names to be seen on war memorial wall. back in the late sixties in distant vietnam he fought in an unpopular war as a young man he received an honourable discharge from the army and a medal for bravery and he now is an ageing man in poverty. he never fathered children or never had a wife and alcohol has become his sole comfort in life haunted by his dark war memories life for him an earthly hell had he not been in vietnam at all in life he may have done well. his war medal for bravery he has misplaced or lost the two years he spent in vietnam to him has come at a great cost he looks far older than his sixty three years thin and stooped and gray war leaves it's mark on it's survivors it does seem that way.
In the big fire at mancini's their house and it's contents were destroyed and the story of their bad luck it has travelled far and wide but the story it would have been worse if human lives were lost though the financial damage to the family it comes at a great cost. clothes left to dry by an electric heater was how the fire began and as from her burning premises mrs mancini ran she shouted my baby is in there and young bill who lives nearby rushed into the smoke filled bedroom to where he heard the baby cry. he snatched the baby from her cot and with her rushed outside and handed her to her weeping mother who in tears was overjoyed and though the hero an unlikely one he surely saved the day and about him mr and mrs mancini only have good things to say. billy in his early twenties on himself he makes life hard from his local pub for fighting for six months he has been barred but the villian has become a hero since he risked his life to save the life of a six months baby girl when most needed he was brave. the one seen as a villian an unlikely hero of today and where the faint hearted dare not venture great courage he did display last week he was seen as a rowdy people on him now heap praise and the story of his bravery those who know him do amaze.
He is a hero not by sibling ordinal age, nor by fate. he did not choose whatever he became. you see . . . his father drank himself out of fortune, family, and prestige, right into the nothingness of the streets. cold and motionless, without anyone to claim what remained, a city dump truck took him to the grave. not just any power greater than he but the lord alone, led the hero to success and . . . away from alcohol.
Would you do me a favour and take me in your arms take me some where out of sight take me oh so far away from all these people full of hope and faith set me down beside this lake and sit with me a while untill my depression fades away untill im me again and then tell me that you love me tell me that you care for knowing you is loving you and without you im in dispear so wont you be my hero and rescue me here and now for my other hero lost his wings and fell upon his crown he left me all alone longing for some one to take me home.
I am not a prince hamlet and you must not leave me like an ophelia. i am not an othello, the moor, and you must not die like a desdemona. rather with a carpe diem love i am here to you. like a coy mistress do not delay because my heart is aching for you.
Carpe diem sieze the day as i meditate things appears to be out of control yet, i shall still pursue and overtake anyway carpe diem is what i say after all saper vedere as i realize that it is mind over matter which helps along the way?.
Why live today for a better after life? why waste moments for a fate uncertain? we've been granted this existence. so shall we bow out before the final curtain? live today like there is no tomorrow. for tomorrow does not promise heaven or hell. there is no paradise or lakes of fire. and if there was how can you tell? live with pride, realise your dreams and don't waste time on foolish fate. because if you die before your wake are you sure you'll see a pearly gate? for those who dedicate to follow rules in the tomes of the manipulative even if you live in sin does your god not promise to forgive? so are we to dine with gods? well i don't not know. but i refuse to pay pennance to a landlord who does not show. i am only assured one life to live and waste it i shall never. for i chose to be great today a goal from which i will not sever. you can keep gods and allah's you can pray to your invisible friends. you can prepare for a mythical tomorrow. but it's in today i shall ascend.
Different shades of smog lift up to the misty sky steamy breaths trail from shivering lips. complains find their place rooted dip into ghetto minds my spirit is part of this. i crave for more than just the rising sun to paint the morning light the heaven's eye shine with a shy embrace there has to be more to life than meets the eye.
What better day to be alive to search for treasure in the heart why with heartache's memory strive if cupid's arrow missed the mark time never waits for sorrow's grave or asks the rain to take a pause not every road through life is paved kept manicured to hide the flaws dare not allow failed love to anchor kept in harbor, dreams unfulfilled refuse all thoughts prone to rancor press through each day with stronger will time's too precious for deep sorrow live for today, dream tomorrow.
Seize the day and do not delay or else there be a worse price to pay for it is your life to waste not mine i am but a man nothing divine be prepared to bear the worst but just remember to be stronger then curse i will live my life by this motto from this day forth and tomorrow carpe diem be the phrase if every man lived by that we'd know the way.
Having a night without sleep. what a day, i cannot think right. i need to boost some thoughts and clear my mind with a cuppa. another precious day wasted. sleeplessness is such a threat. i know, not much left. i try to recall that carpe diem philosophy. i must walk around the rose garden again. imagine a must, lying down under the gentle moon on the softest grasses. get away. now i 've got it. i must sit down and write. i must be away and free.
Carpe diem makes my heart race carpe diem drives me to pursue carpe diem chases me on with reigns this 'carpe diem' is driving me crazy keeps me in a daze, that rat race i must race. carpe diem reminds me the light will soon be no more.
Forgetting it all flying away standing tall going my own way to not have a name to not have a thought to stop playing the game to never get caught escape the world and fly away carpe diem seize the day.
Come stroll with me to the top of blue jay hill escort me upon this adventurous journey now we will waltz on the platform of that ancient mill free yourself from the city, i can show you how i will name a creek and a flower or two just for you this will be our enchanted land, if only for a day rule one in this land is to do as you wish to do rule two in the kingdom is to cast your cares away that burden that you carry simply must be tossed the weight of pain and regret is too heavy here we will find ourselves by deliberately getting lost use a sycamore branch to joust away your fears greet your first sunrise through your watering eyes your warming cheeks caressed by those welcoming rays surrender to your passions and you will be surprised the time is now and not just 'one of these days'.
There is so little time to spare in a world that whizzes round at the speed of light, the giddy light blinding the eyes and mind. snatch each moment of the day; steal each breath from the night before death comes on silent feet and sweeps you out of sight.
Carpe diem cny looking forward to celebrate this blissful year of the dog another chinese new year is round the corner happy joyful there could be no tomorrow if. but our theme; 'no limit.' free to celebrate cheers everybody next cny? maybe, maybe not.
God sings carpe diem. god provided manna for one day. provided it won't rain, god, we'll rise early and pick. he said, 'it is for today ..just enough for a day.. tomorrow, i'll send again.' 'yesterday's ration turns mouldy.' 'carpe diem seize the day', sings the lord. 'live aday at a time. '.
The shadow of today clouds our minds forgotten thoughts of yesterday hopes of tomorrow crushed today memories of todays yesterday quickly fading away lessons learned lost by the time of a new day every day has its own pain todays different than tomorrows the shadow of today covers our souls in deep gray for today will just be another forgotten yesterday.
Thinking of god makes me happy writing poetry and drawing too it makes heart glad happy thinking positive thoughts in one's head is great because all start with thoughts when i think of good things it heals body and spirit faster faith and trust in my god keep me strong too.
Here, my heart is for you to see, my soul is for you to burn, til no one can catch me, even the world stop to turn. my love, my lips is for you to kiss inside darkness, and i will wait you for thousands of sadness, come and hold me, i'm your sweetness, here i sing for you and your happiness, for you, i can die; i swear, i will not lie; bring my soul where ever you go, for my love, i can't say no.
Time no longer recalls past dreams now all memories in purple hazes time continues in it's chosen way a crystal ball won't turn the pages. comfort empty spaces in your heart time does not' wait, seize the chance golden opportunity will wait for none life's journey can be a merry dance. the time to do and be is always now let fate decide be it north or south regard the future with anticipation don't look a gift horse in the mouth. be swayed not by the highest bidder on your life's trek, long or short you'll find chances flowing at random carpe diem success can't be bought. don't dwell in shadows of discontent dreams come true to those that will questions asked should be answered yours will be if you climb that hill.
When you expected the sun to shine but the rain poured instead do not feel frustrated, seize the moment to take respite from the burdens of the day. be delighted that the foilage are happy to be sprinkled freely; when you feel old and notice the luster of youth lacks sparkle, don't worry be happy. seize the moment and take pride that aging is rewarded with wisdom which the young ones will achieve many years far away; when you failed to achieve something you thought was designed for you, do not regret or be weary. destiny had align you for what you are today, seize the moment and shout victory; when you drop or forget your shopping list, do not attempt to make another one. seize the moment and enjoy a shopping spree once in a blue moon while you can; when you think you are strange or eccentric person, do not feel outcast. there are millions of us with oddity who are kind hearted free spirited homo sapiens. seize the moment and wear your crown as king or queen of oddballs par excecellence; carpe diem, seize the moment whatever life confronts you. for this moment is like a river you can never step twice. treat your moments like a poetry in motion where into the depthness of your heart and soul, you and only you, can decipher the meaning behind the rhymes and rhythm.
The first night, the best night, you had me at hello. we went to your room, and it was like i'd been there before. my heart raced, my smile glowed. we pulled out the cards, and opened a beer. strip poker was not my strength. behind a pillow i hid, behind my wall. your lips, my lips, touched, my heart raced, beating louder then a drum. i wanted your hands on me, my hands on you. we layed on your bed, and talked long into the morning. our bodies embracing, rubbing. we didn't need sex, to enjoy ourselves. you sparked my heart strings that night, my walls shifted. each time, everytime, they come down a little more. yours are high, but crumbling along side mine. don't let go my friend. you and i are quite the pair, you know. i would not shower with just anyone, nor would i whisper my sweet nothings. the things i do with you, i hardly ever share. if i was willing to try, are you? if i put my heart on my sleeve, would you take care? how am i to believe you, how am i to love you, and not think you'll be the same, as my first love? my first love, my hardest love, my deepest love. i've never felt such pain, i could not bare another such as that. but for you, i'd be willing to try. do you believe me when i say, i care for you? i do. more then anything, i want to love you, i want to be there for you. can i have your heart? share your thoughts with me. my hearts racing, carpe diem.
Life is a grab bag, never asks that it be fair. there are no guarantees anywhere. plus and minus, a measure of talent and perhaps you make it on balance. as for the good life syndrome, you lose some; you win some. life is a grab bag no refund, no exchange, just a self limited range. born into a time a place, you consume time, expand space, grabbing all you can of life's repast. carpe diem while the daylight lasts.
Carpe diem sunrise, carpe diem, seize the day life is like a play, so find your way an infinite maze this reality seems to be locked up in your mind, warden you have the key fly high in the sky, free as a bird life is what you make it, have you heard open your ears open your eyes, blinded by the light know yourself and rise to a much greater height raise the bar, we are cheering you on someday both you and i will be gone maybe death is an illusion and we'll still be here hold your loved ones and friends ever so near you never know when they'll have to go part of this awesome infinite show so just play your role and play your role well good human create as you go, this is your divine plan you're the artist do you understand forward thinking, what do you have planned just learn to enjoy yourself today, words of wisdom like basic math, add the numbers, what's the sum? counting numbers till the end of time keep counting till you hear the clock chime time a tool for reality, what is your goal? in this life you must experience depth of soul. around we go, the lord of the ring flower of life, all of the birds sing like our great sun, circling our serene planet earth watching the sunset will help you find your worth.
Seize the moment when the sun shines, when people ccan only think of happy times. birds are singing, babies laughing, everythings calm and stays in line. cherish this moment, fore when it ends, the world is broken and filled with sin. people dying, babies crying. the war continues and there's pain again.
Swift comes the opportunity on wings of chance sublime we ought not to waste it in vain may it not come again, the other time? so grab it by any luck let it not be slipped loose master your fear, hone your senses moment you wait for, comes true.
Love me, love me, love me white says love me never, ever, never my heart say nevermore. white gives peace white gave me pollution white sowed purity white spoiled my chastity. white is superior it made me inferior white is cultured it destroyed my culture. white is all who said this all you, its only you not i, never will i. white says love me i say i don't white asks why i wont because you ruled at my own.
Your not here with me my love, so i hold my pillow to my chest and make believe its you. i kiss it twice, just the way we used to do. your not here with me my love, but i hold my pillow very tight, pretending that its you. i kiss it twice just the way we used to do. your not here with me my love, but somehow i felt you knew. exactly what i'd do. i'd kiss it twice just the way we used to do. because our love is eternal there's nothing left to say, except to say this one last word. i love you more each day.
My heart is a wanderer in love may it ever remain so roaming in the pathless land in a caravan just going where the winds blow. sometimes rendered miserable blown in all directions in search of my eternal love fable inspite of all defections always singing the song of love. longing for the moon searching in the dunes will only be still when it becomes crystal that there is no breath left for me to fulfill.
Falling in love with love, there's nothing like this, become like someone you love, is what i hope for and miss. my love is lonely tonight, when the stars shine on so bright, what is for me now right, is perhaps all out of sight? falling for someone like you, is it just impossible? why is my heart so blue? am i just another fool? the night is ascending, dark hours coming in soon, my wishes comprehending in shadows from the moon. falling in love with love, there's nothing like this, become like the one you love, is it impossible to wish? now in this gleaming light, perhaps i've lost my flight, but i shall hold on so tight, never give up on that fight.
C for you to see p for you to pray g for you to guide k for you to kall a for you to arch l for you to love love for us to call kall love, love call, love all..
Why do we love love so much when it never did us any good, we love love for the fun of it, or just because we know we could. but the question is, why do love hate us, i always said, ' it's better love than lust.' love hates us because we never show ownership, we just see each other as friends, we don't even see a relationship. love doesn't hate us, it's just we abuse it so, because once love is given to us, we don't want it anymore. we do love love, and love loves us too, love is just tired of the different ways it's used.
It's been hours now just laying in bed almost time to get up for work but only your in my head i'm laughing at myself for wishing for the same fantasy of you finally choosing you really want to be with me every second i relive the moments i had with you enjoying every second i heard i love you too it's been forever since a smile has ever lasted on my face because no other has ever come close to every taken your place at times it seems pointless like we were never meant to be but then there are times i should just wait and see i still wait and hang on to a slim glimpse of hope because losing you was something i just couldn't cope years have past with it seasons came and went with thoughts of you my sleepless nights i spent even to this day i still remember our first kiss it's still you i love it's your love i will always miss.
Love is always good mannered, bears up under stress looks for ways to be kindly, is quick to confess. love is not ever possessive, nor needs to impress. not touchy, nor jealous if it seems to get less. love is looking to share, and hopes for good things. knows no limits to taking what life sometimes brings love is not proud or boastful, it does not feel revoked by injuries suffered, nor is it provoked. love is decent, believing, looking for good. contented, yet happy when misunderstood. it's trusting, and hoping, as love always should. thus love begets love. it personifies god. lets hold up the feelings we deem to call love. comparing them close in the light of above.
The seed of love is lying in my heart the clouds are becoming heavy the air has become cool and breezy mountains stands tall and steady and my hopes are floating on waves the leaves are rustling so my wishes and all are desperate to see the dream come true and this spring is on door steps the first droplet dances past the eagle peacock opened its wings the breeze carries the fragrance and in seconds the spring zooms.
Fingers mesmerizing cool and soft against skin tongues softly seeking whipping tasting lingering arms clutching holding wrapping enfolding yearning love making love bodies yours to mine moulding wanting caressing touching electrifying silken subtle gentle wild and wonderful feathered touch crushed rose petals breaths heavy hot hard molten volcanic fiery delight essence of love passion unforgettable irrisistable unimaginable lavender chamomile jasmine sweet sultry amazingly beautiful fantasy dream reality love making love.
Am i falling for him or is htis just puppy love? even though he's not mine i still get weak from his hugs. it's crazy how my parents say it's just puppy love but not this time around.what do i feel when i know im like a rebound? i want him to be the one but who really knows.? i know he's good just like a pound of dro. so is it puppy love or is it real love? i may never know so this is the way i feel.
Here sits a boy so in love with this girl, but he won't say a word cause it sets him in a whirl. and it won't stop spinning untill he can find some rest, reassurance or peace of mind, that this girl that he loves so very much wil be in his arms to hold and touch. all that he wants is for this girl to caress but he can't possibly cause his heads such a mess. and he desperatley longs and hopes for the day that he can openly but honestly say, 'i love you more than anythingelse, even more than life itself'.
I do not love you except because i love you; i go from loving to not loving you, from waiting to not waiting for you my heart moves from cold to fire. i love you only because it's you the one i love; i hate you deeply, and hating you bend to you, and the measure of my changing love for you is that i do not see you but love you blindly. maybe january light will consume my heart with its cruel ray, stealing my key to true calm. in this part of the story i am the one who dies, the only one, and i will die of love because i love you, because i love you, love, in fire and blood.
You said to me that you will be there on that day but when that day came then you were not there for me so much love showered and so many promises were made but nothing worked on my way because you had gone my love, i am crying for you because my love turned blue the heaven stolen you from me and left the memories only though your soul vanished in the sky but my love never dies for you i tell those angels how much i love you and care for you and ask them to make your soul always happy till i come to you my love, i am crying for you because my love turned blue looking at your photos and wish you were here with me crying for your endless love which become the end of story i will not see you again but your memories will stay for ever now my heart fighting against a raw pain for the lost of my love my love, i am crying for you because my love turned blue.
If true love is love truly then let true love be true don't rip a hole in my chest and crush my blood pump if you are not surely sure then walky walk out the front door cause i'm not playing tricky tricks or hide and find with your playful mind if true love is love truly then let true love be true stay with me and love me and i'll stay with you and love you.
I love you i love love you no other words could say it more your handsome and clever without you i'd be sore i love you i love love you nothing else can say your charming and loving your the sunshine on my rainy day. i love you i love love you you mean so much to me your bright blue eyes and smiling face i hope my love you see i love you i love love you there are no other words that describe when you put your arms around me i always want you by my side i love love you.
The time will come when, with elation you will greet yourself arriving at your own door, in your own mirror and each will smile at the other's welcome, and say, sit here. eat. you will love again the stranger who was your self. give wine. give bread. give back your heart to itself, to the stranger who has loved you all your life, whom you ignored for another, who knows you by heart. take down the love letters from the bookshelf, the photographs, the desperate notes, peel your own image from the mirror. sit. feast on your life.
My love, your love, his love, and our love are all different from each other let me tell you about my love first my love is very weak like the baby that had just been born today your love is very strong like the thunder that is going on in the sky right now his love is very special because he is giving it to us right now.
Love to love, love to be loved. love a person, love a person inside and out. to judge is to hurt, to hurt is to not love. not to love is not to love yourself, not to love yourself is not to love other. not to love other is not to recieve love, not to recieve love hurts everyone in the end.
Beware, my love of the thunder that we will encounter when we touch beware, my love of the rain the outpourings of the pain for the lost time beware, my love of the lightning the resurrection that it will bring of our dormant desires beware, my love of the flood the mingling of our blood when our skins dissolve beware, my love of the reverbration the resounding celebration of our eternal embrace.
Well, honey it is january and soon it will be february i know what it reminds me to remember you in valentine's day and i know what is that day for and i know what it is for the love of love for all love the love of love for sweetheart of but we been sweetheart since then my love for you ain't been forgotten though we have this strands of silver hair valentine's day is nothing for me as i always care and my love is always fresh like the morning with our love still blending and refreshing and refreshes my mind everyday not only on valentine's day.
Love oh love is everywhere like inside my dream, here and there yesteryear puffing up lofty stream; spring is once again near with morning so plentiful, winter on its underwear the last of the frosty jewel. love oh love is coming now blooms soon starting to show, worries die out somehow with the last winter's blow; give me a hope in the living that will follow a sunny day, there is so much worth giving in the beginning of new may. love oh love is here to share with wonderful thing to be, to heal the old shallow arr that once were here adoptee; spring's again nearly born filling my longings and wish, what in earth ways i adorn i can't be without all this.
On the way home i came from a journey on the way home i took the train on the way home while i was sitting in the chair i saw my love.my crush. i couldnt help but stare this time i didnt care what people thought i had to be with you someday, someway people can say whatever but they cant break what we built on the way home i was all alone but i knew what i felt along the way gazing into the city nothing amuzes me like him cars drive by lights shine bright but i dont really stop and look its all about me and him soon.
To friends at home, the lone, the admired, the lost the gracious old, the lovely young, to may the fair, december the beloved, these from my blue horizon and green isles, these from this pinnacle of distances i, the unforgetful, dedicate.
Dream with pain from you awake with pain from you i'm afraid to be alone i'm afraid to stay at home gather myself to fall again i'm better off dead then breathing until the end on second thought, maybe instead this is me, i'm so pathetic let the world hear me cry let them know i'm an addict let them know i won't die i'll crawl through that familiar door i'm so sick of this place i've seen this all before it's uglier then my face dream with pain from you awake with pain from you i'm afraid to be alone i'm afraid to stay at home.
Oh stay at home, my lad, and plough the land and not the sea, and leave the soldiers at their drill, and all about the idle hill shepherd your sheep with me. oh stay with company and mirth and daylight and the air; too full already is the grave of fellows that were good and brave and died bacause they were.
All night a door floated down the river. it tried to remember little incidents of pleasure from its former life, like the time the lovers leaned against it kissing for hours and whispering those famous words. later, there were harsh words and a shoe was thrown and the door was slammed. comings and goings by the thousands, the early mornings and late nights, years, years. o they've got big plans, they'll make a bundle. the door was an island that swayed in its sleep. the moon turned the doorknob just slightly, burned its fingers and ran, and still the door said nothing and slept. at least that's what they like to say, the little fishes and so on. far away, a bell rang, and then a shot was fired.
Home is pictures of memories on the wall. home is sleeping in my own bed. home is waking up to the smell of mom's cooking. home is sharing the holidays with family. home is playing the piano in the living room. home is a warm place to be. home is sweet. home is the place for me. home is filled with love. home is blessed from heaven above. home is where my heart is. home has a strong foundation. it can weather any storm. home is where i belong. when i go away, i know i can come back to stay. home is a beautiful place.
God looked around his garden and found an empty space; he then looked down upon this earth and saw your tired face. he put his arms around you and lifted you to rest; god's garden must be beautiful, he only takes the best. he knew you were in pain, he knew you might never get well upon this earth again. he saw the road was getting rough and the hills were hard to climb, so he closed your weary eyelids and whispered 'peace be thine.' it broke our hearts to lose you, but you never went alone, for part of us went with you the day god called you home.
They went home and told their wives, that never once in all their lives, had they known a girl like me, but. they went home. they said my house was licking clean, no word i spoke was ever mean, i had an air of mystery, but. they went home. my praises were on all men's lips, they liked my smile, my wit, my hips, they'd spend one night, or two or three. but.
Oh how i miss those walks in the park, where birds would sing and dogs did bark. nuts for the pigeons and some for the squiriels, swan boats dfift by leaving watery swirls. happy laughter of children floated by as on wings, playing with friends and soaring on swings. people walked by, some nodded or smiled, young folk gave agreeting, others chatted awhile. remembering all this fills me with joy. now it's, here take your pills, oh that's a good boy.
Come, my little children, here are songs for you; some are short and some are long, and all, all are new. you must learn to sing them very small and clear, very true to time and tune and pleasing to the ear. mark the note that rises, mark the notes that fall, mark the time when broken, and the swing of it all. so when night is come, and you have gone to bed, all the songs you love to sing shall echo in your head.
A home above the year's seasons home of children animals and apples a square of empty space under an absent star home was the telescope of childhood the skin of emotion a sister's cheek branch of a tree the cheek was extinguished by flame the branch crossed out by a shell over the powdery ash of the nest a song of homeless infantry home is the die of emotion home is the cube of childhood the wing of a burned sister leaf of a dead tree.
I came back late and tired last night into my little room, to the long chair and the firelight and comfortable gloom. but as i entered softly in i saw a woman there, the line of neck and cheek and chin, the darkness of her hair, the form of one i did not know sitting in my chair. i stood a moment fierce and still, watching her neck and hair. i made a step to her; and saw that there was no one there. it was some trick of the firelight that made me see her there. it was a chance of shade and light and the cushion in the chair. oh, all you happy over the earth, that night, how could i sleep? i lay and watched the lonely gloom; and watched the moonlight creep from wall to basin, round the room, all night i could not sleep.
Home permanent home you may welcome if you have decent home greet each other and gracefully offer it takes time to build in life time sometimes it may not be realized and you will see it as dazed but life moves on despite many things in life are got or won the home remains as distant possibility in your prayers you always bow down to almighty the birds to build nest and put their efforts best they leave it the moment their job is over but we miss it and need some shelter love demands one permanent refuge and it is not desire huge it gets reality and makes smooth real journey.
My parents have come home laughing from the feast for robert burns, late, on foot; they have leaned against graveyard walls, have bent double in the glittering frost, their bladders heavy with tea and ginger. burns, suspended in a drop, is flicked away as they wipe their eyes, and is not offended. what could offend him?not the squeaking bagpipe nor the haggis which, when it was sliced, collapsed in a meal of blood and oats nor the man who read a poem by scott as the audience hissed embarrassment nor the principal speaker whose topic, "burns' view of crop rotation," was intended for farmers, who were not present, nor his attempt to cover this error, reciting the only burns poem all evening, "nine inch will please a lady," to thickening silence. they drop their coats in the hall, mother first to the toilet, then father, and then stand giggling at the phone, debating a call to the states, decide no, and the strength to keep laughing breaks in a sigh.i hear, as their tired ribs press together, their bedroom door not close and hear also a weeping from both of them that seems not to be pain, and it comforts me.
My loss. of a mother. of a friend. of a queen. the beginning of the end. god's gain. of a daughter. of the light. of an angel. the main soul in his fight. my love. for my mother. gods love. for his child. she's with god right now watching from his almighty cloud.
Loss is something one deals with in their own way, i've lost so much, its all but gone, out of it all. i miss my mind the most. not able to think, not able to remeber anything, besides what was left in my heart, all the loss.all the pain, can't be forgotten, the heart remebers all, every word thats hurt you, every person that has betrayed you. all remebered within the scars left on your heart, lost in an ending, always hoping to restart.
When i compare what i have lost with what i have gained, what i have missed with what attained, little room do i find for pride. i am aware how many days have been idly spent; how like an arrow the good intent has fallen short or been turned aside. but who shall dare to measure loss and gain in this wise? defeat may be victory in disguise; the lowest ebb is the turn of the tide.
I was lost 6 months ago it was lust that drove my soul i couldn't controll. what happened that night what a loss i say to you it wasn't love but why not try something new? why judge someone you don't know? just open your mind and go with the flow but no. you had left so many words unspoken i have questions, but your mind still isn't open what a loss i say to you.
Watching the dismal streets, the rain splasing down, drip dropp drip drop the loss of life. watching friends play footie the silence of the body in which life would have left for another. the silent solace. watching, the eyes red tears extending their arms down the eyes slowly. the joy lost in despair. madness for life in turn to bring it to a halt and sort out the puzzled brain. to clear the though of loss. life a motion of words and phrases, not a meaning to anything, no shock to big. for loss of life is something. strong. the engine whirrs everyday as time becoms a devil haunting hoping the time is to pass and disappear. the loss of life haunting the memories. sadness disappears to sheer silence. emotions withheld within the realms of the mind and no emotions shown. except the blank expression of time and blankness. the loss of life changing futures of everyone. delight long gone. for a loss of life can be moving. or even constricting only to squeeze all life from the veins held in the body. the loss of life.
Im sitting here looking at this old flower, it's been about a half an hour. seeing you, no longer makes me blue. i now see how the time has flew. i no longer have to pretend that everything is fine. because it was your loss, not mine. when you see me i hope that you feel blue; and realize how good i was to you. everything now is perfectly fine. because it's your loss and never was mine.
Curiosity grows, finding new ground temptation breaks all resistance dark discoveries flood in innocence swept away sinfull satisfaction sweeps over curiosity laughs, temptation has won sources change, sin remains innocence is dead, replaced solemn days, no surprises the sun shines over cold flesh a warm heart beats, needing joy content for now, a mind wanders innocence has been lost.
I remember speaking to you, once upon some months ago. once upon a fairy tale; once upon the fairest day. niceness could be compared to none, and the first of all could be spent. as i glanced in your gray direction, i wished i could know you better, and i wish i would have visited, and i wish i could reverse everything; but the future has spoken, and you were swept away from me. i wish i would have known you better, and i wish i would have visited, but the virus grew inside of you, and you were swept away from me. i would have it other ways. i would have myself infected for you. your virus i would spread for you, upon my body, my hopes, my dreams. your niceness could be compared to none, and god, i wish i had visited you. we spoke like sweet rivers, radiant in the sun and forever flowing; until the virus grew inside of you, and you were swept away from me and now live in my dreams, for you will never be forgotten, my uncle.
Fading laughter from memories past hidden tears soon are lost powerless to the will of you forced unto all that grew aggrivating i say, i dare but whoever said life was fair? a sigh of grievance is all i can do how can i say my mourning's through?.
Hardest of lifes lessons is loss, in which having becomes without, when complete changes to shatters, that what was full is, just an emptiness, and guided becomes lost. security of knowing, fades to a memory, images of love, become dreams, security of touch, a sensation ebbed away, and loneliness becomes company. when the weakened heart, strengthens, tired from the weariness, of loss, growing, of the last love, to become the strength, of the next. lesson learned, is not to love less, with loss, lesson is, to learn to love grander, with gain.
The pain of loss is just too much you will no longer be here to touch gone forever is so true but i will always remember you the thought is too hard to bare i shall not cry, i do not dare the thought of you is still here but i will shed not a tear for i know where you will be further than the eye can see with our father in the heaven above i will see you soon my love.
Without your family life would be cold without your family the tears will flow the more you think the more you know how you need your family in order to grow but what seems to me what seems to be my family is the cause of all my misery i take it all in but let none out the world is so cold so so cold yes i try i try so hard but the more i try the more i cry because i can never reach your level for me it's just to much to much to handle but without my family i would be cold so i have to deal with the one i own.
The loss of a loved one is hard to face but you know they're in a better place a place where there is no suffering and no pain a place where loved ones are all the same. a place where the angels gather to sing with every new person that they bring. for in this kingdom of happiness and joy and pain does not exist. sits our god and his beloved son. he gave up his life so that we could see what it is to be set free. of all the suffering that we must go through just so he could be with you. so raise your head and look to the sky for your loved one will be flying high. their wings will be a beautiful white and nothing can compare to that beautiful sight. so put away your tears and grief and thank the lord up above for his everlasting love.
There was nothing violent about the death of your thoughts from my memories. we moved so very imperceptibly to the far ends of a bed, slowly, we once made love on. enamel etches on my skin your passion welts, spots of blood sprouting reminding you of a crime, glistening i espy right over your heart tattooed with some blade, scratched disjointed nicks joined to form a name the faceless unknown that you mouth in passion, pain. i sense the person in every moment shared with you. in the pauses between words too the name flitting, an alphabet fallen off a word seeking, fitting into sentences in fleeting lonely, to find its niche wishing love is an agony revisited, uninvited when even space and time conspired maintaining in our hearts distant expanses is there anything violent about the death of thoughts of us, except the wounds that we passed along.
Today words escape me i am sad beyond them my world will pause today and i will ache my soul cries out every fiber of my being longs for just one more touch just one more hug one more kiss from my father. my heart breaks. i miss him.
I told him i loved him, what a stupid mistake on my part. he actually made me feel like a real person, now all i feel like is an empty shell. when we were actually together, you seemed to understand how much i needed you, how much i actually cared. now however, i dont think i can look at you without feeling all the feelings i used to feel. i hate that i dont think i'll ever be able to forget you but i love that you were part of my life. ilove you forever and always.
Instantly life flashes through my mind, it is raining, but there's not a cloud in the sky. succumbed by emotion, reality grabs my nervous system, like a vampire's thrusting canines, everything that was common is somehow misplaced, hiding in a dark room, extracting all the love inside me, like a needle to the vein, as i surrender to the devastion, my heart explodes with envy, for the life that is now only in my dreams, dazed as i go through the daily routines of life, surreal as it all seems, this is my reality, with not a tear left to cry, i sit in solitude, waiting, waiting, will i be able to collect all the tiny pieces of my broken heart? will i be able to find happiness again? this i ponder from within the hole in which i lay, waiting, waiting, seeking justification, my mouth implodes with the jargon of my remorse, seek comfort, i will, in the solace of my own redemption lay to rest the history of me becoming totally undone.
Let me not cry with your passing away. for in my heart, you'll always be here to stay. it's for my loss and loneliness, that i weep. for i know that you have peaceful sleep. while i, who remain behind, am hurt and lonely at the love and friendship, that i have lost. yet in my heart, you will always be a comforting memory.
The loss of your virginity to the one you love you think it's wrong but he says it's all right you trust him with your whole heart so you do what he says you can't looked into his eyes and when your laying there with his hands rubbing you, as he slowly moves his way down; you lay there and think how bad you want this to be done the pain you go through as he gets pleasure makes you wanna cry you want it to stop, but you are scared what he'll do you tell him no more til you relize your looking down the barrel of a gun you give it to him til you tell your mom and she doesnt believe you til she sees the marks on your body and the terrior in your eyes and now he's in prison and your sitting in counseling talking to a stranger bout why you don't have a dad.you sit there in wonder and think how this is all your fault and all you hear is that it wasn't your fault that you did the right thing but when you look back in the passed you relize all the things you coulda done. and every nite it plays back in your head, every silent moment when your mind wonders off all you think about are those nights of horror. you loss your virginity and lost your father, two wrongs and no rights.
How can you grieve and express loss? do you cry loud think or choose? stay in corner and get lost in memory stay with gloomy face under deep worry god needs them most in his courtroom where as there was no dearth for others with room person may be precious like fine star in the sky shined for few hours and immediately chosen to fly we feel world as hollow we think sun may not shine tomorrow nights may be all worthless we may have lot many problems to chase such might have been the dominant position the loss caused to family is sudden imposition family may take some time to adjust the shock they have yet to come out of it to take the stock even though we are aware of uncertainty we leave it to good wisdom of almighty it is natural to shed a tear over loss we follow the natural and consider it as divine cause think of no control on life span human beings might have made lots of plans nobody would have preferred quitting of their own so almighty has taken control in hand and made it known we attribute untimely death as decided by destiny some of us may not reconcile or come to terms fully yet the helplessness is openly seen on the face life has been termed as adventurous but as uncertain race so always we talk of great wisdom raise hands in disgust cry foul seldom somewhere we realize its futility suddenly come down to terms as inability.
A forgotten time a forgotten society a forgotten land a forgotten people a time of peace a time of war a time of grieving a time of celebration a time of loss a loss of knowledge a loss of dignity a loss of loved ones a loss of sanity a loss of peace a beginning of a new time a beginning of new life a beginning of new knowledge a beginning of new peace a beginning of new war its all a cycle from a new beginning to loss to a time of difference till it is all forgotten and a new beginning is forged.
When i compare what i have lost with what i have gained, what i have missed with what attained, little room do i find for pride. i am aware how many days have been idly spent; how like an arrow the good intent has fallen short or been turned aside. but who shall dare to measure loss and gain in this wise? defeat may be victory in disguise; the lowest ebb is the turn of the tide.
In the might orange river just past augrabies you lost your magic ring and there princess you cried while the water around you circled out wider. that knotted russian wedding band which should have brought you luck that was for generations in your family was grabbed by the fingers of the red water and was washed away to maybe decorate the finger of a dark goddess and in your soul you felt the darkness coming near as if something crept from the water right into your soul and the shadows of willow trees growing on the banks reached out ominous as if they were trying to protect you against something. still the sun was bright in the sky, the blue stretched over the heaven and your reflection which was thrown on the surface of the water was matchless and i saw tears in your dark green eyes.
A loss of a friend hurts the loss of a best friend hurts more, but it is never a true loss; everyday you will see something that reminds you of them this will bring a memory; a memory of the times you speant together followed by another; a memory of how you went your seperate ways they will always be in your mind; they never really leave you.
Words fall short to express a sense of loss. it can only be felt in the emptiness it left. in the longing of your heart, in some chamber of your soul, for a dear one gone in a flash, we are forever apart. in the silent tears that flow down your cheeks, soaking the pillow case as you lie curled up in bed. in the half smile that never reaches your eyes, the void that fills you and makes you wonder why are you alive. with time the ache becomes dull, and from time to time you find yourself awake tossing, turning going down the memory lane, some sweet some full of pain. you are never whole, as long as there is a longing in your soul. in time you realise you have to let go, and make peace and deal with grief. finally when it does, you grow wise compassionate and loving, and gain a new insight into life that is a mystery.
Into the thousands he flows and blends, squeezes in a quick breakfast, gets into his workshop to keep the life safely comfortable, he is in between the vehicles and smoke till the dusk, he loses himself slowly in the bathroom, he searches for his self in the mirror.
No rose that in a garden ever grew, in homer's or in omar's or in mine, though buried under centuries of fine dead dust of roses, shut from sun and dew forever, and forever lost from view, but must again in fragrance rich as wine the grey aisles of the air incarnadine when the old summers surge into a new. thus when i swear, "i love with all my heart," 'tis with the heart of lilith that i swear, 'tis with the love of lesbia and lucrece; and thus as well my love must lose some part of what it is, had helen been less fair, or perished young, or stayed at home in greece.
When the rose is faded, memory may still dwell on her beauty shadowed, and the sweet smell gone. that vanishing loveliness, that burdening breath, no bond of life hath then, nor grief of death. 'tis the immortal thought whose passion still makes the changing the unchangeable. oh, thus thy beauty, loveliest on earth to me, dark with no sorrow, shines and burns, with thee.
Drift upon the breeze like gentle whispers heard in the wind. taking you high through the trees bringing you down low among the flowers. you caress my cheek softly, gently. i feel you, i know you are here. fly high my butterfly, fly high i reach out, touch the velvety softness of your wing, gracefully you glide into my outstretched hand. your wings dancing to the beat of my heart, . a tender kiss of love for my aching soul. i feel you, i know you are here. fly high my butterfly, fly high the flight of gossamer dreams are you, with your wings of yellow and blue. you are what you seem, the spirit of my beloved child, so true. comforting all who believe. i feel you, i know you are here. fly high my butterfly, fly high.
A flower was offered to me, such a flower as may never bore; but i said 'i've a pretty rose tree,' and i passed the sweet flower o'er. then i went to my pretty rose tree, to tend her by day and by night; but my rose turned away with jealousy, and her thorns were my only delight.
Did you hear about the rose that grew from a crack in the concrete? proving nature's law is wrong it learned to walk with out having feet. funny it seems, but by keeping it's dreams, it learned to breathe fresh air. long live the rose that grew from concrete when no one else ever cared.
A rose is a rose every day, every night you too are the same, except different in my sight you are like a rose, such a beautiful creation but a rose in disguise, meant to blume for every nation so show your beauty, for i know what you are you are a rose in disguise, and very, very wise a rose is a rose is a rose.
A rose can say i love you and want you to be mine, a rose can say i thank you for being so very kind, a rose can say congratulations, whatever the occasion may be, a rose can say i miss you and wish you were here with me, a rose can say i'm sorry if i've hurt you in any way, a rose can say get well soon, may god bless you today, a rose can say i wish you happiness, and the best for you each day. a rose can say farewel when someone goes away, a rose can say hello, i'm thinking of you today, there's just so many wonderful things that a rose can say, a rose can say goodbye when a love one is laid to rest, no matter what there is to say, a rose can say it best.
The last rose of summer lingers of a soft fragrance as the days of summer fade into days only remembered over the fires embers that stir yesterdays moment. the last rose of summer whose beauty brought love and caring in the cool evening breeze to a heart touched briefly by its petals of soft color. the last rose of summer that but briefly spoke of tenderness to a heart in the stillness of the night to be remembered in the quiet fragrance of a rose. the last rose of summer whose petals are pressed to a book hiding it's treasure of yesterdays love remembering days held in time not to be forgotten.
If i were a bee and you were a rose, would you let me in when the gray wind blows? would you hold your petals wide apart, would you let me in to find your heart, if you were a rose? "if i were a rose and you were a bee, you should never go when you came to me, i should hold my love on my heart at last, i should close my leaves and keep you fast, if you were a bee. ".
No rose that in a garden ever grew, in homer's or in omar's or in mine, though buried under centuries of fine dead dust of roses, shut from sun and dew forever, and forever lost from view, but must again in fragrance rich as wine the grey aisles of the air incarnadine when the old summers surge into a new. thus when i swear, "i love with all my heart," 'tis with the heart of lilith that i swear, 'tis with the love of lesbia and lucrece; and thus as well my love must lose some part of what it is, had helen been less fair, or perished young, or stayed at home in greece.
If i were a rose and you were a leaf, the thorns would not grow upon my tree. you would bask in the glory of beauty spent. content to reside where my heart went. daily collecting of sunshine you might. my caress would fall like soft candlelight. savoring your soul until the darkest night. we would grow together like the leaves from a vine. forever, my love, through the end of time. until december when the rose wilts away. i will wait until the first blooms of may forsaking others for the burning within. only to chance have i become whole again. mixed with the spirit of a lover's light. together the lady and her poet knight. if i were the rose and you were the leaf. copyright 2006 a.j. mckinley.
The memories embracing me, you see as beautiful as they might be they're tearing me apart my already weak heart this life is just a cruel game this world, is a shame conflicting stories, lovers torn apart without the change of a new start i was getting into the way of evil might i lost everything that night without your sudden appearance i'd have died but your beautiful wings took me into the height these arms around me with loving care what else could i loose if we'd dare beautifully entwining bodies, bare anything i have, i want to share hot kisses on cold skin let's commit the sweetest sin feel the impact of loving take away my grieving never thought it would find such an end the one you called friend to bring me death he was send without you being there to defend now, with the time, all the centuries flowing i still feel my longing for you growing but will you now ever be knowing that i'm waiting for you under the stars, the glowing.
Romance is dead it fell to the ground with a bullet in its head it was a cold blooded killer that pulled the trigger while the children played in the park, on the swings poor romance went down without a sound, without a fight it didn't stand a chance noone came to the funeral it was shown up for what it was big businesses marionette which lay beneath the soil along with romeo and juliet it never lived happily every after in careless abandonment it chose instead to die beside heathcliff on a dampened bed by scott l. daniels.
Romance came at morning love story without end we stole a kiss by the river the haven of love way down in the glen soprano voices came hither ecstasy lingered then with the bliss of romance. only a shy young maiden was i how could my heart ever know that love was steadily seeping into the innocence of my soul? romance came with glory love's fable now i pen we fell in love one september at a haven of love way down in the glen your kind caress i remember i was eager to dance on wings of true romance.
A sapling in a severe drought what she needs is moisture to survive? the ogre shows a goodwill and who crawls to the scenario for the redress. but she cannot uproot and how can she abandon her kith and kin? she has already mesmerized by his laudable dialects and does she obey to this monster? . she dreams of the fertile soil where she goes to bear flowers in the next summer. she bow and stretch her springy hands to this promiscuous lover who takes her cunningly to the utopia.
I'm hopelessly in love, every much a part of you. i'm hopeless in love, very much apart from you. i had your heart clenched in my hand, i let it slip like gritty, shifty grains of sand. i let your heart get torn apart comforted by another's arms. drifting in another's charms while i lay lonely, torn apart. our endless love was beauty, a dream to be extant. now my fault alas folly; it's altering to extinct. i always lived on hope, never gave up on a chance. your words the stamp of denouement. 'she will get my romance'.
Huge amount of intensity, physically, emotionally and personally, surprisingly, makes more romantic a very caring, takes care of even little things and makes all difference being romance. intensity may be the little thing matters a lot and creates depth of understanding, caring, love and intense love making.
Its me you love, and this i know, its him your with, oh where'd you go? i loved you right, and held you tight, so why let me go? i doubt i'll know, what i did wrong, so now i'm gone, and don't answer my phone. you searched for me, to bring me back, but now know, i couldn't come back, you made your choice, and lived a lie, so why did you go and die? you searched for love, and knew you'd never find, a love as good as mine.
I cannot explain the way i feel about you girl, you're always on my mind everytime i often think of you i get a funny feeling that i'm so in love with you i want to give you all my love let me show you that i'm real the love that i have shall never fade away i'm tired of being broken hearted i need a little romance in my life can't you see i need little romance? take my hand may i have this dance no one can love the way that i can love i'm telling you i need a chance i need a little romance in my life.
I wanted to tell you how it is that i love you it used to be so easy i'd pick up a pen and let the words flow in choosing the right ones so freely but then i'd let someone talk me into destruction of all thinking and feeling just once a day this pill which, at times, makes me ill supresses. well, pretty much anything now it seems like every day feels strangely the same in every way like lifeless circles of day and night they treat me for depression by drugging my brain into submission yet somehow, i'm not a zombie. right? forgive me for my senseless rambling trying to keep my brain from scrambling a battle i very much seem to be losing there was something i had to tell you but what that was, i have no clue. hmm. i think i need a nap.
Maybe a little romance is needed lightening our days in all this grey to place a smile on our faces you can't have too much romance in a life that's filled with sadness making us laugh with pleasure give me romance to dazzle me to make my heart sing out loud and make me feel i'm alive bring on the romance to me it's welcome in a soul of tears appreciated from this coldness give me romantic words and deeds so pleasing to my eyes and ears make me happy for a little while give me romance everytime to make me blush and smile instead of all these teasing words rewrite of poem lost in the ether lol but still on document.fi.
Feminine.the 'dreamy' kind every man adores her, beautiful in summer sun when mr. romance calls her. he sings nostalgic melodies introduced discreetly, mellow notes to melt the heart bliss, when rendered sweetly. he sends white lilies to her room to celebrate each new occasion; her boudoir's filled with fresh perfume and sensuous adoration. golden rings upon her finger give hope of many years to come and unforgettable memories linger of romance in the summer sun.
Change is life, though he loves status quo unwilling perhaps yet he accepts to bow before the authority's command for change coward in him fails to face powers' challange. inaction n indecision are inherent qualities practiced by bureaucrat by grace of almighty. in romance he indulges with schemes n reforms loyalty n sincerity, never he follows such norms. romance of bureaucrat blurs any vision that incorporates plans n their implementation. mismanagement n misconception are the basics that train n teach him treachrous tricks. he romances too with guv policy's formulation as also its' circulation n on it ample discussion. poet; ratnakar d mandlik.
Touch of rain drops makes me giggle. like a lover, it tickle. and makes me laugh and wiggle rain touches me with a bliss. like a sweet and lovely kiss. when in rain i get drench. like lover my clothes clench. its like someone dear . who cuddle close and near. the cold tender breeze. makes me shiver and freeze. still its better than a hot mug. or a tight warm hug . rain makes me romantic. and i feel naively idyllic.
Tempered by the friction, of each others loneliness. brightly wooed, in our own glad glorious way. we chasing each other, along those milky ways. conditions and competition, fight like mariners. love stars, are more dewy luminous than others. why separate them, a love creates poetic illusion. a perspective, like pleasing soft melancholy music. happy about joyful liberation, awaking upon life. consequently life is also a dream, in relative ways. cooperation swinging in or out, of our endurance. farewell to daylight, we enjoy a moonlit night sky. ourselves no longer strangers, sing like chaffinch.
Romance to bloom let me wait and watch out when the spring rains; it is now in the sky lustly curved with stunning colours just a minute it whispers a new tune of lies and glues to heart pining to see the invisible sight the embers of romance lightens up when the moist hearts warmly rain looks of spring full of perfumed wings to suckle the nectar to open up the pot of potion mesmerizing ocean bodies vanish leaving imprints we see the lovers kissing empty airs seeing life images like rainbows still printed in transparent airs.
Radio romance ridicules soul, soldiers beat is the only motion i know. the power of pride i will always show, never shall i hide the glorious glow. radio romance advances swiftly, razor eyes rumble the ground before thee, trembling knees gain strength and rigidity, supporting the weight of all that is me. radio romance spits fulsome flattery, sadly believed are these words entrusted through doubt. loves lies swipe neat, about face choked cries. radio romance takes a seat, beat.
I write my suicide note so i can be kissed by a butterfly i can live tonight but i choose to die i'm crying on the inside and bleeding on the outside i show my pain, blood, and tears i don't want them to hide tears fall from my cuts as blood drips from my eyes i see them now the kissing butterflies this is my note for after i die goodbye life hello butterfly.
Please let me die im so tired. i hate it here i want to die. he dosen't love me. he loves noone. he makes my heart cry. i want to commit suicide, but i can't decide how a guns so messy. but my wrist im used to. i want to watch my blood spill on the floor. as i feel the life leaving my body. i feel the urge strenghtining i now must say goodbye.
I need pain a knife against my wrist is not enough well it's pain, but i need stronger pain pain that will make me scream i need to see blood to smell and taste it i need the feeling of my blood draining from my veins i grab a knife and in a moment all around me my blood is flowing i see flashing lights hear shouts and screams but i am afraid they are to late they rush me to the hospital but there is nothing they can do the cut on my neck is to deep they cannot save me my parents are planning my funeral their actions slow and sad my sister is crying along with my friends they did not expect it i showed no signs at my funeral people are crying all around me but now it is time for my sister to speak the first thing she says is 'i can't believe she was suicidal. '.
I aim the gun its against my head one right move and i'll be dead because my only wish will never come true it's not much all i want is you but you're so far away you're not coming back this pain is too much like an aerial attack unsuspected unprepared almost like noone cared so suicide, suicide my new best friend suicide, suicide my final end suicide, suicide you saved me suicide, suicide i'm finally free.
Death is cold death is above but sometimes death is love. blood glistens like the morning dew blood comes out because of you. razors shine in the pure white light, razors sharp perfect for flight. fallen angel cuts fallen angel bleeds she stands alone he's all she needs. fallen angel screams fallen angel cries she can fly no more so instead, she dies.
I know i'm not alone lets take a stand lets fight it together lets support each other instead of being alone lets not go with out a fight lets not just become just another teenage suicide lets fight it together we can survive we can take a stand we can win this battle.
Suicide will be the cause of my demise. death is my decision, because life is my affliction. and i when they're hurt, i won't appologize. i close the casket upon myself. and i dig my own grave no one can save my cold damned soul. our worthless god won't take me, my fate is in my control.
Depression isn't obvious but suicide is. my pain nobody sees. my my mangled body they shall see. my head was all but a mess. depression overtaking me. suicide was to be my bid for freedom. becuase deppression isn't obvious but suicide is. depression is never obvious even when its staring them in the face. but now suicide will be obvious how can it not? now my life is too much to bear. suicide i shall commit. now its obvious but its all too late.
Suicide isn't fun, so don't try it. suicide isn't quick, it's long and painful. suicde never used to be me, but now it is. suicide was never calming, always away to have so much pain it didn't hurt anymore. suicide has to be a blade, so don't get pricked. suicide is apart of love, so don't love the wrong people. suicide and death are close, so don't flirt with them. suicide never tells the the truth, always belive the opposite. suicide kills slowly, keep that in mind. suicide will always be here, so get used to it. suicide takes over, don't let it. suicide will eventually bite you, bite back harder. suicide will never die, you will but it won't be to it. suicide works well with your wrist, so don't let it. suicide is always there you just can't see it, so open your eyes.
With nothing left everyday i wake up hoping to die i show not a sign but the pain in my eyes ridiculed in my plain disguise of what i really am and of what i dispise i wreak everything i ever touch i cant do that anymore its all to much i wanna slit my wrist and let the pain bleed away to feel the cold numbness of death on its way most would say thats suicide i call it poetry in motin poetry with out words no pen or parer but like a play of the writen words acting it out suicide is poetry i have no doubt.
I think i should have wrote, a little suicide note. in case i decide to end it all, i wouldnt have to make a call. it might be under the moon or sun, maybe by hanging or gun. it may be during the day or night, i didnt know which was right. no one will find me, i dont want anyone to see, what i have done, under the disappearing sun. i had to get those thoughts out of my head, even if it means being dead. even if my life wasnt that bad, its my head that was making me sad. i was sick of trying to strive, struggling with myself to stay alive. i felt like i wasnt worth a thing, i pretended to be happy and sing. i wish this was a lie, but truly i wished to die. no one knew i felt this way, because i refused to say. never again will i see the sun, truly sorry if i hurt anyone. i couldnt deal with it like a man, so i decided to go with the suicide plan.
Here i sit and write this poem thinking of all i love and all i hate thoughts of suicide thinking its my fate i think of all the times i used to laugh and now i wish i'd just die how did so much misery come in to my life and now all i have are thoughts of suicide crying every night is not the way to live heck i'm still a kid i should be out hanging with all my friends but these thoughts of suicide haunt my head will they care when i am gone when nothings left expect my thoughts and this small poem telling everyone i will be no more in about an hour don't try to save me just save your tears nothing can stop me because i have thoughts of suicide heres to the end my dear friend i hope you live life through this is the end to this girls life and all her thoughts to boot nothing there but my thoughts my secret thoughts of suicide.
I might as well teach myself something useful and learn to love to hate you well then wait to kill you with broken hands and i wonder, what's a better death? and can i watch your face as i kill myself in front of you? have my screams run through your veins the only way to make you not forget me my blood is on your hands. there was a time forgetting was better now it's more satisfying to watch myself die in your sight.
Suicide, suicide wishing i were dead, suicide, suicide deep in my head, suicide, suicide cutting my wrists, suicide, suicide i am so done with this. two days, two days let until i die, two days, two day till the last tear i'll cry, two days, two days until i am all gone, two days, two days till the dark breaks the dawn. suicide, suicide deep inside my head, suicide, suicide now i am almost dead, suicide, suicide turn out the lights, suicide, uicide goodbye and goodnight.
Suicide is deadly, so don't flirt with it suicide is sneaky, so be careful suicide and death are closely related, so be careful which one you chose suicidemay help you, but destroy others suicide can kill but not as bad as the lies suicide is my best friend that i can no longer hide suicide goes good with the blade, and the blade goes with my wrist suicide helped me it helped me die.
I watch the world from my room waiting for sleep to come staring up at the ceiling wishing i had a gun i'd shoot myself i'd end my pain knowing that in the end i'd lived in vain and i'd lie to the angels say you gave me my death then i'd sell my soul because i'd have nothing left i'd look into heaven and at the gates be denied condemned to hell because i lived a lie and i watch the world from inside my room i lay there and know this place will be my tomb i pray to the angels that they'll just let me die i'm tired of living this miserable life i'd have a knife clutched tight in my hand and i'd pray in my head hoping god understands but i'd be damned and sent away when i got to the final the judgment gates he could never understand that i really did try he would just see it as my suicide.
Thoughts of suicide grow why do i think like this? why cant i live in harmoney? why cant i live in bliss? suicide is like a virus it devoured all that was pure why did i hold that knife to my chest? why cant i find a cure? thoughts of suicide overwhelm me one pill, two, three pill, four only 8 more to go now come on im nearly through that door. suicide has taken my voice so no one can hear my pain but even if i could scream at the top of my lungs would it be invane? no one wants to listen no one even cares my feet are over the edge now i will glide right through the air. if my thoughts become reality would i be missed or would i be cast off as another number with my name added to a list. my thoughts of suicide stay with me one day i may be free is suicide my only option well tomorrow is a new day, i shall wait and see.
A person can only take so much, in my hand, a knife i clutch, i want to take my life away, and tell how worthless i am, to say, i have a frown upon my face, i want to run away from this place, and end my life, i want to die, my head upon my hands, i cry, to comfort me, it will not work, away from the world, i want to jerk, the one's who love me, try to make it better, forever unknowing, of that one short letter, the letter i wrote before i died, the letter i wrote, of suicide.
I contemplate this thought, a thought of giving up, a thought of suicide, i take a knife, and plunge it deep, and feel of suicide, i swallow the pills, and got to sleep, and dream of suicide, i take a gun, and pull the trigger, and commit suicide.
Commit suicide to god every single day tell him all your pain and he'll take it all away commit suicide to god give him all your heart pray for all your needs and you'll never grow apart commit suicide to god tell him you give up fell his love overtake you and let him lift you up commit suicide to god every single day give it all to him and he'll take it all away.
I have been chained to anchors i have been tortured in my mind i have been gaged and stopped from talking i have been forced to stop believing the world has strange ways of expressing how we feel in some ways it is joyul peace in others it is cerebrale death verbal suicide is all we have just give up and take the final hand as it reaches down grab with all your might silence is not agreement it just starts the fight.
I sit here thinking about suicide everyday i try to talk to my friends about it i try to make it go away but it haunts my mind like a ghost haunts a house my friends try to get my mind off of it works but then it comes right back like pain i sit here with a razor in my hand im thinking about if i should do it my friend wat do you say to me about me killing myself uh wat do you say?.
Suicide. you have tempted me with the gift to die oh my ultimate but not very tragic suicide. oh, am i the only fool in here it can't be there has to be a million more just like me i think i'm a duplicate not very unique just one, in a box of freaks suicide. leave me alone the more you tempt me the more i'm prone.
Suicide is now my only hope. my only hope to be free. to get away from the shit in my life. surly i'll be free this way. i have to leave this world leave it all behind. mabey im a coward or mabey not. i never did have a say what happened to me in my life. never got justice or even the chance to say no. well i guess i have controll now over my life and over my death. things left undone things left unsaid must stay this way. my family wont miss me if i think about it the only person who loved me is dead. the only thing on this earth that i'll miss are my animals its the only thing on this earth that loved me. guess none of those things matter now. as here i lie death entering in. i should of known this would be my only way.
I'm going to run away i'm leaving this world for all it has never done i'm leaving this world for all it never did never seemed to care never showed me love never showed me joy never gave me hope i'm leaving this world all it gave is pain and regret it let me make mistakes like any normal person yet i'd go home and it would throw a knife straight to my heart i'm leaving this world for all it never did never seemed to care never showed me love never showed me joy never gave me hope i'm leaving this world all it gave was pain all it gave was hate all it gave was death i won't be here tomorrow i won't make it another day i can't take this pain i'm tired of feeling numb the feeling of no feeling i'm tired of the pain i long for that feeling the trusting the love the joy the hope but no it takes it away locked inside a box must keep it away i'm leaving this world for all it never did and all it never gave.
Felt all that was within, the dread and lonely pain fore seeing all the grey clouds, and endless rain in an entrapment of her bleak, bedroom place many scratches of finger nails, adorned her face scars of the tormented, and that without release collected them like dolls, upon skin like a crease sunken eyes reflecting, the soul of a sunken heart when futures hope seem diminished, and torn apart black lines of her heavy make up, drawn down by so many tears, shed beneath her failed crown clasping her wrist, another attempt failed and stings the music of her emotion, now in her ear doth rings though destinies sands, of her future are running out upon her lips adorn the kiss, of this deathly spout that a dagger drawn from a box, of marble and wood in her bedroom undetermined, to whether she should the bare trees of autumn, tapping the dark window though to convince her, of an alternative innuendo so much has she lost, that her black nails are tight around the handle of this blade, and loosing sight that with one last breath, stolen by her searing pain of final thrust, that this blade pierced without a strain into her solemn heart, choking her grief as her blood ran like tears, down her breasts, staining like mud dropping to the floor, like a seed of the dandelion falls upon the winds end, but only to see oblivion so much of her last thoughts, as her life ebbs away never shall she see, the beginning of a new born day as the time for her life, has slowly begun to stop from the blades handle, blood spills dropp by drop silent now, as her body lays still, grey as the sky young was her soul, victimised, too young to die.
A suicide note is the hardest to wright looking around to see if there is any one in sight you know you have planed this, now for many days because of the pain, real in so many ways. youre ready for this, right here and right now you want to die but dont know how what will they say knowing you died this way with youre own two hands death is all youre mind demands. at the very last moment there could ever be you look in the mirror and all you could see was the look and her face as the tears rolled down staring at you with that penetrating frown what should you do, now thats shes seen how her sister will die only as a teen. she asks you to stop she treghtens to call a cop she cant bear the thought of living alone having no one to talk to over the phone the tears keep flowing as her voice keeps going praying out loud there is now a huge croud in front of you theres nothing to do. you turn around and hug her because between life and death living with her is now what you prefer.
Bitch you got me goin crazy, i would rather sit around and smoke a blunt, then sit here thinkin about you. i sometimes sit here and think, is drugs the only way to forget about you, or is there another way. my mom says to move on, my sister says suicide, but my mind says drugs. so now i am sitting here smokin a blunt, a razor blade in my hand, hoping that this will help me move on. i am shaking so hard that i cut to deep, i laugh as i see the crimson blood going down the drain. suicide, i finally found the answer.
This is you. you're causing me to bleed. and you have no apologies for whom you inflict fear into. seeing what isn't here. i'm begging you to leave. can't you see i'm on my knees? i've tried and tried so many times. but you're still here. making me bleed. all over the linoleum. thank god it's easy to clean. take this pain away from me 'cause this novacaine doesn't work worth a damn. and i'm just wasting my time on my suicide lullaby. i walk towards the light as your soul replaces mine. i reach out to feel but then it all disappears again. just another figment of my wild imagination. i guess i need those pills again. it's time to fulfill my addiction. take this pain away from me 'cause this novacaine doesn't work worth a damn. and i'm just wasting my time on my suicide lullaby. i try to stop the voices from telling me what to do in every situation. but they are persistant. and they can't hear my screams. they don't hear my screams anymore. take this pain away from me 'cause this novacaine doesn't work worth a damn. and i'm just wasting my time on my suicide lullaby. and i'm committed to this crime. with my suicide lullaby.
My suicide i want to die by my looks you want to be me but you dont know i have nights full of endless bad dreams so i grab the knife here goes my life i get the gun this takes a lot of guts mamas screaming sisters crying while im in my bedroom dieing now im sitting on my bed with blood running down my hands im one inch away from being dead i woke up from this dream and started to cry that was my suicide.
Should my heart stop beating i want you to know i love you all and just can't let go it's pushing me down the things that i see my mind should be free im trapped with no hope i don't know how i cope you know why i write this letter we all know it isn't gonna get better day by day i have to say my last goodbye this is no lie tomorrow its will be done don't try to run face the truth with staring eyes because now i've said my last goodbyes tomorrow i end the pain it is the end of the lane goodbye my dear.
Suicide will always be a part of me no matter how hard i right to forget that part in time thier is always a little vioce in the back of my mind saying' u should me dead' but i kno there is some thing to live for or is there is suicide the way to slove u problem mm.idk wat do u think of when u heard suicide? i think about freedom but no love which i want and hold close to my heart.
I wish it was all over it would all just end let life just take over life just take all the pain away just end all the hurt i tell myself to take the pills my body listens i fall to the floor lay there lifeless not breathing or moving but nope that didnt work so i take a blade to my wrist the blood flows like a river down my arm finally i lay there lifeless yet again. not to ever wake up again to burn in the firey pits of hell. i went aginst god. but i was just to numb to listen to him but im better off so is everyone else.
As she read the note aloud her voice clear and loud 'this is what she wrote her suicide note' there were gasps all through the air for everyone seemed to care they said she was so great but their compliments were too late her note read like this 'nothing in my life is bliss and no one sees the tears i cry you will only care once i die perfection was only a minor concern love is what i yearn this pain you say you now feel is probably not even real as you sit there and moap or gloat what you just read was my suicide note' no words were spoken no silence broken no child whined and no one shined they were all put down to dirt to see how much she hurt this was her master plan to hurt the common man to feel the way she did little baby suicide kid.
Suicide, suicide wishing i were dead. suicide, suicide deep in my head. suicide, suicide cutting my wrists. suicide, suicide i'm so done with this. 2 days,2 days let until i die. 2 days,2 days til the last tear i'll cry. 2 days,2 days until i am all gone. 2 days,2 days til the dark breaks the dawn. suicide, suicide deep inside my head. suicide, suicide now i'm alomst dead. suicide, suicide turn out the light. suicide, suicide good bye, good night.
Suicide is the answer to many questions asked. it hides inside of you but it will be unmasked. it knows it has power over many girls and boys. it treats people as if we were little toys. so will you listen to suicide and one day take your life? think hard before you decide to pick up the knife.
I'll meet you at two just like we always do when all conversation is done i'll watch you disappear into the setting sun then take the pen in my hand set the paper in the sand write out all there is to say and hope you never feel this way i'll walk over to the tree wondering if i'm ready reach into my pocket, the last moments of my life, and pull out a knife i'll press the knife to my skin releasing all the pain within my soul will float up into the sky knowing that i had to die.
Maybe i can stab myself? no, hurts to much. maybe i can shoot myself? no, don't have a gun. maybe i can drown myself? no, to easy to be revived. maybe i can jump? no, don't want to be paralyzed. maybe i can overdose? yes, there are plenty of pills in the world and is almost virtually painless if it works. suicide is not easy but if you really want to die, you will brave the instant pain just for eternal pain relief.
As i walked over a hill in my dream. a graveyard came into view. a circle of people all dressed in black. stood silent, not one of them moved. as i got closer, suddenly i realized. what i am seeing, couldnt be true. there sprawled at their feet was a naked, dead body. its skin was dry and blue. as i stood there shocked, in stunned disbelief. i realized their eyes gazed now upon me. what i saw in their eyes..i couldnt beleive. they were all glowing a dark, eerie green. i felt as if i couldnt move as if my legs were locked. they started moving slowly towards me. i prayed, lord wake me up, please make this stop. they were now so very close, i tried but failed to scream. they came to halt right before my still body. oh my god.this isnt.a dream. opening my eye's in horror, i saw a letter fall from the sky. before hitting the ground, its started to float becoming level with my face. the words seemed to be written in blood that had long since dried. almost unreadable, quickly it had been written, clearly in haste. i cant take this pain. i cant bear the shame. the life i knew is gone. death is the only way. the letter ended after that fourth crusted line. i saw a signature at the bottom of the page. i cried out in fright as i realized fast, that the name was mine. weve come for you said a thousand voices, coming from everyway. the people in black lifted me from the ground. slowly they carried me away. i saw a dark shadow, like a swirling hole, emerge upon the sky. in it i could hear a million screams. drowned by a million cries. it's now obvious these people arent as they seem. their human faces had faded to skulls.
their teeth had turned from white to green. i could hear their gleeful laughter.then the dark shadow started to pull. it felt like a thousand invisible hand's grabbing me. it was as though they had knives instead of fingers. all over my body was a violent sting. as if being bitten by venomous snakes over and over i cried. the black hole was unrelenting, bringing me towards it oh so slow. so this is where i go.for dying.no.for committing suicide. i would have givin anything to go back to my earthly home. as the last trace of light dissappeared and darkness engulfed. i awoke with a shudder, sweat pouring from every pore. as the dream played over in my head i felt repulsed. there on my night table was a blank sheet of paper and a sharp razor.
Alone without a cause. alone with no life. trying to kill her spirit that is beginning to die inside. alone in her hell. alone in her abyss. attempting to end her being as it pours from her wrists. alone without a chance. alone with no hope. watching the stained blade as she frees her soul. alone in the air. alone as she drifts. slicing so she can escape the nightmare's images. alone with no will. alone with no dreams. suicide killing her thoughts, silencing her heart's beats.
When you feel there is no one to care for you when you feel that you are all alone in this world when you feel that you are useless when you fell that you are a nuisance when you feel that life itself has turned into a waste when you feel that no one wants you anymore when you feel that success is a dream that 'll never come true when you decide to call in death yourself please understand you are doing the biggest sin of all life can never turn itself into a waste its you who make it useless men who have been successful have always thought positive negative thoughts can never help you you very well know that god himself has created you he has worked hard to bring in life in you to make you breathe. see, walk, hear and talk it all has a purpose and if you call in your guest before that its the biggest sin you do no one is alone there is always someone who stays with you every time, everywhere and when you reach success, he reveals himself surprising you don't you want to see who that is? then work harder you are the most needed every little dropp is needed to make a mighty ocean so do not call in death yourself you have no right to do so only the creator as the right to destroy his creation besides, knowingly leaving behind the ones who loved you in vain shall increase your sins even more suicide is never a right thing to do.
Love is fake love is retarted love is nothing, but a whisper of a true suicide love is stupid love is dumb love is nothing, but a rose about to die love is painful love is shitty love is nothing, but a razor sliding across a wrist love is nothing but suicide.
Thick black lines with heavens embrace it's hard to tell its hell i face condemed to die a sinners love a conceiled tear from someone above one slice of anger out flew fear secretly killing the one held so near last white linen covered the stain but couldn't mask this child's hidden pain.
I look at myself in the mirror wondering. wondering what happend to the girl i used to be. wondering why there are scars on my wrist. why i did this to myself. then i think back to when my whole world was crashing down. i seem to realize that these scars are suicide scars. i start to cry to the fact that i will have these scars for a life time. i grab my razor put it up to my wrist. and i start to cut. i start to cut them suicide cuts all over again. i cant stop. but i guess that this will be me forever. makeing them ugly suicide scars.
Suicide sweet suicide, i yearn to be near, yearn to be with you, but i dont out of fear, suicide sweet suicide, always on my mind, body cold and stiff, now my pain i've left behind, oh sweet suicide, please take me away, r.i.p. to me, too bad i couldn't stay, but the hurt was too much, tears i always weep, blade drags across my skin, this time i'm cutting deep, deep, deep, deeper.deeper, than ever before, oh sweet suicide, don't make me suffer anymore, suicide sweet suicide, i'm escaping all of the harm, and giving myself to you, so please accept me with open arms,.
Sufficent breaths nothing left of the best settling for what's thought good enough but it's really rough uncut full of hate anger meant to die but wanting to fly you are the one left insulted how's it feel not alive waiting for mutual suicide just a quick ride fast hard fun the thrill adrenaline rush knowing i am at that breaking point that's why i run into the arms of mutual suicide what do you mean what's the deal you say the words and we both feel like shit dull on the inside victim on the outside torn between middle of me not alive waiting for mutual suicide just a quick ride fast hard fun the thrill adrenaline rush knowing i am at that breaking point that's why i run into the arms of mutual suicide.
Given too freely this can become ammunition a weapon used against you like a suicide bomber in your soul. never given this can become isolating as you will only trust yourself and have nowhere to turn during the darkest days which are gauranteed to come. once broken this can very rarely be repaired to it's original state of pure and honest sincerity always having a doubt in the corner resurfacing it's ugliness just when you need it the most. truly appreciated this can be the greatest gift you will ever give or receive. once it's yours cherish it as you would a treasure that you may never have again. trust is a very delicate creature.
You'll comit my suicide you'll push me untill i die you'll steal the air i breeth and use it for your own you'll strangle and choke me just for both our peace you'll comit my sucide you'll push me until i die you'll personally take me to my grave just you watch as i fade you may say we're blood but the thought just makes my blood boil oh we are such wonderful friends i think i'm gonna be sick you'll comit my suicide you'll push me untill i die just watch as i fade away you steal my breath and stop my heart and destroy my little everything you'll comit my suicide may 2006 sorry about spelling.
Imagine standing at the edge no more reasons of anything in life to pledge looking down as the wind bleeds your eyes dry when you fall you have seconds to say goodbye to the sky adrenaline causes the mind an instant rush anticipating freedom until you become crushed now a coward alive would say this man was weak yet this man in life couldn't imagine thinking deep instead of jumping for problems, you take a jump for power i'll live more in 10 seconds than you do in a million hours so as your standing at the edge giving life your last salute remember your brave, realize most wouldn't jump even with a parachute most would run as they saw death screaming 100 feet down a brave man would dig is own corpse into the ground so as you read about another suicide statistic being he did it because of strength, something your not seeing when life screeches to an end and you want to be saved this 'coward' was brave, this soul was brave.
I can't be what everyone wants me to be. everything i do is just another mistake. ican't make anyone happy or proud. i only make them mad and dissappointed. i understand that everyone hates me. i understand no one will cry. i know im not loved. i don't know how to love. and now i never will. i just wish.
I could take that handful of pills because honestly i'm sick of waking up every morning to ask myself the same damn questions i would slide that blade across my wrist because i hate the person i have become. i have daydreams of when that day will come where i won't think i am scared of myself i don't want to be just another line in a newspaper i want for my life to mean something.
Twas the hour before my suicide sitting in my room holding a knife thinking of family and friends contemplating my life i thought of hanging but as the knife came closer to my throat i knew it was quicker i quickly wrote my farewell note nothing was or went right anything that could go wrong did i am often depressed people treat me like alittle kid this maybe easy way out but i don't care does anybody love me? i don't know people seem to hate me everywhere.
A warm sunny day of youth memories of white linen sheets hanging on the line to dry the air filled with fragrance oh so sweet the edge of each sheet decorated with grandma and mothers loving hands crafted embroidery of brilliant flowers even a few monograms after they dried in the summer sun mother takes them in to iron there a sprinkle of water and starch then pressed with loving care my job was to help make the beds mother snaps the sheets out i help make the corners match tuck the corners in so they won't fall out when all is done a long wait for evening i couldn't wait to crawl in between those crisp cool sheets of white linen heaven.
What happens in heaven? will i sit on a cloud? is walking or talking or jumping allowed? will i be on my own or with some of my friends? does it go on for ever or eventually end? what happens in heaven? will i play a harp's strings? i can't play piano i can't even sing. who chooses the music that angels inspire? who does the auditions for the heavenly choir? what happens in heaven? are the streets paved with gold? is it crowded with people who're incredibly old? will i know who i am? will i know what i'm called? if i pinch myself hard will i feel it at all? what happens in heaven? do i go through a gate? what if i get myself lost or turn up too late? is my name on a list? is the gatekeeper nice? can you sneak in for nothing or is there a price?.
Hearts bleed a beautiful red, like a curtain to our love we walk through slowly like we don't even hear a sound with each step we take new comfort and salvation is found we walk together like we don't have a care in the world i saw a beautiful heaven there when i looked above we walked though together and the white clouds did their best but our first steps left us hanging in a nameless ten month rut since then angels did sing, it was salvation that i found i saw the burning pits of hell and how they called my name i stumbled in uncertain, your pretty face not around so i let my body rest there, dead in the burning ground winter woke me suddenly with it's chills, you're not there still i looked up, saw you in heaven, you smiled bright like a star he made you happy, i thought to myself 'stay where you are, my heart is done now and forever, love has left it's scar, ' so i grabbed my knees and pulled them close so i'd fall asleep i dreamed of far better times far before my fall to hell before it froze over and gave me this story to tell i dreamt that you kissed broken me upon my pale blue cheek but i looked over at you and my wide eyes did not blink that's when i learned my lesson, not to play with caring hearts it's not so easy to pick up the pieces when it falls apart your heart gets shakey and forever easily scared i'm so sorry that i took for granted that you cared now i walk in beautiful heaven again with burned wings you make me so happy that i forget that my heart stings i've never been this happy so i need you to understand from time to time i still close my weary eyes and wonder if i'm still dreaming.
Your favorite chair is vacant now. no eager barks to greet me. no softly padded paws to run ecstatically to meet me. no coaxing rubs, no plaintive cry i will never say it's time for feeding again. i've put away your bowl, and all the things you won't be needing; but i will miss you little friend, for i could never measure the happiness you brought me, the comfort and the pleasure. and since god put you here to share in earthly joy and sorrow; i'm sure there'll be a place for you in heaven's bright tomorrow. by, megan dugan.
One year in heaven, one year you've been there, so far away, someday i'll see you in the air, one year in heaven, i miss you so much, smile down upon me, and show me your love. one year in heaven, it seems like so long, since the last time i saw you, and then you were gone, one year in heaven, you left earth to soon, but i know they need you, more then i do, one year in heaven, i'm alone on the earth, i miss your sweet kisses, and all that you're worth, one year in heaven, is god really there? why did he take you, as i cried in despair. one year in heaven, i still see your face, the day that you took, the last breath you would take, one year in heaven, why did you die, i know god needed you, but still i cry. one year in heaven, soon i'll be there, so wait by the gate, please, this do swear, one year in heaven, to me it is long, but you have no pain, from this earth you have gone. one year in heaven, it's so hard to move on, i'll send you a prayer, and sing you a song, one year in heaven, life's not the same, since you left this world, i'm living in a daze. one year in heaven, you watch from above, sit there and smile, and send me your love, one year in heaven, you may think it's just a day, but this world is so different, since god took you away.
Gold and silver precious gems untold diamonds and pearls streets of gold walls of jasper a crown of life awaits us all on the other side heavens gates will you enter in the wealth of life where there's no sin no tears will fall from our eyes no room for sorrow or sad good byes beauty and glory will always abound heavens sweet music an angelic sound rays of glitter sparkle and shine a place called heaven i claim as mine.
They were created with perfection but arrived before well baked sent to show the way searchers of another day nestled in our hearts never to be forgotten drawn now into dream revel in the knowing the angels of adventure. arrived as a calm against the storm opening the changes around they escaped this reality leaving a message of trust treat the coming for what it is and explore the dream for they where a gift from heaven simple the delight they gave melting the hearts around into sleep now taken these tiny infants of the dream they herald the changes within.
I know sometimes that clouds bring rain, in wintertime it's snow, and spring is good because it makes the pretty flowers grow. i know that god is everywhere and angels all have wings, that dogs can't talk and bunnies hop i know so many things. but why do daddies go away? it makes kids and mommies sad. are there windows up in heaven? did i do something bad? my mommy said it's not like that. that children all are good. sometimes daddies just can't stay even though we wish they could. she said daddy loves me most of all, not to think he doesn't care . and he sees me from the windows. god just needs him more up there.
Drifting on wings of an agnel, the stairway to heaven unfolds, the steps leading up to a city, the pathways transparent of gold. at the base of the ascending staircase, a lamb sits soft at the door, surrounded by lilies and lions, grace has transcended the roars. the lamb offers peace in his presence, your fears he'll caress like a dove, the soft gentle fleece of his body, will cover you up in his love. then soft as the wings of an agnel, he'll carry your cares to the door, the lamb knows the steps of the staircase, he's traveled this pathway before. the bright shining lights at the entrance, glowing like elegant gems, reflect the love of his shepherd, as he beckons his lamb to come in. all of your burdens and heartaches, which the lamb has offered to bear, he lays at the feet of the shepherd, whose love has invited them there. then drifting on wings of an angel, the stairway to heaven descends, the powerful peace of the lion, waiting soft in the heart of the lamb.
'marriages are made in heaven' so say people in india a good marriage can your life lengthen it can be your ultimate good karma. my marriage was made in hell bad karma from beginning to end kept me for years in a prison cell finally, i don't have to pretend. my marriage was made in hell no love or affection, felt like a bad spell a bad marriage can ruin your life for so many years, i had no life. the hell marriage is now over promise i won't do it again, ever i'm finally free from the shackles thought i'd be happy, but i see no sparkles. all i'm left now with is wrinkles my life's hard and full of struggles still, i find my freedom wonderful and i will soon start feeling worthful. written on april 23,2007.
She collects angels the way others amass shoes, or a child collects marbles or unicorns, surrounding herself with their mythical grace like a plush mink coat. filled to its beams with a thousand wings her bedroom crouches, ready to rise from its floorboards to the grand foyer of her lord. she's been praying for that moment for some time. she has some questions for him.
The little girl stood in the meadow. she had been asked by god to raise her eyes and look to him, and so she did. soon gold and silver came raining down from heaven, it was a veritable deluge. while she rejoiced and raised her skirt to catch the coins the dirt claws of lucifer reached through the moss and curled up leaves. so silently and filled with invisibility. and with the stench of sulfur surrounding her and all the riches she never knew when slowly, imperceptibly, with certainty, her nickers, sweetly embroidered just a week ago by nana, were taken by filthy hands while angels watched with kindness.
Wrapped in your arms souls entwined floating in love's whipped cream silver lined heaven descends on earth. swimming rose petals heady wine a poem befalls upon us god's sign heaven descends on earth. long nights of passion nine to nine climbing peaks unimagined finding our shrines heaven descends on earth. completing each other love divine birth after birth after birth forever thine heaven descends on earth.
Dose heaven know you belong to me? dose heaven know do the angel see? why so fast, why this early, why take you life, why they set my tears dropping free, the angels couldnt see our love, couldnt see what we could be, your life was so could, so slippery to hold, a cold love story, a story to be told, dose heaven know do the angel see? that they snatched and stole you away from me?.
To make a glass cup it takes few minutes, but to break it up, it takes split seconds. we smell the rose not by crushing it, but thro' the nose, by handling it soft. the baby with care her mother fondles as she wants to share her love with kisses. likewise, a marriage that's made in heaven, confirms a life bondage between man and woman. marriage's a sacred institution, a bachelor wants to get in but feeling it a great burden, thereafter, out he wants to run. the wife's like a rose the husband should feel, and he is like a glass with care she should handle. any divorce, will there be if each one respects, whatever any difference be, the other one's feelings? will the heaven pardon if they break their ties, violating its sanction, for few silly reasons?.
Heaven, where the streets are made of gold, heaven, where you never age or grow old, heaven, where lifes secrets unfold, heaven, where the secrets are told, heaven, where flowers grow wild, heaven, once again your a child, heaven, the weathers always warm and mild, heaven, where wings lay open in piles, heaven, where we are free, heaven, cant you see? heaven, its for you and for me, heaven, when we are free.
Deep within the realms of heaven, dwells the one and only king, father, jesus, lord, creator, ruler over everything. healer of the wounded spirit, mender of the hurting soul, comforter to all who suffer, making all these 'beings' whole. call him when you need a listener, he's someone who'll hear your cry, pray to him for guidance always, he will constantly reply. be at one with god your saviour, hand in hand your whole life through, and with all his grace and favour, he will always welcome you.
Dear sweet innocent child of mine. i am writing you this letter from heaven. just to let you know that mother still loves you. don't worry about me for i am doing fine. for it is i that is worried about you. as i walk through the garden of eternal life. i hear your silent prayers very clearly. mother knows that there will be times that you fill like giving up, but don't you do it sweet child of mine. for god has assured me that a long days journey is made shorter by taking the first step toward him. in the beginning, as in the end. he will take two steps toward you. so my dear sweet child keep on climbing. for i am sure sweet child of mine. god never built a stairway to nowhere for you to climb.
I want to go to heaven one of these days together, the king of heaven we must all praise it is a place that was made for you and me it is a place that we all are dwelling to be the king of heaven, he is the king of all the kings with all his power, he could make the heavens ring sing unto the lord all ye land as we all could see, the time is at hand 'no man is an island' 'no man stand alone', may the lord keep blessing us from his royal throne.
With the light of the day, and the promices you made, to the memories of the future, and you just keep them all inside, emotions, life, love and respect, both you and me, we both fall to the floor, and you spring up, while im trapped in this memory, keeping a steady pace as you walk away and i just close my eyes, trying to hold the weight of the world on my shoulders, im not upset, im not angry, im not gonna let you take me down, gain access to my heart, and hurt me again, your trying to pretend your someone your not anymore, and with the way i feel, it will seal your fate, and when things go wrong, your prtend it's not real, you distance yourself, and put up a fake face, just to get into me, engulf my heart, and charr it, i won't let you, im weighing my options, no matter what you say, ill never be there with you, im not your puppet, you dream of tomorrow, another day to infect me with you virus, i evolve to be immune to your sickness.
The flue eats my head and throat and body and still you come and lie close against me and let your fingers branch right through mine. my throat burns and i am scared that you will also get something of this awful thing, but without a worry you kiss me and i can feel life pulsing on your soft hot lips. your fingers tickle the hairs on my lip and chin and there are teasing devils dancing in your eyes, while your fingers creep to places under my arms. like a child i am given medicine while i am already much better, in my soul and spirit since you are with me.
I'm tired of being the girl who's always left out i'm sick of being the one who's always put down i'm fed up with you and all the insults you say what have i ever done to deserve this? it cuts really deep with hurt and pain i'm not taking it anymore i'm not running away i've never done anything to hurt you in anyway i'm tired, sick and fed up now, i don't care what you say.
Im sick of not knowing, im sick of not showing, im sick of all the starring im sick of not caring im sick of being labled bad im sick of always looking sad im sick of feeling locked in bars im sick of all the painful scars im sick of all the thugs im sick of all the drugs im sick of asking myself why im sick of telling myself i want to die im sick of feeling like i always want to cry im sick of living a lie im sick of not having a dream im sick of lifes borring theme but thares only one was out. so what does that mean?.
The well, the strong, will never understand the sick, the broken, till the great deomocrat comes. it is easy to pretend that we do not hear the cold wind because it is not felt upon our necks. still the sound persists though reality denies sight its form. to summon energy to fight or to surrender, i would not judge the cause. but even in defeat this earth can be sweet and leaving it no easy task.
Sick of living sick of pain sick of rejection sick of humanity sick of everything. i'm sorry for the pain i have caused. i'm sorry for the things i've done wrong. i'm sorry for the bad things about me. i'm sorry for the world being so shitty. i'm sorry for it all. i can only hope you will forgive me. i can only hope that things will get better. i can only hope for release. i can only hope for the pain to stop.
Wearing a short hair a smile her hands clasped she sits beside her sick grandmother the faint light by the window enters gently filtered by the thin silky drape the grandmother is dying and her daughter has an axe to grind she comes as an offering a link between two worlds long separated by indifference.
I am sick, sick of this pain, wishing my life will fade away, away to the nothingness i have become, always in and out of trouble, knowing how this hurts my dad, knowing that he is in pain, watching him cry, it hurts me, watching him suffer, makes mee want to say how sorry i am, i am sorry for all the things i have done to you, i know my sorry's aren't good enough, yet i am willing to make it up to you, i am sick, sick of this life, knowing how hard this must be to see my dad in pain, how i wich i can take it all back.
The tears i shed the thoughts that torment my head all over you you made it so very clear i am not the one for you your a pathetic excuse of a person if i had one wish i would be serving your head on a dish blaming everyone else for the way you are pointless thats what giving my heart to you was i am a cleaner with an itchy trigger finger dreams turned to nightmares as time goes by i know i will heal emotionally however duct tape, pliers, and you tied to a chair thats what i really want to see you are a sorry short, middle aged, overweight waste karma is slow in her ways step in my path. and you will see how evil i can really be.
Now m well adapted to this sick world cruel world wild world after being shattered after being crushed after being cheated left with no other option accepting the things the way they are m adapted to this sick world selfish world insane world after being frustated after being alone after being tortured i gave up accepting the people the way they are m adapted to this sick world.
The joyous new year revellers were making lots of noise and at midnight they sang and cheered and fireworks lit the skies but one teenager with heaving guts perhaps from too much beer was spewing on the side walk at the birth of a new year. too drunk for to be merry and too sick to enjoy the new year celebrations and to bid the old goodbye perhaps she spent her new year hung over feeling fuzzy in the head with very little energy recovering in her bed. her body had rejected some of the poison she had taken in and she could have chose a better way for her new year to begin a young woman in her late teens and at the age of choice and for over indulgence one might say there is a price. the biggest party of any year for all to celebrate and even strangers greeted me with a happy new year mate and lots of new year revellry and happiness and joy and smiles and mirth and laughter were in plentiful supply. but i saw one young woman quite oblivious to it all bent over on the side walk by a brick garden wall with her heaving guts expelling some of the poison she had taken in she might have chosen a more pleasant way for her new year to begin.
They plan the deaths of and murder people they do not even know which causes me for to wonder how this can be so in their own sick minds they write their own laws is humanity not considered in their political cause they murder people guilty of only one crime to be in the wrong place and there at the wrong time when they call themselves freedom fighters they have got it all wrong a freedom fighter to their group would not wish to belong they hardly would know what freedom is about and their very sanity one has to doubt to live free of fear is a basic human right and even of such a freedom they do gladly make light of and they are a disgrace to humanity of them one can say and to karma for their crimes a huge price they must pay.
Hooray for me, no really, i'm so delighted you speak to me but, would you kill me in my sleep? you wouldn't dare, your life has no value to me except cash value. lovers so overwhelmed with love for one another. you can't live without each other. love sick puppies options are endless to end the pain inside, here are just a few ideas for 'eternal love' lay in the tub together, your bodies as one.so just.meaningful love sick puppies drag a blade across each other's wrists, now bleed all of the love you have into the tub here's another option for my lil pups so in love you are make sweet love for the last time, look each other in the eyes, whisper i love you then take a 45 and at the same time hold it to the others temple. pull the triggers love sick puppies you have done the right thing so, i will do my thing i am the 'cleaner' i will collect payment from.hum.your parents insurance policy put on the respirator, tyvek suit, and pull what is left of your head from the ceiling and walls bag it, tag it, put your remaining pieces of 'eternal love' in a bio hazard box love sick puppies see you at the incinerator.
I'm sick of being myself i'm sick of my own flesh i'm sick of crying everyday i'm sick even today i'm sick of being alone i'm sick of seeing the blood that i own i'm sick and tired of this madness this lonesliness darkness and selfeshness i'm sick just sick and no one can change that..
The flue eats my head and throat and body and still you come and lie close against me and let your fingers branch right through mine. my throat burns and i am scared that you will also get something of this awful thing, but without a worry you kiss me and i can feel life pulsing on your soft hot lips. your fingers tickle the hairs on my lip and chin and there are teasing devils dancing in your eyes, while your fingers creep to places under my arms. like a child i am given medicine while i am already much better, in my soul and spirit since you are with me.
I was thinking about a lot of things messy things like a pool of thread being played by the kitten at the living room and the dogs were flying kites the mice are taking all the cheese, i was thinking about a lot of poems with gentle faces wearing straw hats on the beach, a lot of stories with eyelashes curling and lips lusciously biting each other, when i was sick they tell me i was sick my mind is sick and i am not aware about the sensitivity of the situation, which i always consider as nothing but another form of temporary sensuality, i was thinking about my favorite dish and those who dine with me their hands inside my pants.
The bridge is collapsing, im lossing my grip, i can't hold on anymore, i'm just getting sick, sick of your face, sick of your voice, sick of all these people who think they know, no one can really understand, i'm so sick, im sick of you, i try not to look at your face, it's haunting me, i'm sick of the ways, the ways things were ment to be, sick of holding all the feelings inside, i'm so sick of being happy for people, when they don't even care, im just sick of you, and one day, your going to need me, just like i needed you, but im going to ditch you, just like you ditched me, im so sick, so sick of you,.
Im sick of pretending its all perfect tired of living a lie sick of loving you tired of the tears i cry im sick of giving you my love tired of getting nothing in return sick of all your other girls tired of being unable to learn im sick of running back to you tired of returning hurt sick of been laughed about tired of being treated like dirt im sick of living this life tired of being blue sick of thoughts about giving up tired of the stupid things i do im so sick of it all so sick im going do it so tired of been stuck in the middle so tired im going to quit.
When you left me i got sick got really sick for a long time but i did not die even when you left me, got sick and got sick for more than i can handle, but i did not die somehow i got sick but i cannot die, i am alive and soon i know i will be in love again, my promise to myself, my hope eternal. spring, and new moon, and change.
Piles of trash line the halls some six feet tall and still overflowing with more garbage piled on top. it's a never ending contamination, a consistant spreading of filth and absolute vile into what seems to be only my surroundings. everyone is a dumpster of sorts with their taste and smell exaggerated a little to much making me sikened.
I am ready to give my breath to my sick friend who was in the hospital. new ferry is far away, and already i missed my ferry. if i can disguise as a beautiful nurse and enter your ward at midnight. when i give you a big kiss definitely you will wake up and shout 'tina'. then i will say 'sorry denis it's me'. a male nurse wants to see your health.
How can i answer her? everybody is dying from the moment one is born he begins to count his steps to his grave he begins to save money for his funeral what makes him sick is the belief that he is healthy and wise he will not die someday like the rest to think that one is not sick is sickening enough not to think about death that it comes anytime anywhere is sickening enough.
With age the sick and suffering multiply with age the sick and suffering multiply also, the dead. we carry with us more and more sad stories more and more pain of people lost. we live in a world of prayer for them and sadness at their not being here. we do not grow old alone but with all those we have cared for. life is not easy, and we go on as we go on.
I think i'm going to make it through, it's been so long you see; there's much more life behind me now than out in front of me. there was a time, when not so sure; i thought to end it then. i didn't see how one could live without much joy and win. but i found out you can endure without a special one. and after all, it must be said; of fate, what's done is done. and so i choose to carry on with life and burdens bore. i hope if i can carry these, god may not give me more. but if he did, i hope he'd grant, my just one simple plea; to end my life with one great love who'd bring great joy to me. so now i'm near the end of life, my joyless days near done. i'd lie if i would dare to say, i never did have fun. but what is true, and that's the rub, of life, don't you agree; is love is really what's required, for joy to be set free? so on it is with what remains, i hope, not very long; of life, perhaps to know great love, if it should come along. and as i go my separate way, i'll not begrudge their joy; if others feel what i once felt, when i was just a boy. instead i'll smile and just recall the joy i felt back then. and know that i'll feel soon enough love's wondrous joy again.
The only things of value contained in god's array, are found in those few moments when love is on display. the precious little seconds when lovers realize the joy and satisfaction they see in each ones eyes. the words that pass in whispers, that shiver down the spine, the yearning for each other that seems almost divine. it's when such moments linger, those moments of romance; that all life finds its value in just one loving glance. we all dream of such moments. why then, are they so rare? it seems we'd rather harbor love, than spread it here and there. we've shed our tears of sorrow. what's left are those of joy. a strategy of loving is what we should employ. hug the ones you cherish, just kiss and hold them tight. do what you have yet to do, but always thought you might. remember, lifetimes numbers are found on every crown. i wonder why you're waiting, the rain is pouring down. and if you have nobody, don't make this poor excuse. just ask, and you'll find someone prepared to set love loose. all souls should be companioned. two hearts should beat as one. two lips should feel the passion of kisses, every one. four eyes should see the beauty. four hands should gently feel. and tears of joy, when falling; is love, both true and real. for each of us, though strangers, still seek love as our goal. as god wished his creations to join as just one soul. however you may find it, no matter for how long, there is no love created by two that can be wrong. so have as your endeavor, his calling from above. the spread of god's creation. the wondrous joy of love.
Good morning mr magpie alone again, like me i greet you then i bless myself and hope that i shall see your lady busy in the trees up here in jagger green. the wind is soft and urgent on the pale green yorkshire hills rooks fuss in high bare branches looking down on silent mills and the magpie is a single bird up here in jagger green. i watched him as he rested in the mayday morning light then hard and low and straight there came another flash of black and white and the sun is like a woman's kiss up here in jagger green.
To the tune "as in a dream" i have long remembered the pavilion on the stream the falling sun so deep in wine we did not know the way home how pleasure spent late returning the skiff thoughtless entered a lotus deep place and struggling through struggling through we scared up from the sand gulls and herons.
To regret is a kind of joy. to repent is a kind of joy. to render yourself pitiable and to lament the loss of yours too is a kind of joy. to long for someone you loved and pine is also a kind of joy. they relieve you of the burden. 12.01.2008.
What joy has filled my empty heart for so long starved of love, my spirit floating through the air and on the clouds above. what joy has come to me at last when all my hope had gone, for finally my luck has changed and fortune now has shone. what joy when all i had was lost alone and poor was i, but now my future seems so clear just like the summer sky. what joy has filled my empty heart now it does sing for thee, the love for which i'd waited long shall last eternally.
Now, joy is born of parents poor, and pleasure of our richer kind; though pleasure's free, she cannot sing as sweet a song as joy confined. pleasure's a moth, that sleeps by day and dances by false glare at night; but joy's a butterfly, that loves to spread its wings in nature's light. joy's like a bee that gently sucks away on blossoms its sweet hour; but pleasure's like a greedy wasp, that plums and cherries would devour. joy's like a lark that lives alone, whose ties are very strong, though few; but pleasure like a cuckoo roams, makes much acquaintance, no friends true. joy from her heart doth sing at home, with little care if others hear; but pleasure then is cold and dumb, and sings and laughs with strangers near.
She who did not come, wasn't she determined nonetheless to organize and decorate my heart? if we had to exist to become the one we love, what would the heart have to create? lovely joy left blank, perhaps you are the center of all my labors and my loves. if i've wept for you so much, it's because i preferred you among so many outlined joys.
Is it possible? can it be done? to capture joy loves smile begun tender hands safe and secure memories of home love is here, and more joy open and unafraid sharing and caring begotten not made smiling hearts abounding love free at last, to be a child of god above love is here, and more to have and to hold joy in mothers eyes tender security in fathers sighs contentment revealed in a moment of joy captured in the heart of ever girl and boy can joy be captured i wonder if it can joy a transforming miracle in the eyes of sam and dan the heart of joy in wonder in whispered smile above love is here, and more treasure the joy of love.
Love is flying so high wind is here. balloons fly on a beautiful windy day. you took a part of my heart. your memories fly in the sky so high with love filling the air with joy and love. joy is here love is flying so high. my life is you you wrote your name in my heart. because you say you still love me so much. i love you to. to let this beautiful love go out of my lift. my lift is you. i want to be. my love is you that i could never forget your true love for me. i have found my true love.
Water, you send joy to my heart to flow like an inspiring art in the moment of fresh sunlight, given succour so sweet and bright. of what manner does your joy bring? flowing so that my heart did sing of the wind that came with splendour, wondrous in it to add colour. water, my heart is made calm as a dove by your joy that comforts with love. how it places my heart so good that it does it with brightened mood. yet my heart truly shines with beams, dressed with pleasures more than sweet dreams. your water made it to feel higher with life of so much deep desire. water, with vigour your joy heals my heart so nicely that it feels. so great that my heart now smiles deep with warm rays of the sun to keep.
The moon whispers a sweet lullaby to an audience of starlets in the morning sky soft breezes uncover the layer of my happiness lazy clouds of grey melt in the sunshine of our love. memories of a lost childhood become reality. we share a special melody that embraces us in a dream. your presence warms the coldest days when i cannot be with you. it ignites the sacred hearth within my fragile soul and strengthens my undying devotion to you. you fill my cup of passion when i see the twinkle in your eye. my life is complete. come share of my joy.
There's peace and joy in knowing that love and truth so reign that joy and peace in sowing momentum will just gain if we could all just mend our hearts our minds and souls shall follow in reaping sown harvested joys great hearts are far from hollow.
You are unseen but also captured in minds of many you are featured, you divert the child well nurtured, on grazing by you animals are pastured. watching the innocent baby new born you wait and hide to catch with turn, while child grows little you blow horn he starts telling things are my in morn. you are just like colour changing lizard, you fill in man really negative wizard. in minds of many you do bring blizzard, fishes and birds enter food to gizzard. by getting you animals loose a steer, birds fly with tending to fall with fear, they fall in confusion who live in sheer, you motivate for crime and sticks smear. you do spoil life oh go away oh greed people fight for hand of land, and seed. please do not stay for negative breed, people are with god now and in creed.
One you bought a beautiful one i know the second one you bought with much hardship you could not get the third one even with hardship but you strongly desired it so you picked it up now you are under my supervision under my captivation i kindle a fire of more and more i am the fuel myself and help it to burn i live on it and it is my staple food, too even if you wish you would not be able to douse it i would prevent you even to meet with peace then i would drive your happiness out who are you to talk like this? i am no one but your monster greed.
The man whose riches satisfy his greed is not more rich for all those heaps and hoards than some poor man who has enough to feed and clothe his corpse with such as god affords. i have no use for men who steal and cheat; the fruit of evil poisons those who eat. some wicked men are rich, some good men poor, but i would rather trust in what's secure; our virtue sticks with us and makes us strong, but money changes owners all day long.
Subliminal messages in a world of greed they start you young to sow the seed to get you to agree to what the powers that be want you to be they'll even take your country if they feel the need will we ever be truly free in a world of greed.
Because politics by nature is greedy voters conclude election must be based on greediness when election is based on greediness politicos and voters are both happy becoming more greedy politicos buy voter's suffrage rights voters sell their rights to cast wise votes when both parties the politicos and voters are busy in buying and selling the sacredness and sanctity of the votes then philippine politics is ever evil and dirty.
Evil spews like a waterfall of hate money and greed is what starts it people looking for things that are not even there they think the grass is greener over there then it's too late when they realise it is bare.
Of human greed in these tough times we read of and we hear company c e o's not paid in thousands but in millions every year yet few of their type known for to help anyone in poverty in a world where some have too much so much inequality so many wealthy people from our earth mother take and take from her precious resources their fortunes they do make her gold, silver and precious minerals, her uranium and coal the more they have the more they want their greed out of control for abusing the one we live off of the price may be huge to pay of droughts and famines caused by climate change we read and hear of every day for the curse of global warming human greed in part to blame our abuse of our earth mother is only to our shame the world is getting warmer from north to southern shore and the greedy from our earth mother keep on stealing more and more.
A man of prosperity he was having dexterity enough he earned in money little he gave to the needy or relative and friends those who were very poor even to his kith and kin. he prospered in such speed together he was in greed for money and gold gained but still unhappy and bad mood no one was devoted to him even his best half in dejection still he loved his money all was well for years hypnotized on influence of money delectable events slowly lost he became ill for ever even to drink water difficult swallow food was not easy the day came, his death time people says his eyes were not closed may be looking for money the safety notions in thoughts even the last moments of journey.
I find it impossible to understand how greed and power destroy nations how its left carry on unabated people power has to call a halt the media owned by multinationals feed us with what we want to hear oil companies don't want competition going green is not to them an option in ireland a government was defeated for trying to privatise their water people there fighting the big boys setting an example all over europe.
Humans always in craze for wealth for accumulation of wealth he runs fast the thorny ways, deep pits and hills no matter what becomes to his soul the greed always shuts the divine ways slowly it becomes the habit no matter what others sees in him the material enjoyment he prefer always the charity to the needy for namesake greed destroys the wise character the greedy seeks the way of narrowness where ultimately it is self destruction the destruction of the humanness when in ultimate reality awakens him he is on the horns of dilemma, that hounds only legitimate creative action saves to lead a comfortable life of enjoyment.
You enter with greed; you exit with fear. you love with greed; you fail with fear. but you are born with fear and will die with greed. greed is the drive; fear is the break. drive ahead, minding the head. 27.05.2001, pmdi.
Limited is the need, unlimited is the greed, engaged in misdeed, i ignore your bleed. two pieces of cloth and a piece of bread, can keep me alive, i'll not be dead, shelter of a roof not touching the sky, i can walk with feet don't need to fly. but i want the greed, how dire is the need, of a peace making deed, see the painful bleed. peace of hearts and peace brains, i should have it, no refrains, unlimited is this need, and limited is my greed.
The world's wrapped up in politics and loves big finance too i find it quite depressing in large quantities, it's true it's good to have the knowledge, and to know what's going on but when it starts to rule the world, then everything goes wrong there's so much hate out in this world, it's such a crying shame people pointing fingers and so quick to place the blame intolerant of others, and unwilling to diffuse with sociopaths in charge, war is always in the news i wish that we could coexist, respect our fellow man quit hating other ways of life that we don't understand but in politics and finance, war profiteering, grows and thrives yes, it's all about the money, not at all about the lives i am not apathetic, i just can't stand it any more i do not wish to witness so much suffering and war if i focus on the travesty of all thats going down i can not breathe, i suffocate, my spirit starts to drown.
To put in poetry a report on greed in new zealand, this poet turns 'too many bees for the pollen' into 'too many bees for the blossoms'. .turns to 'too many bees for the blossoms' from 'too many bees for the pollen', does this poet, scotney, douglas colin.
Although america did not invent greed it certainly made renovations when it purchased that institute and gave it gaudiness attractive for a car salesman; no other empire in the world can lay claim to being founded on the principals of debt, credit ratings and insurance premiums as a vehicle to facilitate global supremacy in the economic markets there's know other country in the world who puts a higher price in freedom then america who sells it for a good premium quid pro quo infidelity is the beneficiary of the capitalistic spirit perhaps the romans would have survived had they invested in a credit line.
Greed is fire its flare is strong as much as to burn all commodities from heaven to hell it has no end it is never saturated nor it is ever quenched it can kill spontaneously any living kind never does it mind justice, sin and always blind they are curse for this world they never repent on their deed.
I established lead but failed to read what was actual need? to cater friends and feed i got simple answer the key lies with fewer it is sweet coated offer with clear aim to differ i am number one greedy person i make relation for selfish reasons greed is rampant in mind so i act very kind greed shall pay dividend and bring happy end but i am mistaken the peace, in turn, shall be mistaken i shall die as unhappy man considered not fit to be human it shall or should remain endeavor i shall die hungry but not with greed or dishonor.
Greed. is half of humanity, the other is money. could humans fix the corrupted senses of it's own soul, and heal the mental outer body of our full self? no we can't because that's what makes us human. money will never buy one enternal happiness, but is money serving as a distraction to further intelligence or is it just all life is and will be. greed and money will always be there, but it's up to us to control it.
Of greed and corruption we are all too aware it's happening in your suburb and the big world out there many in high places into corporate crime and more honorable than them in jail serving time on the scales of justice one must cast a doubt big time corporate crims seldom ever caught out money speaks every language some are known to say in the twenty first century it does seem that way of greed and corruption the whispers abound amongst influential people criminals to be found to buy their way out of trouble they seldom do fail the power of their money can keep them from jail and of greed and corruption we hear every day whoever did tell us that crime does not pay?.
This is what many fall in trap of it is greed for many desires it originates does breed. seed is the attachment towards all matters, for wealth, money or food it always flatters. this is a vice originates from a clumsy mind, nobody understands it opens branch in wind. like spreading of spider's web it does catch, person who falls in its clause does not fetch. many do crime falling in love of greed here, people get tortured by them and get fear. they bear fruits of sins as do in greed later, even they do not like to leave know better. it is truly said sins are acquired from greed, sins with bondage take towards death seed. richer to richest fall down and commit crime, greedy persons think only wealth is the prime. not only the greed brings sorrow but also pain, due to capture of illusion, wrong things we gain. matters are the motivators and are cause of sad, greed is a deadly vice pauses life and really is bad. greed goes away while we all do meditate god, mind stabilizes rules over senses catches pod. greed nods before pure mind and leaves place by grace of god we gain purity and win the race.
Greed and obsession money has lot more roles to play and hold sway over men's desire to remain admired it creates position when relatively found good relation consolidated enough clout and talked about not only have you become greedy but get ready to perform any thing that is unworthy of something people resort to murder when find no means to alter economic condition and social position so prosperity has become yardstick with strict inclination and possession and obsession too.
With pain in neck he walked around, all alone with just a frown. all he wanted was there, but reaching it seemed unfair. all he wanted to do, he could, but always wondered if he should. what could he do with all his money? all his expensive belongings seemed funny. he had a mansion, garden a car, but all the love was really far. with pain in neck he walked around, all alone with just a frown. he deserved it, he totally did, it was all because of his greed. a young man, when he was, he never even tried to measure his loss. now creeps him a pain, when his dungeon walls are old and stained. his billion pounds now have no use, all he has lost, now what is there to loose? with pain in neck he walked around, all alone with just a frown.
Wine comes in at the mouth and love comes in at the eye; that's all we shall know for truth before we grow old and die. i lift the glass to my mouth, i look at you, and i sigh.
Ancient person, for whom i all the flattering youth defy, long be it e'er thou grow old, aching, shaking, crazy cold; but still continue as thou art, ancient person of my heart. on thy withered lips and dry, which like barren furrows lie, brooding kisses i will pour, shall thy youthful heart restore, such kind show'rs in autumn fall, and a second spring recall; nor from thee will ever part, ancient person of my heart. thy nobler parts, which but to name in our sex would be counted shame, by ages frozen grasp possest, from their ice shall be released, and, soothed by my reviving hand, in former warmth and vigour stand. all a lover's wish can reach, for thy joy my love shall teach; and for thy pleasure shall improve all that art can add to love. yet still i love thee without art, ancient person of my heart.
The moonlight breaks upon the city's domes, and falls along cemented steel and stone, upon the grayness of a million homes, lugubrious in unchanging monotone. upon the clothes behind the tenement, that hang like ghosts suspended from the lines, linking each flat to each indifferent, incongruous and strange the moonlight shines. there is no magic from your presence here, ho, moon, sad moon, tuck up your trailing robe, whose silver seems antique and so severe against the glow of one electric globe. go spill your beauty on the laughing faces of happy flowers that bloom a thousand hues, waiting on tiptoe in the wilding spaces, to drink your wine mixed with sweet drafts of dews.
I am a feather on the bright sky i am the blue horse that runs in the plain i am the fish that rolls, shining, in the water i am the shadow that follows a child i am the evening light, the lustre of meadows i am an eagle playing with the wind i am a cluster of bright beads i am the farthest star i am the cold of the dawn i am the roaring of the rain i am the glitter on the crust of the snow i am the long track of the moon in a lake i am a flame of four colors i am a deer standing away in the dusk i am a field of sumac and pomme blanche i am an angle of geese in the winter sky i am the hunger of a young wolf i am the whole dream of these things you see, i am alive, i am alive i stand in good relation to the gods i stand in good relation to the earth i stand in good relation to everything that is beautiful. you see, i am alive, i am alive.
Where the pools are bright and deep, where the grey trout lies asleep, up the river and over the lea, that's the way for billy and me. where the blackbird sings the latest, where the hawthorn blooms the sweetest, where the nestlings chirp and flee, that's the way for billy and me. where the mowers mow the cleanest, where the hay lies thick and greenest, there to track the homeward bee, that's the way for billy and me. where the hazel bank is steepest, where the shadow falls the deepest, where the clustering nuts fall free, that's the way for billy and me. why the boys should drive away little sweet maidens from the play, or love to banter and fight so well, that's the thing i never could tell. but this i know, i love to play through the meadow, among the hay; up the water and over the lea, that's the way for billy and me.
Let the rain kiss you let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops let the rain sing you a lullaby the rain makes still pools on the sidewalk the rain makes running pools in the gutter the rain plays a little sleep song on our roof at night and i love the rain.
My love, we will go, we will go, i and you, and away in the woods we will scatter the dew; and the salmon behold, and the ousel too, my love, we will hear, i and you, we will hear, the calling afar of the doe and the deer. and the bird in the branches will cry for us clear, and the cuckoo unseen in his festival mood; and death, oh my fair one, will never come near in the bosom afar of the fragrant wood.
Mine, says the cat, putting out his paw of darkness. my lover, my friend, my slave, my toy, says the cat making on your chest his gesture of drawing milk from his mother's forgotten breasts. let us walk in the woods, says the cat. i'll teach you to read the tabloid of scents, to fade into shadow, wait like a trap, to hunt. now i lay this plump warm mouse on your mat. you feed me, i try to feed you, we are friends, says the cat, although i am more equal than you. can you leap twenty times the height of your body? can you run up and down trees? jump between roofs? let us rub our bodies together and talk of touch. my emotions are pure as salt crystals and as hard. my lusts glow like my eyes. i sing to you in the mornings walking round and round your bed and into your face. come i will teach you to dance as naturally as falling asleep and waking and stretching long, long. i speak greed with my paws and fear with my whiskers. envy lashes my tail. love speaks me entire, a word of fur. i will teach you to be still as an egg and to slip like the ghost of wind through the grass.
Your house is falling down around your feet, and you got nought to eat, don't worry be happy. your fish have drowned you wear a frown, you search but you don't own a pound, don't worry be happy. you ain't got nowhere to play, just balconies and motorways, don't worry be happy. you meet someone you really like, they tell you to get on your bike, don't worry be happy. you're on your bike and all is fine, you get caught in a washing line, don't worry be happy. you go to school the school is gone, the government put pressure on, don't worry be happy. your tea is dry your ice is hot, your head is tied up in a not, don't worry be happy. you worry because you're hurrying, and hurry because you're worrying, don't happy be worried.
Wine comes in at the mouth and love comes in at the eye; that's all we shall know for truth before we grow old and die. i lift the glass to my mouth, i look at you, and i sigh.
The angels are stooping above your bed; they weary of trooping with the whimpering dead. god's laughing in heaven to see you so good; the sailing seven are gay with his mood. i sigh that kiss you, for i must own that i shall miss you when you have grown.
He would declare and could himself believe that the birds there in all the garden round from having heard the daylong voice of eve had added to their own an oversound, her tone of meaning but without the words. admittedly an eloquence so soft could only have had an influence on birds when call or laughter carried it aloft. be that as may be, she was in their song. moreover her voice upon their voices crossed had now persisted in the woods so long that probably it never would be lost. never again would birds' song be the same. and to do that to birds was why she came.
I shot an arrow into the air, it fell to earth, i knew not where; for, so swiftly it flew, the sight could not follow it in its flight. i breathed a song into the air, it fell to earth, i knew not where; for who has sight so keen and strong, that it can follow the flight of song? long, long afterward, in an oak i found the arrow, still unbroke; and the song, from beginning to end, i found again in the heart of a friend.
Love is a ripe plum growing on a purple tree. taste it once and the spell of its enchantment will never let you be. love is a bright star glowing in far southern skies. look too hard and its burning flame will always hurt your eyes. love is a high mountain stark in a windy sky. if you would never lose your breath do not climb too high.
Lord give me faith and hope cuz im in need and my bodies waiting oh so patiently cuz i believe in you indeed is there someone imitating me bring her back because i'm jealous please cuz i believe in you indeed searching deep down trying to find and see see the life that's right in front of me cuz i believe in you indeed find that person that i want to be find her deep down way inside of me cuz i believe in you indeed doesn't take a miracle you'll see there's that sweet person inside of me just waiting cuz i believe in you indeed who's the person that i claim to be a mere glimpse of the past of me cuz i believe in you indeed.
I believe in miracles. and dreams that will come true. i believe in tender moments. i believe in reaching out, and touching from the heart. i believe that if we touch, a gift we can pass on. i believe that if you cry your tears are not in vain. when you're sad and lonely, others know your pain. i believe that when we laugh a sparkle starts to shine, and i just know that spark will spread from more hearts than just mine. i believe the gifts you have, are there for you to share. and when you give from the heart, the whole world knows you care. i believe that comfort comes from giving part of me. and if i share with others, there's more for all to see. i believe that love is still the greatest gift of all. and when it's given from the heart, then not one of us will fall.
Girl, do not believe his stories they are all full of lies keep standing up for him tears will fall from your eyes remove yourself from him that is what you need to do he does not really love you he just thrives on using you.
I believe i shall succeed i believe i shall be an inspiration i believe my troubles are temporary i believe i shall be rich i believe i shall swell wide i believe i shall take on the world i believe i shall speak of wealth i believe i shall carry sufferers along i believe i shall show how i made it from nothing i believe in god i believe that he is taking me somewhere i believe that the darkness of today gives way i believe, i believe, i believe.
Believe half of what you read in magazines and newspapers for journalists and reporters tend to exaggerate and don't believe one word that a politician utters for out of lies success they can create and some people of course are so very gullible and they tend to believe all they hear and read they do not seem to see through the power hungry who by their ambiguity mislead. believe all you read and hear in the media and you won't have opinions of your own for to bend the truth one might say more than slightly the newsbreakers have become quite well known the ruling government give them false information and the truth a thing the legislators fear and the lies they broadcast are followed by more lies and they only tell us what we wish to hear. believe half of what you read in the newspapers that's how it is and it's always been that way and one lie always leads on to another that's what wise people have been known to say and many people only want to hear what suits them of which the media magnates seem aware and falsehoods can keep governments in office and falsehoods can create a billionaire.
I don't believe in love i don't believe in fairy tales i believe in heartbreak i believe in sad endings i don't believe in happy endings i don't believe in dreams i believe in pain i believe dreams are for sleeping.
Just as the river flows to the sea all things will come easy if they are meant to be all you have to do is just believe it does not matter what anyone say no one's going to rain on your parade some may believe that life has to be hard but, their belief you can disregard you don't have to swim up stream that is how you kill a dream all you have to do is let it flow just believe and let it go your dreams child will grow just believe in what you know.
I believe that there are times when no one person is wrong or right. i believe that there are things in this world that are less important then holding your children tight. i believe in love that is true. i believe that all love has it's struggles but we make it through. i believe that my children and yours are here to do wonderous things. i believe that we should not hinder them but give them hope and wings. i believe that god will see me through any storm. i believe that every disfunctional family is the norm. i believe that death will greet us all one day. i believe that i will not be scared and live along the way. i believe that life can pass us by unexpectedly. i believe that some people will let it pass unemotionally. i believe that there is always a way to get through. but most of all i believe in me as well as you.
If you believe you will receive, the greatest gift of all you can conquer highest mountain tops, they will look very small if you believe . . . the dark cloud hanging on the day, will very quickly pass away if you believe . . . problems surmount in all degrees, but you can discharge it as you please if you believe . . . reality helps pave the way, to lighten burdens sent each day if you believe . . . the rising sun, the evening moon, denotes a message too, that all above can be resolved, it just depends on you if you believe . . .
In my heart you are always there you lead me thru the darkness of painful memories and walk me out into the light again where i can see you smiling at me all it takes is just a word a gentle touch from your soul and i believe. you take away my pain you make me feel whole again when i don't know where to turn i turn around and there you are you are the moon up in my sky you are my shining star you are everything to me and i believe. you're love will get me thru and lead me back home to you where all the world just slips away and my fears you hold at bay you turn my darkness into light and keep me strong thru out the night and i believe. without you here with me i'd be lost forever more i'd stay locked behind my heart and throw away the key to that door you bring peace back to my nights because of you my eyes shine bright and i believe. because of you and your love the way you've helped me to be strong helped me to sort out right from wrong i can take back the night make my world turn out right so my path will lead me back straight into your arms at last to go forward in my life and let go of my past because of you i believe.
Do not kill dreams you believe in, embrace it even if some just have gone let moments of joy to fill you all and relish it caress your mind by beauty and smile and live by this every day do not murder hope for something special which will come soon just believe and smile and wait a while and you will have it.
Life is full of make believe, dreams of earnest topping fame. gilded lilies spring up everywhere as if in some dark nightmare. we look with weary eyes at temples we want to climb. the shrines we want to spell out our name, but with heavy sighs, we heave, knowing our dreams are but make believe. each hill we climb brings us closer, to our vacant dreams departed. still we strive towards them, hoping one day to catch a glimpse, of what our heart wants most, the dreams that will not fade, in the hollow halls, of the land of make believe.
Scattered dreams dispersed like motes of dust came together highlighted by shaft of light a grain of sand brought about dust dared to be sand sand dared to be brick, brick dared to be wall high above the clouds, together they stood up tall.
He said he would love me he said he would always be there for me he said that he would stay with me forever how do i believe him he said that the distance doesn't matter he said we would be together one day he said he would never hurt me how do i believe him he said love is forever he said things were really good he said that i was his everything how do i believe him.
I don't believe it, but it's true. seems like a bad dream, but it's real. a child's body burnt. a spouse's limbs scattered all over. people jumping out of windows. screams heard because of a great ball of fire. i don't believe it, but it's true. seems like a bad dream, but it's real.
I now understand but still i can't believe, the things i hear or see i jus don't know what to do, the things i hear and see my eyes still won't let my heart believe, i've opened up but i now i think i should close her down, she can't go threw anymore pain. i now understand but still i can't believe, that everything i've been threw and u really don't care about me i jus don't know why are u here if ur not here for me, maybe its jus to toy with me heart and see how much it bleeds i've been throw to much to jus let u run all over my heart like that. i now understand but still can't believe, why no how could u do this to me i've given u my all and this is how u say thanks by crushing my heart and soul, by leaving them to bleed so that some other person can't save them. i now understand but still can't believe, that it was never only me.it was she..her but never we.
What do you believe in, when you wake up to the dawn? what do you believe in, when you hear a birds gift of song? what do you hope for, when all hope is lost? what do you believe in, and what now was the cost? what do you dream of, when the world tells you, 'you've failed? ' what treasures do you search for, if only to fill some empty pails? what will you leave for time, but mans garbage and endtrails? what should one seek after, when all else is gone? what did god show man in proverbs, and from the nails placed into his palms? what was the meaning of the words, this man of god did speak? what were the commandments for, if man refuses them to keep? what will the end be, for it will come in the twinkling of an eye? when will the world hear of god, in the 'sweet by and by? '.
How could you do that to me? i can't believe you. how could you say that to me? i can't believe you. how could you look at me like that? i can't believe you. how could you make me cry like that? i can't believe you. how could you make me feel so loved? i can't believe you.
Heart, believe me. that was just a night. how fool it is for my mind to linger his words this way; to trace every curve of his lips and to flip a shadow of his pretty hair. oh, how fool it is for my mind to think of him this way. heart, believe me. that was just a night; and i became a fool forever.
If you think then you will be you are what you believe so believe what you want and what you want will come true just believe just think make your own fate forge your own path carve your own destiny dont be held back by barriers your small dreams are your barriers your doubts are your barriers dont be held back anything is possible.
If you believe in what you do you will succeed in it come today or tomorrow. success is always something everyone else seems to have, but if you believe in yourself then you will succeed. whether it be money or friends or whatever you want. to succeed you must first believe. 31 january 2008.
I've fallen in love very deeply with someone i guess it just didn't show 'cause he told me he doesn't believe my love but believe me, it's hard to let go. i've prayed for him each night before sleeping but i've never let him know i'm trying very hard to get over him but believe me, it's hard to let go. i've shared my joys, i've shared my sorrows and best friends we have been though with each passing day my pain has increased but believe me, it's hard to let go. i've even thought of saying goodbye though out of it he made me grow and with time going by, i'm dependant i feel but believe me, it's hard to let go. i've now got control of my life still the tears in my eyes continue to flow i don't know how to live my life wiothout him but believe me, it's hard to let go.
Then, you will point to me where my hidden mole continues to grow, where is my secret wart that nobody has ever seen then, you will love the scent of my armpit unwashed for ten days and you will sleep soundly on my arms then you will like my callous hands rough to your lovely face, you will clean my teeth with the licking tongue of yours, you will love to breathe my breathe though i have not brushed for days, you will love everything in me everything foul and even dirty, and you still love to be caressed by my bare hands even if these hands too touched another body last night when you were there patiently waiting when i did not come on time when you were sleeping and your tears dried on a loveless mattress on a bed where the sheets are not crumpled where i may say that i have never for once ever loved you.
If you believe that black is white do you know that you'd never be right if you believe that short is long do you know that you'd always be wrong if you believe that left is right you might give yourself a great big fright if you believe that front is back you might give yourself a heart attack if you believe that in is in fact out you'd spend all your life living in doubt if you believe that up is really down you'd probably wear a puzzled frown if you believe with all of your heart that there is only one way you could possibly start the day, with a lungful of tobacco smoke do you know you'd be part of a very sad joke?.
Music blasted in the air. birds are flyin every where. can you feel the love tonight or is it just in my sight? she loves me.. ohh.. yes she does.. can the moon not be brighter to match that smile on her face. could the sun dim just a bit so i can look up and look back at her and say damn your hot. she is my world. nothing can compare to how im feeling. this is just the way i wanna tell her. i love her. if only she knew. i would write my heart out to her. i would sing her a song. i would tell her stories. i would look her in the eyes and say, babe i love you. if only she believe the words coming out of my mouth. she would know, im lost in her eyes, i wont find my way out. im lost in her world, i gotta stay somehow. i love her. if only she knew. if only she believed. i love her.
I wake in the night and let out a sigh, and whisper your name and wonder why; i'm not in your arms, while your holding me tight, i should be there with you tonight. look into your heart and tell me what you see, when you think of me, is there possibility? take me in your arms, and please don't leave; i'll hold on to you tight, and hope that you believe. believe in love, always and forever. believe in us, you and i together. i'm not like other girls, i won't just leave. when you look into my eyes.do you believe? believe me when i say, for your love, i'll wait forever. with all my heart, i believe that we belong together. believe me when i say, i've given you my heart, you should've known that from the very start. tell me, you believe that my hearts true, tell me, you believe that i love you. now, answer me one question, before i leave. tell me, do you believe?.
I wonder what she thinks right now, as she sits in the shadows alone, she has touched a deeper part of me, a part that is yet unshown. i wonder if she even knows, the truth hidden deep inside, does she think me the lamb for slaughter, or some wolf of howling pride. does she care, the feeling, locked so deep does she care, her touch, has stopped the weep, does she know, her whisper, sparks the flame, life moves on, wonder not, i have no name. are there truly angels that live among us, and if they stood beside us, would we know, is there a safe harbour to lay our trust, a fertile ground to make love grow. yet she be an angel if i have ever met, though in physical form she be not, her gentle caress, my safest bet, with sweetest touch, my heart she has bought.
I believe i believe in a lot i believe in music i believe in writing i believe in listing i believe in mankind i believe in work i believe in love i believe in laughing i believe in paradise i believe in safety i believe in light i believe in entertainment i believe in history i believe in time i believe in survival i believe in change i believe in luck what do you believe in? to tell the truth. none of us is promised tomorrow live your life as if the last. believe.
1i believe in god 2i believe that there is a fish called cod 3i believe in creation 4i believe in graduation 5i believe in the lord 6i believe that i am bored 7i believe in life after death 8i believe that shakespeare wrote macbeth 9i believe in the odd more than even 10i believe in my middle name being steven.
With the power of my thoughts i summoned you; with a blink i made you vanish. on a dark trip your spirit shall wander and as it gets darker you shall believe in me. ungrateful creature, i am your heaven and haven; ingratitude is a sin, and sinners live an eternity in hell. in mazes of confusion your spirit shall wander; in utter darkness demons of the past shall haunt you; of happiness you are incapable then you shall dwell in misery and isolation. have i not tried to befriend you? have i not held you and healed you? but alas, you are just another ungrateful creature; reside in darkness and dwell in fear.. i thee curse. know me or know me not. i am a collector; for when you were not looking, in your core, i planted my seed. before you know it, i shall grow in your soul like a leafy tree of a hundred years.
A gray haired scraggly looking fellow is all you can see but i am not what you think i am when looking at me you cannot look into the thoughts of my mind like you i too have a soul and i too can be kind. a young person in life you have some way to go and little of others you hardly would know you seem to dismiss me as a crabbedy old man but i too can be judgemental believe me i can. i'm too old for playing mind games those days with me long gone i feel happy enough just to be living on just one more mere mortal who was born to die none do live forever the facts never lie. the stuff that i write i cannot hope to sell i'm just one more ageing poetaster who pens doggerel i am not what you think i am for looks can deceive and that too is a fact and facts you should believe.
I believe. i believe that he was born for me. i believe that he forgave me long ago. i believe. i believe that i will grow stronger with each passing day. i believe that my soul is worthy, of the love that we have, should we pray. i believe that his spirit is within me. lest i should falter or fall, i believe that he rose again to save, not only for you but for us all. i believe that my life is precious, one worth saving, no matter the cost. i believe he came to save my soul, no matter the things that i have lost. i believe in his love. i believe in his spirit. i believe in his grace. i believe in his holiness. i believe.
Sometimes i live in my own little world of make believe. where the character in my stories do the things, i wish i could. they live out my fantasies some good some bad. i am every character come what may. they take me away from the real world that we live in. into the land of my dreams into my own little world of make believe. 28 may 2008.
Do you believe that, you became every thing in my life.. do you believe that, i care about you and missed you every moment.. do you believe that, i need and want to be near to you every night.. do you believe that, i love every one who is like you in face and a voice and a smile. do you believe that, i suffer so much in your leaving and never to take a breathe well. do you believe that, i afraid from my eyes to show up me that i love you. do you believe that, i become jealous from any air goes around your neck. do you believe that, i loved you and never loved one as you.. believe me that, i love you.
What have i done this time, to deserve your wrath? what infraction have i violated, causing this kink in our path? where did i go wrong, i really have to know. please tell me what i did, don't just get up and go. don't shut me out again, don't close every door. don't use silence as a weapon, to justify settling a score. please talk to me, i'll listen, to every word you have to say. i'm your lover and your friend, so please don't treat me this way. please tell me with words, what has made you retreat, into the darkness of solitude, feeling defeated and beat. it can't be what you think, that would mean i had purpose. dig deeper for your answers, don't just scratch on the surface. give me the benefit of your doubt, and choose to trust and believe. it takes far less energy to love, than it does to practice to deceive. 2004.
I believe in one who sets me free i believe in one who heals me i believe in one who comforts me i believe in one who gives me joy i believe in one who softens my heart i believe in one who gives me everything i believe in one who leads me i believe in one who speaks to me i believe in one who gives me life i believe in one who shows me mercy i believe in one who prays for me i believe in one who is wonderful i believe in one who died for me now who do you believe in?.
Believe in the purpose understand it's meaning and wait for the results believe in yourself understand that you can't be perfect and wait for your reaction believe in the truth understand the lie and wait to fit them together believe in what you see understand what you hear and wait to judge it's the process of thinking believe and understand speak and wait for results.
I hold this piture in my time of sorrow, death is walking aamounst my heart, ripping, taring, till my life falls apart, remorts of shame, scar through pain, the little emo girl to take the blame, love is to death, leaveing this life is the only thing i have left, she dug a hole in my paper heart, cutting hopes and dream, ripping them apart, how much more of this can i take, till i fall down on the floor and break, i remeber the very first time, inside my mind, i felt comforted like i had a sence of meaning, love and hate, deeath in debait, holding my razor, till the sorrow shall left, i cant believe its back again from the place i had left, remembering death, my dreams are night marees, slowly killing some, for this i write to you, my mom.
I believe in rainbows and golden sunbeams i believe in hopes and dreams i believe in that old fable always told of old that at the rainbows end there's a pot of gold i believe there's some place beyond the blue where the promise of love and peace is forever true i believe in me and you i believe in miracles, for i have known a few i believe in me and you i believe in miracles, for i have known a few i believe in me and you.
The lust for power and money to corruption lead and some cheat and lie to satisfy their greed and big corporations do not have a soul the avarice that afflicts them their thinking control. the distribution of wealth as ever seems so unfair and thousands grow poorer for every new millionaire oil tycoons and arms dealers make millions every day whilst thousands are dying of hunger like flowers in decay. to be born of poor parents is their only crime and they look thin, old and gray though only in their prime in refugee camps they are forced to reside in a land ravaged by drought and by war men destroyed. 'tis true power can be a corruptible thing of the wealthy and famous some poets only sing why laud people who have far more than enough when millions are homeless and have to sleep rough. the lust for power seems to be thriving of late and only the wealthy and famous the media celebrate whilst each day thousands die of hunger doesn''t life seem unfair in a world where empathy and compassion are rare.
Throughout our rambles much we find; the bee trees burst with honey; wild birds we tame of every kind, at once they seem to be resign'd; i know but one that lags behind, there's nothing lags but money. the woods afford us much supply, the opossum, coon, and coney; they all are tame and venture nigh, regardless of the public eye, i know but one among them shy, there's nothing shy but money. and she lies in the bankrupt shade; the cunning fox is funny; when thus the public debts are paid, deceitful cash is not afraid, where funds are hid for private trade, there's nothing paid but money. then let us roam the woods along, and drive the coon and coney; our lead is good, our powder strong, to shoot the pigeons as they throng, but sing no more the idle song, nor prowl the chase for money.
One day a man came to my house with a seed. i decided to buy it because of my greed. the man said it would grow into a money tree. when i told people, they said they're glad they're not as stupid as me. the tree didn't grow and i cussed and hollered. that seed cost me ten thousand dollars. people say that my brain is as small as a pig's. but a cat scan showed that it's not even half that big.
Mind set all to make money shut heart and soul banging on made money sequenced bribes and bribed sedately wet vamped, smoked, drugged to racing on blackened therapy of escapism path of confession opens walk in to treat the heart and soul.
Money you can't take with you when you die so before you die i hope you decide to whom you are going to live your money to i hope that you are not going to spend all that money on yourself.
Nothing comes free..here everything is tagged excepting life.strange life given to us not tagged the days and nights given are not tagged even even then. day in and day out i am all out searching ways and means to make my money. i do not pay any money for the sun and breeze god in nature an absolute giver praying for wealth and prosperity praying for money.money..and more money.to god i feel will get us not even a penny god does not know our money when you send your kid on a trip away you will give him money to spend on the way we were sent here without a penny when i return as dead stock one day worldly wise kith and kin of my send me with a penny on my forehead just a penny? is that what i was worth.or is that the way fare to hell or heaven just a penny?.
You have money you are hungry you have money you are not getting anything you have money you have no love you have no fresh air you have money you are not getting anything you have money you are alone you have money you have no place to stay you have money you have mp humanity you have no sensibility you are nothing you have money and you are bankrupt and you are not happy.
The story's told of long ago about a statue with a head of gold and its breast did silver shine and brassness at lower spine now iron did make the legs so strong and at its base was all made wrong for it was built of miry clay and reinforced with iron sway it stood upon sand which did give way when the base was hit by a stone that day the great image built sixty high summed three sixes from its front side and through it was only six wide it bare the mark of beastly pride but the beast did crumble and was blown away like shaft in the wind forever gone to stay and that stone hewn by no man's hand became a mountain forever to stand.
Some one else will own your property when you are dead and gone the day you die the world won't stop life it will carry on you've made it big, you've reached the top, you're plutocratic kind but wealthy guy you too must die and leave your wealth behind. you came out of your mother free of guilt and evil sin but now you're just a money hoarder like all other greedy men, your dreams of wealth have all come true you are now a millionaire but moneyed man you too will die as sure as cows wear hair. there's nothing wrong with money without money man can't live but in a man there must be what is known as take and give and just like all other greedy men you never give but take and the more money you accumulate the more you want to make. wealthy man don't hoard your money, don't be scared to spend a pound or someone else will spend it for you when your bones rest underground everybody hates a miser, no one loves a greedy soul and you too will be forgotten when you're placed in earthy hole.
Money money is going to get me a girl money money i am going to use it to buy me a cup of coffee money money is going to take me to paris money money is going to buy me some new clothes money money i am going to use it to do my laundry momey money is going to buy me some groceries money money is going to pay to fix my house money money is going to send me to the rich men's world money money is going to buy me a cellular phone.
Outside the long window, with his head on the stone sill, the dog is lying, gazing at his beloved. his eyes are wet and urgent, and his body is taut and shaking. it is cold on the terrace; a pale wind licks along the stone slabs, but the dog gazes through the glass and is content. the beloved is writing a letter. occasionally she speaks to the dog, but she is thinking of her writing. does she, too, give her devotion to one not worthy?.
Due to money good friendships have come to an end for money can make an enemy out of a friend and due to money many are serving prison time for money or lack of it leads many to serious crime due to money the fifth commandment has often been broken it does seem sad to say that some with their lives due to money do pay those who say money is not important to reality not true if you owe someone a lot of money for court you are due whoever say money is not important believe their own lie people have been bashed over money and left there to die and people due to money feel happy to deceive and that it does speak every language you ought to believe yes money out of a friend can make a foe i am telling you something you already know.
Holds fast to money you can not do anything without money money gives you status and position go on calculation money begets respect and honor hoard money my dear and remember money is only for mundane pleasure where you find death is near.
Because of money people wish on others harm or ill and because of money people others do injure or kill and because of money great friendships have come to an end and money can make you an enemy or make you a friend to those with the power of money respect we do pay and money speaks every language some are known to say and those with the most money great power do command that is something that is not hard to understand those with heaps of money enjoy the good life the millionaire in his seventies has a twenty two year old wife with brown hair to her shoulders and lovely to behold she would not be with him if he were poor and old but because of his money with him she will stay money speaks every language that's life as some say.
He is sixty his hair dyed brown and she is a natural blond of nineteen and strolling hand in hand along the beach road every evening they are seen his grandchildren as old as she is it is so true what they say that money does speak every language and it has always been this way. in a world where money matters men of money seem to rule and with a rolls royce in his garage and an indoor heated swimming pool she must see him as a good catch though he is years beyond his prime and he is smitten by her beauty and he buys her a good time. one less attractive young woman for to woo for the single young males of the town for the fellow in his sixties she has turned all suitors down those who say love only matters must believe in their own lie she has knocked back men of her own age for to be with the wealthy older guy. to those who talk of love and passion pay no heed to what they say for in a world where money matters the sugar daddy leads the way to find himself a young beauty he doesn't even have to try for in a world where money matters there's little money cannot buy. he is sixty his hair dyed brown and he goes walking hand in hand with a young beauty of nineteen and that's not hard to understand for in a world where money matters he is a known millionaire and the young males of him jealous doesn't life seem very unfair?.
Money makes sense sometimes we make sense with what makes sense money money money makes this spin a little faster we want to make more and then we see what we do not want to see gnarled conscience whorled integrity shrinking soul lost self. money money money makes my world dimmer makes us happy somehow but for how long?.
Money money money important useful necessary money money money wealthy middle poverty money money money save give spend money money borrow lend money money foe friend money money master slave money money satisfied crave money money laugh cry money money live die money money sick well money money heaven hell.
Money can be power many people become inslave to the almighty dollar it fuels an economy it ends an nation brings pleasure to oneself brings pain to onesself it causes desperration and sets chains to oneself indivduals inject the money dope into there vains to bring them happiness but it leaves them insane people who lack it want it people who have it want more money is infatuation it can bring you sex from a whore but it blinds you from the ones you should adore it affects brain it brings stress to your state of mind, it leaves your head with a receeded hair line it pollutes the world because money is toxicity, it causes you to over eat and it leaves you with obesity it can be a stab in the back a kick in the ass, it can leave you in the street wishin you were in the past it produces greed it plants the seed of something you cant live without and something you need it speaks every language and its never ignored, we give money to the church because they say its for the lord thats bullshit, if in worship we are the performers, and god is the audience that we see, shouldnt worship be free? survival of the fittest in this time people are working from 9 to 5 for the nickel dime a cancer in society a false form piety a fake form of religion shared by the royalty with an undying loyalty without it you have fear of where are you going to be next year gives you a sense of importance that you can sit but really your nothing but a piece of shit money creates a nation that divides within a class you reside with the rules that you have to abide before you know it you have died.
murder, genocide, for piece of paper, it comes and goes and evaporates like a vapor its a big chip on your back its should be the number one cause of death not a heart attack it can give a new hope if your stuck but, without it your fucked moneys history has a beginning and a rise to fame many have died in its name the way we grope over it we should feel ashamed because of it my older brother is lost in its game black mexican asian caucasian money is the form of our persuasion maybe one day wil see that theres more to life that can be but i know until then, i know that my life isnt free.
'tis in the power of money real fame is to be found and money is always involved where corruption abound and corruption and human greed to each other live nearby and why some people are corrupt this could be the answer why some will tell you that money is their nearest and dearest friend and it is because of money that many friendships are known to end and many with lots of money seem to have a crave for more this year they have made two million in profit next year they aim for four the lust for paper currency to everyone does not apply but that money speaks every language is something that none can deny those with it are looked up to and those without it on are looked down and who would wish for to be known as the pauper of the town 'tis the lust for money that leads to corruption through greed and those with plenty of it looked up to as those who in life succeed.
Money can buy a house, but not a home. money can buy a pen, not a writing. money can buy a book, but not knowledge. money can buy a fan but not wind. money can buy a bed, but not sleep. money can buy an equipment, but not a skill. money can buy food, but not appetite. money can buy luxuries, but not culture. money can buy amusement, but not happiness.l.
No money to do anything with its hard enough to get by with out some riche kid walking by they flant their three credit cards in your face plus their 2005 mitibushi eclipse yet they complain that they have no money but yet their dad has another car for them it all makes no sense when we people must suffer and yet survive with little money but the other half lives in riches if some one is in help they will not help unless it is there friend who actually doesnt need help but for them who really cares no money for us only those who can afford it but no one notices us because we try to blend in anyway.
I dreamed i grew a money tree outside in my yard. my job was to care for it and i worked very hard. i saw that it was watered. it grew so straight and tall and when the money ripened i picked it in the fall. the flowers were green dollar bills, the seeds inside were coins, and others grew and glittered where all the branches joined. on windy days i stood below and held a great big bucket. other days i climbed right up to find one ripe and pluck it. people say that money doesn't really grow on trees. i know. i only wish it did just like in my dreams.
A bad habit they form as a young girl or boy to have power over others some people enjoy with personal power some are not satisfied their desire for top job they don't try for to hide they need more than personal power to be seen to succeed it is all about money and all about greed one might say they do have big egos to feed the more money they have the more they seem to need power and money are siblings it does seem that way and money speaks every language some are known to say the non greedy and non power hungry people one has to admire the lust for large sums of money or power over others they never desire they are not the type for to put others down or wish to be known as the best in the town.
If you have money problems your problems are not small and that money speaks all languages that goes for one and all but that money cannot buy happiness that seems so very true and to the battlers who keep keeping on great credit must be due, there are so many paupers for every millionaire and for millions of people life must seem so unfair it truly is a rat race in the bigger world out there and people with compassion have never been so rare, the poor keep getting poorer whilst the wealthy more wealthy grow and like tis said how one half live the other half would not know and an egalatarian world from us seems far away and even in so called wealthy nations poverty is rife today and if you have money problems and are in financial strife then you are made to struggle with the cross you bear in life.
Peace is letting life's cares roll over your head while stamping on them with both feet. it is daily maintaining control of the body, mind and soul. peace is steering away from snares and not taking on life's gloomy cares. it is being like falling snowflakes wonderfully resting serenely as you lie on your bed when sick or well. peace is letting god have complete control of troubles, misery and gloom. peace never entertains sorrow but firmly grips hope for each tomorrow. sometimes, peace says speak. frequently, peace says be silent. peace dwells deep within you and me where no mortal being can reach. peace cries, "never let me go for i am yours to forever keep. ".
Love is so beautiful, in love there is loss, life is still beautiful, do not cause loss, if it occurs to you, just accept it. none causes loss, it just happens, forgive those, who appear to have, caused loss to you, forgiveness is noble. let her be happy, and at peace, if she could not, she would have a reason, let god take care of her, wish her happiness and peace.
When i wake up from my bed in the morning my saturate eyes open slowly and welcomes the morning sun then i feel warm and comfortable at peace of mind the morning smell of the earth reminds me my childhood the wetness of flora brings me cool breeze. i was born in this universe with peaceful nature around me then, i always felt that i was a star on my own brightness. learned, the love and kindness brings me a peace of mind learned, the prayers for god brings me a peace of mind learned, the help for helpless brings me a peace of mind learned, the life of peace brings me a peace of mind when my saturate eyes close slowly and welcomes the silent night then i fall sleep comfortably at peace of mind while praying god to have another peaceful day.
I'm having a bit of a nightmare, before i even sleep tonight. i'm plagued by many torments, all trying to stop me write. it's death by a thousand cuts, by many constant interruptions. the telephone, that noisy car, and countless other disruptions. i should dwell in a cave, to find some perfect peace. there to write in solitude, where every noise does cease. but the way my luck is going, i simply haven't got a prayer. i know as soon as i arrive, a brass band awaits me there.
When you look for peace then the peace lies within you when you search for peace then it is not hard to find when you want to keep peace alive then you allow white doves to fly over you when you make peace with others then the whole world live in your heart when you let peace be in the world then you live in wonderful world when you allow peace flow around the world then your hateness will go and love will flow when you open the door for peace then peace welcome to your lives. let the peace prevail in our wonderful world.
The tempest calmed after bending the branches of the trees and leaning heavily upon the grain in the field. the stars appeared as broken remnants of lightning, but now silence prevailed over all, as if nature's war had never been fought. at that hour a young woman entered her chamber and knelt by her bed sobbing bitterly. her heart flamed with agony but she could finally open her lips and say, "oh lord, bring him home safely to me. i have exhausted my tears and can offer no more, oh lord, full of love and mercy. my patience is drained and calamity is seeking possession of my heart. save him, oh lord, from the iron paws of war; deliver him from such unmerciful death, for he is weak, governed by the strong. oh lord, save my beloved, who is thine own son, from the foe, who is thy foe. keep him from the forced pathway to death's door; let him see me, or come and take me to him." quietly a young man entered. his head was wrapped in bandage soaked with escaping life. he approached he with a greeting of tears and laughter, then took her hand and placed against it his flaming lips. and with a voice with bespoke past sorrow, and joy of union, and uncertainty of her reaction, he said, "fear me not, for i am the object of your plea. be glad, for peace has carried me back safely to you, and humanity has restored what greed essayed to take from us. be not sad, but smile, my beloved. do not express bewilderment, for love has power that dispels death; charm that conquers the enemy. i am your one. think me not a specter emerging from the house of death to visit your home of beauty. "do not be frightened, for i am now truth, spared from swords and fire to reveal to the people the triumph of love over war.
i am word uttering introduction to the play of happiness and peace." then the young man became speechless and his tears spoke the language of the heart; and the angels of joy hovered about that dwelling, and the two hearts restored the singleness which had been taken from them. at dawn the two stood in the middle of the field contemplating the beauty of nature injured by the tempest. after a deep and comforting silence, the soldier said to his sweetheart, "look at the darkness, giving birth to the sun. ".
So much has been written about peace in the world, peace on earth, peace be with you, shalom. peace is more than the absence of war, more than tolerance more than acceptance. there can never be peace between individuals or nations, until we are at peace with ourselves that inner peace that passes understanding.
Ah, that time could touch a form that could show what homer's age bred to be a hero's wage. 'were not all her life but storm would not painters paint a form of such noble lines,' i said, 'such a delicate high head, all that sternness amid charm, all that sweetness amid strength?' ah, but peace that comes at length, came when time had touched her form.
Their skin soaks up the heat leaving it as black as the midnight sky, their eyes wide, white, pleading begging to the passersby. they litter the street half naked bodies, red and colouring their feet searching for a entrance a door out of the circle of poverty. poverty means destruction destruction means fear behind locked doors we sit in early evening too scared to see a black face terrified of black feet crossing the threshold. but why be fearful of your slaves, those you whip and beat treating like the dirt from the doormat where you wipe your feet. role diversity causes poverty poverty destroys peace but peace minus poverty means equality should increase.
'what happened to your teeth', she said with eyes that were alert. 'one thousand love bites really, did what love bites can inflict.' and when they kissed the glue that held the dentures revived itself and stuck the lovers fast together. he was no dentist and she no spring chicken. the missing links had left with all the teeth. and that wild night they slept in bed and loved each other. out in the bathroom, on the sink were sitting still, in a tall glass two dentures fresh and rosy and they could kiss all night in total privacy.
Peace, my heart, let the time for the parting be sweet. let it not be a death but completeness. let love melt into memory and pain into songs. let the flight through the sky end in the folding of the wings over the nest. let the last touch of your hands be gentle like the flower of the night. stand still, o beautiful end, for a moment, and say your last words in silence. i bow to you and hold up my lamp to light you on your way.
That night i laid beside you with one hand upon your heart it beat ever so gently as we laid there in the dark for hours we spoke only with honesty and truth somewhere between our words i fell in love with you we spoke in quiet whispers careful not to wake our friends as they slept we had conversation that seemed to know no end you told me of your weakness of your fears and your past i shared with you the stories of the loves that could not last for once i was contempt just to have someone there somehow in that conversation i let myself open up and care my heart ceased it's breaking and my mind laid to rest your eyes brought me smiles while your heartbeat eased my breath for the first time i was happy happy to have someone to hold as i wrapped you tight in my arms to shield you from the cold as the sun began to rise in the window it shined through you pulled me ever closer and i fell asleep, at peace, with you.
There was a man who lived a life of fire. even upon the fabric of time, where purple becomes orange and orange purple, this life glowed, a dire red stain, indelible; yet when he was dead, he saw that he had not lived.
Motto and craze 'fire with fire' is no answer you need to sprinkle water get all the options to stop destruction it shall put off immediately with timely prevention it is mere an example faced by all people fire may be raging in our mind but solution is only an answer to find not force with force or action with reaction but response with calmness and smile always on face this can create different situation peace shall find its continuation love shall rule and hate shall disappear people may have no fear we are all human brings and can bring situation to normal stage this should be our motto and craze.
Embers light the fire brake down the bark fueling heart and desire lost from the start oh, but i love being lost with you i'd say the fire lights up my life but i don't have to because i think you feel it too i just want to stay here and be warm right next to you made it passed the wire painted like art keep on rolling like a tire you have my heart and the blood is swirling so beautifully i thought you'd like to hear my every thought and word the only problem is it's summed up in three simple words i love you singing with the choir never to part you're the one i admire fire was the spark and now my world is lit up so beautifully.
Fire, fire, fire, fight with the fire. i am fire you are fire, fight with the fire and take care. fire harbor doubts fire hamper growth, fire is my illness, fire is sap my life force and wisdom. fire, fire, fire is both inside and fire is also outside. fire is my own doubts, my own uncertainty and my own confusion. let me overtake my fire, let me fight with this fire within first.
Fire never dies, just smoulders, like love you need to fan it, to keep the flame alive. like the smouldering embers, that needs only a little attention, to become a flame again. so the parting lovers, need only to kiss to ignite the flame, and start the passion again.
Whizzing and banging the fire roars all the people come out.of there little doors they watch the fountains much ablaze this is such a very good display but now it's time for bed all snug and warm but the fires still going at the crack of dawn.
As i am honored with grace impassionate that dazzles in me and my innate grin glamoured by setting rays in the sky along the white clouds as cohered. that boost me up like waves in the sea with all its blues when being cuddled in the spring the lap of tranquil as in moon. when the clouds moves apart above it is the sun yet steeped in blood promising of the love as prologued as twilight descends slowly i do remember the thrills of passion as revered by the bliss of love when reckoning to the flames of fire.
The boy with fire in his eyes stands there waiting. it is his soul inside; it keeps him standing. and if ever the fire goes out, he will freeze in the cold. it is his heat and all that keeps him living. or if it never is put to use, it will consume him; he will burn to the ground his ashes left behind. but if the fire blazes, if kindled, kept and carried, if the boy with fire in his eyes finds life inside that fire, his fire will light the world, will pierce the mist, a fire to drive the dark away forever and ever more.
I will read ashes for you, if you ask me. i will look on the fire and tell you from the gray lashes and out of the red and black tongues and stripes, i will tell how fire comes and how fire runs far as the sea.
Turning you hold your arms up my eyes touch where you turn the shouts from the fire line crew and the collapsing column of smoke the shape of your look as you turn again nearly trapped by the fire overrunning the west side road we run the escape route i hold your face to me always where you are.
Oh day of fire and sun, pure as a naked flame, blue sea, blue sky and dun sands where he spoke my name; laughter and hearts so high that the spirit flew off free, lifting into the sky diving into the sea; oh day of fire and sun like a crystal burning, slow days go one by one, but you have no returning.
Fire passion ice estrangement ying the cold yang warmth sun cheerfulness moon melancholy reigns between she and him a lane each agrees to walk negotiating fire and ice ying, yang sun, moon both knowing that the human world has evolved in between these opposites and in between they would survive and grow, procreate.
Fire which gives us light fire which is used for cooking fire which makes hot environment when it is cool fire which is used for yagna fire which makes to welding metals fire which makes you to achieve your goal so, the fire which is used for good cause other wise fire which makes you as ash.
It appears as a quiet understanding trust, sharing and forgiving love remains loyal through good and bad it settles for less than perfection and makes allowances for human weakness love feels content with the present it hopes for the future it doesn't brood over the past love includes the day in day of chronicle of irrations, problems and compromises the small disappointmets, big victories and common goals if you have love in your life it can make up for a great many things you be if you don't have it no matter what else you have it never feels enough.
Some say the world will end in fire, some say in ice. from what i've tasted of desire i hold with those who favor fire. but if it had to perish twice, i think i know enough of hate to say that for destruction ice is also great and would suffice.
I see pain in their eyes. i hear sorrow in their cries. inside i break and cry alone, with my eyes of fire and heart of stone. no matter how much pain i feel i am sure that i will always deal the way i know..alone with my eyes of fire and heart of stone. others may not know the fear. they know just what they see or hear. i come off cruel and cold. inside i'm not.i'm just not bold. i have to thank my mother for the love she's never shown the one thing that she did give me. her eyes of fire and heart of stone.
We come into this world with nothing and we depart with nothing. you departed with nothing. yet you took everything. there was something omnious about that night, something gloomy, something fateful. maybe it was the wind and the rain. maybe just a feeling. i suppose a fitting night to leave this world as we all eventually must. with nothing. our final flight wont be delayed. why you had to leave i do not know. i do not understand. maybe it is not for me to know, not for me to understand. you where fire. i was ice. you melted me. i soothed you. alas, a burning soul will always leave this world in flames, as was your fate. myself? i returned to my cold home in the north where ice belongs, with nothing. nothing.
It was so fulminating. a fire burned within from spindly kindling and a breath of air it sprang to life consuming obstacles and dull objections and stark conventions. iit jumped all gaps yet was not seen by those who could and bravely would rise in defence in bold offence. so unexpected, not wished for even, it took on quickly and without mercy a life of egotistic and autonomic well, somewhat comic and drooling presence. so unprepared so stunned and scared yet breathing in this deadly fragrance and longing for the nectar of a soul ordained for me alone and nought is left to say or do we were as such simply because we had to be it was a law of nature one which can not be broken by mere humans. a fire burns so cleanly when the darkness of our doubts is absent. and as i float in saddened waves of smoke and seek those mirrors which could give, perhaps be saviours for answers from my soul and heart my tortured mind does not perceive what she must know, perhaps relieved and rescued in the nick of love from devastation. i miss you so my heartease flower but hope you will not hear those words or feel the heat or smell the smoke. and if you see a distant fire be not alarmed the smoke has gone.
Never until the mankind making bird beast and flower fathering and all humbling darkness tells with silence the last light breaking and the still hour is come of the sea tumbling in harness and i must enter again the round zion of the water bead and the synagogue of the ear of corn shall i let pray the shadow of a sound or sow my salt seed in the least valley of sackcloth to mourn the majesty and burning of the child's death. i shall not murder the mankind of her going with a grave truth nor blaspheme down the stations of the breath with any further elegy of innocence and youth. deep with the first dead lies london's daughter, robed in the long friends, the grains beyond age, the dark veins of her mother, secret by the unmourning water of the riding thames. after the first death, there is no other.
A searing flame it hides my shame the pain it melts away an orange glow softens the blow of memories deep inside the warmth and light pirce the night and drive away my fear the defening roar heals the sore of pain once pushed away.
The great chicago fire, friends, will never be forgot; in the history of chicago it will remain a darken spot. it was a dreadful horrid sight to see that city in flames; but no human aid could save it, for all skill was tried in vain. in the year of 1871, in october on the 8th, the people in that city, then was full of life, and great. less than four days it lay in ruins, that garden city, so great lay smouldering in ashes, in a sad and pitiful state. it was a sad, sad scene indeed, to see the fire arise, and hear the crackling of the flames as it almost reached the skies, and sadder still, to hear the moans, of people in the flames cry for help, and none could get, ah, die where they remained. to see the people run for life; up and down the blazing streets, to find then, their escape cut off by the fiery flaming sheets, and others hunting for some friend that perhaps they never found, such weeping, wailing, never was known, for a thousands miles around. some people were very wealthy on the morning of the 10th. but at the close of the evening, was poor, but felt content, glad to escape from harm with life with friends they loved so well, some will try to gain more wisdom, by the sad sight they beheld. five thousand people were homeless, sad wanderers in the streets, with no shelter to cover them, and no food had they to eat. they wandered down by the lake side, lay down on the cold damp ground, so tired and weary and homeless, so the rich, the poor, was found. mothers with dear little infants, some clinging to the breast. people of every description all laid down there to rest, with the sky as their covering, ah, pillows they had none.
sad, oh sad, it must have been, for those poor homeless ones. neighboring cities sent comfort, to the poor lone helpless ones, and god will not forget them in all the years to come. now the city of chicago is built up anew once more, and may it never be visited with such a great fire no more.
The fire, i love it, the way it dances, out of control leaping, into the air it's, so beautiful, the way it dances, the way the sparks, fly up high and, the flame shows me, the past, the future, and what might have been, the cracking of a, new twig in the fire, the jumping, the dancing, the leaping, the uncontrollable flame, when it dies, so does my spirit.
When old and gray on a sleepful day dozing at fire's side near the finish of life's long ride, will your soul once more awake with a bitter remembrance of heart's break to find the last thing tenderly true is that little spark of love yet smoldering deep within you; stoop and stir the fire those final embers of sweet desire which are still aglow burning on through the years of long ago, with this concluding passion of a former time you shall come to find love is after all truly the bravest of the brave the only one with enough courage to forever follow, even into the grave.
With courage i don't know more but adore in heart as fact of religion art it is matter of faith and shall remain in each count of breathe with cruel joke of death but where is remedy o sooth? i bow down my head and read in recognition only one name for excitation i feel happiness on face with so much of satisfaction to have read about it in religion i fear nothing when remember something the kara stone fills me with courage i live cheerfully with an age.
It is in the small things we see it. the child's first step, as awesome as an earthquake. the first time you rode a bike, wallowing up the sidewalk. the first spanking when your heart went on a journey all alone. when they called you crybaby or poor or fatty or crazy and made you into an alien, you drank their acid and concealed it. later, if you faced the death of bombs and bullets you did not do it with a banner, you did it with only a hat to comver your heart. you did not fondle the weakness inside you though it was there. your courage was a small coal that you kept swallowing. if your buddy saved you and died himself in so doing, then his courage was not courage, it was love; love as simple as shaving soap. later, if you have endured a great despair, then you did it alone, getting a transfusion from the fire, picking the scabs off your heart, then wringing it out like a sock. next, my kinsman, you powdered your sorrow, you gave it a back rub and then you covered it with a blanket and after it had slept a while it woke to the wings of the roses and was transformed. later, when you face old age and its natural conclusion your courage will still be shown in the little ways, each spring will be a sword you'll sharpen, those you love will live in a fever of love, and you'll bargain with the calendar and at the last moment when death opens the back door you'll put on your carpet slippers and stride out.
Courage is what it takes to stand up to others courage is what it takes to make your own decisions courage is what it takes to succeed but it also takes courage to sit down and listen it also takes courage to admit a loss it will take courage to respect someone others don't courage is needed to withstand peer pressure so what does this mean? courage is essential in your journey through life.
Courage is something any one can achieve it can happen so fast if you just believe believe in yourself and you'll be suprised your more brave then you ever realized courage is something hidin inside it makes you stronger than the highest tide courage means you can face your fears that you're not afraid to shed some tears in life without fear you can never be brave you can't rescue a princess if there's no one to save life is a balance, like dark and light there can be no wrong if there is no right getting courage isn't to hard to do look deep inside and you'll find it too.
Courage is love courage is strength the one thing that gives life more length brave as a knight brave as a mouse courage is what gives family more unity you do not need a large quantity but show it protect loved ones from fright courage is love courage is strength courage is the light of a dove.
Courage is what makes us courage is what divides us courage is what drives us courage is what stops us courage creates news courage demands more courage creates blame courage brings shame courage shows in school courage determines the cool courage divides the weak courage pours out like a leak courage puts us on a knee courage makes us free courage makes us plea courage helps us flee.
Courage is doing what is right, courage it takes to speak the, truth courage it takes to be yourself corage to stand out courage to be me courage is love, it brings hope courage gives you the strenght, to all weakenesses courage is something any, one can achieve the heart of love is, courage don't close your eyes on the wolrd, there are many wo cares for you, face your life and its trials with, a quiet mind and courageous, smile courage is my last name.
Courage fully how does only smile? when you are troubled for a while you are like any other man no superman but only human' you may keep happiness and show it on face but no one may notice as you have your own voice you may not love and believe in exposing woes as life has many ways it shows how to live what to believe and what to avoid you can only add woes so you have to make human efforts with reports to almighty daily to encourage and grant courage fully.
Without fear there cannot be courage fear drives the unthinkable out of us what gives you courage when there is none? what gives you courage to get out of bed? what gives you courage to drive when you know it's dangerous? what gives you courage to succeed? what gives you courage to survive? what gives you courage to strive? people have courage to live for their children people have courage to live for themselves people have courage to live for hope people have courage because they believe people have courage to not give up fear is not the essence of life but a free soul not tamed courage is the journey of your heart guided by strength on a path of untamed obstacles let courage guide you as you begin your quest.
Courage in old age is difficult courage in old age is difficult but courage is always difficult hope in old age is also difficult happiness in old age is not so difficult at times courage in old age is what is most needed courage against the pain the illness the loss of friends and loved ones the disabilities courage in old age to keep on going to not lose oneself in depression courage to try and not become a burden courage to go on as if one were alright when one knows one is really not courage in old age is difficult but courage we all need and must try to have.
Supposing that i should have the courage to let a red sword of virtue plunge into my heart, letting to the weeds of the ground my sinful blood, what can you offer me? a gardened castle? a flowery kingdom? what? a hope? then hence with your red sword of virtue.
God has given courage and boldness that must certainly be reflected on face women of today are by all means capable handle the situation and come out as successful in any situation charm must be retained smile on face should never be deserted if that is allowed then wolves may simply not pounce take away flash and enjoy their yield of an ounce world as such is no safe heaven for a lady and staying as single woman people may try to take advantage try to inflict injury that may not be worth to mention on page so it is nice to defend self and get prepared so no one comes and simply dared someone has to take lead and show courage whole of the community then may show comeback on stage female today is not helpless animal she has teeth to bite and stand for real trial what else is needed in real time? bit courage, self confidence and presence of mind sometimes.
Courage is doing what is right without having to be told courage is manning up when you know you've done something wrong courage is looking the enemy in the eye and telling them to just bring it courage is having fear but still staying strong courage is facing adversity but being able to overcome it courage is leaving your family behind to defend the country you love courage is being a soldier in the greatest army in the world thank you for this courage that lets us live free may god bless you and come home safely to your families.
She kneels, unable to move as she watches the warm red pour from him she fights back the tears but she cannot stop the brewing brim eventually the floodgates open and out rushes the blue when his heart is finally empty she thinks what she sees can't be true she holds her head up high resolution in her eye she leaves him to rest peacefully in the pool of purple.
'i brought some flowers' i said to the nurse at the desk she told me to take them home saying they weren't usually left i said i'd like them in the room left up high out of the way i said it was important to have flowers during the stay the next day on my visit i spotted my bunch of flowers they'd been placed in an old carton the flower heads were drooping down the hospital, like the carton was unsuitable, drab and old the patients seemed like wilting flowers they were sedated, sad and bored i wrote a letter of complaint saying conditions there were cramped the atmosphere there was despondent personal things got lost there was little stimulation no calm place to relax little chance to go outside the grounds were even stark always try to find the courage to speak up if there's a need stand up for what is right force authorities to take heed we all have power to change things to demand what is right keep in mind the wilting flowers don't give up the fight.
Courage gives you the strength to all weakenesses courage gives you a very postive look out on life courage gives you the strength to move on when you dont know how too courage what you have when someone tries to bring you down courage is like a big strength you have to have it in order to live life.
It's been eleven years, since i first met you. i know that the blessed, are far and few. i wish i saved myself just for you. as i write this poem, only for you. something i thought, i could never do. i hope you accept this poem, from me to you. times have seemed to change, yet so many things remain the same. there are so many things i have learned, and so many pages that i have turned. people are always changing, trying to play the part. yet the only movement i felt, is the one inside my heart. the gods have shined down on me, to give me the courage to write to thee. yes or no, right or wrong, my faith in us, will be forever strong. although my will was not enough, to share my feelings before you left. i respect our friendship the way it exists, i can't help wondering if more could exist. i think of the good times that we shared, i never knew the burdens you bared. i really wish i knew your pain, i'd have done anything to take it all away. there were so many things i wanted to say; but here i am writing so far away. thousands of miles and an ocean away, my feelings for you will always remain. i haven't much to give, only one life to live. so little money and so few possessions, a simple man with no obsessions. for my hope carries me on, and my faith makes me strong. my heart and soul and love for you, these are what i offer you. with a soul, as stong as you; when i sleep, i dream of you. my faith and thoughts of happiness, you're my sanity in this world of madness. you remain in my thoughts everyday, and i hope we will meet another day.
A thing called courage it will only open a new page if i did not cross the oceans i would have been left alone i would have been lost and i wouldn't have seen what lies beyond the oceans the road to heaven is paid with righteousness for i was lost in the wildness a thing called courage that which unleashes you from the cage the body is just a vehicle transporting the soul for there was nobody to love nobody to console nobody to talk to wondering what to do a thing called courage it will only open a new page.
If i had the courage to stand tall i would if i had the courage to speak with my tongue freely speak of utter truth i would if i had the courage to fight for my nation i would if i had the courage to amend broken bridges i would if i had the courage to deny all false allegations against my bones i would i would if i had a chance to without being brutally attacked i would.
20 seconds of courage is all we need to change the world. maybe if we all had a little more courage the world would be a happier place. 20 seconds of courage is all we need to tell that someone what you feel for them 20 seconds of courage is all we need to have a happy life 20 seconds of courage is all we need to change the world.
Tap in, tap in yeah, tap into my sharpened senses i have the courage to speak i have the courage to think i am me, today and tomorrow with courage we engage bringing new things to life's stage we remove excessive baggage as we try hard to be above average tap in, tap in yeah, tap into my sharpened senses don't attempt to break down my defences i have the courage to encourage i rage upon those who discourage for those who clap their hands in pretence at my courageous expenses give out only offense courage has built me a new image i feel as if i have entered a new age i stand out now as i have come out of my cage making a difference as i get rid of blockages tap in, tap in yeah, tap into my sharpened senses courage is great courage is the way forward courage sets the stage for change today is only today because of the courage of others.
It's hard to translate one's feelings into speech, it takes time to overcome the obstacles we meet. don't live life scared of what your words will bring, even if you fail, at least you attempted to do something. in this life i would rather fail everyday, and tell my stories of the one's that got away. then sit alone with my regrets always haunting me. 'i could have been, but i never had the courage to be. '.
Gather courage there is no another chance once missed means lost at once love is no commodity so you go for exchange everyday if you have done any mistake that can't be retaken once you have hurt someone that shall not be forgotten at no stage you have shown regret or cause for bad fate you might have gone too far so is the result leading to fear? make no love bid again else it may add pain she shall be troubled often and life shall be turned into hell from heaven accept the fate as it is still not late you are responsible for mess so gather courage to face.
It is the courage of the human being that made the world so beautiful to live with through his hard work and intelligence made wonderful achievements for human sake the first set of courageous men's desires taught them how to hunter using the stones they studied the necessity on events and sharpening the stone articles used for hunting their strong courage and determination made them active to face the challenges it is the courage of men in earlier eras invented the wind ridden ships and vessels through their courage and wisdom together with the determination and skills they found new worlds and new people they ascertained new avenues of gains but for the invasions of fight in new places the stiff competitions the real successors survived the fittest among them it is through the courage adopted from footsteps of our bygone era of forefathers that we learnt the qualities of courage new inventions now continuing and ongoing new planets are imminent to conquer new places we aspire to be conquered where human beings will make their new homes provided water sources and breathing air is there it is our courage and wisdom that follows through the intelligence and decisiveness that we gain for a better future where the world will be better for tomorrow.
When christ prayed in gethsemane, his cup to be removed, he still prayed with humility, in hope that god approved. yet god saw christ's disciples, for whom their lord must die, with christ's scriptures in the bibles on which we all rely. how could he then release his son from suffering and death? how could he stop what must be done to halt christ's final breath? god sent an angel, one alone, to strengthen christ again, that he, by grace, could thus be known as christ, the light of men. and thus, the saviour's tears were wept, unseen by friend or foe, until he woke the ones who slept, fatigued and slow to go. but then marched judas, kissed the lord, betrayed him in that hour, despite the folly of reward that brought no peace or power. thus jesus judged by mortal souls, faced persecution's claws, submitting to its cruel controls, its twisted thoughts and flaws. to feel the lash repeatedly upon his fragile frame, delivered then to calvary to bear our sinful shame. the hours passed and darkness fell, men cowered in their fear, as if the whole world went to hell with god's wrath oh so near. then death for jesus came at last, with victory assured, while those who loved him looked aghast as blood from him outpoured. his lifeless body taken down, his eyes closed in respect, then they removed the thorny crown, the symbol of neglect. laid in a tomb as prophesied, awaiting sunday's dawn, god's precious promise, if christ died, salvation would be born. fear not, believers, in the know, god's promises come true, though into earth each man must go, god's grace is ever new. the dead shall rise again one day, the rapture makes this known, then living saints are snatched away, no more to stand alone.
that's why disciples preach god's grace, forgiveness here and now, if we but look upon christ's face, the crown upon his brow. his battered back, his hands, his feet, his bloodstained lips and eyes, we know god's pardon stands complete if we would just be wise. denis martindale, copyright, may 2013.
It takes courage to admit defeat to lay the weapons down to declare oneself unarmed before anyone else gets hurt it takes courage to succumb to ones fear to overcome it to surrender to the frankness of the unknown you know don't want to be held prisoner exactly perhaps someone will just kill me then it won't really matter anymore 2005.
To speak ill of the world needs courage, but fortunately or unfortunately everybody has that courage. to love the world as one's own, very own, needs courage. unfortunately, most of us are wanting in that courage. the courage of the heart, the courage of the soul we badly need, and not the courage of the unruly, aggressive, impure, demanding vital.
Baffled, where should i go? used to be so strong. used to know what's right from wrong. gobbled the poison, fought my own premonitions. how i stayed on track with my faith and my reasons. the less traveled road is where i am on. rough and narrow from dusk till dawn. stunned by an unforeseen path, tempting beauty, an extremely fortuitous find..i'm distraught. bones shall rest in peace like a stone. which one shall lead me to thy throne? i hunger for an unfading glee, suffocated by the air of melancholy.
Most days i feel like i am losing so much time sitting waiting hoping for you to change never knowing quite for sure if it is me or you that must change always believed that by not moving making no decision is the same as making one wondering if it is due to my lack of strength or no courage to take those hits that will happen if i choose to move now wish i knew if this was truly my choice or one made only by lack of my courage.
There were many who went in huddled procession, they knew not whither; but, at any rate, success or calamity would attend all in equality. there was one who sought a new road. he went into direful thickets, and ultimately he died thus, alone; but they said he had courage.
It's funny how we always seem, to be so happy in a dream, yet when it's time for us to wake, we think our dreams a big mistake. it's funny how in proper life, we seem so bent on war and strife, if only we would try to live, to be forgiving and to give. then to us our life would seem, to be the same as in our dream, and in the morn when we awake, we'd never make the same mistake.
A dream within a dream, so lonely in the winter still; wishes going into the air stream, to never again to fulfil. a dream within loneliness, the moments we once had; the day is now flowerless, down this entire winter pad. a dream within a stone, so hard and cold of all; the feeling when we are alone, a day or two of appal. a dream within the past, from nights that were before; the thoughts that didn't last, and therefore are no more. a dream within a reach, that once was staying here; and nothing left to teach, or nothing gave to share. a dream within a thought, that we once knew of some; but time moved on or bought, and never again is to come.
You dream a little dream of me, when you close your eyes. a promise kept to remember, so part of me never dies. you dream a little dream of me, of when we were together. happy memories so resilient, from all life's stormy weather. you dream a little dream of me, now so sadly on your own. but i return to softly whisper, in dreams you're never alone.
As the night begins to slumber, and most dreams start to awake, i do softly sigh and wonder, if true love is really great. i have dreamt of your sweet coming, of us drifting in love's lake, like two swan's in love's pure splendor, but you're gone when i awake.
In poe's dark forbidding night when there can be no sight of the dangers lurking near of which there is much to fear. but in the inner peace of poe with the scratch of pen, his words flow capturing his tortured thoughts in kind a parable, to escape the world that binds, to set him free to dream of that which is not as seem. as he awaits the judgement day.
Only a dream, a beautiful baseless dream; only a bright flash from your eyes, a brief electrical gleam, charged with delight. only a waking, alone, in the moon's last gleam fading from sight; only a flooding of tears that shudder and stream fast through the night.
I opened the door in answer to a knock and seeing who stood there gave me quite a shock for there stood a fairy looking sad and forlorn her appearance was dirty disheveled and worn her shoes were all dusty her hair a tangled mess she had knots in her ribbons and rips in her dress her face was brown smudged her lips cracked and dry her wings were so tattered she no doubt could not fly. i welcomed her in and we sat down for tea this bedraggled little sprite and still in shock me i asked her to tell me the tale of her plight she looked at me sadly tears made her eyes bright as she told me a story of swords, lords and knights. her beloved handsome prince whom she loved with all breath had been wounded lay bleeding so very near death hunched over his body while shouting to the skies he grasped her hand tightly gazed into her eyes he managed to whisper with last dying breath please go on without me in life find the best. as she finished her story i awoke with a start to a knock on my door and i felt my heart stop i snuck to the window and gave out a peek on the porch stood a unicorn with an ice cream cone horn.
Doing each good in life go on i should, may come death at mid but earnings shall follow me just may be late, my eyes will see or may not shall see my generations that, and shall glorify from earth to sky, thus they will go on making proper region.
Fox who can blame her for hunkering into the doorwells at night, the only blaze in the dark the brush of her hopeful tail, the only starlight her little bared teeth? and when she is not satisfied who can blame her for refusing to leave, master of the hunt, why am i not feeding, not being fed? the coming of fox one evening i return to a red fox haunched by my door. i am afraid although she knows no enemy comes here. next night again then next then next she sits in her safe shadow silent as my skin bleeds into long bright flags of fur. dear fox it is not my habit to squat in the hungry desert fingering stones, begging them to heal, not me but the dry morninngs and bitter nights. it is not your habit to watch, none of this is ourrs, sister fox. tell yourself that anytime now we will rise and walk away from somebody else's life. any time. leaving fox so many fuckless days and nights only the solitary fox watching my window light barks her compassion. i move away from her eyes. from the pitying brush of her tail to a new place and check for signs. so far i am the only animal. i will keep the door unlocked until something human comes. one year later what if, then, entering my room, brushing against the shadows, lapping them into rust, her soft paw extended, she had called me out? what if, then, i had reared up baying, and followed her off into vixen country? what then of the moon, the room, the bed, the poetry of regret? a dream of foxes in the dream of foxes there is a field and a procession of women clean as good children no hollow in the world surrounded by dogs no fur clumped bloody on the ground only a lovely line of honest women stepping without fear or guilt or shame safe through the generous fields.
Oh fluttering pretty butterfly at your make i gasp with daze let me join your dazzling dance laced with grace of swaggering steps oh sensuous playful butterfly to your songs i simply sway come play me your silken flute treat my heart to blissful tunes of gentle precious butterfly for your robe my pollen long let me hold you oh dainty dressed flake on me in golden scales oh beautiful princess butterfly come and see my petals glow pray attend my nectar's flow please my passion with probing kiss come please, oh butterfly kindly share my scented soul cause my life to boundless bloom burst with me in flame of love on improvement of the female sex in love relationships.
My love in dream i see you thee, hand in hand strolling beside the silver sea lying on sand glowing as gold thou art i feel kneeling by my side i prayed for sun not to rise and night to stay a little while on the glowing silvery night to me once more thy foot steps tend following together side by side i plead with yearn to never end for far and wide our feet have traveled leaving the marks on my soul asif, for dream is dream just lie and bold to keep the grip on hope and hold.
From the spanish of pedro calderon de la barca a dream it was in which i found myself. and you that hail me now, then hailed me king, in a brave palace that was all my own, within, and all without it, mine; until, drunk with excess of majesty and pride, methought i towered so big and swelled so wide that of myself i burst the glittering bubble which my ambition had about me blown, and all again was darkness. such a dream as this, in which i may be walking now, dispensing solemn justice to you shadows, who make believe to listen; but anon kings, princes, captains, warriors, plume and steel, aye, even with all your airy theatre, may flit into the air you seem to rend with acclamations, leaving me to wake in the dark tower; or dreaming that i wake from this that waking is; or this and that, both waking and both dreaming; such a doubt confounds and clouds our moral life about. but whether wake or dreaming, this i know, how dreamwise human glories come and go; whose momentary tenure not to break, walking as one who knows he soon may wake, so fairly carry the full cup, so well disordered insolence and passion quell, that there be nothing after to upbraid dreamer or doer in the part he played; whether tomorrow's dawn shall break the spell, or the last trumpet of the eternal day, when dreaming, with the night, shall pass away.
One day people will touch and talk perhaps easily, and loving be natural as breathing and warm as sunlight, and people will untie themselves, as string is unknotted, unfold and yawn and stretch and spread their fingers, unfurl, uncurl like seaweed returned to the sea, and work will be simple and swift as a seagull flying, and play will be casual and quiet as a seagull settling, and the clocks will stop, and no one will wonder or care or notice, and people will smile without reason, even in winter, even in the rain.
I am packing to go to the airport but somehow i am never packed. i keep remembering more things i keep forgetting. secretly the clock is bolting forward ten minutes at a click instead of one. each time i look away, it jumps. now i remember i have to find the cats. i have four cats even when i am asleep. one is on the bed and i slip her into the suitcase. one is under the sofa. i drag him out. but the tabby in the suitcase has vanished. now my tickets have run away. maybe the cat has my tickets. i can only find one cat. my purse has gone into hiding. now it is time to get packed. i take the suitcase down. there is a cat in it but no clothes. my tickets are floating in the bath tub full of water. i dry them. one cat is in my purse but my wallet has dissolved. the tickets are still dripping. i look at the clock as it leaps forward and see i have missed my plane. my bed is gone now. there is one cat the size of a sofa.
Last night as i silently slept into my dreams you genlty crept. recalling times when you were there life was breezy without a care. loving you from the time we met walking together in the sunset. knowing your warm tender embrace is something time cannot erase. pledging once more my love to you when i awoke the dream was through.
Last night i drove a car not knowing how to drive not owning a car i drove and knocked down people i loved .went 120 through one town. i stopped at hedgeville and slept in the back seat .excited about my new life.
At night chinamen jump on asia with a thump while in our willful way we, in secret, play affectionate games and bruise our knees like china's shoes. the birds push apples through grass the moon turns blue, these apples roll beneath our buttocks like a heath full of chinese thrushes flushed from china's bushes. as we love at night birds sing out of sight, chinese rhythms beat through us in our heat, the apples and the birds move us like soft words, we couple in the grace of that mysterious race.
Look, the eucalyptus, the atlas pine, the yellowing ash, all the trees are gone, and i was older than all of them. i am older than the moon, than the stars that fill my plate, than the unseen planets that huddle together here at the end of a year no one wanted. a year more than a year, in which the sparrows learned to fly backwards into eternity. their brothers and sisters saw this and refuse to build nests. before the week is over they will all have gone, and the chorus of love that filled my yard and spilled into my kitchen each evening will be gone. i will have to learn to sing in the voices of pure joy and pure pain. i will have to forget my name, my childhood, the years under the cold dominion of the clock so that this voice, torn and cracked, can reach the low hills that shielded the orange trees once. i will stand on the back porch as the cold drifts in, and sing, not for joy, not for love, not even to be heard. i will sing so that the darkness can take hold and whatever is left, the fallen fruit, the last leaf, the puzzled squirrel, the child far from home, lost, will believe this could be any night. that boy, walking alone, thinking of nothing or reciting his favorite names to the moon and stars, let him find the home he left this morning, let him hear a prayer out of the raging mouth of the wind. let him repeat that prayer, the prayer that night follows day, that life follows death, that in time we find our lives. don't let him see all that has gone. let him love the darkness. look, he's running and singing too. he could be happy.
Last night i dreamed of chickens, there were chickens everywhere, they were standing on my stomach, they were nesting in my hair, they were pecking at my pillow, they were hopping on my head, they were ruffling up their feathers as they raced about my bed. they were on the chairs and tables, they were on the chandeliers, they were roosting in the corners, they were clucking in my ears, there were chickens, chickens, chickens for as far as i could see. when i woke today, i noticed there were eggs on top of me.
You brothers, who are mine, poor people, near and far, longing for every star, dream of relief from pain, you, stumbling dumb at night, as pale stars break, lift your thin hands for some hope, and suffer, and wake, poor muddling commonplace, you sailors who must live unstarred by hopelessness, we share a single face. give me my welcome back. translated by james wright submitted by holt.
Silent, silent night, quench the holy light of thy torches bright; for possessed of day thousand spirits stray that sweet joys betray. why should joys be sweet used with deceit, nor with sorrows meet? but an honest joy does itself destroy for a harlot coy.
Now as the train bears west, its rhythm rocks the earth, and from my pullman berth i stare into the night while others take their rest. bridges of iron lace, a suddenness of trees, a lap of mountain mist all cross my line of sight, then a bleak wasted place, and a lake below my knees. full on my neck i feel the straining at a curve; my muscles move with steel, i wake in every nerve. i watch a beacon swing from dark to blazing bright; we thunder through ravines and gullies washed with light. beyond the mountain pass mist deepens on the pane; we rush into a rain that rattles double glass. wheels shake the roadbed stone, the pistons jerk and shove, i stay up half the night to see the land i love.
Deep in the night the cry of a swallow, under the stars he flew, keen as pain was his call to follow over the world to you. love in my heart is a cry forever lost as the swallow's flight, seeking for you and never, never stilled by the stars at night.
There is nothing to be afraid of, it is only the wind changing to the east, it is only your father the thunder your mother the rain in this country of water with its beige moon damp as a mushroom, its drowned stumps and long birds that swim, where the moss grows on all sides of the trees and your shadow is not your shadow but your reflection, your true parents disappear when the curtain covers your door. we are the others, the ones from under the lake who stand silently beside your bed with our heads of darkness. we have come to cover you with red wool, with our tears and distant whipers. you rock in the rain's arms the chilly ark of your sleep, while we wait, your night father and mother with our cold hands and dead flashlight, knowing we are only the wavering shadows thrown by one candle, in this echo you will hear twenty years later.
April, and the last of the plum blossoms scatters on the black grass before dawn. the sycamore, the lime, the struck pine inhale the first pale hints of sky. an iron day, i think, yet it will come dazzling, the light rise from the belly of leaves and pour burning from the cups of poppies. the mockingbird squawks from his perch, fidgets, and settles back. the snail, awake for good, trembles from his shell and sets sail for china. my hand dances in the memory of a million vanished stars. a man has every place to lay his head.
. by night when others soundly slept and hath at once both ease and rest, my waking eyes were open kept and so to lie i found it best. . i sought him whom my soul did love, with tears i sought him earnestly. he bow'd his ear down from above. in vain i did not seek or cry. . my hungry soul he fill'd with good; he in his bottle put my tears, my smarting wounds washt in his blood, and banisht thence my doubts and fears. . what to my saviour shall i give who freely hath done this for me? i'll serve him here whilst i shall live and loue him to eternity.
Do not go gentle into that good night, old age should burn and rave at close of day; rage, rage against the dying of the light. though wise men at their end know dark is right, because their words had forked no lightning they do not go gentle into that good night. good men, the last wave by, crying how bright their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay, rage, rage against the dying of the light. wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight, and learn, too late, they grieved it on its way, do not go gentle into that good night. grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay, rage, rage against the dying of the light. and you, my father, there on that sad height, curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, i pray. do not go gentle into that good night. rage, rage against the dying of the light.
The sun descending in the west, the evening star does shine; the birds are silent in their nest, and i must seek for mine. the moon, like a flower, in heaven's high bower, with silent delight sits and smiles on the night. farewell, green fields and happy groves, where flocks have took delight. where lambs have nibbled, silent moves the feet of angels bright; unseen they pour blessing, and joy without ceasing, on each bud and blossom, and each sleeping bosom. they look in every thoughtless nest, where birds are covered warm; they visit caves of every beast, to keep them all from harm. if they see any weeping that should have been sleeping, they pour sleep on their head, and sit down by their bed. when wolves and tigers howl for prey, they pitying stand and weep; seeking to drive their thirst away, and keep them from the sheep. but if they rush dreadful, the angels, most heedful, receive each mild spirit, new worlds to inherit. and there the lion's ruddy eyes shall flow with tears of gold, and pitying the tender cries, and walking round the fold, saying, 'wrath, by his meekness, and, by his health, sickness is driven away from our immortal day. 'and now beside thee, bleating lamb, i can lie down and sleep; or think on him who bore thy name, graze after thee and weep. for, washed in life's river, my bright mane for ever shall shine like the gold as i guard o'er the fold. '.
Gaunt in gloom, the pale stars their torches, enshrouded, wave. ghostfires from heaven's far verges faint illume, arches on soaring arches, night's sindark nave. seraphim, the lost hosts awaken to service till in moonless gloom each lapses muted, dim, raised when she has and shaken her thurible. and long and loud, to night's nave upsoaring, a starknell tolls as the bleak incense surges, cloud on cloud, voidward from the adoring waste of souls.
The cold slope is standing in darkness but the south of the trees is dry to the touch the heavy limbs climb into the moonlight bearing feathers i came to watch these white plants older at night the oldest come first to the ruins and i hear magpies kept awake by the moon the water flows through its own fingers without end tonight once more i find a single prayer and it is not for men.
She lived in storm and strife, her soul had such desire for what proud death may bring that it could not endure the common good of life, but lived as 'twere a king that packed his marriage day with banneret and pennon, trumpet and kettledrum, and the outrageous cannon, to bundle time away that the night come.
Above us, stars. beneath us, constellations. five billion miles away, a galaxy dies like a snowflake falling on water. below us, some farmer, feeling the chill of that distant death, snaps on his yard light, drawing his sheds and barn back into the little system of his care. all night, the cities, like shimmering novas, tug with bright streets at lonely lights like his.
After juan ramon a child wakens in a cold apartment. the windows are frosted. outside he hears words rising from the streets, words he cannot understand, and then the semis gear down for the traffic light on houston. he sleeps again and dreams of another city on a high hill above a wide river bathed in sunlight, and the dream is his life as he will live it twenty years from now. no, no, you say, dreams do not work that way, they function otherwise. perhaps in the world you're right, but on houston tonight two men are trying to change a tire as snow gathers on their shoulders and scalds their ungloved hands. the older one, the father, is close to tears, for he's sure his son, who's drunk, is laughing secretly at him for all his failures as a man and a father, and he is laughing to himself but because he's happy to be alone with his father as he was years ago in another life where snow never fell. at last he slips the tire iron gently from his father's grip and kneels down in the unstained snow and unbolts the wheel while he sings of drinking a glass of wine, the black common wine of alicante, in raw sunlight. now the father joins in, and the words rise between the falling flakes only to be transformed into the music spreading slowly over the oiled surface of the river that runs through every child's dreams.
I want to be an an actress everyone screaming my name all my movies golden globe i want to be a model strutting down that runway all eyes on me on the cover of vouge or ebony i want to be a singer crowd surfing performing much better than beyonce i want to be a fashionista all my clothes blowing dolce and gabanna out of the water.
Success is what i feel when i achieve something success is what i feel when i believe in god success is what i feel when i have a good relationship success is what i feel when i have a good job success is what i feel when my life is complete.
Someone once called me a failure for the publications that i lacked, but i think they were wrong, success is not how much money or gold that you earn. success is how many friends in your life can hold, for they are more precious than money or gold. friendship has no price tag, it cannot be bought or sold and it comes from a heart of gold. therefore, in the future any friends you may acquire treat them with respect unless you wish their friendship to expire. 7 december 2007.
In the last analysis it was not his gullibility because it could have been so well learned and the swindling avoided as early as possible, frankly speaking it was his greed, and nothing but his greed, which made the swindlers have the last laugh greed allows everyone to come and take everything everything.
Do i wander through life aimlessly? wild, reckless, inconsiderate unmindful of the consequences of my behaviour do i run wild in a savage stupor? pugnacious, belligerent, impolite unconscious of the altitude of my ignorance unaware of the latitude of my negligence carefree leaving a trail of scarcity along a path of regret leaving years of psychological scars in the repressed minds of distressed adults in the misguided souls of troubled youths will i leave disillusioned children? angry and confused shameful and misguided lost and astray crying for direction weeping for guidance longing for unconditional love grieving for sound judgement for i taught them not a lifetime of wisdom for wisdom was not important for i offered them not sound advice for i never took life seriously for i taught them not discipline for i was reckless and immature for i showed them naught but a dropp of love for my selfishness knew no bounds will i leave disappointed partners? bitter and frustrated troubled and wounded disturbed and injured wishing for sincerity longing for honesty praying for fidelity yearning for faithfulness for i killed their trust due to my shamelessness for i eradicated their hope due to my disrespect for i damaged their faith due to my infidelity for i destroyed their confidence due to my deception for i killed their self development due to my ignorance will i leave appalled individuals?
disgusted and revolted unconcerned and apathetic sarcastic and scornful mocking my ignorance sickened at my negligence horrified at my irresponsibility deriding my financial intelligence appalled at my selfishness for i disrespected many good folk in the name of humour mere mockery in fact for i abused much kindness in the name of friendship sheer exploitation to be precise for i never listened to others in the name of intelligence simply arrogance no doubt for i spoke ill of people in the name wisdom purely foolishness indeed for i was impatient with the most enduring in the name of progress clearly mental commotion for i was unforgiving with the most compassionate in the name of truth conceitedness in fact fatherhood was not my forte for i struggled to maintain my youth relationship was not my aspiration for i disliked commitment friendship was not my goal for i detested disagreement education was not my focus for i found it a bore investment was not my desire for i cherished the consumer lifestyle responsibility was not my wish for i cherished excitement and folic discipline was not my want for i enjoyed ease devotion was not my focal point for i choose carelessness so what will you leave?
a story of inspiration through your achievements a fable of love through your affection an account of devotion through your loyalty a description of success through your diligence a portrayal of courage through your chosen path a depiction of wisdom through your experiences an illustration of happiness through your humour an image of resilience through your adversity a report of wealth through your acumen a tale of nobility through your actions a myth of grandeur through your life of contribution let us all be remembered for the lives we touched for the people helped for the wisdom we shared for the stories we told for the laughter we initiated for the love we gave for the affection we showed for the good role models we were for the communities we inspired for the youth we guided for the hungry we feed for the needy we assisted for the success we created for the risk we took for the world we changed let us write down our stories let us tell our experiences let us record our tales let us share our struggles for our children for our grandchildren for generations to see for generations to hear as a source of hope as a source of wisdom as a source of guidance as an example of our legacy so what will you leave?.
We are dreamy creature long for the things which is unsure why does then human being dream? when they can't think of forming even a team each time we dream and remain quiet allow the spring to pass off and autumn to let no one has changed their style except man we are no exception but remain unchanged as human dreams are always beautiful sometimes provide key to be successful we laugh it out and take no note meanwhile the water may seep in and sink the boat dreams need nice push credible effort without any rush it may definitely pay in long run as nothing is impossible under the sun not all the kids survive after birth not all the pots come out safe even if nicely berthed so think of some success after great struggle it is yardstick for every thing to succeed little it is always nice to think high couple it with dreamy planning slight it may come off the ground well success story may thereafter definitely tell.
Success what is success? is it a good job? is it a lot of money? is it a high ranking social status? is it a happy family? is it good looks? is it popularity? or perhaps is it even a ticket to heaven? or hell? what about eternal life one earth? today in society's commen sense and point of view money, power, fame that is success they stamp it into your head and create the thought success yes a wonderful yet mysterious word as for me that is not success to me success is happinness that is success to me yes success.
He was on the same spot, holding a small pot, ran his family lot, with whatever he got. fifty years rolled by, but never any passerby, any time felt troubled by, this beggar lived close by. destiny played its role, to snatch his daily dole, he wasn't seen one day, having silently passed away, a memorial in his place, for his act of grace, was proposed out of pity, by the gentlemen of the city. dug under the ground, they, by chance, found, a mud pot, with gold coins of ancient old. their sympathy increased, o'er the poor deceased, for years he stood on the gold, with his hardship untold. yes, only an endless search, can make one to touch, and go ahead to reach the goal of success, as such.
Success is having what it takes to keep positivity on the trail to total freedom. stand firm, knock negativity to the ground, forgetting it ever came around. holding yourself accountable for everything you do. offering a helping hand to those not as fortunate as you. giving when finances are high, giving when finances are low, acknowledging you reap what you sow.
To achieve success is not my aim i do not recognize success and i do not care failure i know success is not necessary to lead a good life i know i like what i do and who am i to do i am nobody to do anything and success has no meaning for me.
A shadow of respect, a flame of response, a desire of destination, a bridge of dreams, a plazer of demonstration, a heart of modulation, a birth of justification, all just from a creation, working for his nation, his family and his passion, overcoming every extinction, with a big regret to distruction, a new lump of dreams, a new cry for success, a new mind for aproval, a new sun rise for hapy lif, with a new passion for animation, all jst for life he deserves, with enfresing his desires, with happines, and fires, with love and respect, and a few beautiful regret, he realy steps to the world, he desrvs.that is success.
O holy success, my darling success, weather indigo or starry, it'll glow, as fountain vessel of blood in my sweet faithful heart. it shall sprung, from east south or north west i don't have the idea from core cardinal or spinning of axis but my willing success i foresaw, as inevitable as death, my success' veritable, irreplaceable, irresistible, unstopably unchangeable, o my destiny, i an a glorious child no matter how far the sky, i'll win no matter how scary king pharaoh, i'll rule, my skin black, my brain pure, my glory shines, thou suns smile, the star applause to the moon i'm a king, nonnegotiable's my success, welcome abode, my success.
Failure is the penalty, for continually getting things wrong. success on the other hand is the award, for getting things continually right. failure puts you down in despair. success sends you soaring among the clouds. therefore, i look at myself and wonder, am i a success or failure. then maybe i am a bit of both. whichever way the hammer falls only you can decide.
Success is a damsel that intoxicates; failure is your mistress that teases. success is a drink that leads to stupor; failure is the beverage that shakes you up. success is a temporary shed in life's journey; failure is the pathway to ultimate destination. dont let thus success beguile into momentary comfort; learn to befriend failure to last the journey's end. success is the mistress of easy charms; failure is your wife, of considerable virtues; failure enriches you, success may shower riches on you; failure is the sweet little drummer to roses ahead on the path ways, success a sweet companion not to be seen when winter comes your ways, as it must in one's life, leaving the summer far, far behind.
The best of the other in the one. the best of the one in the other. either in the one or the other, the best of the other or the one. the success that lies in sadness, the sadness in success. the honour and the love. best below, above.
How i have achieved my success because a woman behind my shadow she is my ever loving wife and guardian she made our family strong well and she is the pillar of our family who hold us all she take cares of everything without time limit and put everything in order to make us easy she has shown us her faith to over come any obstacles and at the same time any problems dealt with properly as a mother she never grow old and mould her heart for us with gold she teach our children well and they learn so well she blends her love with sincerity and hard to define she brings us together always to be all in one family. she always look for the best in us and give us best she had she is my love and wife where these things abide and my success was completed when she become my shadow.
I dream the future without the past of when my success will be a blast intent of heart, i see the best hope for the future, with god i rest. i crave for success, i hope for hope god start the process, i crave to cope. i see a flash, a flash of hope i'm up the mountain, nomore the slope lord take me higher, lord take me up mobilize the process, and do not stop. i crave for success, i hope for hope god start the process, i crave to cope. night and day, i hope in silence the possibility of a future so dense if i persevere, and continue hoping then my future will cease from joking. i crave for success, i hope for hope god start the process, i crave to cope.
What is the journey to success? success is not gained by defeat success does not occur over night success can emerge at any age success is working to full potential success is courage success is lending a hand success is not listening to negativity success is being positive success is living your life instead of the life of others success is being proud success is overcoming obstacles success is striving success is listening to your heart most of all success is accepting what you have accomplished.
He has achieved success who has lived well, laughed often, and loved much; who has enjoyed the trust of pure women, the respect of intelligent men and the love of little children; who has filled his niche and accomplished his task; who has left the world better than he found it whether by an improved poppy, a perfect poem or a rescued soul; who has never lacked appreciation of earth's beauty or failed to express it; who has always looked for the best in others and given them the best he had; whose life was an inspiration; whose memory a benediction.
Life without regrets, you only get one chance. try your best, it might be the last. breathe without skipping a second, laugh with all your heart. life may be a nightmare, take some action and change it. change it into a dream, the most magical one it can be. stop for a second, just to smell the roses. jump on your bed, look at the clouds. dance like no one is watching, sing and dance in the rain. let your mascara run, smile about your screwups. dress to be different, only to express yourself. smile to make someone else smile, laugh at a joke you heard yesterday. draw a picture, even if you're horrible. sing out loud like an idiot, help someone random. cry when you laugh, laugh when you're alone. live like there's no tomorrow, even when you feel like hopeless. love someone without trying, smile at everyone in sight. take things slow, remember everything. walk in the rain, kiss in the rain. have a snowball fight, with styrofoam. buy a new cd, of a band you never heard of. try something new, no matter how daring. heartbreaks don't matter, he never did care. trust people you love, love the trust that is given. watch the clouds float by, as if you had the time.
When your mother was crying in pain, i took her to hospital, then i heard your mother's loud scream along with your soft cry your mother brought you into this world as an angel. you were lying next to your mother innocently my son, your cry brought tears of love in my eyes when i looked at you first my heart filled with happiness you were looking very healthy boy you were trying to look at me through your fresh new eyes i saw your tiny legs were rocking in the air and your tiny hands were clapping for me i gave one of my fingers to you to hold and you held me tightly and you want to kiss my finger too when i wrap you in my arms i felt that my dream come true we waited for you so long and your arrival made our house lighten god has listen to our prayers and given you as his gift. i will be watching you growing up and teach you all the good things you will be learning all the best and i am sure that you will show me your best when you wear your cap and gown on your graduation day.
I read in the newspaper about a young woman raped by an aquaintance; she decided not to press charges, she had his baby. i realized that person was my sister. the baby's name is charity. though she looks like her father, charity will never be ours. she will never be lillian's, or even robert's. she will always be the fruit of something beyond comprehension as a civilized world. charity belongs to the nameless overpowering need.
My baby is in heaven above. i knew god will give him lots of love. god took my baby from me. i cried a deep blue sea. he can never be replaced. the truth might as well be faced. his name was sox he looked so cute in his box. he was my best friend he was there tell the end my dog was the night and day of my life. i still cry in the night i just need some light.
Come and lay beside me and kiss me my baby.. kiss me like only you can softly brush my lips with yours let me feel your warmth, your femininity put your arms round me and kiss me baby let my body brush against yours feeling your passion, my body hearing your call kiss me, kiss me baby so that i can submit to you, my body in rythym with yours bound in this kiss. kiss me my baby so that i can know that i'm alive.
You flew in softly and tiptoed in my life my parched soul got a reprieve my heart is now your permanent home we shall play with elves and gnomes the moon will sing with me a lullaby the stars do a slow tambourine dance in the sky my blurred vision suddenly got a divine sight you are the soul of my soul, my eternal light there is a river gushing inside me you are the fountain, you are my chi i hear nothing but your sweet voice you shimmer, you glisten and i rejoice you, my darling are my inner sun you are the song that i will hum today, tomorrow and forever your inner light i shall devour you are the ink on my heart that will never blur the calligraphy etched deep inside you have fulfilled a deep void you are my baby, my love, my joy, my pride.
The time i dropped your almost body down down to meet the waters under the city and run one with the sewage to the sea what did i know about waters rushing back what did i know about drowning or being drowned you would have been born in winter in the year of the disconnected gas and no car we would have made the thin walk over the genecy hill into the canada winds to let you slip into a stranger's hands if you were here i could tell you these and some other things and if i am ever less than a mountain for your definite brothers and sisters let the rivers wash over my head let the sea take me for a spiller of seas let black men call me stranger always for your never named sake.
As a drenched, drowned bee hangs numb and heavy from a bending flower, so clings to me my baby, her brown hair brushed with wet tears and laid against her cheek; her soft white legs hanging heavily over my arm swinging heavily to my movements as i walk. my sleeping baby hangs upon my life, like a burden she hangs on me. she has always seemed so light, but now she is wet with tears and numb with pain even her floating hair sinks heavily, reaching downwards; as the wings of a drenched, drowned bee are a heaviness, and a weariness.
Baby do you kno how i fill since you always want to keep it real maybe we can do it this one time you tell me your secret and i'll tell you mine wat happin then we will now leave that behind as long as your mine will always have good times.
A hot day in mid january and scarce a puff of breeze and john and dave in cherry picker up by power line trimming trees the cut back from the line three metres and the order cut to code a mile out of olinda just off mount dandy road. they were trimming branch of liquid ambar close to spotted dove's nest and two small baby spotted doves at noise of saw distressed one of them backed off stick made home and toppled to the ground and lay there dying by base of tree and uttered not a sound. a two week old bird covered in down and unable yet to fly and i powerless to save his life could only watch him die the luckless baby spotted dove did not live to enjoy the happiness that wings can bring, the freedom of the sky. as the cherry picker moved down road mother dove returned to nest and she fed her one remaining babe and then cloaked him neath her breast one spotted dove less in the world it really seemed a shame but accidents cannot be helped and life goes on the same.
O precious newborn in our home gift of god's great love divine. may caring angels smile on you baby mine, o baby mine. then as you walk the path of life, may god's grace on your path shine and keep you ever in his will baby mine, o, baby mine.
Softly comes the night, moon woman walks the land. rest well, my little one, member of a proud band. and in dream catcher's web, eagle soars, bison runs free, thunderbird calls, wolf sings high and sweet. rest well, my little one. ancient legends guard your sleep.
Fengshui master hatched turtles know instantly the direction to head for baby leatherbacks the little big eyed all head towards sea baby leatherbacks see you in 30 years at this same beach instinct instinct incubated baby leatherbacks but the sea is in their genes humans make all the difference giant sea turtle hurled out for a land burial l two days ago, i watched baby leatherbacks being released into sea. they all went on direction with a single will. none headed the other way. it made me realise that the sea must be in their genes. baby turtles' eyes are large in comparison to their size. however on the same day, a dead giant green turtle was hurled out of the sea. it was decomposing, perhaps dead for three weeks. they buried it on tioman marine park beach. tioman island is among the top 10 world's most beautiful islands.
Baby is dumb adult has wisdom babies are small and crawl adults are tall and fall baby demands adult commands baby yearns to walk adult learns to work baby weeps adult sleeps you carry a baby you marry an adult baby chokes adult smokes baby stays at home to play adult brings home the pay baby cries adult sighs baby spikes milk adults like silk and i saved this for the last baby at birth adult at death baby vs adult becomes a thing of the past.
As the nightingale sings its song and the serpent slides into where it belongs the fox after its feast gets up and yawns the cuckoo croons and sings to the swans i walk in the woods where the spring has awakened the wild flowers blossom and threaten to apprehend i ask myself, what did i do to have found you what will i have to do to keep you, my dew to have luck continue my way you are my love, you are my jay i dreamed of you and made you my reality and then put an end to my duality i love the sight of you you have made my life anew i live to see you laugh, to hold your hand to see you sleep, to be your magic wand you please me more everyday life has shown me a new way o wind, please continue to blow my way life without her will be dark and gray she is like a vision to the blind solution to all riddles you will find my love for her is as measureless as the sky will never let you go or i shall die.
My mother gave me a baby doll, and said it was my own to keep, but something is wrong with this doll, because it ''baahs'' like a sheep, i told my mother what it''s doing, and she said not to worry, then i went back up to my room, and my baby doll was furry, i looked at it closely, and what comes to my surprise, the baby doll, is not a baby doll no more, it''s a sheep with kitty eyes. the next day my dad came home with a doll, he said it is mine to keep, something was wrong with this doll, it didnt look the same, as all the other dolls i see, because it''s cry was pretty lame, and it had no clothes to wear, but i put it underneath my bed, and i still think it''s under there.
We were driving along the bay my girl friend really needed a pee i said go over that way squat down behind that tree coming form a very good family baby had never done it before but she needed to go so badly she nearly did it on the car floor as she came out for behind the big tree and stood in the long grass looking free my darling looked so beautiful still pulling her pants up after the pee all refreshed and joyful she ran to hold me darling seemed so grateful and all she did was pee.
Baby let me tell u how i feel baby let me love u till the end baby my heart is urs baby let me touch u all over baby can i kiss ur lips baby can i rub ur feet baby look me in my eyes and don't blink baby when the sun goes down will u be around baby let's walk the hall of love baby when i look at u i see another world in ur eyes baby i'm tha man that can take u where u need and want to go baby please let's go and don't say no baby this is my last cry baby make love to me till the end of time baby.
They are the baby boomers born to reunited families split by the war a baby boom felt around the world they were to change humanity 1955 started a revolution their parent's music was boring new music was jumping they turned up the volume hips started to gyrate rock 'n' roll was satan's music slick hair swivelling hips a southern boy from tennessee was every father's nightmare he was everywhere records tv and movies elvis presley was king baby boomers and their music changed the world forever children of the revolution starting to ask why growing beards and long hair all roads led to san francisco sex drugs and rock 'n' roll boomers were very different never to get old their parents always looked old the world changed for them catering their every need trying not to sound like parents boomers invented living together kids without weddings naming them sky and summer maturing into jobs responsible and hard working spoilt their kids with stereos tvs and phones most forgot the sixties short hair suit and tie making a corporate fortune to support the new lifestyle don't have to grow old first generation not to women wear girls clothes fathers and sons t shirt and jeans radio stations play their music discos for the over 40's sports activities and clothes have aged with them once sport finished at thirty now we have over sixty's sport never too old for anything boomer will always be young.
My sweet little baby, when you were born into my life you made me to forget my worries and strife i can recollect the day your mother and me met and we prayed god to have a lovely little baby like you our god pleased with our prayers and given you to us now, i daily thank god and forever will be in his debt today you are such a precious child who bright our home i see your two tiny feet that cycle in the air and your tiny hands are pulling your hair. your sweet little face brings joy to us and we forget the world when i get up in the morning then you are fastest sleep when i say good night then you don't allow me to sleep you want me to hold and tucked up against my chin your mother wants me to write a poem about you but what can i write about you when you are the poem you are my shining star i reach to hold you around and hugs you with my love that i have blessed for. that's the joy of parenthood we have for while.
Nature baby as free as a bird nature baby not speaking a word nature baby living day by day nature baby always floating away. feeling the soil around my feet the sun rays beating down with heat my being feeling like i'm not physically here and when i look around i'm so much more aware. the energy keeps coming my way as i buzz through life and play nature baby being free nature baby that is me that is what is meant to be. nature baby gave the garden lots of love and energy and now the gardens have surrounded me with beauty and the heavenly scents from each flower in bloom as we share the space within this big room. nature baby as free as a bird nature baby not speaking a word.
He went to a public library that's quiet and free; arrested, he was, for murder, in the first degree; inside the library, there was a book to find, slowly he approached his victim, an ol' woman who's kind; close to her backside, he stood lurking behind, little ol' granny was reading and paid him no mind; yep, the aroma in the air was coming from her hair, caused his nose to quickly twitch, bulge, then flair; the quick use of his weapon caused her to drop dead on the spot, it was the eyeball witness who saw, that's how he got caught; now the jury must see the weapon that t'was horribly used, but the killer tried to hide his nose and loudly refused; cause of her death came from his loud sharp sneeze, made her heart quickly stop, quiver, and seize; so his hands were shackled, the murder weapon viewed, the jury gasped loudly for air, outraged was their mood; soon after his shnozzle was clearly depicted, the jury was unanimous, . they quickly convicted.
Friendly and kind was murdered in the parkade of the suburban mall when the thug assaulted the hockey mom and raped innocence unleashing the hands that wrought undying fear from childish dreams the diamond will welcome toddlers every year the ice rink will nurture olympic hopes lacrosse champions will arise and disappear skis and poles will hit the slopes just down the block another soul shatters behind the loading platform exit two officers talk sadly just another day by a suburban mall what's there to say often dollars don't pay for soccer balls.
When the lieutenant of the guardia de asalto heard the automatic go off, he turned and took the second shot just above the sternum, the third tore away the right shoulder of his uniform, the fourth perforated his cheek. as he slid out of his comrade's hold toward the gray cement of the ramblas he lost count and knew only that he would not die and that the blue sky smudged with clouds was not heaven for heaven was nowhere and in his eyes slowly filling with their own light. the pigeons that spotted the cold floor of barcelona rose as he sank below the waves of silence crashing on the far shores of his legs, growing faint and watery. his hands opened a last time to receive the benedictions of automobile exhaust and rain and the rain of soot. his mouth, that would never again say 'i am afraid,' closed on nothing. the old grandfather hawking daisies at his stand pressed a handkerchief against his lips and turned his eyes away before they held the eyes of a gunman. the shepherd dogs on sale howled in their cages and turned in circles. there is more to be said, but by someone who has suffered and died for his sister the earth and his brothers the beasts and the trees. the lieutenant can hear it, the prayer that comes on the voices of water, today or yesterday, form chicago or valladolid, and hands like smoke above this street he won't walk as a man ever again.
Murder the great sin that commits only by humans for petty reasons, and quarrels murder highly deplorable always. murder a horrendous crime the tough criminals indulge where law of the land trials and punish the guilty, law insists. designed murders on vengeance extremely cruel always where man changes himself as beast and takes weapons against enemy commit the crime without pity humanity fails its nobleness. let us desire for a peaceful society where murders are not an incident an event to mourn and lose to family we are supposed to live in unison.
The day is dying its bright blood smeared on the azure blanket see its light blinding no more the orb resting its head on the horizon of salty diamonds the clouds wipe the blood screaming to the heavens as the birds moan in agony fleeing the incoming darkness of the murdering night i can see the glowing smile of the moon her breath chilling as she glares enviously while a million knowing eyes watched silently, shivering in fright. the sun succumbs to its death drowned by the rising tide the night howls in triumph and covers the land with its sickly glow and we surrender to its call close our eyes and wait for the sun to return.
I might as well teach myself something useful and learn to love to hate you well then wait to kill you with broken hands and i wonder, what's a better death? and can i watch your face as i kill myself in front of you? have my screams run through your veins the only way to make you not forget me my blood is on your hands. there was a time forgetting was better now it's more satisfying to watch myself die in your sight.
Poeple say god took you away but it was life that took you on that horid day i hear our song and think of your smile why can't you come back and stay awhile when you were here everything was okay.
She was walking down the narrow street shadows were passing by afraid of who she might meet someone she cannot deny. she knew that it was coming for her but she knew that she couldn't do a thing. and just like that, everything went to a blur for she was attacked by the murderer. it shoved her body into a trash bag mopped up the blood and grabbed its knife and wiped its hands with a raging red rag for it had ended someone's life.
On top of a hill is a house lighted by a lamp since the window is open and the night is dark something looks like a firefly in the sky along the footpath a naked woman is lying unconscious inside the house the man is washing his hands he closed the window puts off the light and in the darkness begins his journey to the world of the wolves.
I'll tell you what is wrong with me i hope you will not weep happy dreams of marder are enchanting my nights sleep nothing wakes me late at night sedatives stopped all that i wouldn't even wake up if you hit me with a bat my dreams are filled with bloodshed the massacre won't stop i can't restrain the pleasure i gain from spilling every drop i've killed the guys who've pissed me off every worthless sot killed franks, and jeffs, and many bobs, and a guy whose name was lott my method is machine gun as they lined up in their cue perhaps they are all lawyers thinking i'm the next they'll sue maybe the media has trained me to be less sensitive to my fellows humanity or maybe i have inherited a relatives insanity no matter what the truth is i chalk it up to fate it's better to marder in your sleep than dream of a face you hate happy dreams of marder are giving me good nights rest nightmares filled with violence excite my heart the best happy dreams of marder are where my nights are mired it's silly but i dream of killy when im truly tired beau golden 1988.
You go to your house of worship to your god to pray but that your government execute people with you is okay when you tell me that all bad people deserve to die are you trying to say moses fifth commandment is a lie? you tell me you live in a democracy but it does not seem too democratic to me all murder is wrong that you do not deny but in the laws of your government a life for a life does apply and since with so called lawful executions you wholeheartedly agree you are guilty like many of hypocrisy, the blessings of a god i do not ask to receive but the death penalty is murder that's what i believe and those who believe every murderer should be made to die without saying so are saying moses fifth commandment is a lie.
I can see through your wet panties, that whores like you wear on purpose. boobs full of milk and long fat hard on's. i can feel you on top sliding high up and down, before you, i diced up and murdered. getting caught, i will not, its never enough to get my thrills. crisco butter, coconut oil with some of the colonel's fried chicken, moist red lips, that i close with a smack. snorting coke your glazed eyes, smoking weed, your fast on my trip, power moves. eye's that can't open, that i squeezed shut with my middle finger. green metal that glows bright pink, then red, deep down inside, i am sawing back and forth with my dull knife. murder and sex and more sex, life with me stops, committing sow drawn out murder. moving she gasps, bipolar she goes moving to fast she let's off of the gas, he says let's go. the future is bleak as it crawls slowly past, so fast that you missed your last show. words that shock, eating my fill, your face is like paste, your black bony asses is like glass, i see through. i learned it all on t. v. growing up and to see, him beating her up, while she on top, holds him down. murder and sex, drugs and murder and sex, rock and roll. way out in the sticks, n the country, my guns in their rack, white pick up trucks. i was to young, and she was to obviously broken. wild both of us knew that nothings free, neither one of us like some of the rest none were spared. to die, o so young, to die, o so young, but like mom and dad, die we did.
Some governments order the execution of drug runners after they have spent many years in jail this is their idea of morality through justice but by their actions their ideas they do fail drug runners may not be good people but the death penalty for them or anyone unjustified to have the death penalty in place in their constitution to any government should not be a sense of pride if the wilful taking of human life is murder then the death penalty is murder too for one to order the execution of another human being does seem such a callous thing to do this person too does have a family and is grieved by a mum and a dad you do not make yourself a good person by ordering the execution of one who is bad to me the death penalty is murder i can see it in no other way on this i only express my opinion though many may disagree with what i do say government leaders order the execution of murderers and drug traffickers if one of their own children were guilty of such a crime they would not want them to be executed after serving years of prison time to me the death penalty is murder leave the guilty to grow old in jail government leaders who order executions may see this as morality through justice but by their actions their ideas they do fail.
No empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. i was abandon as a child. i'm alone as a man. the goodness of the damned. oh how i wish i had a plan. something set in stone. with many regrets i walk this life feeling like a reject. a failure all on my own. i don't need no help from you never did. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. their is poison in the water. their is treachery afoot. oh oh just come look. the blood has been spilt and they have no clue i did it you. i don't even care if they did. i'll take as many i can. when everything has gone so wrong. sitting staring out the window with a revolver in you in hand. what choices are left? no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. a nightmare of solutions unfold. each bloody as the next. how can you ever truly live with it. settling for only second best. the black knight ego's of arrogance. tunnel vision fills his eyes. all he's after is the prize. i doesn't matter who gets hurt on his way to it. with deliverance i give you pain. a message from someone who truly insane. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. and it is time for my greatest attack. as if anyone should be proud of such a thing. the sweat pours off my brow as i become the butcher of butchers.
a dissection of a living to dead body. someone help this man, oh please anybody. the urges to kill won't stop. they are all hes got. taking out all his sexual frustrations. these escalation will only continue. they will not just die. or move on to a paradise behind the next dawn. no matter how hard i try. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. i feel nothing no more. i don't know why. i wish i could fix myself tonight. i wish i could embrace love once again. but wishes are nothing but useless thoughts. the futility of the evil creature i am. hated by everyone. so foul have i become. a disease that can never be done. just kill me now. to save so many. promise me, make your vow. cause i won't go down quietly. i fight it for as long i can. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions. all i see is things in shades of black. no empathy, no remorse, no recourse in my actions.
I loved you so i did something about it i tore your shirt i pulled your pants we made love and you ignored me i felt upset you made it worse i loved you you screwed me over so i hunted you down and gave you what you deserve.
Because i have been robbed and savagely beaten abandoned left to die have i right to murder? because i have been raped and physically scarred emotionally devoid have i right to murder? because i have been stripped of my virginity cheated of childhood have i right to murder? one god has given life our most precious gift to always be cherished and never be stolen.
Some say she's bitter, some say she's sweet. they know her by her shimmer, oh how sometimes her crime can be so neat. she makes her enemies real slick, she makes her friends so easily. although her enemies slaughter is real quick, but she's a generous person, really. the murder in her eyes reveals her disguise, the taste of her enemies blood, she cannot recognize. she seeks for revenge for only those who caused her agony and avenge. the murder shows who she truly is. the sweet girl with a bloody blade in her hand. her enemies dead body laying on the floor as she laughs and hounds as her enemies body rots to the core. the murder in her eyes is severe. something that nobody dares to conquer they laughed at her in the past, she knew their life's wouldn't last. the murder in her eyes hides the tides of her personality for her enemy's, she loves to rec their reality. no one ever thought she could do that. until they saw her true disguise which showed the murder. murder in her eyes.
Some reporters are being murdered in bangladesh recently and most of the times justice is denied or delayed for lame excuses killing a reporter is like strangling a brave truthful person who is rare and much needed in any society reporters are like mirrors of the world murdering them is like breaking the mirrors into pieces that can hurt others be careful o bangladesh.
Inhaling the ocean breeze and feeling it empty my lungs makes me feel completely intact i can taste the salt in its entirety on my tongue and i try to scrape it all off with my front teeth i feel the waves roaring over my heart, liberating it from veins and its arteries, the sea filling the orifices of my organs the shores stones crowd at my toes and break my skin, but i am cleansed i stride into the water and it seeps into my nostrils and my intellect becomes infiltrated by the sea, my lungs are suffocated by the wet and i am completely intact.
Ships are homing in for winter harbor now the sun is past its evening glow far in northern reaches where there's naught save endless ice and glaciers and snow. that great red ball sinks fast 'neath heavy sky, rests briefly then retreats into the mist. when the clouds cast wide their feathered wings land and sea become their haziest the dim light hiding them in such a way their captains cannot see the icebergs' ends nor where the earth and sea together lie; all is obscure and all in air suspends. like floating phantom ships, they put to sea their ghostly forms adrift in salty main and sometimes in the ocean's vast extremes are swallowed up and never seen again.
Your eyes are like a ocean, your hiar is the waves that lift the ocean, your heart is the core of the animal ocean that feels it up with love for the lovely ocean your ful of emotion for your own ocean your smile just lights the ocean by the night it calm and quite even the oceans getting so bright by the day and soul is quite you will be mine tonight me and you can sit by the ocean and you are so close to a ocean as i can get and i love you just like a ocean me and you toghether and the ocean's flour will be your blanket for you.
Swimming away swimming away swimming away yeah swimming through the deep blue ocean nothing but red skies ahead so put on ya hat and sun screen lotion feel the wind and waves in motion let's go swimming in your mind's ocean the waters so calm and the breeze so sweet no cause for alarm from my head to my feet my mind was a cell trapped by illusion until the rough swell destroyed my delusions swimming away swimming away swimming away in your mind's ocean wake up in the water before you sink below for the deeper you go the darker it grows so put on ya hat and sun screen lotion feel the wind and waves in motion let's go swimming in your mind's ocean thoughts of doom and no hope i'll drop them in the ocean's deep to save my mind when i grope i'm dead to the world in this cool sleep not a soul in sight not a worry in the world just the open sea where i can simply be swimming away swimming away we'll swim all night and sleep all day so put on ya hat and sun screen lotion feel the wind and waves in motion lets go swimming lets go swimming in your mind's ocean.
How vast is the ocean? i know it is in wide scope how dangerous this ocean? a lot and too much chances to explore, you can be drowned with the waves you can be nowhere how deep it could be? like the love of yours how vast, how deep how blue, how loyal deeper, bluer than blue so i dunk my desolate life into that ocean immerse it into utmost contentment just to feel that lost pleasing touch to get the fullness of the bright life i found it, its deeper in you bluer than blue ocean i enjoy the scenery of bright life.
Orange slice inside my mouth zesty juicy and squirting sweetness from inside out feeding me more succulent dreams streaming out from luscious imaginations hidden behind invisible lovers teasing my heart till invading sparkles sit on the tip of my tongue with ripe bright oranges i slowly lap up for more of the same reviving delicious self pleasing enjoyment on eating a fruit as deep as the ocean of lust.
I am like the breeze on the ocean waves drinking from the breasts of the afar deep flowers from the glistening morning weep and each of its longing that daybreak craves sun shining moods that flow around its spell weeping clouds in drifting its moments tears coming through the dreaming and the real years anything desiring i can't foretell rivers that feel the veins of softly earth while it's going with its flowing rivulet from side to side dust and its growing lime each thinking that catches me in its worth allows me to completely forget what hour comes after this instant in time.
Sitting by the water on the docks watching the fish leap from the water plopping lightly into the deep ocean sinking and swimming i keep thinking about him wishing he was by my side holding my hand in his with the pink and blue sky in the distance reflecting in his eyes.
The bubbles of the ocean are very special to me because the feeling of the bubbles between your toes when you walk by the the waves as they are crashing onto the shore reminds me of you and me together on the beach. when you and i walk so slowly back to my beach house and at the same time we are holding hands titly as we walk on the shore by the crashing bubbly waves. no wonder i love the bubbly feeling between my toes. they remind me of the special times we had with each other on the beach together.
So the waves move. we all find our groove. some with the silver spoon. looking wayward at noon. crying baby all in tears. no milk from moms fears. love rides the tides of life. full of turmoil and wicked strife. drunk bar stool tells its story. empty words of its glory. cry onward plastic fallen. calls of the empty stalls.
Traveled through the lost showered in the mist purple skies blue sparks among the ocean whistles the wind as the sand twirl birds fly in the same direction peeked in the sunset spot the light ocean waves slow motion dolphins speaks suddenly butterflies in my stomach tikkles me the enviroment vanished as the light seem to get smaller the ocean wave moves faster sun falls alseep awaken the night butterflies cross the ocean while im burried in shock missing you across the ocean.
I wish i could swim the pacific ocean and back. and when i came back to sit in front of a burning burning fire until it dried me to the bone. and for my skeleton to be hung above your bed to act as a catcher of your night terrors and it would work because you would know that i was magical. because i swam the whole pacific ocean and back. for you.
An ocean of unseen tears pulsing through my veins, taking the rightful place of my boiling blood, causing my mind, body and soul to flood, making my heart chill, and my emotions quiver, as i pledge deeper and deeper into that secret filled river.
A sailor return to an ocean and always live in our memories it was a true pleasure to have known you words cannot adequately express your dedication and devotion to us your kind hearted generous spirit vibrant sense of humour will live forever your time will have a lasting impression deep witihin all the now broken heart of those you touched you will never escape our heart it is hard to believe you are no longer with us you endured so much for so long and hugged many hearts you were such an inspiration and a gift in our life we will absolutely miss you you will rise up like an eagle soaring by the power of love no more suffering and pain you are now sleeping peacefully in the arms of smiling angels you are singing in heaven may perpetual light shine upon you.
Like the ocean kissed the sky at the most beautiful place under the sun, for true love is so hard to find but we just keep searching for our soul can be complete it's in that lovely special place of bluest of blues which are both under the sun that gives you so much beauty it's where the ocean and sky never ends kissed by the sun over and over a again. our hearts come together to kiss like the ocean kissed the sky for our hearts are like two large waves falling on one another over and over again. as i swim and you fly we will meet at where the ocean kissed the sky.
When one day missing you becomes unbearable i will seek you out from deep within the ocean of my memories walk on the sands of time till it lead me to your sunkissed shores where our journey ended and love will once again be reborn here i will await your loving heart i will gaze out across the ocean breathe in the winds of hope close my eyes and cast the nets of faith once more reel in the vision of bygone times in one precious moment i shall surrender my soul, my heart, my being to the rememberance of the fragrance of your body rediscovering its secrets i shall recall the waves to the shore and bathe blissfully in the ocean of your memories we shall become one dance to the rhythm of our heartbeats watch a million butterflies taking flight shimmering bubbles floating above us watch the sun as it rises and sets in eyes yours and mine embrace and behold the beauty of loves tidal wave ride the waves of ecstacy reaching a crescendo as each wave of passion hits the shore and we evanesce into sprays of pearls and water ultimately just another dropp in the ocean of memories.
While sailing across the wide indian ocean, my stomach queasy, from the rolling motion. i took a stroll along the upper deck, a scarf tied loosely around my neck looking out over the ever moving sea, a strange emotion came over me. what was i doing on this old boat? it was a wonder that she was still afloat. i leaned against an old wooden plank, when all of a sudden my mind went blank. i found myself floating three feet above my head, what is this i asked myself am i now dead? i rose high up into the cloudless sky, up and up it was ever so high. looking down i could see the small ship upon the sea, i got frightened and returned promptly to me. we sailed on to the port of old bombay, where i caught home an aeroplane i am happy to say. i will no more sail upon an ocean, for it fills my heart with strange emotion.
I was stubborn by nature and addicted to perfect lines, fought to the death to find words that startle. now in old age my poems flow out freely, the way flowers and birds forget deep sorrow in spring. a new water pavilion has been built for fishing with a rod. i choose to use a bamboo raft instead of a boat. if only my thoughts were guided by poets tao and xie,1 we'd travel and together write poems.
As i stare out into the sea, i can feel the soft oceans breeze the warmth from the sun the grass dances with the whistling wind the ocean is filled with thoughts and mysteries, i feel the cool water the ocean is alive filled with lost souls washing emotions up onto the shore my feet sink in the softness of the sand the ocean is made up of dreams and achievements, my mind lies in the heart of the ocean the rocks are bones out in the open the waves settle and wait for their attack, i feel as one with the ocean as the ocean feels like one with the world.
The great white waves of the pacific how loudly they do roar and crash against the volcanic rocks that guard the ocean shore the silver gulls above the beach are calling as they fly and the terns dive in shallow waters for small sea things from the sky, the feeling is so refreshing on your skin saltwater spray 'tis nice to be by the ocean on a breezy autumn day in a place far off of the highway and far from the noisy street a place where nature reign supreme where the land and ocean meet the huge surf waves are rolling foamy and white as snow at the awesome power of nature my wonder only grow though not a seafaring person from land i love to watch the big waves roll it has been a watery grave for many an ocean out of control where the land meets the ocean on a march evening in the fall a memory for to cherish and in the future to recall.
You make me want to sail in the ocean of your eyes. the winds will carry me, i know not where, to harbors unknown, and i fully realize that dangerous storms could be lurking there. will the deep blue waters stay pure and serene on our path to paradise, earthly or above, where our joys and passions and moments supreme come steadily together to maintain our love. will our life's sustaned and rapturous note ever remind us to those very fateful skies, on the day that launched my fragile boat in that everlasting twinkle, the ocean of your eyes?.
Waves of life lap an eternal beach each one taking on its form from moon and stars and sun each wave a single wave of life born of the one same ocean and infinitesimally shaping the coastline of an unseen continent as they rise and fall on an endless beach. waves of life playing as they dance and meet and merge and running, race for the shore where it seems they are no more. but their mark remains on that eternal distant land unseen by mortal eyes the waves that carry the human race to a far off distant place that never leaves or departs from the still innermost point in each and every heart. watch the years play out their course as on the last day of natures year it endeth here with celebrations never just for the past but looking towards the path to reach that distant shore at last.
I'm turbulent my waves surge to reach out to the roof of my mind they crash at the shore of my restless psyche making me blind they heave with a passion in a bid to reach out to my dreams they immerse you suddenly and take you in my regimes they dance and sway with the natures heartbeat they resound with echoing love travelling with a lightening speed i'm tranquil my inner recesses are still in a stark contrast i'm vivid blue in daylight and dark as wine in the night you can drown if you dont know how to swim or discover new islands if you learn to float in the brim i have a breathtaking new world living inside that u wouldnt have imagined where millions can get immersed infinite depth unfathomed.
The daylight is young from the ocean deep where earth things come alive in the sunrise, when the blue from yonder opens and sigh awakes to life from a wait and asleep; the hours from dark from the colors instep closer earth songs will be heard in the skies, when the pretty lives young open its eyes music from the wild once again will sweep. to ears with beauty like never before the moments so friendly and far underneath, lifted and shattered by the breathing gust; that brought the ocean tide onto the shore, that comes from the deep dark in the et when the waves comes inert in the high boost.
Have you ever sailed on vast ocean, with no island to see, and things are out of reach? with dreams and mysteries filled this ocean, and a never ending faith that someone would teach? have you ever felt that feeling, of a deep calmness within you that's hard to fight? and no one could help you believing, that you're striving for the right? did you ever sailed on an ocean, that further placed upon your heart? for deeply below this ocean, lies a silent whisper, where love starts. an ocean of love, the ocean of dreams where you can find solace and exceptional truth though pain resides even if you don't dream as the existence of love bears its fruit. the fruit of harmony, bliss, and wonder without the seed that's buried down below like a pearl that lies down under the ocean of love they call, starts hello. upon this vast ocean, two souls were me and you over the waves and across the surface i have found a love so true the ocean of love was then the wondrous place.
Even though we live, an ocean apart, somehow gradually, you have crept into my heart. talking to each other nearly every day, discussing any subject come what may. to each other, our innermost secrets we confide, honest and open, nothing to hide. who knows, to where our friendship will lead, like a flower perhaps it will blossom, and bloom, from just one little seed. tango.
Fear not, dear friend, but freely live your days though lesser lives should suffer. such am i, a lesser life, that what is his of sky gladly would give for you, and what of praise. step, without trouble, down the sunlit ways. we that have touched your raiment, are made whole from all the selfish cankers of man's soul, and we would see you happy, dear, or die. therefore be brave, and therefore, dear, be free; try all things resolutely, till the best, out of all lesser betters, you shall find; and we, who have learned greatness from you, we, your lovers, with a still, contented mind, see you well anchored in some port of rest.
I was groping for a friend in a net of eyes by the tube; i was looking for a brother in a heart of dearness as old; i am sharing for a life to a friend not yet known; i am trusting a brother at a distance my dreams've shown. i am talking to a friend in a net of dearness by the tube; i am looking at his eyes seemed like moses of old. i am sharing for a life to a friend now yet called at a distance shared a promise for a newfound life yet assured; for at a distance, a friend and a brother, now behold; he's there, i'm here yet embracing in this little lovely world.
He is sleeping, sounding sleeping in the cold and silent tomb. he is resting, sweetly resting in perfect peace, all alone. he has left us, god bereft us, and his will must e'er be done, it will grieve us, and bereave us to think of this noble son. while on earth he done his duty, to all his fellow men, some will miss him in his of office, where he often used the pen. he was witty, always happy, kind and genial in his way; he was generous in his actions, and his honor could display. he has held many an office, and has done his duty well; and his name will be remembered by the friends that knew him well. friends are weeping, softly weeping, in his kind and loving home; let him slumber, sweetly slumber, till god calls him from the tomb.
A friend can be a sister, a friend can be a foe. my friend is like my sister, i will never let her go. a sister may not always be a friend, but a friend should always, no matter what, be a sister.
The death of a friend i try to be brave but i can't stop the tears when i visit his grave can he be replaced i don't see how he was my buddy he was my pal i am lonely at home i am lonely at school i miss my friend he was so cool i go to the park i try to play ball but is's not the same not at all my minds a mess my minds a haze lonely nights and lonely days i want my friend i want him back the death of a friend he's not coming back.
A friend what makes a friend? a friend is someone that everyone needs a friend is that special one a friend is someone you tell everything a friend is someone you never lie to a friend can be a boy or a girl a friend is someone that is always their a friend will always listen to you a friend always has input to give a friend will never leave you in the dust a friend will help you through the thick and the thin a friend will always stand by your side a friend will never let you down a friend is someone everyone needs what would you do if you didnt have a friend?.
A true friend is someone who will always be, always be there when a friend is in need. a true friend is someone who will see the things that you see and never disrespect you for what you believe. a true friend will be there from the start and gives you their whole heart. a true friend will never push you away and they only say things that will make you stay. a true friend will make you feel warm inside and not cold like a true winters night. i am so glad i can call you a true friend, for you have done all the things that make you my friend.
Blue mountains to the north of the walls, white river winding about them; here we must make separation and go out through a thousand miles of dead grass. mind like a floating wide cloud, sunset like the parting of old acquaintances who bow over their clasped hands at a distance. our horses neigh to each others as we are departing.
Acquaintances are many but friends are very rare for with a true and trusting friend your secrets you can share your friend will comfort you and advise you and you will not betray your friend will never disown you and as your friend will stay when others do not wish to know you your friend as your friend remain and feel lucky in your lifetime if one loyal friend you gain your friend will always stand by you no matter come what may and when you ask your friend for help your friend will not turn you away no your friend will stand by you when you are feeling down when others shun you as if you were an outcast of the town acquaintances like nature's seasons they come to your life and go but your friend a friend for lifetime and the bond of friendship grow and the one who betrays your trust could never be your friend your friend to you is ever true and one on whom you can depend.
Sitting front of my computer and waiting for your mails when ever i hear from you my days are brighten no body has ever spoke to me the way you do even our friendship exists through the net though i have not seen your face i have not heard your voice i don't know who you are but i know what ever you say that's comes from your heart i have pictured you what i think of you perhaps you too have done it i thank you for considering me your email friend i am glad that i met you now you are my best internet friend.
He is such a friend i remember he is lovely and cute light ray i see him from far and feel sure pure light who guides my path. i know he is very far from me but i see him near as he dwells inside my heart in each beat i see he writes love and sings. he is friend of far a star light he is super and powerful i love i know he is ever true and eternal he remains far and still holds me. we shake hands of wisdom near him he comes and we go with him home really very precious friend he is i am and you are all fortunate dear.
If i were to live my life in catfish forms in scaffolds of skin and whiskers at the bottom of a pond and you were to come by one evening when the moon was shining down into my dark home and stand there at the edge of my affection and think, "it's beautiful here by this pond.i wish somebody loved me," i'd love you and be your catfish friend and drive such lonely thoughts from your mind and suddenly you would be at peace, and ask yourself, "i wonder if there are any catfish in this pond?it seems like a perfect place for them. ".
No body sleeps naked in this place, were all sophisticated monkeys, with ties, books and. shirts. even adam and eve wore the latist styles, you dont believe me, cheak out the bible, and to think it all started with that tree.
Shot in a night of impeccable injustice. overflowed with torment and forgiveness. placed directed towards my head and waiting. pushing through the morbid crowd. bright and radiant and shining through, to talk and save me and open up new doors. oh what new things i can learn and love, through this, this new friendship.
Two friends went to a forest. one was very much honest, and the other one was very bad, daily, for their livelihood. one day, they saw a wild bear, almost coming close, very near. the bad man climbed a nearby tree, but the other one couldn't reach the tree. he lied below the tree, posing as dead, as he knew well, bears touch not any dead. without moving his limbs, he held his breath. the bear smelt his body lying in close to death. after it went away without harming him, the man from the tree asked him, what the bear whispered into his ears, when he remained with closed eyes? 'the bear told me not to trust such selfish friends like you, very much, and also said that a friend in need, is really a friend in deed. '.
We sat across the table. he said, cut off your hands. they are always poking at things. they might touch me. i said yes. food grew cold on the table. he said, burn your body. it is not clean and smells like sex. it rubs my mind sore. i said yes. i love you, i said. that's very nice, he said i like to be loved, that makes me happy. have you cut off your hands yet?.
You never stand alone when your guardian angel is always near, during the moments of trials and tribulation, you will never be overcome with fear. his presence may not be seen, regardless of where you are, rest assured that his halo is always shining like the brightest, heavenly star. you never stand alone, when in your heart you know, your guardian angel is your protectorate, who hovers over you and loves you so.
My fallen angel, my blessing, your tragedy, on your way to heaven, i grabbed your wings, and pulled you to me, seeped your warmth, and left you cold, my fallen angel, guide of beauty, fallen angel i'm sorry, your tragedies my blessing, i can't let you go, heavens too far, fallen angel, stay where you fell. stay with me.
They met back when they were both young she gave him the love and the hope that he needed to fulfill his dreams now she is the lost angel he misses at night she watches over him day and night trying to keep him out of harms way never knowing if he'll listen to her whispers of warning and love a lost angel to him yet she's not so far away trying to get through to him to let him know she's okay 'i'll never leave you i'll never stop loving you i'll always be here for you just call my name' she is constantly whispering that to her lover letting him know that she hasn't left him she will constantly be near in his heart to protect and love him he may think she is a lost angel but if he listens to the wind she is talking to him constantly a lost angel with a goal to protect and love the one she loves to guide him through until the right time always whispering and saying 'call my name and i'll be there' she doesn't want him to stop loving others actually she wants him to live his life after all there is time for her to love and protect him 'wait until the time is right you will know when it is time to come home to me for i will be there with open arms to hold you close and never let go' 'always know that i love you i will never leave you alone in this world you'll find another love and give her your heart while knowing that i am there with you' a lost angel smiled for a change when the man she loves listened to her advice now he knows his lost angel never left she is always by his side the love of his life his lost angel.
They clamour and fight, they doubt and despair, they know no end to their wrangling. let your life come amongst them like a flame of light, my child, unflickering and pure, and delight them into silence. they are cruel in their greed and their envy, their words are like hidden knives thirsting for blood. go and stand amidst their scowling hearts, my child, and let your gentle eyes fall upon them like the forgiving peace of the evening over the strife of the day. let them see your face, my child, and thus know the meaning of all things; let them love you and thus love each other. come and take your seat in the bosom of the limitless, my child. at sunrise open and raise your heart like a blossoming flower, and at sunset bend your head and in silence complete the worship of the day.
Love. which love? what this word mean? what this word mean if you love someone you did not even see his face? what this word mean if you love someone you did not even hear his voice? you know him just by talking on glassy screen you feel that you know him since long time you feel that this one is the perfect person to be your best friend you see him like an angel fall from the sky to take you to the heaven but why? why you put your trust in this person how do you know that he did not lie on you? also you can not confess that you can not believe that this person may be will lie on you or if he consider that you are just lie in his life because his friendship blinded you you do not care what he believes in or what his ideas in this life you know that you are in another life but you have to know that you do the truth because you can not stop your heart of doing something.
How do i say this? i guess i'll start out with 'thank you.' it's always seemed that i was never really able to explain how much you mean to me how all those conversations that you probably didn't think twice about made me feel so blessed just to know you you've been more than just a friend, you've been my guardian angel some of my other friends watch out for me and they sometimes help me when i'm depressed but you were always there to find out what was the matter even if no one else was you were always so persistant, asking 'what's wrong? is there anything i can do? ' sometimes the answer was no, no one could help me and yet you didn't give up. 'please tell me if you're willing, i just want to make you feel better.' you got annoying sometimes, you were so stubborn. thank you. you weren't perfect, no, no one is, but it always seemed to me that you were so close. i guess i wanted to be more like you, because you were such a wonderful person most friends don't last forever, i know, but i've been praying that you and i stay friends for eternity because otherwise i don't think i can make it without you my life would be worthless what would i do with myself? i wouldn't know where to go but you've always been there to guide me, helping me even when you didn't realize it. i could've sworn that your mere presence was slowly healing old wounds you made me laugh, and you would have cried with me if i'd asked i don't think i can express in words how grateful i am to you, just for putting up with me. i know it must be hard. knowing you surely won't mind, i hope i can ask just one more favor? never stop being who you are and never leave me. i know i drive you up the wall sometimes but i need you.
thank you, my guardian angel. my fallen angel.
Isn't is sad when an angel cries? small pearl drops fall from the skies, holy water flows in tears, human burdens their only fears. they live among us everyday, to help guide us on our way, it upsets them to hear our lies, isn't it sad when an angel cries? everyday they absorb our pain, in their tears it will remain, we may ask what goods it for? but everyday they are fighting our war. some battles won whilst others lost, earth to be rebuilt at such a cost, life streams are broken when they try, isn't it sad for an angle to cry?.
I saw something white in the bushes it was a bunch of angels wings folded taking an ambrosia break and laughing gently over the lies they hear most often when they're passing over they were saying that apart from the old ones like we must have lunch sometime and the cheque's in the post and i promise to take it out before. there's now i could do this with you all day where's the remote but then they got on to the more serious ones like we only ever wanted the best for you so this is what we. and their voices got quieter so i crept away without their looking my way but i bet they knew i was there listening and i bet they knew i'd tell you.
I see you now, and it makes me cry in my heart, one so beautiful, and yet, so damaged and messed up inside. the scars that line your arms, look like the intricate artwork of a tattooist, those razor cuts and puncture wounds, signs of a desparate cry for help. that vacant look upon your face, the doctors miracle cure; prozac, takes all your troubles away, but all it does is pushes them deeper inside. i see you now, and it makes me cry in my heart, one so beautiful, and yet, so damaged and messed up inside. my dark angel.
I wish i knew an angel with a warm and tender soul. one to send uriah so his heart could then feel whole. he's such a sweet romantic and he knows just what to say. i can't believe that ''mrs. right'' has never come his way. it hurts to feel his lonliness and truly feel his need. to find a woman for this man would be so great indeed. his tenderness could soften the heart of any beast. let's get a thousand women to prepare a lovely feast. he is the guest of honor and i hope you'll all attend. let's find this man an angel to be with him til the end.
You are my oldest angel. your name will go untold. at first you were too young for this. now you are too old. just so you know i love you. your thoughts, your smile, your heart. you've been with me through darker days, but you loved me from the start. it's strange to look you eye to eye and see how much you've grown. i wonder where we'll end this journey. will it be far that you will roam? even though you are much older than a ''baby'' or a ''child''. don't go thinkin' you're all grown up. the world out there is wild.
An angel of grace with beauty to spare eyes of pure amber and velvet soft hair so lithe and so sleek her skin soft and white a vision from heaven a breath taking sight full of love and compassion faith and desire she touches my heart with fingers of fire she harbours my soul in sweet dreams of bliss awaiting with fervour the touch of her kiss to send me to heaven or condemn me to hell this russian roulette cast under her spell.
There is an angel hiding in the dark he is a sad one though he will not stop till he gets his mark though he still wont be done till he gets to the top so there will be alot more deaths though he does get ticked cause his job will always go on he will put to the tests to measure how wicked but that will not change the fact of him being a con but be warned for you will meet the fate of all those mourned this is in the dark angels state.
Sweet angel in disguise floated into sight one day. showed me how to live and die, little peoples love and honest child thoughts, understanding life. whispering quietly to myself, pretending that i knew. how can i repay a minds eye angel, for eternity?.
We, unaccustomed to courage exiles from delight live coiled in shells of loneliness until love leaves its high holy temple and comes into our sight to liberate us into life. love arrives and in its train come ecstasies old memories of pleasure ancient histories of pain. yet if we are bold, love strikes away the chains of fear from our souls. we are weaned from our timidity in the flush of love's light we dare be brave and suddenly we see that love costs all we are and will ever be. yet it is only love which sets us free.
An angel came one morning, a visit he did pay. that angel took my baby, and tore my heart away. so innocent was my baby, an angel in my eye. my baby didn't whimper, only gave a little sigh. i truly love that baby, more than words could ever say. lord, why did that angel come, and take my babe away? the answers, i will never know, for it is your chosen way. i know my babe's in heaven, safe in your arms, i pray. lord, help me to see that light, so that i may understand. and when i see my babe again, it is in your promised land.
You're my angel in disguise you read my soul with your eyes your spirit has entered my heart and it's my hope we never part for you are so special to me, without you, my heart would weep bitterly. you're my angel in disguise your love comforts my cries at night you guide me through the strife and it is for that, my dear angel, i owe you my life.
At midnight an angel was crossing the sky, and quietly he sang; the moon and the stars and the concourse of clouds paid heed to his heavenly song. he sang of the bliss of the innocent souls in heavenly gardens above; of almighty god he sang out, and his praise was pure and sincere. he bore in his arms a young soul to our valley of sorrow and tears; the young soul remembered the heavenly song so vivid and yet without words. and long did it struggle on earth, with wondrous desire imbued; but none of the tedious songs of our earth could rival celestial song.
Go to sleep my angel and dream of heavenly places and heavenly faces you shall be missed, my angel but rest in peace in this world you could easily get hurt don't fret my angel you are safe in god's arms he will take care of you and will always be with you mortal dreams of riches, but my angel you are rich for eternal life so sleep now angel you are full of love and beauty we will all be with you soon sweet dreams my angel when you wake up you'll know that your dreams have come true.
Empty and lost in this nightmare, tears caress my cheeks, crying for an angel's whisper that will make me touch heaven. i lie praying that i'll be saved, took away and freed from this pain, tears caress my cheeks, crying for an angel's whisper that will make me touch heaven. my praying was not in vain, i'm now happy and at peace, the tears that once caressed my cheeks have been dried away by the angel's whisper, that helped me touch heaven.
When you think you're all alone and troubles come your way there's an angel on your shoulder to guide you everyday. with a white light shining brightly to protect you day and night this angel on your shoulder. will never leave your sight.
As she walks through the darkness she feels the eyes burning a whole in her she knows that its him her dark angel her protector her lover everything that she is supposed to hate but she cant help herself love is swelling inside of her for her dark angel her handsome, sweet, dark angel.
Angel eyes are colourblind, on a whim she lost my mind, something's there i'll never find, angel eyes are colourblind. cigarettes and alcohol are all that i have now, still i ask and get answered how, cigarettes and alcohol. the pain i feel i can't explain, blackened clouds with soaking rain, she is not a word i'll name, the pain i feel i can't explain. angel wings sing a song, i know now they can't be wrong, the path i walk is always long, angel wings sing a song. i am broken i am torn, i am a life left unborn, i feel used i feel worn, i am broken i am torn. i lie bleeding on the floor, i know not what this is for, all i need is more more more, i lie bleeding on the floor, angel eyes are colourblind, on a whim she lost my mind, something's there i'll never find, angel eyes are colourblind.
I squint through the keyhole, push open the door, pearly white feathers lie strewn on the floor. from pigeons these feathers could well have been hacked, but blood streams in rivers from a dark angel's back. who would have committed this hideous crime? pulled the wings off an angel and hurled her through time? the knife in her grasp silently answers for me, there's a reason she sits there, all naked and gory. to be human's her wish, just one sacrifice. will grant her desire, her wings will suffice. her hair is all matted and her hand shakes with pain, but her eyes show no loss, only sparkle with gain. she's amazed at the knowledge that she's human at last, time to move on and invent a new past. her bright smile falters, her eyes show new fear. no longer immortal, her blood debt's too dear. i back through the feathers still scattered on the floor, take the key from the keyhole and pull shut the door.
There's an angel in my pocket who is watching over me, just a little voice down deep inside that i can hear, not see. i wish that i could let her out so that everyone could see 'cause we have the greatest secrets, many things she shares with me. she whispers little things to do to make my parents glad and tells me when there's something that i want to do that's bad. oh i wish that i could see her not just hear her talk to me. it's just a little voice down deep inside that i can hear, not see.
"it was wrong to do this," said the angel. "you should live like a flower, holding malice like a puppy, waging war like a lambkin." "not so," quoth the man who had no fear of spirits; "it is only wrong for angels who can live like the flowers, holding malice like the puppies, waging war like the lambkins. ".
Who cut your wings my angel? who destroyed your dreams today? who kneeled you down to humiliate you? and who put your soul in a cage? let me cure you love let me give you my love angel of love don't fall down don't abandon yourself who tied your arms, tied your wish? who killed your smile, killed your life? who bled your lips and your creed? why did you let it happen angel of love? angel of love open your wings and let your dreams fly let me cure you love i'll give you all my love angel of love please don't fall again.
May angels always care for you, may they keep you standing tall, may they whisper in your ears words of wisdom, may they show you what you need to know may you always have an angel, sent by god to your side, someone there to catch you fast, if sometimes you were to fall may you have someone wonderful to love, may angels teach you love untold, may you have hopes to keep you safe and warm, and give you all the gifts of love and life may they keep their lights on you, to guide every step of your way, and keep you from each and all harm, each and every new day may you always have an angel, that speaks through your heart, to help you pick up the pieces, when everything for you goes bad.
I heard an angel singing when the day was springing, 'mercy, pity, peace is the world's release.' thus he sung all day over the new mown hay, till the sun went down and haycocks looked brown. i heard a devil curse over the heath and the furze, 'mercy could be no more, if there was nobody poor, and pity no more could be, if all were as happy as we.' at his curse the sun went down, and the heavens gave a frown. down pour'd the heavy rain over the new reap'd grain . and miseries' increase is mercy, pity, peace.
Falling angel thank you for saving me from falling once again god send us some sunny days and cloudy days also good night falling angel and see you again tomorrow morning go and fly high let it shine above the cloudy sky falling angel you are wearing that beautiful dress with gold rim that dress looks beautiful on you it is one of a kind i never saw anything like that before.
I saw an angel with a broken wing i saw an angel cry i mended it with bits of string and told her she could fly. i handed her my handkerchief to wipe the tear away and told her all was well again i think i made her day. she thanked me with an angel's kiss and like a butterfly she closed her wings then opened them and rose into the sky. now she is back in heaven and i'm here on the ground and i think somehow that we got our roles the wrong way round.
I owe my every effort to her love, everlasting and true. in her silence, i am able to speak and see all things beautiful. she never left me. she isn't gone. i walk in solitude, but never alone. the angel watches me. and in my dreams she visits me with a smile that's comforting and in the morning, when i wake i have her song to sing.
There's a white angel out there out there somewhere it'll blow away the darkness let is bright light shine there's a white angel out there with gold encrested wings a white halo of leaves they only show certain people they're their angel there's a white angel out there one for each of us be they a friend to save you or a true being of heaven there's a white angel out there just let them find you please they'll show you light they'll save you from dark there's a white angel out there just let them break through thier darkness let them gain those wings and you'll see them waiting there's a white angel out there just you wait and see march 2006.
Guess what? other boys ask god for heaven, holiday and presents but i ask god for an angel, white angel with his big feathery wings like what we see of gabriel and guess what? yes, god did send the angel to my dream one night so huge were his wings i found myself ruffling the feathers as he stood tall without even uttering a word the strong feathers which felt so warm then the sudden fear that he was coming to take away mother angel does this thing says the bible how i had cried screamed that he would not take mom away the heaven reverberated with my plea i woke up tearsoaked and glad that it was just a dream glad that god had let me see an angel an angel with his large feathery wings that stands so tall.
Among the daisies sat the child, looking so ever meek and mild. mother sat down by the child, looked at her daughter and sweetly smiled. picking the daisies with the child, from those gathered a chain was stylized. around the neck of the child, she placed the chain of daisies wild. touching the daisies the deaf child, looked at her mother and sweetly smiled.
The threefold terror of love; a fallen flare through the hollow of an ear; wings beating about the room; the terror of all terrors that i bore the heavens in my womb. had i not found content among the shows every common woman knows, chimney corner, garden walk, or rocky cistern where we tread the clothes and gather all the talk? what is this flesh i purchased with my pains, this fallen star my milk sustains, this love that makes my heart's blood stop or strikes a sudden chill into my bones and bids my hair stand up?.
Her baby was so full of glee, and through the day it laughed and babbled on her knee in happy play. it pulled her hair all out of curl with noisy joy; so peppy she was glad her girl was not a boy. then as she longed for it to sleep, to her surprise it just relaxed within her keep with closing eyes. and as it lay upon her breast so still its breath, so exquisite its utter rest it looked like death. it seemed like it had slipped away to shadow land; with tiny face like tinted clay and waxen hand. no ghost of sigh, no living look . . . then with an ache of panic fear and love she shook her babe awake.
Mother earth and father time are walking hand in hand. they're visiting their children and checking on their land. they view the worlds destruction everywhere they turn. they fear their precious children are never going to learn. ''this earth should be their playground with joys beyond belief yet, all these children seem to know is senseless pain and grief.'' ''how do we teach our children to care for such a place? they may not get the message till we slap them in their face.'' the children are oblivious to even basic rules. that's why so many people grow up looking like such fools.
My mother she is restless in her sleep her fingers are moving her forehead has the customary strain of field and food muttering to herself she is carrying on with the unfinished tasks she knows no sleep or rest she is a perenial 'karamyogi', the tireless worker on the earth.
A rose for my mother, that's all she asks of me, for a lifetime of trouble she had raising me. a rose for my mother, whom god gave to me, she spent her life raising children, and we're all grateful as can be. so i bought a rose for mother, that i gave to her, with pride, and i said, i love you mother, and i thank you for my life, and mother, if i had bought all the roses, to give to you, from me, there would be so many, they would fill up a tree, but you, wouldn't want that many, as you've often said to me, one, would be a plenty, if they came, from you to me.
How do i tell you, from this daughter oh mother of mine, who couldn't have worked harder to make my life, as best as could be how much your loved, for loving me things you wanted, so many times you put aside, to help me and mine even when i was growing up a back you never turned, a door you never shut how do i tell you, how much this means oh mother of mine, who always beams with a loving heart, with open arms caring for all, with all your charms you made life, so very good for me you did, all you could you cared for me, through all bad times your loved so much, oh mother of mine.
She begins, and my grandmother joins her. mother and daughter sing like young girls. if my father were alive, he would play his accordion and sway like a boat. i've never been in peking, or the summer palace, nor stood on the great stone boat to watch the rain begin on kuen ming lake, the picnickers running away in the grass. but i love to hear it sung; how the waterlilies fill with rain until they overturn, spilling water into water, then rock back, and fill with more, both women have begun to cry. but neither stops her song.
When the morning sun rises in the sky when the new day is born as beautiful when the dew drops rolls down the leaves when the garden of flowers hugs the nature and shower its fragrance and makes nature proud when the trees leaves oxygen for mankind starts dancing to the tune of wind when the birds sits on top of the trees and singing to the nature's choir with happiness when the fauna in the jungle sets free to live proudly when the stream water gurgles from the mountain and when wet earth makes barren land fertile when the farmers glorify the nature with happiness and start to cultivate food for the nations when the sun sets behind the green mountains and the moon start to light the nation when the nature forgets its vastness then the god show his creation on his earth.
Sleep, sleep, my beloved, without worry, without fear, although my soul does not sleep, although i do not rest. sleep, sleep, and in the night may your whispers be softer than a leaf of grass, or the silken fleece of lambs. may my flesh slumber in you, my worry, my trembling. in you, may my eyes close and my heart sleep.
Nature the gentlest mother is, impatient of no child, the feeblest of the waywardest. her admonition mild in forest and the hill by traveller be heard, restraining rampant squirrel or too impetuous bird. how fair her conversation a summer afternoon, her household her assembly; and when the sun go down, her voice among the aisles incite the timid prayer of the minutest cricket, the most unworthy flower. when all the children sleep, she turns as long away as will suffice tolight her lamps, then bending from the sky with infinite affection an infiniter care, her golden finger on her lip, wills silence everywhere.
The answer to do you love me isn't, i married you, didn't i? or, can't we discuss this after the ballgame is through? it isn't, well that all depends on what you mean by 'love'. or even, come to bed and i'll prove that i do. the answer isn't, how can i talk about love when the bacon is burned and the house is an absolute mess and the children are screaming their heads off and i'm going to miss my bus? the answer is yes. the answer is yes. the answer is yes.
There is but one mother, my mother; so pure, so perfect, there could be no other. i cannot bear the thought of ever losing you, for all, and i mean all, that you do. you are so essential to my life; stand by to calm all my strife; to this end, you make every sacrifice; there is no one else so beautiful, so nice. all the archangels will never reach your height, for here on earth, all the battles you do fight. you are always, i repeat always at my side; you are forever present as my guide. the rose is only a beauty, just a glimmer of the magnificence of your inner core. the thorns on your otherwise fragile stalk represent the hurt that you so often balk. you are my mom; you gave me the world and as the years go by, i too grow old; i know your sacrifices, to assure that i am well; my love and appreciation, no words could ever tell.
You were the center of our universe the mother of us all you gave to us your everything we only need to call and soon your strength was tested though you put up such a fight for from a distant spiritual land the angels called you in the night for someone up in heaven looked down upon the land and chose mom for her strength to come and give a hand he knew that her legacy that she had left behind would withstand the pain and grief over a period of time for she had fulfilled his prophesy spreading love, honor, and hope she instilled in those she left behind the ability to understand and cope.
Mother doesn't want a dog. mother says they smell, and never sit when you say sit, or even when you yell. and when you come home late at night and there is ice and snow, you have to go back out because the dumb dog has to go. mother doesn't want a dog. mother says they shed, and always let the strangers in and bark at friends instead, and do disgraceful things on rugs, and track mud on the floor, and flop upon your bed at night and snore their doggy snore. mother doesn't want a dog. she's making a mistake. because, more than a dog, i think she will not want this snake.
The repetition took the form of harassment looks like a mechanism to cut the heads who were rising above the flock with new ideas somehow she was able to do that another time looks like a pressure that falls asleep on them this repetition this corruption when intimidating and demanding more money for a new tour of the species the repetition took the form of harshness it looks like a mechanism to cut the heads who were rising above the flock with new ideas somehow she was able to do that another time it looks like a pressure that falls asleep this repetition this corruption when intimidating and demanding more money for a new tour of the species t f g h juu65rdd carpe diems.
Where is he now? him who fell away. him who noticed the shrieking of boys. silent, he watched, unbelieving, the fire among him. where is he now? him who was scared away. him who watched the noises, watched as they screamed. watched as they gasped for a right to speak. in hell, he burned among the fire. where is he now? him who went away. him who was not one with the others. him who was not on the list of names. him who was rescued. one with the fire.
A laugh is just like sunshine, it freshens all the day. it tips the peak of life with light, and drives the clouds away. the soul grows glad that hears it, and feels it's courage strong. a laugh is just like sunshine, for cheering folks along. a laugh is just like music, it lingers in the heart. and when it's melody is heard, the ills of life depart. and happy thoughts come crowding, it's joyful notes to greet. a laugh is just like music, for making living sweet.
Running through the dark lights and trees whipping past. claws shred the earth and fur blows in the wind. fangs drenched in blood my core burning in rage. wolves are extremly loyal but just as posessive as well. i'm her pet and she's my master as well. curling at her feet, it feels nice. to be so close. i nudge her leg gently with my muzzle and look up into her golden eyes. i'm happy she cares about me. so rare. night is my domain and my mistress.
The nba such an exciting league players working hard and avoiding fatigue various dunks and three's and steals to retrieve all this work for one goal to win the championship and take control a very exciting game that's for sure the nba something everyone should endure.
She is so proud of her beauty and color that i want much adoring her she keeps her at far in a sweet temper as she is seen in the picture, but when i return from outside she touches me with her body and tail to attract me to demanding care sometimes she hugs me by my leg to complain any body's misbehave, she is my adorable pet cat whom i am fond of very much, thus a mutual fondness has developed as she follows me even at midnight to obey any dear command.
With love, time is not nor space and distance matter ribboned passion in a knot one loving heart tied with the other. with love, age is not nor even status break attraction kings give up thrones, and all of that for his lady love's deep affection. with love, race is not. for color fades in cupid's arrow it conquers all, no matter what blind to the sight is what lovers know.
No matter how much it seems to hurt, it happens again and agian tears are running down my cheeks, saying that i'll regret this. no matter what happens, i'm always alone. with no one on my side, but i'm not alone, others do the same. what will happen when we are done? with nothing left, my heart cries out, unknowingly, with no reason for misery. it's like the death of an angel, all over agian, in the silent screams i hear.
From this city i want to flee, to find a place of some solace, not again i want to return, where city lights sometimes blind people. i still think about how it was, from this city i want to flee, i cannot fit in this anthill, a bridge to escape, i must find. the city makes me uneasy, i want to wander on the beach, from this city i want to flee, i want to vanish by bus or train. now i splash in a city stream, at times are in the open air, about freedom i can just dream, from this city i want to flee.
When sunsets for night sorrow drifts in, whispering through the trees. her gown flutters through the air as she glides over me. setting quietness throughout the land, in a dangerious whisper that gave me shivers. the despair settled over me, as her calming deadly wrath, wrapped me in a blanket of sadness.
In womb i was fed on the extraction of her body i played, moved there wether night or day she bore me with great care she more thought of me than other about how i would be when i might come on her lap what she would name me how she would rear me up; at last her waitness came to an end on a favourable day l came she forgot the pains from she suffered the eye balls of her i became; how much love, care, adore are in the earth? all she brings and inserts on me she overcomes all difficulties of me from womb to the last she does breathe; i have observed at adolescence i have remembered her presence none is like mother how may be they our mother is just mother none is like her however she is to all other to me, after god is my mother.
I want to write always in free verse in free verse there is no pressure. i do not want to keep any goal i really do not want any roll i also do not want to play any role. i want to see this earth free from hunger free from poverty and i do not want to keep anybody within an artificial boundary. i want to write always in free verse i want to move freely from place to place to see people in various glaze.
Simply the mind can not be idle and it kicks the heart bullying the heart cries, the mind giggles and the mind starts singing in all tones in all colours of lexicon stunned heart mutes its cry and the mind and the heart both sing freely freely free verses.
The depths of darkness and the heighths of light. those i love are in the light but darkness is my nature. i don't want to walk the path to light or dark i'm on the road in between not the one to nightfall but the way to dawn.
Free verse it must not be that easy for to write and not very easy for one to recite harder by far to pen good free verse than to pen good rhyme which was popular going back four decades in time so many fine poets writing in free verse to day into the twenty first century they lead the way it does seem in poetry rhyme is of the past but few things in life ever does seem to last in literature many more changes ahead in a few decades from now free verse may be dead for most things upon them have a use by date and the passage of time on few things seem to wait times changing faster nowadays than ever before and only nature herself will live forever more.
A juerga with flamenco guitars, with fires blooming like red flowers, corpses dancing in moonlight the dance of wounded souls, vibrant red dresses white shirts like birds, falling shawls, dancers, sky, claps, cubic movements of color, music's seeds, hands being wings shadows on the white wall, from soul detaching passion's lights, motion vibrating the string, resonance for a new dimension.
The meeting of the two minds will decide where the conversation will go tonight what they will discuss on and fight the point is not who wins or lose it is one of the ways to seek the opinion of others and proceed on with their life.
Half rotten, the other side of the mango had the lust in subconscious mind part eaten by insects and birds soon the smell will spread making it unbearable and passion to have will be gone pick your mango from the tree a green mango will be long standing relationship though unripe will last in their life's tree craving for the sweetness in their love savoring the fleshy sweetness of the mango.
I wish that i could clearly recall the day the exact moment, the instant that we did meet but it runs away like something with ever moving feet as if the emotions between us are ever at play and now i cannot really clearly say what had happened but that moment was sweet, each other we did pleasantly greet and although that time had slipped away to both of us later it meant so much and at the times when we are apart nothing can our true love remove and its impact lingers in each touch are in each glance like a silent kind of art which does its sweet presence prove.
Since the day that love came to your heart life feels as if it's played out on a stage in times of true happiness and rage where you do act and i play my part and although joy is sometimes a art that is not understood in the modern age where people are content to earn their daily wage there is something more to our feelings from the very start and yet never will these true feelings fade, never will our love be only temperate as there is much more to it or only be of happiness a kind of shade or last to only a sell by date as daily it grows bit by bit.
It was the most blessed morn and men did go on their normal way as if it was but any other day when in bethlehem a male child was born. a bright moving star did the sky adorn and throughout the world children did play while most men lived just as they may, some men where good, others angry and stubborn but in all of this the prince had come to bring to earth peace, tranquility and love to change the world and quench all sin, to give to every single man a happy home, to make an impact that no one can remove and with his everlasting reign to begin.
In struggle, heartache and tranquility, through a life of righteousness and sin my best and worst days you do enter in and with you i am bound and i am free. you imperfections do fit you perfectly and it does not matter if i loose or win, fall to my knees and again do begin as long as you do sincerely love me. as the days, months and weeks go by more beautiful to me you do become, we do forget and forgive by god's grace and there is much more to the you and i as our days are happy and troublesome, as together we do life's challenges face.
In each day's silent need i do love you to the capacity that the love of a man for a woman could be and in every word and deed far past the utmost places where feelings go, indeed, far past earthly yearnings with sagacity you are far more than just dear to me and i love you with a child's kind of creed with the kind of hope and faith that you do notice that with every breath and every thing that is in my might, in all the things that i say and do, even beyond the limitations of death, i do love you even when all things are out of sight.
Through years i came to know your lovely ways, you fill my heart to its breadth, depth and height. many little things you do and say are out of sight while you do act in solitude with innocent grace, bringing emotions sweet and serene to every day's silent need, whether i find you by day or at night, in times of real pain and in times of sheer delight as you go on your needful way with little praise, do put your wit and temperate will to good use, as you do go through life with reason and hope experiencing blame, smiles, praise and tears acting daily as if you do have nothing to lose and at times of great distress you do still cope while you trust in god and live without fears.
To be back at home while the lovely spring leads the summer on when the last traces of the cold winter is gone, when a brilliant blue is the day's dome when happily the insects and birds do roam, when not a single thing is lonesome to me you are the only one while the months and years do come while in a flash the happy times pass and fruitfulness is everywhere when love has truly found a dwelling place while nothing stays just as it was when times seems to be without a care then our love is divine, sacred, a godly grace.
Even when the shadows increase on this lovely sunny summer day nothing can sweep our feelings away and its something that never cease the power of love does only increase, its presence is without any decay and your dear face do portray its impact, its caring and its peace its something powerful passionate yet at times it's wise and meek and it takes many a guise in gentleness while actions do its presence indicate and continually people does it seek as it can forget and forgive in its genuineness.
With the warmth of the heart, with light, she wants to fill my world she tells me and in the depths of her eyes i see promises of all the things that might be waiting as if great things are in sight and very happy i want her to be, from all fear, sadness and despair free and our future i want to be bright as she is the shining one who wants much more, that draws all of my attention, talks about respect and i look at her and see the angel of my heart, do realise that from the start her i do adore while i do not know what to expect as loving her is a kind of unknown art.
So very subtle and so very cunningly with eyes shining like that of a sprite you crept into my heart during the night, your smile, your eyes and personality, your pure body enchanting came to me and by gentle loving and not by might, you did caused me to fall in love to write of a creature that is mine, who is free an angelic being that loves me more with flaming passion full of blazing fire, who makes me wanting to live and to die as my heart is smitten just as before and when at night we together do retire i am blessed as in my arms you lie.
The doll's tears finally shatter. people begin surrounding to watch the show, all with a burning desire to know. to her nothing else seems to matter. the crowd goes on with their chatter. row by row, they see she has lost her golden glow. everyone already began to scatter. alone she waits, no longer needed. her skin begins to break, as her escape awaits. the porcelain girl who once pleaded, can now awake.
With you life feels like its running to eternity and each day with you i want to be just like this and i know you in times of heartache and bliss where you are far more than just dear to me and however our days are going to be, even if we do argue make up and kiss when you are away i do you truly miss. in this life you are my living sanctuary, the one, who with everything i do trust, do know in days of happiness and pain and there is something special to loving you, even if to circumstance we have to adjust, you are with me in both sunshine and rain, in all the things that you do say and do.
There silence in each hurting memory as you walk on the footsteps of the past but between us there is hope that last in the things with which you trust me where to my life you do bring tranquillity. even if life does us at times leave aghast to this you stand in beautiful contrast where for long moments i do you see. where new paths do together before us lie god is guarding us against the infernal. your laughter is intimate and intense and all cares do in such moments die as if this summer will be eternal while each thing and word you do sense.
Since the day that love came to your heart life feels as if it's played out on a stage in times of true happiness and rage where you do act and i play my part and although joy is sometimes a art that is not understood in the modern age where people are content to earn their daily wage there is something more to our feelings from the very start and yet never will these true feelings fade, never will our love be only temperate as there is much more to it or only be of happiness a kind of shade or last to only a sell by date as daily it grows bit by bit.
Come fall we lie in autumn leaves under the rambling gust that blows it fans the fervour like arrow bows. a scorching kiss my lips receives as passion unsnaps the shirt sleeves a bouquet of love subdues the nose hot climax springs from head to toes a tapestry the weak thread weaves. the silky gossamer which binds hangs on the wall in full display stained by the red of roses and wine as autumn leaves fade into gray and age drifts hopelessly in line the whirlwind takes our hearts away.
I have learn my plants in school in science class learning all nine plants by name mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, unranus, neptune, pluto i have learn about the sun, the moon and the stars in science class did you know there is more plants out in the universe floating in one place? they would like to join in the rest of nine plants blending in even though it would off balance the universe so they are left to fload in the universe all by itself floating with the rest of the plants out there together in one place.
As a prince he gave up his godly life when man to temptation in sin did fall, did come right into the middle of it all, did in poverty as a mere baby arrive and did not even have a house or a wife. in my mind and heart he still walks tall, do not force his ways and truth but does call, does help in my own turmoil and strive and he taught the essence of selfless sincere love but mentioning him nowadays makes people angry where believing in him is out line and i find this odd, where he does men from evil to great goodness move, where daily he sets me free and his love does fill me and his grace and mercy urges me to honor him as god.
There are times that i pray for those that i love and know and sometimes the words just flow and at other times i have got nothing to say and on every single day god does his goodwill bestow and with compassion my words do sometimes glow or they are swept away like leaves blown in the wind and sometimes some thoughts do remain when some problems to me are too much but before i know it i do find happiness instead of pain when god do lives silently touch.
Purple violet breaking the gold sand praising voice in ocean fog his colour is blue, like you're eyes old light barrien on the tingles blood crystal powder not tick, silent, and, death i blowing it and then trying to gropes a broken wave gets louder singing and then that gold sand changed as black his colour is black, like heave acid wilting between the raging seeds of sky not tick, silent, and death then that grass trying to growing between air besides the haze progressively close blessing curing crystal of laureled brown his colour is brown, like slime lamellar breaking the falling rain who curing wound not tick, silent, and death.
It's holi, it's holi, dear friends. all envy let's shun all hatred let's burn forgetting our follies, we'll make amends. it's holi, it's holi, dear friends. the winds of change are blowing a dream in heart is glowing drenched in colours of joy and love we'll together soar above to new skies, new horizons. breaking from the past, we'll set new trends. it's holi, it's holi, dear friends.
Thank god for workin' women. she gets up in the morning gets the kids off to school makes him a big breakfest lord, he feels like such a fool. cause she'll clean the house leave by 2 won't be back till after ten. god bless the workin women holdin' up the workin' men. their nurses in hospitals soldiers in iraq and iran their teachers in the classrooms doing anything they can.. it ain't how daddy did it ain't a 1990 plan god bless the working women holding up the workin man. my job went overseas just where i don't know.. makin' 17 a hour lord seems so long ago, daddy always was the one who made out the budget plan god bless the workin women holding up the workin man. they're cops and firefighters working any job they can god bless the workin women holding up the workin man it ain't how daddy did it ain't some 1990 plan. god bless the workin woman holdin up this working man all lyrics and poems posted by me was written by me connetta jean..
I feel colours in poems not only words i feel me there too and animals and birds it's a wood deep and evergreen not all understood or seen sometimes brighter then a morning or emotional deeper than an yearning it's sometimes everything then nothing in between i feel colours in poems sure it's all language but it's this and this too always something new i have seen a tree poem i have seen a mountain poem and all the other poems i nearly understood i am like a little poem just like you.
I went to pay the bills today and ask them to give me awhile to catch up on the ones way past due right now.. seems like when we pay one anouther one comes due seems the only things worth living for comes free to me and you. daddy always told me 'that love's a rocky road life is like a field and you reap just what was sowed. he said, don't think it will be easy that ain't reality cause anything worth getting is whats given to you free'. i'm daddy's little girl and one mans woman i'm mommy to the kids running round.. i'm a friend and i'm a lover and i trust god's faith in me we can take the hard times going down yes, we can take the hard times going down.. grandma left me treasures in a big old ceader chest nothing anyone would want but me old pictures cards and letters her wedding dress and poems poems she wrote back in 1923.. i'm daddy's little girl and one mans woman i'm mommy to the kids running round i'm a friend and i'm a lover and i trust god's faith in me yes, we can take the hard times going down.. yes, we can take the hard times going down. 1987, connetta jean.
He called me last sunday said 'babe are you free? deep down in side i felt chills run through me. i recalled a touch then a old memory i wanted him bad but he's no good for me. he's no good for me, hey i've been there before. i don't need the pain of heartake anymore.. but maybe just maybe that ain't how it will be i wanted him bad but he's no good for me. i gave him chances more than i can count he left me in hartake. i had to get out.. it's been a long time feeling lonesome and free i wanted him bad but he's no good for me. he's no good for me i say i've been there before.. i don't need the pain of heartake anymore. but maybe just maybe that ain't how it will be i wanted him bad but he's no good for me.
Jeb martin lived on a family farm just out side of old jack town. when a man named rosco started nosin his nose around.. 200 acreas of rolling hills views that take the breath away.. when jeb said' it's not for sale' rosco said he'd stop by anouther day. well, it wasn't long before the county started fining jeb for different things like flies and the smell from cattle and run off polluting the streams. they fined him for this and they fined him for that till jeb couldn't afford to pay now, there's 40 homes with breathtaking views under rosco construction today. mr who's gonna feed the people when all the farms are gone? reminds me of the indians and how they just moved them on. the cost of beef is going up cause the farmers are losing ground.. who's gonna feed the people when farmers can't be found? jessy ray has a chicken farm close to the county line. been in the family 2 hundered years but now it's all just a matter of time.. they say a man named rosco has been nosing his nose around.. talking about views and what he could do to help bring new jobs to that town 300 acres of breath taking views best land for miles around.. and their talking bout a fancy mall comming in on the edge of town.. he paid fines for this.. fines for that till he ain't got a chance in hell tell me who's gonna bring us water once we dry up the well? who's gonna feed the people when all the farms are gone.. reminds me of the indians and how they just moved them on the cost of eggs is going up cause the farms are going down.. mr who's gonna feed the people when farmers can't be found.. who's gonna till the soil when farmers lose their ground?
cause most of them are tilling it out of love for land passed down. the cost of food keeps going up cause farmers are going down. who's gonna feed the people once a farmer can't be found?.
Oh baby babe give me a sign something i can relate to, or i'll be walking a strait line trying my luck without you; reaching the top from the low everything's fine here with me, we further away shall grow if we to love can't both agree. like the times will settle in with all the reasons and doubt, growing apart is a sin if we can't live here without; feelings we gave to both with arms reaching to hold, when giving trust and betroth searching the warmth in cold. oh baby babe give me a life that i can call of my own, searching i've been in and strife never to be more alone; i've meet faces in a row that never to love shall agree, like lonesome wind that will blow unreachable down to any tree.
Sad sad sad in blue for sad sad sad you the moon is all bluish tonight the night is all dark out side nowhere to run sad sad sad in blue into the night hold me tight love me babe i need some light what's wrong and what's right when shadows dwell and abide sad sad sad in blue for sad sad sad you the moon is all bluish tonight is there some star shoot in sight to wish upon for sad sad sad you into the night take a flight feelings, touch, everything out sight love me with feelings ok come come babe now closer stay sad sad sad in blue for sad sad sad you the moon is all bluish tonight is there some star shoot in sight to wish upon for sad sad sad you.
The soft and cold flowing wind dancing beautifully leafs of trees, when it rains happily river and waterfall also flowing with delight. see sweet dream of being victorious the river water flowing as i go, restless feet walk forward i go the mysterious world of sweet song in the vortex. in the rainy season clouds cry thus the rain is to fall from the sky heavily, the winter season dew sing songs the dream of sun rise in the east. rose flower calls to the butterflies feathers fly diffuse to move the butterflies, the song of infinite life sing the world new moon, at the edge of new sun. the longest and far life to the road here i am traveling and traveling to, rainy wind kisses on my cheeks for the trip now i don't want to cry.
In a building down off first street is a shelter from the wind and rain the reality of winters chill is why most of them came i work here, my job is easy but i find the pressures hard because every night, till mornings light i hear whispers ment for god whispers ment for god whispers in the night every night till mornings light i hear whispers ment for god. the angry ones they cuse him others ask him in their heart some seem not to know him as they whisper in the dark my job here is easy but i find the pressures hard because every night till morning light i hear whispers ment for god. whispers ment for god whispers in the night every night till morning light i hear whispers ment for god.
Situation in this time altogether wish to battle all weapon in the world is lifted if no war disaster come when that all losing and ending? we want to live at the quiet sky we want to live at the quiet sky no martial again no blood again disaster come because act of human who not irate if himself is torn? even sky likely seems will curse them but they still love the war we want to populating at the quiet sky we want to populating at the quiet sky no disaster again no dislike again how that can be finished? if war even became hobby to solve many problems i think if like that end of time will come we want to ascend to the quiet sky we want to ascend to the quiet sky because maybe now there halcyon we want peaceful situation like at the peace and quiet sky.
Jessy thinks she's been a bad girl too long to talk to jesus and she can't say that she won't stray again. but jesus died for jessy's sins just like yours and mine she believes and that's a real big step toward him.. one step waking up is two steps back to him paitiently he's waiting for hearts to let him in. ed lost his job and family and he wanted to die but something deep inside of him kept telling him to try he knew what he had done and the man that he'd once been he said jesus come into my heart and jesus walked right in. one step waking up is 2 steps back to him patirently he's waiting for hearts to let him in. one step waking up.
What means my name to you?.t'will die as does the melancholy murmur of distant waves or, of a summer, the forest's hushed nocturnal sigh. found on a fading album page, dim will it seem and enigmatic, like words traced on a tomb, a relic of some long dead and vanished age. what's in my name?.long since forgot, erased by new, tempestuous passion, of tenderness 'twill leave you not the lingering and sweet impression. but in an hour of agony, pray, speak it, and recall my image, and say, "he still remembers me, his heart alone still pays me homage. ".
Son of hidden sun lead them with invocation isn't with flying lizard that will make you more sincere son of hidden sun enforce them with patience isn't by force that will make you more devout son of hidden sun gaze that hates you as best friends not as enemy that will make you more love son of hidden sun reply they angry with love isn't with resentment that will make you more patience.
Stacey hall every day at sunset, stacey got behind the wheel drove down a country road, to a small church on a hill she sat on them concrete steps, winter summer spring and fall people drove by all the time, just to stare a stacey hall it's better than a play ground, she told her friends and family. it's a play ground for my kids, but it's a house of god to me. one day sister susan, called up brother paul said i'm gettin tired, gettin tired of seeing stacey hall she don't belong to our church and i don't like her at all i think the elders of our church should talk to stacey hall. well the congregation gathered, as the sun began to fall and faithfully they all agreed, they'd soon see stacey hall. suddenly the sky turned black and a bolt of lightening hits a tree beyond the little church where the congregation sits. brothers don't judge brothers, sisters do the same love your neighbor faithfully and praise praise praise his name. stacey saw the hurricane, just as she pulled in and she was glad to see some cars and rushed inside to warn them once inside the basement, where they was safe and warm the elders watched as stacey clutched her bible through that storm. i say, brothers don't judge brothers, sisters do the same love your neighbor faithfully and praise praise praise his name. now every day at sunrise, stacey meets with everyone to rebuild the little church they're working till the settin' sun the children love playing hide and seek and the elders one and all love to drive by their little church, just to wave at stacey hall. brothers don't judge brothers, sisters do the same love your neighbor faithfully and praise praise praise his name.
once inside the new church a book fell from a pew and there in bold black letters said 'i will judge not you' 1989. lyrics connetta jean, music soos.
It's easy to misinterpret when finding different ways, for life is all of love and hate and with our feelings plays. you found a way with words like i, yes that's what it's all about, continue to let your emotion fly and you won't be in doubt. we can all change the world, each with our hope and dream, just like the wind that's hurled the ripples in a river stream. you found a way with love like i, nothing more is to be done; just don't let your feelings die, if you want your dream carried on. it's easy to misinterpret, never be wholly satisfied; but nothing in our life will wait, dreams can be disqualified. we can all change the world, each with our hope and dream, just like the wind that's hurled the ripples in a river stream.
Which was held in the queens hotel, perth, on the evening of 5th september 1894 'twas in the year of 1894, and on the 5th of september, which for a long time i will remember, and the gentlemen i entertained in the city of perth, which is one of the grandest cities upon the earth. at the banquet there were gentlemen of high degree, and the viands they partook of filled their hearts with glee; there was beef, fish, and potatoes galore, and we all ate until we could eat no more the gentlemen present were very kind to me, and the entertainment i gave them filled their hearts with glee; especially the recital i gave them from "macbeth", they were so much fascinated they almost lost their breath. the audience were orderly and all went well, as cheerily and as smoothly as a marriage bell. mr james speedie was the chairman, and behaved right manfully, and sang a beautiful song, which filled our hearts with glee. but when i sang my "rattling boy from dublin town", the audience were like to pull the house down with the hearty applause they showered upon me, because i sang the song so merrily. but, in conclusion, i must honestly say i haven't been so well treated for manv a day; because i got a splendid bed in the queen's hotel, and the breakfast i got there i liked right well. the treatment i received there would please the queen, because the cooking is most excellent and the beds are clean; and, in conclusion, i return my thanks to one and all, especially the members of the lyric club, big and small, also the landlord of the queen's hotel, yours truly, mcgonagall.
Daytimes and rain drops all time through something that never stops coming to you sweet air and water ways fragrances of air summer moods these days are so close and near every occasion is going somewhere like everything like the wind is blowing in the leaves to sing never stopping for an hour or giving longings to fill morning wakes a flower in its peaceful still night times and dream plays playing with sleep colorful fantasy ways all yours always to keep everything is flowing on with somewhere still to go nothing is forever done walking by fast and slow every occasion is going somewhere like everything like the wind is blowing in the leaves to sing circling around in motion summer freshness air to the shore and ocean the distances are everywhere.
You could hear the back door slam all the way across town the night you slamed that old screen door and the words that you was a saying could be heard by everyone saying you don't love me any more.. baby, you can't keep a war like ours a secret in this town small town folks are a close knit family. it won't make the papers but a lot of telephones are speading rumors about you and me.. but we ain't like the jonses's girl mrs jones is so up tight said she lived her life so long so wrong it isn't right but them joneses keep it quiet they don't fight much any more they sleep in seperate bedrooms it's a casualty of war.. well, no one heard that back door open but me when you came back in and no one heard you whisper that this lover is your best friend.. everyone gets angry, but baby you and me for sure will never ever ever ever be love's casualty of war. baby we ain't like the joneses mrs jones is so up tight said she lived her life so long so wrong it isn't right but the jones keep it quiet they don't fight much any more they sleep in seperate bedrooms loves casualty of war..
Know that to receive is giving. your smile reflected in my own mirror gestures of the lovers in which the love is truly sown. know that to receive is giving to taste the sweetness of your breath to watch your eyes grow wide with welcome to touch the smoothness of your flesh know that to receive is giving. the subtle pressures of the dance this close connection now revealing the rhythmic beauty of the trance.
My lady love lives far away, and oh my heart is sad by day, and ah my tears fall fast by night, what may i do in such a plight. why, miles grow few when love is fleet, and love, you know, hath flying feet; break off thy sighs and witness this, how poor a thing mere distance is. my love knows not i love her so, and would she scorn me, did she know? how may the tale i would impart attract her ear and storm her heart? calm thou the tempest in my breast, who loves in silence loves the best, but bide thy time, she will awake, no night so dark but morn will break. but though my heart so strongly yearn, my lady loves me not in turn, how may i win the blest reply that my void heart shall satisfy. love breedeth love, be thou but true, and soon thy love shall love thee, too; if fate hath meant you heart for heart, there's naught may keep you twain apart.
What is love? love is a word it is also devotion it is pleasure, passion, and tenderness love knows no limits love is perfect, it is attachment love is special, it is heavenly it is kind, sympathetic. love is joy, reason, feeling, sacrifice and serving love is to care love keeps back all things love brings love love is a great gift without love there is no life; loving is living living is to walk the earth, be alive see the light.
Please do remember me when i cannot stay, when by destiny everything dear is swept away, when things do not go as we have planned and then do please still believe and understand that all the things for which we do hope and pray is still in the omnipotent lord's hand and that there will come a day where we will be in another land. please do remember me when separate you do go on your way and be life with hardships as it may between us there is still a strong band and even if people act underhand please do remember me.
Lords of survival stalk the night phantoms beneath the northern lights hungry, restless the hunt begins bonds renewed, they circle downwind across the tundra snowy white lords of survival stalk the night weary elk press on with fright the pristine forest in their sights the hungry wolves closing in lords of survival stalk the night overhead the moon and stars bright the weary bull too weak to fight the saga of life played again on strength and cunning life depends the distance closed, howls pierce the quiet lords of survival stalk the night.
Osman arrives the dark thunder lifted her high osman arrives her black dove took her up to fly an abomination of war on her hand, she observed a scar osman arrives. these western shores the byzantine cherubim scream these western shores a coliseum in a dream slave drivers rip away their seams.
De tout mon coeur humblement te salue, pour la grandeur de ta haulte value, royne du ciel, de la terre et la mer, pardonne moy se j'oze au reclamer, ton sainct nom mettre en ma bouche polue, delaissant vie estrange et dissolue, vueil par pensee honneste et resolue te bien servir, et loyaulment aymer de tout mon cueur. tu fuz comme es de dieu si bien voulue, que pour sa mere et fille preesleue dame te feit des vertus renommer ; telle te doy en la terre nommer, et telle aussi seras escripte et leue de tout mon coeur.
Upon the mound the town bells ring where silence breaks upon the wing once lost in time the choir sang explosions without joyous bang a place for those to hail the king we were once heard; by those who bring some peace upon this precious thing long gone those days of locals twang upon the mound solitude a momentous fling if ye shall utter, thou shall sting dont break this one almighty clang for justice will let you all hang upon the mound.
At times you are full of love and you treat me kind and i easily follow your state of mind, fall under your charming spell and although i know you well, broken things do me of your anger remind. there are so many things that to you i want to tell, the depths of your soul at times i want to find and i hate it when you scream and yell; at times you are full of love. i love you too much to leave you behind but at times on your teeth you do grind and at times you treat my like hell, yet at other times you are like a fragile shell and my whole life to you i want to bind; at times you are full of love.
Where i stand full of wonder where the sun rises over the hill with bright light the valley, the plain does fill while i see the rushing waves rolling in and out of the sea and there is a kind of joy in me where i am away of the city's ill. here all of nature seems free although the wind has a kind of chill and life is peaceful as it is meant to be where i stand full of wonder while about me everything seems at ease and still as if in this part of the world you can do, as you will and my heart is silent full of tranquilly as if in this place there is no iniquity where i stand full of wonder.
This airy cage is foliage lined. its supple bars are intertwined. the women show me where to tread. i pluck and spin a cotton thread. my woven home is hardwood spined. the roots have poison deep confined. we boil and dry before we grind. i chew the bread but hope has fled this airy cage. the long flute's low hum numbs my mind. a line of dancers slowly wind. their skins are painted black and red. a shaman waves a shrunken head. i think my love will never find this airy cage.
On the southern tip of africa when the southeaster blows with mighty main oak trees sway, break and are uprooted on the shores while people shelter indoors from the daily sieving winter rain, sunless life seems mundane while doing the same chores on the southern tip of africa. sunless life seems mundane while people shelter indoors oak trees sway, break and are uprooted on the shores and the storm wind rattles every windowpane on the southern tip of africa.
Inter breath my lips dream her hotly kiss with seamless joy parts the glistening bows upon my tongue delicacy of wish my face is flush and time is all aglow. how sweet i prayed and longed for one of those, shyness still in hesitancy of lips; what if there be intrusion of the nose, my fears consider, what if i to miss? i'm leaning close and quiet as the mist with awkward stealth i'm introducing toes, my arms embrace advancing just a bit with seamless joy parts the glistening bows. these links of love with certainty i know will form our bond; yet, always at a risk and weave our fates as passion overflows upon my tongue delicacy of wish. in this softly place, taunt and intimate the winds of love adrift and quick to blow two hearts laced by the lights of innocence my face is flush and time is all aglow. shadows soar then coalesce within my soul wandering wild, our bodies in a twist, complete collapse my mind and body fold inter breath my lips dream her hotly kiss.
To iron a shirt, first lightly spray, then left and right hand interplay; with one to press and one to lead, the path's prepared, the creases freed and gathered wrinkles fade away. the woman's old, in slow decay, she's taken care of every day, yet restless hands still feel the need to iron a shirt. her mind now tends to disarray, yet sometimes skills, long practiced, stay and though she lacks her former speed, her family and friends concede, she's always known the proper way to iron a shirt.
Why are wee by all creatures waited on? why doe the prodigall elements supply life and food to mee, being more pure than i, simple, and further from corruption? why brook'st thou, ignorant horse, subjection? why dost thou bull, and bore so seelily dissemble weaknesse, and by one mans stroke die, whose whole kinde, you might swallow and feed upon? weaker i am, woe is mee, and worse than you, you have not sinn'd, nor need be timorous. but wonder at a greater wonder, for to us created nature doth these things subdue, but their creator, whom sin, nor nature tyed, for us, his creatures, and his foes, hath dyed.
Not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul of the wide world dreaming on things to come, can yet the lease of my true love control, suppos'd as forfeit to a confin'd doom. the mortal moon hath her eclipse endur'd and the sad augurs mock their own presage; incertainties now crown themselves assur'd and peace proclaims olives of endless age. now with the drops of this most balmy time my love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes, since, spite of him, i'll live in this poor rhyme, while he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes; and thou in this shalt find thy monument, when tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent.
What's in the brain that ink may character which hath not figured to thee my true spirit? what's new to speak, what new to register, that may express my love or thy dear merit? nothing, sweet boy; but yet, like prayers divine, i must, each day say o'er the very same, counting no old thing old, thou mine, i thine, even as when first i hallow'd thy fair name. so that eternal love in love's fresh case weighs not the dust and injury of age, nor gives to necessary wrinkles place, but makes antiquity for aye his page, finding the first conceit of love there bred where time and outward form would show it dead.
If i could write a sonnet on a star then bottle it and toss it to the sea would it travel to the corners of the earth, and echo there the love i hold for thee? if i could write a sonnet on the moon then bottle it and toss it to the winds would it find your heart so you may briefly know, where your love ends is where my love begins? if i could write a sonnet on the sun then bottle it and toss it throughout time would someone from a distant galaxy find no greater love than that was mine yet, i cannot write a sonnet on a star, nor moon, nor even on the blazing sun, nor bottle words to send them where you are nor coerce our separate hearts to beat as one and so my darling you will never hear the humble words of love i wrote for thee they remain encrypted, tightly sealed and yet they travel on eternally.
Thou hast made me, and shall thy work decay? repair me now, for now mine end doth haste, i run to death, and death meets me as fast, and all my pleasures are like yesterday; i dare not move my dim eyes any way, despair behind, and death before doth cast such terror, and my feebled flesh doth waste by sin in it, which it t'wards hell doth weigh. only thou art above, and when towards thee by thy leave i can look, i rise again; but our old subtle foe so tempteth me, that not one hour i can myself sustain; thy grace may wing me to prevent his art, and thou like adamant draw mine iron heart.
Where art thou, muse, that thou forget'st so long to speak of that which gives thee all thy might? spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song, darkening thy power to lend base subjects light? return, forgetful muse, and straight redeem in gentle numbers time so idly spent; sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem and gives thy pen both skill and argument. rise, resty muse, my love's sweet face survey, if time have any wrinkle graven there; if any, be a satire to decay, and make time's spoils despised every where. give my love fame faster than time wastes life; so thou prevent'st his scythe and crooked knife.
Dost see how unregarded now that piece of beauty passes? there was a time when i did vow to that alone; but mark the fate of faces; the red and white works now no more on me than if it could not charm, or i not see. and yet the face continues good, and i have still desires, am still the selfsame flesh and blood, as apt to melt and suffer from those fires; oh some kind pow'r unriddle where it lies, whether my heart be faulty, or her eyes? she ev'ry day her man does kill, and i as often die; neither her power then, nor my will can question'd be. what is the mystery? sure beauty's empires, like to greater states, have certain periods set, and hidden fates.
As due by many titles i resigne my selfe to thee, o god, first i was made by thee, and for thee, and when i was decay'd thy blood bought that, the which before was thine; i am thy sonne, made with thy selfe to shine, thy servant, whose paines thou hast still repaid, thy sheepe, thine image, and, till i betray'd my selfe, a temple of thy spirit divine; why doth the devill then usurpe on mee? why doth he steale, nay ravish that's thy right? except thou rise and for thine own worke fight, oh i shall soone despaire, when i doe see that thou lov'st mankind well, yet wilt'not chuse me, and satan hates mee, yet is loth to lose me.
I crave your mouth, your voice, your hair. silent and starving, i prowl through the streets. bread does not nourish me, dawn disrupts me, all day i hunt for the liquid measure of your steps. i hunger for your sleek laugh, your hands the color of a savage harvest, hunger for the pale stones of your fingernails, i want to eat your skin like a whole almond. i want to eat the sunbeam flaring in your lovely body, the sovereign nose of your arrogant face, i want to eat the fleeting shade of your lashes, and i pace around hungry, sniffing the twilight, hunting for you, for your hot heart, like a puma in the barrens of quitratue.
Thou hast made me, and shall thy work decay? repair me now, for now mine end doth haste; i run to death, and death meets me as fast, and all my pleasures are like yesterday. i dare not move my dim eyes any way, despair behind, and death before doth cast such terror, and my feeble flesh doth waste by sin in it, which it towards hell doth weigh. only thou art above, and when towards thee by thy leave i can look, i rise again; but our old subtle foe so tempteth me that not one hour myself i can sustain. thy grace may wing me to prevent his art, and thou like adamant draw mine iron heart.
Death, be not proud, though some have called thee mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so; for those whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow, die not, poor death, nor yet canst thou kill me. from rest and sleep, which but thy pictures be, much pleasure; then from thee much more must flow, and soonest our best men with thee do go, rest of their bones, and soul's delivery. thou art slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men, and dost with poison, war, and sickness dwell; and poppy or charms can make us sleep as well and better than thy stroke; why swell'st thou then? one short sleep past, we wake eternally, and death shall be no more; death, thou shalt die.
And now you're mine. rest with your dream in my dream. love and pain and work should all sleep, now. the night turns on its invisible wheels, and you are pure beside me as a sleeping amber. no one else, love, will sleep in my dreams. you will go, we will go together, over the waters of time. no one else will travel through the shadows with me, only you, evergreen, ever sun, ever moon. your hands have already opened their delicate fists and let their soft drifting signs drop away; your eyes closed like two gray wings, and i move after, following the folding water you carry, that carries me away. the night, the world, the wind spin out their destiny. without you, i am your dream, only that, and that is all.
Verse yet not the blank blanketed by the smokes of fire as when frayed by the fangs of desire, love is not blank as verse of the heart yet not the void vile amuck as glanced inhered sovereign as the rhythm into the river as the love is yet mightier than pen as when wrought by the inkling of love as passion.
Whistles the train boring a hole into the midriff of the still air. bon voyages raised hands waving handkerchiefs pledges promises prayers for a safe return suns of kisses freezing on lips. unbetoken'd eyes moisten with dew drops. whistels the train boring a hole into the midriff of the still air.
When sunsets for night sorrow drifts in, whispering through the trees. her gown flutters through the air as she glides over me. setting quietness throughout the land, in a dangerious whisper that gave me shivers. the despair settled over me, as her calming deadly wrath, wrapped me in a blanket of sadness.
No matter how much it seems to hurt, it happens again and agian tears are running down my cheeks, saying that i'll regret this. no matter what happens, i'm always alone. with no one on my side, but i'm not alone, others do the same. what will happen when we are done? with nothing left, my heart cries out, unknowingly, with no reason for misery. it's like the death of an angel, all over agian, in the silent screams i hear.
We can't share this same space less he gets out of that bad place. oh how i tried, all i did was cried. until i composed another song a good old country one about another love gone wrong now i am strong, life carries on so don't you be worryin 'bout me whatever will be, will be.
On the job my position they rob bring them flowers they cut my hours claim they're a friend screw you to the end in despair they don't care must go to the unemployment line to them that's fine getting govt. help to them that's swell company closed down i'm laughing like a clown.
Running through the dark lights and trees whipping past. claws shred the earth and fur blows in the wind. fangs drenched in blood my core burning in rage. wolves are extremly loyal but just as posessive as well. i'm her pet and she's my master as well. curling at her feet, it feels nice. to be so close. i nudge her leg gently with my muzzle and look up into her golden eyes. i'm happy she cares about me. so rare. night is my domain and my mistress.
I want to write a beautiful verse in the honor of your love to spark your imagination to be sung in the drawing rooms to come on the lips of that beautiful woman and to get applause i want to write a beautiful verse a verse that teaches morality a verse that would make you tremble with fear of the unknown a verse that would tell the stories of the past and present a verse that would talk of paradise anew i want to write a beautiful verse that would tell my heroes to bring as many heads as they can i want to write a verse extolling small men to make them giants i want to pray that god unlocks my tongue for an eloquent speech but of all the things i want to write a beautiful verse for you alone i want to whisper in your ears i want to feel you i want to tell you the story of my love from the beginning.
From this city i want to flee, to find a place of some solace, not again i want to return, where city lights sometimes blind people. i still think about how it was, from this city i want to flee, i cannot fit in this anthill, a bridge to escape, i must find. the city makes me uneasy, i want to wander on the beach, from this city i want to flee, i want to vanish by bus or train. now i splash in a city stream, at times are in the open air, about freedom i can just dream, from this city i want to flee.
Simply the mind can not be idle and it kicks the heart bullying the heart cries, the mind giggles and the mind starts singing in all tones in all colours of lexicon stunned heart mutes its cry and the mind and the heart both sing freely freely free verses.
Past ruined ilion helen lives, alcestis rises from the shades. verse calls them forth; 'tis verse that gives immortal youth to mortal maids. soon shall oblivion's deepening veil hide all the peopled hills you see, the gay, the proud, while lovers hail these many summers you and me.
Your eyes are the colour of water but it is completely frozen over and there is no way into your vision unless i somehow warm you up first alas, that is something i can't do unless you're willing to let yourself go and press your body against my body in hopes that the sparks will make a fire so until our bones lie in the ground i will have a fire inside of me and it is burning like andromeda just because you aren't here for me but i wonder, if you come around will i want to burn for you much more?.
Your voices of golden verse wakes me up from deep slumber as coursed from the dream heartful rousing the warmth of love endeared when surfing the beach in a morning early awaiting the golden sun to rise yet to delve the dew from the depth of night dazzling across swaying of the grass as revered by the mist of the night past. as you make your day promising bright and muse over morning to rave up the day suave and serene yet blazing the love by wishes to the sky for the blue moon. let all your prayer be blossomed and be sparkling with the fragrance yet scattering like a rain in summer quenching thirst for smile to the green when each speckle of desire being blazed like flairs of a night in blue moon with the light of success in ascension being sheltered and safe yet unreasoned.
The snow falls on my fathers' bed on the foot on the head the snow falls on my fathers' bed all the night and morning long my fathers' bed is in the ground his sleep is deep his sleep is sound my fathers' bed is in the ground na will he soon awaken his earthly day was not so long but thirty year or very near his earthly day was not so long the reason more to mourn him the devil took him by the hand and turned him on to heroin the devil took him by the hand and that is why he's gone softly on the dreaming land sifts and blows the gleaming snow softly on the weeping land and on my fathers' stone the snow falls on my fathers' bed on the foot on the head the snow falls on my fathers' bed all the night and morning long.
Life, they say, if full of wonder; mine is full of storm and thunder. life, they say, is a tuneful song; shrieks discordant mine do throng. life, they say, with honey drips; mine, my tears is made to sip. life, they say, in nectar wades; sunk in poison mine is laid. life, they say, is heavenly bliss; mine is mobbed by snakes that hiss. life, they say, is paeans' surge; mine is but a woeful dirge.
Whom will you cry to, heart? more and more lonely, your path struggles on through incomprehensible mankind. all the more futile perhaps for keeping to its direction, keeping on toward the future, toward what has been lost. once. you lamented? what was it? a fallen berry of jubilation, unripe. but now the whole tree of my jubilation is breaking, in the storm it is breaking, my slow tree of joy. loveliest in my invisible landscape, you that made me more known to the invisible angels. translated by stephen mitchell.
I know an old tradesman who worked with sand and cement. now the story i am going to tell you turned out to be his lament. his work was done to perfection built from row to row and he was the very best bricky, the best you will ever know. when a job was finished his tools had to be clean, because he was the boss of a slap happy working team.they would put in the footings then forget to build the wall and when they did it was neither short or tall.they once built an house with an extention on the side it was that badly built that no one could reside. he had a young apprentice who soon became his hoddie, he never let him lay the bricks because his work was always shoddy.there were a couple of muckers who mixed up the cement they were for ever subbing so they never paid their rent.his labourers name was dodger who would work now and then, most of the time was spent at the bookies placing bets for other men. he employed an incompetent plumber who always gave him the pip, every job he went on he always left a drip. he was a good bricky i would say he was first class, but when it came to team work they were just total 'arse'.
We mourn the loss of our little pet, and sigh o'er her hapless fate, for never more by the fire she'll sit, nor play by the old green gate. the little grave where her infant sleeps is 'neath the chestnut tree. but o'er her grave we may not weep, we know not where it may be. her empty bed, her idle ball, will never see her more; no gentle tap, no loving purr is heard at the parlor door. another cat comes after her mice, a cat with a dirty face, but she does not hunt as our darling did, nor play with her airy grace. her stealthy paws tread the very hall where snowball used to play, but she only spits at the dogs our pet so gallantly drove away. she is useful and mild, and does her best, but she is not fair to see, and we cannot give her your place dear, nor worship her as we worship thee.
O how all things are far removed and long have passed away. i do believe the star, whose light my face reflects, is dead and has been so for many thousand years. i had a vision of a passing boat and heard some voices saying disquieting things. i heard a clock strike in some distant house. but in which house?. i long to quiet my anxious heart and stand beneath the sky's immensity. i long to pray. and one of all the stars must still exist. i do believe that i would know which one alone endured, and which like a white city stands at the ray's end shining in the heavens. translated by albert ernest flemming.
He shall not hear the bittern cry in the wild sky, where he is lain, nor voices of the sweeter birds, above the wailing of the rain. nor shall he know when loud march blows thro' slanting snows her fanfare shrill, blowing to flame the golden cup of many an upset daffodil. but when the dark cow leaves the moor and pastures poor with greedy weeds perhaps he'll hear her low at morn lifting her horn in pleasant meads.
Where are those dazzling hills touched by the sun, those crags in childhood that i used to climb? hidden, hidden under mist is yonder mountain, hidden is the heart. a day of cloud, a lifetime falls between, gone are the heather moors and the pure stream, gone are the rocky places and the green, hidden, hidden under sorrow is yonder mountain, hidden, hidden. o storm and gale of tears, whose blinding screen makes weather of grief, snow's drifting curtain palls th'immortal heights once seen. hidden, hidden is the heart, hidden, hidden is the heart.
I am the walking dead heartbreaker, my apologies, i'm happy you'll never understand what it's like to be trapped under six feet of solid glass, i can see out, but no one gets in screaming at this prison, i've locked myself into, i'm sorry that i'm still breathing and that i'll kill again. but the loneliness is too much for me to handle. but the taste for fresh blood, pushes me on. the fear of romance the pain of living the joy of sorrow the strength of not forgiving i told myself the constant pain would ease the tension burning inside but the nights were cold and the days dragged to weeks, i will die here alone i will die god help me, i'm so tired, but in my dreams the wolves eat out my soul god help me, i'm so frightened, but in my dreams wolves tear out my heart i used to be golden, a saint in a time of sorrow, but then the turning came and i kissed the sun goodbye, don't you get it, it's always darker in my eyes, the screams of my brothers egging me on.
Sorrow is my own yard where the new grass flames as it has flamed often before but not with the cold fire that closes round me this year. thirtyfive years i lived with my husband. the plumtree is white today with masses of flowers. masses of flowers load the cherry branches and color some bushes yellow and some red but the grief in my heart is stronger than they for though they were my joy formerly, today i notice them and turn away forgetting. today my son told me that in the meadows, at the edge of the heavy woods in the distance, he saw trees of white flowers. i feel that i would like to go there and fall into those flowers and sink into the marsh near them.
Wherefore awakest thou, . oh mine heart? thy lover hast taken . thine every part and left but a shell. but markest thou well, cupid hast many another dart. it will be mustered . and aimed forthwith, t'ward that ungrateful wretch, .and thus give this very same pain. and happen again he cometh, henceforth . wilt find me heartless.
No doubt jesus is my best friend his love is never rude or dim hope and peace to my soul he sends in everything i can count on him when people around let me down heart sings him a worshiping hymn in him best of the best i've found in everything i can count on him without him don't know where i'd be he fills my life's cup to the brim sends me blessings that's clear to see in everything i can count on him.
Child, one day you will understand when the course of time eases the pain giving way to all life's earthly demands your tears will fade like sandcastles in the rain when all your bitter sorrows depart and all that remains is the shadow of pain love will be the memory you hold in your heart your tears will fade like sandcastles in the rain hopes and dreams of love will reign anew where those memories of pain had once lain and once more your heart will shine true your tears will fade like sandcastles in the rain child, one day you will understand your tears will fade like sandcastles in the rain.
At the savage, indigo sky, draped in snow, claw the mountains high. by the cirque, a base, sheltered 'neath, his gun sings the ballad of death. a field of kash, in autumn swirl, the dark braid of that village girl. mother's white, unwavering faith, his gun sings the ballad of death. skin burns through the synthetic girth, frozen blood inseminates earth. echo of loss shudders his breath, his gun sings the ballad of death. at the savage, indigo sky, his gun sings the ballad of death.
For god's sake i don't understand you i love you but you make me blue you don't act like a 'true sister' you say one thing but act another i notice all you do dear 'friend' and so many things just don't blend see the proof in all that you gather you say one thing but act another your whole behaviour is so sad situation to others look bad you don't act like a 'true sister' you say one thing but act another.
Is there a god under the root or yourself the god up on earth how you shine like a fire so brute tell me how this bright with all mirth oh gulmohar is there a route of ganga for you under earth or you grow of a heavenly shoot tell me how this bright with all mirth crimson..scarlet..in all red suit and in sunny yellow you're worth an embrace, a big hug's pursuit tell me how this bright with all mirth is there a god under the root tell me how this bright with all mirth.
I'll kick the cat then stir the fish, drink stale, cold coffee from a dish. i'll rise at noon, that's my new dawn. i find my mornings so forlorn. get dressed. no shower, no shampoo. another day to muddle through. a crumpled skirt, a blouse that's torn. i find my mornings so forlorn. i think i should have stayed in bed, my purple feathered hat looks dead, my army coat is bald and worn. i find my mornings so forlorn. i'll kick the cat then stir the fish, i find my mornings so forlorn.
Don't know where i'd be without him he spreads forgiveness, leaves never send us blessings that's clear to see he gives love this day, forever he always sees through hearts and all through everything can go with him with god i can rise and stand tall he gives love this day, forever without his grace, love, where i'd be his divine love for us just flows he always wants the best for me he gives love this day, forever.
It is composed in quatrains lines that's not hard at all when done fine this french style you can do right kyrielle is easy to write eight syllables per line in all in each one you observe this call there's rhyming all through to delight kyrielle is easy to write repeat the b in last line verse you'll make a nice piece to diverse style to enjoy day or nite kyrielle is easy to write.
There are good days and some bad days life brings troubles gives us bad cards but god in the end sees us through life gets hard and some lose their home times changing and sometimes go bad money's tight and no place to roam some lose jobs and they become sad life gets hard and some lose their home folks lose their health peace and sleep prices rise so high and jobs get low some need their home to live and keep life gets hard and some lose their home.
When those victims of racism are cruelly abused, their faces look so sad and they don't know they are used. a fear of things makes them inept to protect their space. sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place. the crisis and the wars made these people immigrants. discriminated, blacks and whites look so innocent. their stolen generation grows and lives in disgrace. sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place. they need equality and peace in this world to live and they pray to have the mercy and love our lord can give. to protest in the streets, they run their life steeplechase. sometimes, they die in search for another dwelling place.
Your attitude is really bad and you are indeed not my friend you're not to me at all that's sad that's why chosen to keep away for long i thought you a true friend all can do is for you to pray my heart needs time to heal and mend that's why chosen to keep away but got jesus, he makes heart sing can't help to love and care a lot but wearing mask is not my thing that's why chosen to keep away i don't want to get hurt anymore you do your thing and thats your right but don't like your game i close door that's why chosen to keep away.
If you are smart, you will listen to me remember not all tales are just make believe dragons in snuggies are not just seen on tv never say yes when a dragon invites you to tea i don't know how i got there, i hadn't a clue but the next thing i heard was one lump or two and he smiled most wide with his eyes all agleam never say yes when a dragon invites you to tea his teeth were all pointy, as long as my shoe and with a smile like that, who was i to refuse so i smiled as i stammered 'can i have three? ' never say yes when a dragon invites you to tea if you are smart, you will listen to me never say yes when a dragon invites you to tea.
There's hope for new day tomorrow. don't give to hurt with god be fine. i believe we reap what we sow. just live life right walk straight the line. my eyes shed many tears and such. but refuse remain in the rain. with god i can break all my chains. just live life right walk straight the line. believe things don't happen in vain. keep eyes open never walk blind. joy in the lord just eases pain. just live life right walk straight the line. there's hope for new day tomorrow. just live life right walk straight the line.
Life's filled with much joy much aching like weather, clouds, we go changing sometimes is great, often a mess boldly go where dreams just take us. days passes us so quickly by making the best we laugh and cry no hellos, goodbyes, just left to guess boldly go where dreams just take us. so much take place, things of all kind some things are better left behind good or bad then why make a fuss boldly go where dreams just take us.
I hide my growlings, curb my prowls, leave my fur jacket in the hall, and with the dinner party blend i am not civilised at all. my claws are curving, pearly white, so when the roast's thin slices fall, the dripping blood is my delight i am not civilised at all. i must not snarl or show my teeth. such savage manners would appal. i must affect a simple smile. i am not civilised at all. when the high moon is in its place, and shadow slithers like a pall, a thousand packs howl in my heart, i am not civilised at all. my ears like shells, fill with the sound of whirring wing and foxes' call. the wild, the wet is my delight, i am not civilised at all. then i peel off my human face, slink from the house and leap the wall, to join the runners in the night, i am not civilised at all.
Kyrielle, your eyes are so blue, for they have a wonderful hue, they are a beautiful shade, for you are my fair maid. your hair, long and blond, astonishes me so, for your love is the thing i know, and, yea, it shall not fade, for you are my fair maid. you fill me with compassion, something beyond retroaction, and, my, have you been finely made, for you are my fair maid. you hair shines in the sunlight, for you teach the torches to burn bright; i love your hair in a braid, for you are my fair maid. your smile as white as day, makes me feel so gay, for this with love you are paid, for you are my fair maid. your compassion strikes my heart, which struck me from the very start, and here we have stayed, for you are my fair maid. this one thing i know, for it is quite so, of me you'll never raid, for you are my fair maid.
His presence feel each night and day i know he's never far away when in trouble he hears my plight i love the lord with all my might read his messages of love, hear his call he lifts me up each time i fall never leaves me out of his sight i love the lord with all my might when think of him heart wants to sing because he's my savior and king his love forever shines so bright i love the lord with all my might.
It all gets explained with two eyes, all the reasons we give with words cannot fathom the depth nor highs, the whys and passions so expressed. some are blue, some are green or brown, they share so much, rest assured, having it all, yet still they frown with whys and passions so expressed. the look of you is more than shared, it is a puzzle that's explained when you see into pools of care, the whys and passions so expressed.
If we do look at things in history no kind of rescue comes from history and that was just another old story. . peace, the government had promised me but to war, to death they had then sent me to set mankind from all kinds of war free. it was bad, i was under sniper fire saw howitzer guns open deadly fire and we moved constantly did then tire. every place looked the very same the weather, the veldt just stayed the same but to the generals it was a game and soldiers were sacrificed as mere pawns in the hearts of great men where evil spawns.
Prayer for them through a chain verse 16 november, 2018 merciful lord, open their eyes, brain and heart who can't see and understand your truth, i know through it through their gain and loss you have no benefit again, no any loss.
Tomorrow i shall roam free free from the burden of your body body that captivated me for long long enough to keep me alive now i shall be free from any accountability accountability that kept me in check check that i am still alive and living living a life which is predestined destined to certain path and ways tomorrow when this soul will see the light light of the day from the darkness of this body body which is mortal, but bundled in ego ego, a burden that forced mind to enjoy enjoy the dust with which you are made of and and i shall roam free till ordered to enter new body.
Feel everything everything in life life comes and goes goes like the wind blowing blowing to unknown paths paths you never imagined walking through through out your life there are shadows shadows pf uncertainty and doubts doubts that lead to discovery discovery of your inner self self awareness comes when you are free free of fears that haunts your thoughts thoughts are windmills in your mind mind is cage when you cannot express expression is the way to freedom freedom from your own narrowness and limitations limitations that hinder you from living living your life to the fullest.
She's not exactly sad but trying to fit and blend, into a character drafted deftly in lines by the inks of the writer. so don't blame her as soon as the ink spills creativity lies on her sorrows and sadness, hence, she must always be sad.
There are lots of scars on the surface of this skin, soft, thicker or thin. the memories of the past has an awful heartbreak crack. but love came with ease, stretched and kissed the scars; amazingly, out went the mark and wiped off all shed tears with an exchange of sweet spit.
Listen to your heart, follow your dreams, don't look for anything else, just forget unnecessary things. live life to its fullest, and enjoy every minute of it. bend the rules and push the limits love all, but trust only one. health is your real wealth, believing others is foolishness just enjoy what you have with god's bless waiting for wealth will create a mess. live for as long as you can. settle for nothing but only the best, and give cent percent with sincerity and trust. sometimes, take risk and live on the edges. you are the master of your fate you are the captain of your ship.
I blow your pictures up a lot, so that they fill my screen and stare into the pixels; all of those little brown dots that make such a wonderful scene, like a green meadow, an occasional thistle looking so at home in the hot afternoon breeze, swaying and serene. i can almost hear a kid whistle in the distance. maybe he forgot that this was nothing but a dream, the way that i did, until i shrunk your picture back down and saw that your beautiful brown eyes were just pixels on my cell phone screen.
Dear revered reader, from my heart these gently trigger. let them who cry in pain remember the sun and rain. let those who prosper in expedience not await god's providence. let the speaker speak in truth and resist his tongue from brute. let the teacher teach in fairness for his children shall see kindness. let the leader loose his bossy tie and show us the ladder to the sky. and let the follower humble his brow for the eggs shall one day crow. let the judge be just and reject the backhander's cost. let the friend be a good comrade and offer no deceit of any grade. let the rich fend for the needy, there is no gift for the greedy. let everyone then be a good fellow, as our deeds follow us like shadow.
Storm and wave their tumult cease. see, the heav'nly galaxies, fainter, even dimmer is their golden glimmer as the morning softly dawning of the sun's wan ray gives warning. asp and maple sighing, stream and marsh replying, woodcock buzzes, peasant passes round his filly's neck her harness. now in our stove when it is lit, grasses and twigs crackle and spit, soon our porridge will be boiling. now with tousled brow cottager, i trow, seeks to light his pipe, and out in the field leaning on a stone, dalesman lifts anew his spade.
She is the love and take out the airbag a sudden wave i take off the rose the blow pipe pluck to water, which suddenly break best joy, is silver born in summer her struggle is harsh, the girl say having seen she is come back rises up tired eyes, unchanged the moon but when the laughter moves sky is seeking me and it opens for me all the doors of life my love, in the darkest to my lovely opens, and if suddenly see my blood staining the big stone of the street, because laughter to the sea in the fall your laughter must raise.
I suppose that bring a big yellow tree resting on winter position the fruit on eat snow and rest and cap must be taken out the hair is longer is your own head on diseases for or it is not going to harm and the best i think vitamins should be swallowed like the pride to help a man on a hill put your pants on good to eat alone he have a song better than a crispbread not to crumbs knocked paid less.
Some flowers rise up bright from tiny seeds, blooms appear with heads searching for the sun; on this earth so it's been since time begun, some flowers rise up bright from tiny seeds, blooms appear with heads searching for the sun they rejoice over a day that is new are fresh with the glistening morning dew; blooms appear with heads searching for the sun they rejoice over a day that is new as bees and butterflies flutter along birds do sing the happiest kind of song they rejoice over a day that is new, as bees and butterflies flutter along wild deer graze at the soft tender green grass while they in massive herds do slowly pass as bees and butterflies flutter along wild deer graze at the soft tender green grass some flowers rise up bright from tiny seeds grow to strength in a world full of big weeds, wild deer graze at the soft tender green grass, some flowers rise up bright from tiny seeds, blooms appear with heads searching for the sun; on this earth so it's been since time begun, some flowers rise up bright from tiny seeds.
I thank god for the infinite blue sky, for every day that is truly amazing, for tiny birds fluttering on a wing, i thank god for the infinite blue sky, for every day that is truly amazing for living on this big old mother earth where every day is to something a birth, for every day that is truly amazing for living on this big old mother earth, for existing here and merely being in times of winter and during the spring, for living on this big old mother earth for existing here and merely being i thank god for the infinite blue sky for the look of care and love in your eye, for existing here and merely being, i thank god for the infinite blue sky, for every day that is truly amazing, for tiny birds fluttering on a wing, i thank god for the infinite blue sky.

I had been to this sea sometime before where water stretch out beyond from the bay, it had been on a tranquil summer day, i had been to this sea sometime before where water stretch out beyond from the bay, the surge swells before it crushing breaks while a tiny boat rocks upon the wake where water stretch out beyond from the bay, the surge swells before it crushing breaks with some shells and sand swept out everywhere before deeper in the water we both dare, the surge swells before it crushing breaks with some shells and sand swept out everywhere while you smile in a way that i adore we hear the thundering on a distant shore with some shells and sand swept out everywhere while you smile in a way that i adore, we both swim through the crashing pull and flow trying to find a way back, a way to go, while you smile in a way that i adore we both swim through the crashing pull and flow it feels if our world is suddenly gone while still together we do struggle on we both swim through the crashing pull and flow it feels if our world is suddenly gone while we do see only the sky and sea, we are trying to get back, to be free, it feels if our world is suddenly gone while we do see only the sky and sea, we are blinded by a distant kind of sun, hear the engine of a fishing boat run while we do see only the sky and sea, we are blinded by a distant kind of sun, as an unknown, sheltering bay we reach, as we both stagger out upon a beach we are blinded by a distant kind of sun, as an unknown, sheltering bay we reach, we embrace and you stroke my hair gently; a rich boat owner looks at you, smiles at me, as an unknown, sheltering bay we reach, we embrace and you stroke my hair gently, we ride on a boat that rocks up and down, but still we are in a world our very own we embrace and you stroke my hair gently we ride on a boat that rocks up and down, i had been to this sea sometime before, while we kiss each other and kiss some more; we ride on a boat that rocks up and down, i had been to this sea sometime before where water stretch out beyond from the bay, it had been on a tranquil summer day; i had been to this sea sometime before.
Far too many enemies were coffined in battle tanks, armoured cars shot out and in the roar i could not hear myself shout; far too many enemies were coffined in battle tanks, armoured cars shot out, far too many enemies were coffined in the endless din, in walls of steel and tin; battle tanks, armoured cars shot out. far too many enemies were coffined in battle tanks, armoured cars shot out and in the roar i could not hear myself shout; far too many enemies were coffined in.
The miles now driven the trailer now unloaded the rack to be built materials out the tools of our trade at hand the day now begins bases on uprights the bolts tightened with impacts day one has ended day two arises wood decks to be laid all day guide rail tomorrow heavy work for day three angle iron more than a ton just the welding now the welder under hood we load tools back in trailer then welder be done one more night to sleep signed off now the drive begins another job done.
To griggs, that learned man, in many a bygone session, his kids were his delight, and physics his profession; now griggs, grown old and glum, and less intent on knowledge, physics himself at home, and sends his kids to college.
1. the breeze jiggles, the leaves jiggle the leaves jiggle, the tree jiggles the tree jiggles, the shadow on the wall in silence jiggles..the wall says "don't tickle me of and on" 2.sleeping under a tree wearied a wayfarer bitten by a battalion of ants screamed said in giggling tone the rustling leaves "hosted with acupuncture".
To the almighty creator we believe with faith to him we pray to merit us the better fate but if a strong, healthy person such so lazy relies only from somebody to feed him if hungry to starvation if that person dies, that's total defeat and that's not almighty creator's given fate.
In friendship you need to be cautious don't be such so presumptuous such cockiness reflection of yours, simply can reflect as bad omen to your personality and for being that of an arrogant person leads you to be anonymous and forgotten ency bearis 2017 all rights reserved.
Squire adam had two wives, they say, two wives had he, for his delight, he kissed and clypt them all the day and clypt and kissed them all the night. now eve like ocean foam was white and lilith roses dipped in wine, but though they were a goodly sight no lady is so fair as mine. to venus some folk tribute pay and queen of beauty she is hight, and sainte marie the world doth sway in cerule napery bedight. my wonderment these twain invite, their comeliness it is divine, and yet i say in their despite, no lady is so fair as mine. dame helen caused a grievous fray, for love of her brave men did fight, the eyes of her made sages fey and put their hearts in woeful plight. to her no rhymes will i indite, for her no garlands will i twine, though she be made of flowers and light no lady is so fair as mine. l'envoi prince eros, lord of lovely might, who on olympus dost recline, do i not tell the truth aright? no lady is so fair as mine.
No girdle hath weaver or goldsmith wrought so rich as the arms of my love can be; no gems with a lovelier lustre fraught than her eyes, when they answer me liquidly. dear lady of love, be kind to me in days when the waters of hope abate, and doubt like a shimmer on sand shall be, in the year yet, lady, to dream and wait. sweet mouth, that the wear of the world hath taught no glitter of wile or traitorie, more soft than a cloud in the sunset caught, or the heart of a crimson peony; oh turn not its beauty away from me; to kiss it and cling to it early and late shall make sweet minutes of days that flee, in the year yet, lady, to dream and wait. rich hair, that a painter of old had sought for the weaving of some soft phantasy, most fair when the streams of it run distraught on the firm sweet shoulders yellowly; dear lady, gather it close to me, weaving a nest for the double freight of cheeks and lips that are one and free, for the year yet, lady, to dream and wait. envoi. so time shall be swift till thou mate with me, for love is mightiest next to fate, and none shall be happier, love, than we, in the year yet, lady, to dream and wait.
Then finishing my third form i came upon words ars poetica i looked to the sky with its gathering clouds and say to myself yes the infinite blue is good for inspiration i feel the cool morning breeze before heat yes that is good to drive the imagination i remember things that strike me throughout the day some memories long some short yes they are good topics to write about i wonder if i will succeed in this new to me form and remember the hardest step is the first one putting the pencil to the paper.
I wanted to tell the veterinary assistant about the cat video jason sent me but i resisted for fear she'd think it strange i am very lonely yesterday my boyfriend called me, drunk again and interspersed between ringing tears and clinginess he screamed at me with a kind of bitterness no other human had before to my ears and told me that i was no good well maybe he didn't mean that but that is what i heard when he told me my life was not worthwhile and my life's work the work of the elite. i say i want to save the world but really i want to write poems all day i want to rise, write poems, go to sleep, write poems in my sleep make my dreams poems make my body a poem with beautiful clothes i want my face to be a poem i have just learned how to apply eyeliner to the corners of my eyes to make them appear wide there is a romantic abandon in me always i want to feel the dread for others i can feel it through song only through song am i able to sum up so many words into a few like when he said i am no good i am no good goodness is not the point anymore holding on to things now that's the point.
It is passion without it it is nothing it is feeling winding up running looking for an opening and then if contained it bursts it is an emoticon sad, happy, exhilarated, burning, wriggling dancing, wild, making love, resting after love, smoking and gazing finding a home finally in the silence of its fulfillment. it is never propaganda. never an advertisement not even an autobiography everyone relates and at the end begins to imitate it.
I. poetry is taking a blind man and trying to describe the rainbow to him using no adjectives. ii. the poet walks into a dark room and paints the air white. or at least attempts to while the whales eat him whole and recreate him again. ii. the muses and the poet, locked in a game of baseball, forget that the poet must die and forever they linger, haunting students with a bigger picture.
Woven words, cascading down slopes of rhyme, through jungles of cadence and blanketing the atmosphere of the voluptuous mind; it is with these colors i paint my opalescence and become translucent phosphorescent celestial and lyrical and eternal immortal every keystroke fires across webs of wire fiber optic fantasy burning nocturnes and arias and odes tears, and collapse into the radiant world of relentless wonder, ineffable realm of lucidity, of pageantry, of swooning possibility that we call 'the internet'.
All the while i adore you, day and night, dawn and dusk, i have you, at the worst, i side with you, ars poetica, an illusion of love and grandeur, a struggle for name and fame, always, you ask, "what is your name? " or "do you have a name? " and i write my name in your body, but you are a mist, a body of water, a waterfall, and my name is lost, and i am lost in you, " i have my rules", my house is here, and "are you following? " you must sing my name, she demands, you must chant me, you must make me holy, you must remove your slippers when you enter my door, inside the room you must undress and face me naked, let me see your body, let me touch your soul, ars poetica again, too demanding and sometimes too demeaning, but most of the times, yes, always beautiful and magical, but had always been, too forgetful. yes, too forgetful, inside her house, i have no seat, no place, no persian pillow. inside her heart is filled with love, but she has none for me.
I am hooked to you. i need rehabilitation in china, the bamboo rafts there can help, i will sail on the yangtze river together with you my rudder on the shallow jade green waters, i shall hear robins making love calls, i am stuck on this trip lots of rainbow illusions colors in my mind i am jailed in your arms my heart enthralled to this injunction everyday i set aside other works, the plants are wilting and the trees are dying, my dogs are hungry unfed my chickens cross the fence to feed on other grains i am stuck in here because i like it here china can wait the chickens may die even my dogs let them be impounded.
The sun by the sun can no longer see me to end can no longer see those looks of pink in the eves of orange and no longer see the evening kill the evening the horizon through the horizon drink the sky where it bleeds all light light by light to the last single spot reserving ages dazzling not a beholder or a closed eyes listener a reason in there always a reason and for a reason open. was my inkpot for a reason this inky poem was written a beholder, guess why? you are? why by why if dazzled, o beholder howmany stars? or. what are they?.
Open eyes while seemingly asleep. placenta does not move after birth. where a mind is it's own after expansion. try to close your eyes while awake with the fish. easter eggs that move after birth. and there from a stream the river swells as i piss.
I have to give a clue as to whom my heart is beating for to put an end to all these silly guesses and pave way to where my heart's beating never rests an enigma out of a cloudy rhyme swirling waves of ink like a confused child it is where the key lies behind these overused phrases and dusty lines meant to be unraveled not just by any curious mind a revelation of the dauntless heart a surge of inspiration that needs no further introduction built within this fortress of words where all emotions i dare not say but it is only through a shiny mirror as one stares lovingly at his duplicate where the code breaks the riddle of all riddles. as to whom my heart is beating for.
Shall i love god for causing me to be? i was mere utterance; shall these words love me? yet when i caused his work to jar and stammer, and one free subject loosened all his grammar, i love him that he did not in a rage once and forever rule me off the page, but, thinking i might come to please him yet, crossed out 'delete' and wrote his patient 'stet'.
Words chase me i escape to paper paper travels again to the sun field the ink is the colour the sky has many dots the pink the crimson are two dots lines are two cezanne and one matisse rembrandt's the light van gogh is the green in it the sky rains souls a cracked vase sad poets homer smokes a dream cigar aristotle writes and sings no end socrates saves himself plato's plato a stoic logic 3 syllogisms the wisemen know sadness, happiness grammar's again spelling, saying 60 years memories, birds jesus christ the old age the new golden light temples sunset, pyramids alexander the greek books, libraries many books as well 2 doves dots..dots lines appear words chase fast..fast words chase where i 7 medieval renaissance 6 words, words worlds, . 's me es. i escape again and me es. and again to paper.
How much is plenty of fuss. how is such that much is must. how is must perpendicular to lust. how is lust at tangent to trust. how is trust thinner than earths crust. how does the cracking of crust be at the root of new mud. new land, new beginning.
Unwind my riddle. cruel as hawks the hours fly; wounded men seldom come home to die; the hard waves see an arm flung high; scorn hits strong because of a lie; yet there exists a mystic tie. unwind my riddle.
Clueless everything in the room is made neat you feel what clean is those cup boards and plates not a dust not a mark of dried water just perfect clueless i think of you but there is a distance that knows how far roads can be made near how a house can be reachable despite the length of the hills the height of skies you have know the stained spot no one bothers to call it its own name everyone has that inkling to clean it by itself even me there was never a time at dawn and evenings are too visible and mornings are too preoccupied and busy it is like a rock in the middle of the road cars change directions not to hit it people who see it do not have the power to remove it but all wanted it removed somehow a pain in the eye no one dares and it is always there and it will always be a bruise on the cheek even during your death when you give that last smile of concern you did not mention a syllable about it i know you were so hurt it is me all those times beside you and still you never said a word about it.
Sixteen is most common; eighteen is not rare; fourteen happens often, of that i am aware. even twelve and twenty at times will intervene, but seventeen and fifteen i have never seen. so is there some way you can figure out what it is that i am talking about?.
Upon a bed of humble clay in all her garments loose a prostitute my mother lay to ev'ry comer's use. 'till one gallant in heat of love his own peculiar made her and to a region far above and softer beds convey'd her. but in his absence, to his place his rougher rival came and with a cold constrain'd embrace begat me on the dame. i then appear'd to publick view a creature wondrous bright but shortly perishable too inconstant, nice and light. on feathers not together fast i wildly flew about and from my father's country past to find my mother out. where her gallant of her beguil'd with me enamour'd grew and i that was my mother's child brought forth my mother too.
When you say matrix i don't think of keanu reeves baldheaded and pale or about the machines taking over humanity and such. i rather think of much more simple made things not numbers in coloumns and rows but i think of numbers in themselfes of course. when you say msn i don't really think of chatting and writing to strangers i just met if you call it meeting connecting on the internet using symbols for these and that. i rather think of a land i've never been to. huge and unexplored for me exotic strange and chaotic too. now you got all the words to solve my riddle look at the whole not the middle and don't let your thoughts racing quicker as you race. thicker those thoughts must get.
Irreversibly, the yellow of the sun slips into the leaves. placidly, they fall from the jabuticaba trees to the black ground. imperceptibly, i'm falling asleep near you. thereis cold, cold, and a new autumn enters into my surreal space. as long as the trees are yellow, the life is insecure. undoubtedly, my roundland of love is riddled with hate.steely, there is a riddle of hailstones in this autumnal scent of flowers to break everything around. unflappably, i am stronger than steel, when i have a will to survive. you're still there behind the waterfall that spreads fear. panicked, the night falls when the moon pulses light. there are shadows in the darkness, and i cannot find the way out. where am i? where am i?.
When i look back at my life and see how fast everything pass, i sometimes wonder why things happen and life takes its course? how many times my life reflects things like a riddle, of which i do not know the answers. still i trust him who can make all things new, to touch my life with his love.
A fiddle with my riddle sometimes in the middle of the night. not much to do.so. i'll have a fiddle, get it going, turn up the heat. you can't beat a good riddle. i don't need to look at the mantelpiece as i poke the fire. i can now fiddle with my riddle in the middle of the night. tho' i'm old i can still do it twice a night.
Do you want to read this ditty about a girl who came from, the city. her name doesn't really matter, because it's only, a load of old chatter. the girls father was a booser a real right battle cruiser. he sent her on the street, with nothing on her, plates of meat. this poor little cockney sparrow, who could hardly push her barrow. the poor girl was brasic, there was hardly any brass, but the blame was with her farther, who was always on his, khyber pass she had to keep herself fed, to stop her from ending up brown bread. the toffs would come dressed in whistle and flutes, toffed up to the nines, right down to their to daisy roots. upon their heads were titfer's that shone like polished glass, and always their sky rockets, were jingerling, full of brass. she would chat, to them all until the very last call. then down the frog and toad her drunken father would come, he never knew it was all over, when landing on his fife and drum. the toffs they threw him up on to the barrow, and crushed his prize cockney marrow. they took him to the hospital, because he coulden't, jimmy widdle and this is the end, of the cockney sparrows' riddle.
There once was a man and his son. they were out driving one night and they got into a car accident. the dad died, but the boy was rushed to the hospital and the surgen said, 'i can't opperate on this child he is my son.' how can this be? ? ? ? ? ? ?.
Ah yes, vietnam remember it well just eighteen not more than a lad like the rest serving my country counting my days ah yes, remembering the ladies of the night and the 'gi refrain' known far and wide 'i love you too much'' 'what's your name? ' rows of bars nameless streets just ships passing in the night body counts taking ears american bodies burn so bright plenty of booze drown the pain i just want to hear that 'gi refrain' 'i love you too much', 'what's your name? '.
Two poles set sun stream bridge on half thread light must willow reflection in how much green lotus mutual support hatred instant turn head back west wind two poles of bamboo in the setting sun on the bridge over the stream, half a thread of light mist among the reflected willows. how many green lotuses hatefully supporting each other, instantly i turn my head, my back to the western wind.
The meeting was incisive lie the way my tooth is relieved from pain but he thought about what i said before that moment when the glass was emptied of its black contents that night inside a cube of ice when what followed was the transparency of air when both sides can be seen at one glance when goodbyes and hellos look the same like siamese twins when one finally sees through a hole and for a while glances like a window of rain where you cannot help but just stay as you do not like to dance and then he says that the universe is there and it is nothing at all.
When i was small i was taught that the meaning of my life lies inside the big dome it is where destiny lies all explanations possible are contained in that book kept inside the golden casing, life turns sour and bitter and sweetness seems to be slippery like an eel, the dome does not help and so i turned away walked outside and found this new place outside the dome trees and grass and some dragonflies clouds and cones fine mornings calm seas there are lots of shapes and colors and odors more explanations become possible they're born like buds turning into petals and freedom is like a child running wild and talking in chatters so many songs and poems and conversations flow without fences i like it here even without you i am hurt but it is different now i have befriended the pebbles and the sands the sun is terrible but on a night like this the moon comes once in a while bringing me another sense and meaning some stars sing they help.
Biological drive is a hard thing to fight and if nature has made you a male through your will or your crotch you are driven in life to proverbial chasing of tail like a hound on a prowl finest prey you may stalk then get trapped being deceived by your senses for those tails have been known to be wagging their dogs and dispel with the strongest defenses then, sometimes things get tough when you're herding a bunch you can't tell after who you are chasing and as dust settles down, with the prize in your teeth it's your own ass you'll be facing.
It was a warm and moonlit night when ghostly, solemn light, doubting beauty in a breeze and love outside of time, conspiring with the consequences, committed doubt to rhyme. by early morning brilliant light it was light that was out of time, and love, hanging on a breeze, doing a beauty of a sneeze.
We are all riding in the same boat of mv poetry we all eye an island of our dreams we want to feel the ecstasy of words, the sensation of sound the scent of imagination the chairman of the board sees to it that there must be a proper classification of all passengers strict segregation in accordance with social status and economic standing the color of the eyes the smoothness of the skin the mark of class in the foreskin we know our states we get our economy tickets we never have fine dining and nice classical music we only have our own packed food, cold and all that kind of cheaper stuff but we all know how to please ourselves we the poor and the underprivileged or the middle class that we want to think as a matter of elevating ourselves a little bit this backbone of society someone gets an fm radio turns it on and we have music then and then we dance all night among our kind of class holding on to each others' weaker arms those who die in their fame are put in their most expensive coffins and those who are rich and privileged like have private rooms hot showers expensive silk linens softest pillows exclusive parties and dark forest cakes and red sparkling wines and chosen conversations recited their own poems and are applauded with their own special musicales .i make a conclusion it is also true here, very much exactly like it when the boat shall finally sink all scamper for life just the same.
Likening to a thunder came down a boulder fell down with a noise made things look like toys men working ran away apprehensive of the fall in a way luckily none were too near could save their life dear the mishap caused a furore the neighbours raised an uproar nothing could have been done as the prevention was all done certain happenings could not be predicted reasons could never be attributed the case could be felt in life too unknown and unforeseen take place true.
I made a cottage of nipa and bamboo and rattan by the side of the sea it is not that luxurious any common man of this village may come and rest i put the sign that any tired man may sleep there any traveler may use it for free i was away for three days when i visited it the vandals drew a big penis and a vagina as big as a platter poured black paint on the floor and scattered drift wood in the center of the floor how unkind are these unknown vandals? but we cannot be outdone we clean it again repaint it with green and beige to cover the obscenity i guess, what devil destroy god is never tired repairing because we have promised to be instruments of good then we must all comply now the cottage stands clean again welcoming still a tired traveler.
Beyond our two flesh i hang on to the twig of the divine i am the black bird with a wide span of wings i am heavier than a stone on your neck but i carry on like a cliffhanger i will let my body fall and i shall not use my wings i trust the sea and i am a friend of the full moon.
And so there is this door that appears before you and you open it and then when you enter the room another door appears this is the cycle of doors that keep on appearing and you keep on opening but the room still appears from a distance always distant from your eager feet to enter you say to enter the room i must please the door but the room moves away just the same and the door tells you to keep the room you have to burn it and when the room is burned the door finally disappears and then both the door and the room shall tell you now be happy for you now have a house of your own.
There is more to find in this mountain the snails have not reached here the birds are not telling the complete view a vista of clouds and little white houses beside a river there is more on top of the trees you have seen a lot but there is nothing that can be touched for the pleasure of the hands so what is the use? the feet are ready and tomorrow is the final leaving there is no regret somehow he will try getting into the body of the cow it will be nice there there is more pleasure with the grass and there is no moral code to adopt mud is still cooler for the body dress is but a prison without a key.
The eyes are submarines every moment is a nighttime beautiful sea creatures of this mind forever appeasing first meetings of lovers more like it, i refer to art, this is the one that always brings a new day to me sunshine is not the usual sunshine on the fields of hay it is always new and different always the first time virgins in bed on love's unwearied imaginations the eyes are submerged seeing what is not here for the first time clouds bluer than ever rotated by a fan suns hanging on the ceiling behave like the stars in those heavens those trees shedding off leaves upon a teasing wind dogs howl, the rain comes like hair upon the slender neck of a beloved doors close, windows open, the house staying put upon love and the star of the show is silence restrained too much restraint joy contained exclusively on those arms tightened like a jet surging parting the tight legs of a virgin sky.
The boat that we are riding towards an island is chasing the sea and the sea runs always faster than where we are until the waters hand us to the sandy shore when the running stops but our minds do not just stop like that it is not that simple we tend to run as fast as the sea and this thought wanting to arrive on what we still cannot grasp.
Like medieval knights armor clad, in fields battle to reap victory haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku haiku football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football football.
1. mind's edge blunted desert devoid of markers my tears wet dry sand july 29,2014 2. seasonal picture don't let me add a thing please your haiku not mine june 6,2016 3. missing photographs real content camera shy skit artist needed june 6,2016.
The leaves change colour fall has fallen once again the colours so bright they fall to the ground to make a bed of beauty they fall with no sound their lives are complete one more journey to their rest now wait for winter.
A noble knight like all the rest although well bred, he'll die today "tell me, wizard surely there's another way must love this poor knight's honor slay from distant lands, i've kissed the best to watch them wither, ashes fall oh, cursed this spell that i'm under with dreams of love no peaceful slumber that i'm still a virgin, is it any wonder to reverse the magic why do you stall? your father's greed paid all too well he used your beauty all for spite to destroy the kingdom's rival knights and so with this spell, this senseless fight all to win a kiss and ring the wedding bell you know the rest, but one small kiss from the knight who's heart is pure will break the curse and bring the cure for love my lady, one must endure and for your hand all lust resist soon there'll be no brave knights left the yard lies full of youthful bones in many beds the maidens moan their lovers lie beneath cold stones for fame and wealth, they challenged death indeed, the royal blood is poisoned dark though innocent it's all the same you've not had your fill, these bloody games your soul it too must share the blame look in the mirror that sees the heart you're next in line for the royal ring you must decide, i will not sway consider well this other way but for this too, your heart must pay to end the madness, kiss the king at last, peace to the kingdom bring his ashes scatter in the wind then choose your knight, the curse will end.
Cascade she threw cascades of rainbow colored flowers down the street as she hopped and skipped down it. my gosh it was splendid. for a secret she only knew why. let me see. it was someone's birthday or wedding anniversary or anything of that sort. but my oh my it was gorgeous. the cascade of flowers were pretty.
A familar cascade, your life remains meaningless but the man above has hope for you. all he asks is that you believe. trust that he will come to your pain. haunted by the sins among your shadows. he will forgive the past. he will forgive infamy. it won't be long until you scream for his grace. that's the only hope you have to survive in this place. fear no more, you will be praised with salvation raise your head up to the sky now, your days of shame will be forgotten. just call for his name your savior awaits.
Each tear is a reflection of hope that at the end of every weep there is a smile to wear and keep no matter how a sobbing water runs deep each tear is an epitome of strength that another day is to come and hold beauty from pain to blossom and behold no matter how tales were sadly told each tear is a complement of love that pain and love go together like the raindrops fallin from above no matter how lovely is the weather. each tear marks my summer in may when the moon embraces the sun as they kiss goodnight and say someday we'll be in this sky as one.
Thunder quakes outside my door i open it, it starts to pour . sheets of water cascading down i feel your presence all around. night wind blows, a chill in the air i take it in, i feel you there.
A scene right behind my eyes, cascades like a rippling effect as sure as the sun arises sending shivers up and down my arms creating an abstract view to absorb everything into my developing a creative mind of eternal evocative thoughts and other dramatic scenes of fantasy, fiction or even funny developing roles right within my exciting or even evocative thoughts which lightly caresses the paper within the palms interior in the warmth of my fingers and gently in my hand, as i write and enhance the heightening crescendo nearing into an ending at the end of the scariest story i've ever written.
What sort of arrow split the sky and this rock? it's quivering, spreading like a peacock's fan like the mist around the shaft and knot less feathers of a comet come to nest at midnight. how blood surges from the gaping wound, lips already silencing murmur and cry. one solemn finger holds back time, confusing the witness of the eyes where the deed is written. silence? we still know the passwords. lost sentinels far from the watch fires we smell the odor of honeysuckle and surf rising in the dark shadows. distance, let dawn leap the void at last, and a single beam of light make a rainbow on the water its quiver full of reeds, sign of the return of archers and patriotic songs.
She steps aside among feathered wings and in her hands a heart beating, stills. she smiles with premonition. licking at the tear. visualizing truth in the breaking silence seeing the sounds she cannot hear denying the obvious to embrace the obscene and lingering in a eclipsed dawn.
Sitting on a rock, near a cascade reflections from the sun, on the waters parade cold, jet stream, falling from grace filling the lake, in this tranquil place it rests my soul, to hear the sound of this flowing essence, caressing the ground it runs endlessly, to enchant and entice this cascade in the midst, and middle of paradise. c.vergara 11.30.2007.
The cascade february 20, 2020 i am mountain water falls on me clouds sat on me, too, clouds and rain fall frozen into ice i am mountain, cascades fall from flow to downward water falls from me, channels, ponds, rivers are filled much flow clouds sat on me, too.
My sweetheart you are a wonderful cascade your beauty makes entire surrounding glade in hot summer burning sun you are like shade in lovers reckoning you are of superior grade my love is in trance as your beauty swayed my soul takes to be cut with sharp blunt blade your glowing cheeks have launched just a raid at peril of my life the eternal price i just paid like moon in stars your sweet beauty outstayed with your beauty in my veins i have to renegade my love is like a music and your beauty serenade your beauty is eternal but my love is just to fade col muhammad khalid khan copyright 2016 golden glow.
In the cascade gardens from here far away the lorikeets chirp in the bright sun of day and the male green southern fig bird i fancy i hear the gray brown mottled female to him perched near. the song of the pied butcherbird one cannot mistake in spring he sings in the early dawn before daybreak and the unmistakeable white ibis for scraps of food scavenge around with their long bills they cannot probe for slugs in the sun hardened ground. on the trees by the river gray with heads of light brown the fruit bats in their thousands roost hanging upside down at nightfall they venture out and even travel far to the orchards and gardens where ripened fruits are. in the cascade gardens i fancy i see sunbathers in swim wear walking home from the sea when the cool breeze at evening from the saltwater blow the memories remain of a place i did know. memories of the cascade gardens are living in me the magpie is singing on the wattle tree the sun brightly shining in the clear blue sky and the gray noisy miners they chirp as they fly.
In the cascade gardens at broadbeach a south queensland coastal town the fruit bats in their thousands roost hanging upside down there must be twenty thousand and that is just a guess and if you pressed me further i'd say there's more than less. the fruit bats or flying foxes the name most know them by leave their roost in the evening when darkness cloak the sky in search of fruit and wild figs they fly for miles around and return before daybreak to their trees on roosting ground the fruit bats on their roosting trees quite often disagree and if one is evicted he fly to other tree to rest near friendlier neighbour who will allow him space in fruit bat pecking order each find their rightful place. the fruit bats of cascade gardens dark wings and heads of brown on trees along by the river roost hanging upside down in search of fruit and wild figs they fly for miles around and return before daybreak to their trees on roosting ground.
Rolling, racing faster and faster, voices singing, taking me along pathways of rhythm so placid and soothing. caressing this heart, letting it beat in time with rhythms being listened to. so intensely falling into this mind with designs flowing into and over patterns, so delicate and interesting. beautiful sensations lifting desires to the forefront, applying the most brilliant colors to poetry that is being written. hues flowing over every note, gathering and collecting them so quickly and rapidly, keeping time with every beat. solitary peace, giving an essence to passion that is already within. carefully, exercising intellect as it wafts breezily into the sky blue atmosphere, nothing standing in the way of meanings, definitions coming into mind. a ceaseless cascading of memories, images, and visions, filling me constantly with their incessant beats.
The questions that he frames in all but words will run as hushed as when they were a thought; yet nothing he should care to leave behind, they cannot scare him with their empty spaces. extremes too hard to comprehend at once the questions that he frames in all but words, they fall, they rip the grass, they intersect; they must go downward past things coming up will run as hushed as when they were a thought be swallowed up in leaves that blow away, to scare himself with his own desert places, yet nothing he should care to leave behind.
Sweet water. coloured every shade, by rainbow that caught my tears. crashing wild ocean child. through all the special years. as sunset bled. love ran barefoot through my head. my soul danced across the esplanade to find horizons. where she had laid that seascape down. where our dreams cascade. such joy is never real. until looking back. then you feel all love that was made. in naked moonlight under cascade. she washed me clean. no shooting star that has ever been has ever seen such burning night. started by a raging sight of loving eyes. now rushing gushing before it dies. like a million hearts with silver darts. that waterfall. when passion starts we steal, like midnight raid. unreal. that sprinkling twinkling cascade, .
You said that i should write my poems in iambic pentameter, or else they are not poems. you said that you will not read my poems unless it is in iambic pentameter, but why is it that everyday you feel incomplete, unsure, fidgety, ruined, unless you read my verse or two?.
You shine in the day and even at night you light up the world, wherever you roam you shine in all places, so very bright your always on the run, never at home why can't you see what you have done to me you done the unthinkable, left me scarred i can't explain the pain, just let me be leave me alone, even when life gets hard i struggle through the pain, only for you to get your attention, is tough enough you never imagine the things i do only for you, but you just make it rough you don't have a clue, the things that i do because i would do anything for you.
Quiet seas swathed in moon's full light are a tease with no breeze urging motion to delight man, with no unease. strong winds blow force into the sea then you know that the show of tranquility must be power in escrow. angry storms singly, or much worse even, swarms now reforms fraudulent calm to the curse of wrath outside norms. water's hell can destroy all works and dispel peace, foretell doom for any when gone berserk. waves prayer cannot quell. lawrencealot.
Walls of words are her fading thoughts. she's alone as a bird singing in her narrow cage. all she needs is love. her secrets spot her memories. she still lives in her house. her time smashed into pieces. she's expendable in her flesh. for the street beggars, pawnbrokers are precious. now, they note her golden cage. her thoughts escaped them. poem by marieta maglas.
The golden conure is an extinct species of the conure family. it is white golden in colour with green patches. the closest resemblence to which is the sun conure or the jenday conure according to me. but the colours of the golden conure is such as if it edits or perhaps erases all the extra colors from the frame of the hungry eyes. it reminds me of politeness, abstinence and the days of the by gone era. i want to keep one fore me but the species is extinct. paints. colors and drawing boards of less or perfect color and handling the nature correctly.
Ideas come and go, slipping through my grasp, they dance heel and toe, elusive as an asp. sometimes they'll come again so i have one more chance to hold tightly to them as through my mind they dance. poetry's like breathing, because you're grasping air, entering and leaving, to find there's nothing there. poems become prosaic and it's truly tragic when a poem's mosaic has to lose its' magic.
The synthesis to this book is more descriptively expressed as what to do if you get insulted in paris the general concensus is that one ought to call the a cochon, a pig and if this will not to resort to carbron will do the best thing is to go to india if this is not possible resort to reading the book what to do if your insulted in london where sexual conotations cause quite a stir the whole meaning of this allegory is to play the hero and get the girl because you have baffled them with your reconosaince of the stars that reduces dickheads that insult you to pupetts who will then obey you and become subjects bereft of life.
And when she gets home they're painting the shutters green'. 'green'? 'yes. green was her husband's favorite color.he preferred the shutters green. it was the sign she sought'. 'i see', said eileen, not really thrilled by this example from literature. 'you don't believe it'? 'i have to think about it. it sounds a little hokey. i tried to appear shocked, but i'm not very good at it. 'i know what you mean', i said simply, remembering my vow. eileen looked at her watch. she had a case to shoot. she dismissed me, turned and walked off down the hall, her abrupt departure both relieving and disappointing me. i, too, looked at my watch. the afternoon was early and there was still lots to do.
Coffee in the morning feels like a shirt of rough wool; it strikes me as a fluke of distribution; it feels like a fidget of the sensorium. for some it is mainly a sugar vehicle.white crystals emerged from sugar's dark colonial history, only to fall back into the dark niagra of america's coffee habit. unbottled water takes a stand against flavorism; homeless shelters take a stand against domicilism. there must be other plant materials that could also make dark, bitter brews, but this rut is made for falling into.
After taking the ticket to aruba, i packed my bags for a vacation and spoke to travel and tourism. time was needing adjustment and i was unmanageable. i mean what was there in vacation? a good night's sleep, food and drinks, some history and geography about the place, plane's catalog and timing etc, etc. geography and economics. that's what left of vacation. and the motion spoke of far away pilgrimage that went on and on. the journey to the vacation place and the comeback. and the companion t.v. now a smart one got shared too.
Prose poems are just like regular poems apparently, but they're not as rigidly determined by the line breaks. honestly, i find this better; easier to deal with. it's one less thing to think about. that makes it easier to tell a story. cuz there's a story that needs to be told. like, desperately. like something that's been eating away at me for years and years and years, something i haven't told anyone, and one might wonder what a diary entry might look like, and if there was an organizing principle. oh man. see? it gets ridiculous. and i know i kno what some of you might be thinking. hey man. this isn't a poem at all. who are you trying to fool? ? ? well. i guess i'm trying to fool the establishment. cuz if i can convince the establishment that this is a poem. or perhaps it belongs in a cycle of poems. well. who knows what else can be done? by the way, this isn't only about me you know. this is about you too. the reader. oh btw i'm totally breaking the rules here. this is against the rules isnt it? ? haha.. this is ridiculous. ok brb gonna write another poem.
Under the stars with the sound of the crickets and the wind i wait. what of the trucks? and the early morning? they speak of freedom and of the road to the stars. grey black scenes, and children under lights playing until parents call bedtime. in the trees pixies sit sighing, 'when will they come and play with us? ' in a year or two, but then only for a few summers and the coming awareness of the other sex. till then they still believe and a unicorn can still lay her head in their laps and softly tremble in pleasure. the dragon gold colored and rust lays under the oak whispering stories to the children of humanity. with a snort of pleasure she remembers those pups of hers ten centuries gone. she takes joy in telling of the times before, and of the times to come when mankind goes into the galaxy.
All poetry doesn't have to be extravagant or anything special poetry is poetry with rhythm or without rhythm prose poetry. prose poetry of ordinary sounds of ordinary meaning every thought through every human in their mind is a child in their mind and this is prose poetry giving that prose flow and keeping it real morally. this is prose poetry so let's all focus and flow with the prose poetry flow but not flow prose poetry. this is prose poetry let's express ourselves ordinarily and naturally men shouldn't cheat on their wives or perform any forms of adultery. this is prose poetry without to much verse poetry expresses itself in an unusual way pretty early. this is prose poetry this isn't facebook or facebook emoji's. this is prose poetry let's nourish our poetic imagination and tell more prose, allegorical, short, or moral stories. this is prose poetry all poet artists can put prose poetry in their own word's creating such a prose story this is prose poetry all poet designers can put prose poetry in their own words creating such a prose story or poem story.
Admiring my serviceberry, yes for now it's my serviceberry. standing beside me through the shh of a warm breeze. my sitting here frees me. i'm clothed and still but you are swaying with your auburn limbs holding onto the cotton candy colored pink petals which have been dampled with drops of merlot. dancing that way since it began its stay beside the reflectionary pond to this angelic spring day. the colorful face of nature in the blossoming month of april when the rains have not begun to dampen the spirit of sprouting souls. skies open up and heaven reveals the glowing sun of glorious light and promised life. lo, listening to the winds with gentle discerning ears the clouds move on and the rays radiant splendor and power will begin to shower down on an undeserving host, where women and men wonder what the truth is. unlike up above those clouds where truth is the constant that rises and sets everyday in the same place, in their hearts, with grace and faith guiding these events, and only this temporary serviceberry endures the whole night through. it really could be me or you or who knows? maybe him. and again the word of majesty spoken in the wind calls for a return to the beginning. babies and old men all alike, longing for a real home where love is grown from fertile grounds and wine and honey and milk flows from every heart and mouth and mind to nourish and flourish like this serviceberry.
So the dog slept in front of the couch. the old couple somehow managed the place. with pension. a macdonald was there beside their farm. the only one. and the huge place looked very scary at night. small escape roots from the great freedom mingled out at night. and the farm land of corn looked like an open terrace at night. the only one. face your fear.. the old couple used to say. and courage stared at the t.v. and giggled. there was a airbase which you can find nearby. the only one. . the lady said.
Don't bother the earth spirit. she loves writing delicate changing stories. she will invite you for a coffee, if you so will she will give you warm bread so you stay to listen you will have to endure earthquakes, lightenings, hurricanes and the death of those you love, the most blinding beauty that's how she traps you, the spirit of the earth that's why you never ever want to leave her see that stone finger over there? that is the only one who ever escaped.
Us ne mujhe bulaya chameli k chotray pe intazaar vo meri kar raha tha laita hua ek bistray pe jis pe chaadrain padi theen laal, neelay, narangi rung ki wo sondasi nokrani k saath tha jiski nazar sharmali the uski nazar sondasi k mammon pe the jahan khuli choli par ek phool khil raha tha kamar uski patli the us k puthay oonche aur codey thay uski jhangon ko us ne ek taraf kar diya maarna jab us ne shuru kar diya wo us ko dekh rehi the, wo chahta tha achi tarah dekh le jab wo us k andhar ghusarta tha wo muje nahin dekh raha tha, uski nazar sandosi k cheray pe thee jo ek chotay se dil ki tarah lagta tha.
I pray, although it's the end of the time, the angel wakes up to flutter his wings. fluffing up the cloud's pillow, he's sublime. snowflakes are the angel's feathers, like spring. they dance with the wind of change, in despair. the sky glows pinky in the shades of thing. we're like icy trees screaming at the air, with icy leaves and crystal hearts, we dream crystals of weeping tears in our prayer. within sky vastness is our bleeding scream, digging early graves in the war on crime, while our thread of love weaves wounds for life's gleam. i pray, although it's the end of the time, fluffing up the cloud's pillow, he's sublime.
I am one who has known sorrow it's become more of an identity than a burden like being filled with despair with no direction to go i don't know when this came to be i've forgotten because now this is me and i'm overtaken by this dark, this night overtaken by a darkness in which i cannot see but also by a darkness i can feel, creeping up, inspiring fright but i see it's all connected, weaved together in a way what use is my intelligence, my reason, my sight? my world is now the reason i inveigh my world is a place that is sad and fey.
His laughter is malignant, humanity is gone respect spawning from admiration and fear. his acuity is weak but is his brawn? with the sphere in his hand, they have a tear. the thought is the rough draft, the action is the final the villain is sadistic and so he is sheer.
Among the aspens, golden hills the life i live; i left behind to walk among the mountain rills beneath the coolness of the trees not knowing next what i would find i took rest in the autumn breeze the mountains high, the sky so blue displaying nature's grand design i watched the ever changing sights the beaver's splash, the eagle's dive the spotted fawn within the blind a time to cherish, feel alive some beauty lasts but for a day leaves drop before their falling time a flower's fragrance drifts away but days like these, in mem'ry stay from nature's offering i gleaned a thousand nights of peaceful dreams.
The roses strewn upon the beach proclaimed an overture had gone awry and missed the target heart at which it had been aimed. did lovely lady finally resist attempts to gild a lie with sweet bouquet and disallow deceptions to persist? was she moved more than simple words can say, and dropped the roses, rushing to his hold with passion neither she or he could stay? the ocean's waves encroach and will enfold the roses and claim ownership by will alone, then crush and drag them to to cold. i think i'll save them from the ocean chill, and give them yet another chance to thrill.
His house a pile of rubble, stones a secret man not much for talk my neighbor near who died alone twice i passed his field each day a piece of land beside my own a sloping field in wild array once lush and green behind the gate years i desired, though out of greed the eyesore next to my estate the land i thought not worth the weeds still i bid fair the day it sold for its acres i had no need but for my daughter's sheer delight a place to dance with butterflies under autumn skies sunny, bright the mem'ries dear when i grow old my field of weeds bloomed flowers gold.
Each new day is a rare chance at life not merely an accident, lightly taken. considering death is our cul de sac obviously our fate, that's eventually so. use each moment then to bless all round you remember on earth, you won't stay forever. always bring kindness as a sort of manna grace your words with love as a blessing. every moment holds opportunity there many are hurting, with words you can touch them. even across miles, goodness knows no fence, now is the time for man's care to be given. truly as the night comes, you sleep in contentment.
R estoration of 'united' states e very man had certain rights v isionaries all who knew o ld ways had to go. they l ined up on battlefields u niforms of blue and grey t ook up the fight against own brothers i nvoking battlecry, 'all men are free'. o urs is a history of fighting for freedom n ot diplomacy.
Over the years. passing through time and tears i'm true my hopes and i soaring high touching the limit i'll survive. and change the world dead and dark rise i, to flame eastern sky a sun, its name. monarch of hope scorching. killing. dark minds.
Say you'll never leave me. all my life be true. trust is the question. intuition is the answer. someday you promise. fun isn't the same to me. acting verses doing. cut straight to the chase. time is flying by. incomplete isn't good enough. only you and i can see. never is when, satisfied i will be.
Functioning is difficult when in shock untimely end has come for all lack of food lack of hope i see no bravery only fear, only pain men kill, men die people struggle to survive aid is needed everywhere courage is needed in the hopeless time passes slowly, too slow outside is unsafe families are blown apart honour is all we have left obvious pain shows on all faces rich and poor people suffer the same running away has become normal our lives are destroyed ruin has commenced.
Everyone should care. no one should ignore a world so vital and green; inviting and teeming with life. mother earth revolves around our respect, how we take ownership of our actions; and never forget our inheritance. we must mind our responsibility and pass along every moment of beauty bestowed upon us; nurture a green future for our children, and try to preserve mother nature's gift to us all.
Resurrect this corpse with the shade of dying crimson enter each dropp at the will of my own forsaken hand undo nothing for blood shall reunite us two nothing stands in the way of what crimson wants indefinite screams i hear from the grave, beckon me onto the bloody alter never shall this crimson vein close. often i shall reminisce on my sacrificial love, for you my dear, hold what simple crimson cannot. bathe in my words my veins unwillingly leak, let all of me course within your body ounce by ounce our blood collides often messy, watch this bloody tide, death shall visit one last time, to join in this reunion of blood.
Man of legendary talent who inspires humanity to unite and congregates a million fans through his magnetic songs that simplify a thousand sentiments of humanity exposing a multitude diversities languishing in vague controversies just a human being who succumbed to a lot of adversities in life just like anybody continuing to survive by fighting the odds kicking ass to assert certain innate rights so that freedom may prevail in own self over and above giving joy to others now has come to an end in death.
F orever it flies over the halls of justice; r evered as beloved symbol across the land e very heart feels humbled by her anthem. e ach pledge made beneath her liberty and d ream fulfilled in her history is part of her glory. o ver her adoring people she waves her colors, m y country's flag from sea to shining sea.
Love is like the damask rose once smitten, bound by its charm vividly feeling nature so close every moment makes feelings warm learn about being a better thyself essence of love shall make you fonder as the flower enriches the world, it enriches itself deeply touched by its wonder nurtured scent of the damask fills the air acutely mesmerising mind, heart and soul the sweetness that pulls those with the flair ultimate pure happiness without any foul relish the true beauty of divine nature earthy wonders lead to blissful future.
Kill me with soft words of love irritate both fate and death, love crimson, by killing all she is, let love be, but hate with all her passions. martyr that of thyne heart eat away at every scarred part. gorge on the feast i have provided eat like a king, you shall behead me the same, not all can be loved, but your passionate kill shows the most passion, toy with me, my death is evident, yet theres no murder let me die quickly as to not suffer your passions anymore, you finally did it, you killed me with your nothings.
N one of us are who we think we are. o nly those sheeple who follow blindly n ecessitate great introspection, cruel judgement. e veryone is on equal ground. a ll fall short, soon evolve and are elevated. r espect should be given to each man so that e ach soul is allowed to grow and flourish; l earn to be a part of the whole. o nly those of limited vision see men perish s tripped of beauty and angel wing; t is only earthly eyes that envision such things.
Pressures, hassles gone restless hours are done on this retirement day memories will always stay in time i now got freedom draws no fear of boredom as a single blessed woman tomorrow remains unforeseen over the years still dreamin' right now my time has come never again i feel lonesome onwards my life be awesome.
From the departure of all worries refreshing beams from a source in a new way with a bloom every passing moment is with this no more troubles and no more pain destined for this path only to gain sailing through the winds on this thread hiking through the perils of this world it's a relationship with your friends passage and shelter, from all trends.
Pain, is my life optimist, is my sight evil, is my breath missory, is my hope heart, is my strength useless, is my worth nothingness, is my soul torn, is my thought elusive, is my spirit remorse, is my love.
Who doesn't slam spam it takes up space eats up our time discarding it it is terribly a n n o y i n g i have given up fighting it spammers beware the only part of your annoying mail i read is at the end where there are countless jumbled phrases always attempting to make the best of a bad situation i pick out a word or two and write a poem thanks to you.
Cursed stanzas, unholy words a doggerel ate my rhyme and cast aspersion on my verse damned poem, be done i stab at your fleshy syntax give no quarter to any phrase and stifle this nascent stave damned poem, be done but your form yields, free and lax bereft of purpose or point its seductive aspect void damned poem, is done.
Headin' for the top wonder when i'll drop don't know how to stop show now the way to set free the pain let your mind drain, find a new lane with less shame, and don't tame the natural way to feel the gradual reeling of the feeling of depression and unhappiness my confession is this; were all in control, can never lose hold whether we be wise or bold so grasp this with firm fist and strong mind and realize that the prize is right in front of your eyes, dont compromise, or give into all the lies, because the truth is a mold, one that you hold, made out of what's told, and can be sold with nothing more than a genuine smile.
The slam pestilence january 3, 2020 some poisonous pests together cutting, destroying forever the golden leaves to spread pestilence out of their fatal poisons to commit some vast dead regions, so i'm gonna check it i'm gonna test it i'm gonna cure it putting something effective putting some protective pesticide as none wanna again bear it, so let's slam the old pestilence the old dreadful pestilence to raise new leaves to invite birds, butterflies to sprout new flowers to sprout new fruits.
I have given up hope again im on the floor in my bathroom again theres a can in my hand again and i slam it against my thigh again again and again i want a bruise soon im curled up in a ball again nearly an adult yet curled against a radiator terrified again i regret it again promise not to do it again i tell a lie again.
There is no greater harmony than the vibe that exists between you and me it's chemistry like the birds and the bees feelings that make one weak in the knees the type of vibe that makes a bold man shy a confident man nervous, and fills one up with butterflies putting you and i together made us the perfect match imagining u and i forever makes two the perfect catch i need only one chance to prove i can be better than any love you've experienced from any other man you and i may have been two worlds apart but its infatuation that led me to your heart the way you make me feel is real like a touch of satin with the genuine silk feel you put the seal.on my part and i knew it from the start. that there would be no other that could replace. the space i have for you in my heart.
Kick and slam why such people should appear? and divisive people create fear? such people are traitors for peaceful nation living with honor their strategy is to create turmoil with the help of an aid to avail sleeping cell for creating disturbances and our people openly support their chances take your articles back and support no such people's take we take strong exception and question your wisdom you people are thankless and need only kick at an ass you understand no other language you should be wiped out from history page how many people have been supported by this duo? that peaceful people should go and join people who call themselves defender of islam? can we not kick them out and slam?.
I slammed the door shut this time determined not to let you back in it again because of the choices you make all you had to do was promise to not make those choices anymore and i would of easily taken you back everytime we get back together or hook up we pretend everythings alright i think the only reason we hook up is because we're both lonely i didn't really feel that loving feeling this time except when he wanted to fool around could it be that we both know that we should of left that door shut if so it makes me wonder how long it will stay left open before we start forcing it shut i won't be telling anyone about his last visit or that i am still talking to him again it's my secret because i have begged my friends and family to not let me do this again i can't let them know how weak i am.
In china, here it stands another olympian made his stand a variety of strokes and turns with exchanges finely tuned leaving with gold not only once but seven more times carreer best for his generation carreer individuals and team efforts equal to the legend that excelled before him the one that will become legendary as mark spitz was proir to this just makes you wonder who will the next generation give us, when their legend is made.
Someone once said love is a lonely battle but i'm not sure this is worth winning i tell myself i'll never go back again and the way i feel, only the beginning chorus i'll slam the door on my love again letting you down another time open it up and let her in always crossing that line i love and leave, and you never see this deception will be my downfall i come home late, your always asleep i couldn't tell her my faults i'll slam the door on my love again letting you down another time open it up and let her in always crossing that line i'll slam the door on your love again spending my last dime giving in to this fatal sin and crossing the final line.
Sleeping in a pile of garbage on the streets. only eating the fresh food on the ground. searching for change in the corners of curbs. sitting under a balcony, so the ran don't hit her feet. she watches the cars race past her spot. ignorant guys throwing cans at her face. she's only crying in the rain, so no one sees her tears. she wishes she wasn't so invisibe. a girl her age steps into her fight, that girl saved her dumbass. they became friends and didn't leave without one another. until that girl, she slit her throat. she's guessing her daddy had something to do with it. she was gonna talk to him today, but the world just go dizzy. it wouldn't stop spinning. maybe someone drugged her. she woke up in the middle of the day. pain striking her head like a broken bat on the ground. she let no tears fall. she smirked in the face of that girl's daddy. the daddy smacked her until she was down. she only wiped away the blood that spill out her mouth. she smiles at him and the daddy shoots her in the head. she wakes up sweating. she's saying it was all just a dream. 'til she looks around and sees all the worried faces. she sees the machines, they beep extremely slow. she watches as the nurse smiles down at her. she then closes her eyes.
Look at me. go ahead, look at me. tell me what you see. come on now don't be shy, now it's important. my whole life is depending on what you see. i'll tell you what i've heard. they say i'm a bigger girl a mexican girl a greasy girl not enough paint on her face but too much clothes on her body. they say i'm a simple lookin girl one of those ordinary girls, you know? they say i could benefit from a visit from some tweezers to pluck away my independence from a gym membership card to sweat out all my ambition from a breast enhancement to enhance my vulnerability. they whisper in the sensitive ear between my 'whimpy' hands telling me what they see. they whisper with a blade they whisper with intent to cut intent to carve intent to sculpt to sculpt a woman pleasing to your small eye. to recreate a better version of a woman you don't have to fear. because when i look at you, all i see is fear. fear at the chins that accompany my jaw line. fear at the touching of the neighboring skin on my stomach. fear of the color of my flesh that holds the most interesting things of those who came before me. why should those exist? why should those be heard? i'm an ordinary girl, haven't you heard? when i look at you, all i should see is fear. because all you see, all you can see, is the drop of water concealing the universe i have in me. what you see is the silence before the tornado. the eye of the hurricane, the calm before the storm. i've got fire under this layer of ice. i've got gold under this layer of ice. i've got the world that is my soul under this layer of ice.
and when i look to the world, when i look to the universe that owns you, and all that enslaves you, to be honest, and we're being honest, all i see is the most honest truth version of what i see in me.
You better back you actions with morals but instead you are a chief who cooks up inedible morsels laser points aimed at your torso just step aside cause no one will take the bullet you're as fresh as an uncut mullet swept into the dust pan to be thrown away but somehow you stay yo serve us the beginnings of the apocalypse our seas become blood and begin to flood we are the ruins that we serve on a platter filled with saucers and cups thrown around by a mad hatter who's ego won't shatter stones thrown at this stubborn window that stands as a symbol of tyranny and purgery we need to remove you by scalpel and surgery i put on the mask and begin to breathe but some how this blade goes dull and you will not leave i would pray but they are never answered you keep on growing and it grows like cancer with murderous results revolt turmoil we are in a state entropy i feel evil souls trying to enter me but my will won't allow it the strongest thing that i have control of and my will chooses to love so be at peace and maybe one day you will learn that the world is not here to just burn it is here to live and we are here to give not take hopefully one day, this habit you will break.
If you gave me the chance i would pull you inside this cave i have spent so many hours in, breathe in the tales that have stayed on your lips all these years and make them my own, make them ours. i am a thousand degrees, breathing through the flame i am made of smoke and ashes and i am glad you came with matches not a tsunami because alone i want to be so full so bright so burning beautiful and then i want to have you together we can set the cave on fire. if you gave me the chance i would pull you up like a rocket you have set the fire under my feet you have drawn out the sparks from my lungs you have burst into smoke inside my head you have turned me into a living, breathing inferno. but my cave is pitch and when i realize i have singlehandedly made your eyes the size of the stars, the ones that bleed sadness, i would say i'm sorry it's so dark in here, but i'm not really sorry for the darkness i'm sorry it makes you feel that way. i'm not sorry for the darkness because we are still burning and besides the music can see me here.
Doors that slam and shut real tight usually happen after the fight. behind those doors tears do drop, taking their time before they stop. after they've dried and calm's prevailed you wonder why it is that you failed to recognize how you let tears creep into your eyes that made you weep. surely this scene you've had before. stubborness and pride slammed that door. the emotions of love get all mixed in. it's then that your head goes into a spin. but down deep inside what made you cry is the ego you own and that is why you are more than ego. you are all heart. the door you slammed tore your own heart apart.
Like big white and red eyes opening under the skies growing from a russet stalk fragilely flowering early in the new spring when some people laugh and talk they hardly ever see your bright blooms hanging free while chatting past they do walk.
So lovely on that morn when our kisses were born, beauty had joy forever and somehow we did change, but it did not feel strange, i wish it to be never much different from this a fragile kind of kiss, the flower wilts however.
When purple petals show speckled black and yellow, a small modest lily spread lovely vivid colours blooming for many hours as she opens her bright head and as time passes by she draws the human eye before she withers, are dead.
Alas, when nothing ever goes my way i try to keep my goals within my sight. i hope that they can lead to joy someday, while overpass this metaphoric night. among those crazy things leading to doom, i am quite melancholic in the gloom. my life may be infected with the gloom, when darkness spreads its wicked wings on the way. in waiting for the approach of next doom, i am the girl in search for nature's sight. when jagged rocks pinch and stick me overnight, i search that something lifting me someday. my faith grows stronger, and i hope someday that winds of change will enlighten the gloom. faith, love, and truth will be like stars at night, life will be as bright as the milky way, as long as rightness will be brought to sight, and lie will be a sticky bomb of doom. i utter an impending sense of doom like poison killing everything someday or wet flowers shaking at the wind's sight. we end with hope, and we begin in gloom, while we're changing our lives along the way. we're making sense of all from day to night. as fears are left unspoken in the night, we feel this ending as the latest doom. sad minds still try to find a living way, hoping that they will save themselves someday. they make important changes in the gloom. religious leaders teach christian sight, when wisdom is the synonym of sight, and blind guides are to lead the blinds at night. some begin with the hope to end in gloom, between those sinful acts leading to doom, praying to god to save their souls someday. against all odds, they try to find their way. at siloam, the blind received his sight. in working faith, the blind could leave his night god breaks the chains, we need to leave the gloom.
"firm but fair" was in the air the morning we truly laid to rest the class mate who became the three star in vietnam's war thrice shot down a star for every visitation close to death's gate an old chaplain has engaged this sadness.
The water rises cold against my hips, the blue peppered tub harbors the rose fluff petals that swell against my feminine cuts; i am immersed in a free feeling tone of longing i become dust and shadows, white soil with no color or image little moons and suns round and round; a celestial boomerang 'anger will quiet your soul, ' the words boomerang nibbling away at my desire to be blue. for all the right reasons the image of me walking in the sunlight swells as you hide in the shadows turning my hardship into an impossible longing what makes you dangerous feeds my longing your poetic language is a boomerang taking back the intimacy in the shadows i sink deep into the sanctuary of the blue cold enamel as past memories swell. i stand on the shore in a morning gown open to the image of the sun; weaving a rhapsody, an amber dust image. the free feeling tone of the longing is a special delight, bittersweet feelings swell to small hissing rhythms which boomerang into passionate undertakings of blazing blue. i transform into an instrument of color as i approach the shadows where you are still hiding. i walk into the shadows clutching a large dark emptiness. your image bobs and ducks in and out of the blue. i ache into the longing with a delirium of disbelief. my memories boomerang. hit you with a force. the familiar magic begins to swell.
Music resonates in the air tonight, violins play "the starlight symphony." their notes gently hushed in sweet refrain, while flutes enhance the cello's harmony. our eyes align, though brief, to share a dream as our hearts beat the rhythm of the dance. our souls unite, eternal tempest dance, while candles gently glow amber tonight. we meet across a crowded room to dream as one, composing our own symphony. to love eternal in our harmony, to die in our last musical refrain. the waltz of strauss in quies hushed refrain plays, while we, the shadows move in dance. our breath is synchronized; love's harmony, and so the kiss is warm, my love, tonight. as sunlight drenching our own symphony, while we, the desperate hearts, do dare to dream. as raging fire burns our souls, we dream. our eyes meet, once again, love's sweet refrain. burning, piercing, quiet symphony. imploring us, besieging us, to dance. for love has found our hearts' desire tonight, and we, as shadows, melt in harmony. the subtle chords; a blend in harmony, play exotic notes, the lover's dream. our music springs eternal love tonight, a quiet hushed, soft spiritual refrain. as we, the silhouettes, dissolve in dance, we meld ourselves into sweet symphony. the kiss of love resounds in symphony, and yet, forever, our song's harmony. the beat of hearts, immortal lover's dance. the fusion of the soul, yet, dare we dream? to lose ourselves in one last sweet refrain. to live or die as one, my love, tonight. while candles slowly burn we dance our dream we live tonight in quiet, hushed refrain. a symphony, in harmony, my love.
When quite young i loved to bowl you had to release the ball and let it roll the perfect game was always your goal you had to invest your heart and soul bowling every day was your price or toll each frame was only one part of the whole ten frames or twelve strikes made up the whole if i had my choice, i'd always bowl sometimes i'd play for money, to offset the toll the key to good bowling is to let the ball roll invest everything in the game, even your soul if you became good, a profession could be your goal competition is good, but being the best was my goal on a team, five bowlers made up the whole i thought we were the best, but i'd never tell a soul we went to the lanes or alleys to bowl almost every day, and i took the roll it never entered my mind that there would be a toll my parents said that poor grades might be the toll so i made straight a's as my number one goal and i was always in class to answer the roll if given the chance i'd spend the whole day at the alleys, just wanting to bowl i'd do anything to get better, except sell my soul bowling gave camaraderie unlike a lost soul giving up other sports had taken its toll between this and many sports, i chose to bowl i'd rather make a strike than score a goal now in my life, winning a tournament was the whole reason for the everyday practice, and i was on a roll my advice was always don't force it, "just let the ball roll" sometimes but not often, my teammates' effort lacked soul being the best of the five, was still being part of the whole when the tournament started, the bell would toll our team effort, to end up first, was always our goal we excelled at other sports, but now we chose to bowl the finals were in erie and off we did roll; we took the thruway and paid the small toll.
to win that day i gave it my all, and yes my soul, we didn't want second place, it was never our goal. the team won that day, with me a cog in the whole; we were given the chance and won an engraved silver bowl.
Her seductive dance enchanted but with the season she departed a swan bursting into flight took the passion from the night to seek a foreign tropic home of ecstasy and lands unknown in all the dark of that unknown nothing in the world enchanted winter's cold became my home as in the mist the swan departed no song could rise into the night no phoenix struggled into flight the ash of love cannot take flight as seasons turn to the unknown and lovers disappear one night the heart no longer is enchanted its fragile pulse is now departed and leaves me in my icy home and yet i crave the fire of home but passion too is only flight to cruelly pass with love departed without a balm for pain unknown in lonely dreams that are enchanted by her graceful dance each night and so it seems an endless night of darkest earth and silent home for mine is but a grave enchanted as swans at midnight take to flight and one can hear the vast unknown of poets and of love departed november's eve and souls departed return but once upon that night with howling cries from the unknown arising from their graveyard home to join the lonely grief of flight as winter's breath wafts enchanted departed ghosts are thus enchanted the swan and night in endless flight in their unknown and wintry home.
I'm so glad that i found you my love you must have been sent to me from above you have taught me to never hate our lives entwined, it must be fate. you and yours, i'll always cherish even after i shall perish us not being one, is a thought i perish the nights are better with you my love our days together i will always cherish my favorite times, watching the stars above is this our destiny, or is it just fate the nights without you, i will always hate devotion is so much better than hate these feelings i have, shall never perish our lives together, such a great fate shall this diminish, never my love only if the moon falls from above shall i stop loving the woman that i cherish to adore, to care, to want and to cherish these feelings are here to deny that i hate anything that lives on the earth or above my heart sinks, when i see one perish your influence is that strong, my love and from now on you determine our fate i'm not sure what has decided my fate but i must accept that fact and cherish the knowledge that i have been given your love to keep within my heart and never hate the others in your life, before they perish because they too, were sent from above sometimes my heart soars in the clouds above never denying this grand glorious fate hoping that it will stay and not ever perish of this my lord, i pray you will cherish our relationship, and not allow hate to interrupt this wondrous time, with my love i beseech the lord above, to help me to always cherish our time, for it taught me, my fate is to adore, and never hate even after i do perish, you'll be my very essence, my love.
In the darkened room the peeling paint seizes the form of a twisted angel one wing shielding her eye, from the light. spilling through the corner of a window, a whisper of sunflower yellow radiance spreads folly throughout the dank dungeon, as it dances to the drumbeat of the rain. the relentless, yet soothing, cadence of the rain is a musical symphony michaelangelo would paint if he was a artist dedicated to the folly of sound, borrowing the trumpet of gabriel, the angel, whose sounds stroke the sleeves of a whisper grand and savory, guiding sinners to the light of goodness. oh how i love to bask in this light stripped naked of wicked thoughts, as it continues to rain above me and a brush of a whisper on the walls resonates around me and begins to paint all my sins; once the broken, now i am forgiven by the angel who no longer abhors me for my folly. that folly, my dreaming folly which once covered me in a garish purple light and now gabriel, the trumpeted angel flaps his wings in a celebratory rain dance, landing against the window, a coat of paint blocking even the crack, so that now the light is not even a whisper in the room, the darkened room is transformed from the whisper of light into the morbid vision of a stiff stripped folly, a bird like creature on the window splashed with paint and feathers, blocking out even a sliver of light. soon he must 'hit the road', venture out once again into the rain on a prayer and a wing, once again the fallen angel in my dream i lie still, as the fallen angel comes to me as swift as a whisper, so softly the pounding of the rain seems to cease, filling me with an unforeseen sense of folly.
my body grows into a spiral of indigo light, a vision of beauty, too fragile to paint for to paint the beauty would be to dismiss the angel and diminish the light once again deeming it a whisper just a mere whisper of folly bringing back the rain.
In the darkness of the night she cowars towards the forbiden light. she's terrified and shaken but her spirits still defiante.
he cell is freezing, her bodies cold as ice she puts her hand to her heart and comes away with blood they tortured her then shot her 3 times with that deadly beautiful gun she didn't know why they hated her but they caused her death in the brilliance of the night it felt so right to watch her death her body should've been heavy with death but instead she felt so light they imagined her revenge, how graceful she'd be holding that gun the hate in her eyes as her true nature became clear, so defiante they carried her, leaving footprints in her blood they hold her body as they shiver the wind is cold as ice her body falls to the floor and shatters like a thin plate of ice her life had no meaning so why should her death she looks down from heaven and sees her body covered in blood they put her through hell so she followed the light she was young and spirited, now shes dead and still defiante she wanted to kill them, she wanted their gun she took a deep breath and realized that in her hand was the gun she was alive again and her heart was cold as ice she defied all lwas, she was dead but they revived her, so defiante they wanted her to hurt longer so they wouldnt allow her death they pulled her away from they warmth and shattered the light she pointed the gun and blew out their brains so much blood she heard them cry, they'd hurt her, she was covered in their blood she kept firing shot after shot then she threw the gun she ran trying to get away, running towards the light they tried to kill her but in the end she caused their death she was strong and determined, you'd call her defiante starved and beaten she runs away, all logic she defies people run away from her, shes covered in blood they call her a monster, say shes the bringer of death she hears a loud bang as someone shoots off a gun she stops at a frozen lake to scared to be trapped beneath the ice she turns around and sees the light she feels free as he embraces her, his touch is light, hes defiante his arms melt the ice around her heart as he washes off the blood he promises her she'd never have to fear a gun, she'd see no more death.
As long as you live, there is love but in the recceses rise hate all these words i draw with passion with nothig to support me, except my faith but to others my philosophy seems fake so i go eat in a kitchen build me a broken kitchen that can be worsen by love a kitchen that make all truth fake one that is made whole with hate. there i can vehemently laugh at those with faith, there i have no time for passion i have no time for you because you have no time for me dear passion that's why you can't be a recipe in my kitchen an the essence in my food is not threw faith don't love lie, loath, be livid, and hate understand such rules with sincerity, don't be fake yes i say that because the mind of the world is fake no true passion much mocked hate but all is genuine and true in my kitchen no false love and lots of thrawted faith tried faith and to others this isn't fake the situation is as real as love and love as real as unforgiven passion and both passion and love will destory my uncanny kitchen which is established by raw hate that word hate miss understood by those that don't know the meaning of its faith but all my creations thrives on it in my kitchen and yes i will assure you no thing is fake plus all creations are made without passon and all creations in my kitchen are mained by love so come in with hate, and finally take in all creation that's not fake renew and change your faith, and here make lame all passion in my kitchen, the place that no one love.
The future ain't what it used to be, it seems like the past coming back again, like an open book, a dime store novel, a new mistake. the dodgers are leaving brooklyn, o'malley said, and it looks as though i'll relive that day over and over, like a looped film i can't stop watching. you can observe a lot by watching dodger fans and yankee fans, the series would be a way for a man to show his character over beer and baseball on black and white tv. the yankees win again, wait until next year, the dodger fans said. rooting for brooklyn seemed a tragic mistake. i don't want to make the wrong mistake. it's all a matter of knowing who's watching, remembering everything that's ever been said, the dodgers are gone, we won't be the same in this city again. but still, those days refuse to be over. it ain't over til it's over. maybe it was all a mistake and the dodgers will come back to brooklyn again, time will reverse, and we would be watching ourselves rush backwards to the moment we came to be, undo our pasts, take back the words we said. i didn't really say everything i said. it sounds so different when i say it over. better to leave it be, the past works to spotlight the mistake on a stage with everyone watching. attendance for this one is falling again. it's deja vu all over again. like echoes, i hear those words i said, floating like shadows and here i am, watching. the brooklyn dodgers, like a page turned over, are leaving for california, but whose mistake is it supposed to be? it's all a game i keep watching, even though it's over. you're hearing what i said, is it a mistake to be listening again?
what else could it be?.
A torrent mind divided by a thoughtless notion, twisted and torn into a field of commotion. when will it be my time to write? when am i ready to face my fears and fight? can it be right, to contest my own site? is this block a sea of discontent or an ocean? is my site really divided by this ocean? or is it in this motion, this motion of connotion? is there just a real result in site? or is it in this notion, this notion of commotion? i sit and i pray to my god to be able to write. until it becomes a battle or a fight. it's all trite when you have to fight, to escape this sea that becomes an ocean is any of this becoming concrete or right? can i keep going on in this state of notion? i don't want to be lost in this commotion, but until i win this fight i can't write. i have just lost the ability to write, please don't tell me i have lost my site, i have just lost a notion, a notion of commotion. can i even describe the pacific ocean? because if i can't even see a simple notion, of an ocean am i right to call it a fight? am i in the ring and it's my time to fight? i want the ending of this block to be in site, oh what a wonderfully powerful notion, to wise up and regain the ability to write and to not drown in this sea, in this ocean. i have to get the writing in motion before i lose my notion, and get going in motion. i'm in the ring and it's my time to fight. my pen becomes a jab at this ocean i uppercut and plan attack in foresight. and pen comes to paper and i write.
the motion is going and i have the notion, i beat the ocean, and the end of the sea is in site, i have won the fight, and i begin to write. but is it in this motion, this motion of connotion?.
September rain falls on the house. in the failing light, the old grandmother sits in the kitchen with the child beside the little marvel stove, reading the jokes from the almanac, laughing and talking to hide her tears. she thinks that her equinoctial tears and the rain that beats on the roof of the house were both foretold by the almanac, but only known to a grandmother. the iron kettle sings on the stove. she cuts some bread and says to the child, it's time for tea now; but the child is watching the teakettle's small hard tears dance like mad on the hot black stove, the way the rain must dance on the house. tidying up, the old grandmother hangs up the clever almanac on its string. birdlike, the almanac hovers half open above the child, hovers above the old grandmother and her teacup full of dark brown tears. she shivers and says she thinks the house feels chilly, and puts more wood in the stove. it was to be, says the marvel stove. i know what i know, says the almanac. with crayons the child draws a rigid house and a winding pathway. then the child puts in a man with buttons like tears and shows it proudly to the grandmother. but secretly, while the grandmother busies herself about the stove, the little moons fall down like tears from between the pages of the almanac into the flower bed the child has carefully placed in the front of the house. time to plant tears, says the almanac. the grandmother sings to the marvelous stove and the child draws another inscrutable house.
You are the high hill with numerous peaks, that in summer looks magnificent and cheery, where i have climbed up to waterfalls, to heights, where i got a view of sun, beach and sea, felt as if in presence of god, with tranquillity with your moods you remind me of a lady. once i wandered with a young lady on a twisting trail among your high peaks to find some inner peace, some tranquillity and she was quite happy and rather cheery gazing up at the blue sky, down at the sea from both of those dazing heights. climbing up to the sheer heights was like exploring the body of a lady as if finding a secret kind of sea with beautiful rising pointed peaks and the experience was quite cheery, suddenly leaving an own tranquillity. my privacy is invaded by her tranquillity as from far i still do watch her heights and although feeling rather cheery there is danger in this lovely lady that beacons me with her high peaks to look upon an endless open sea. i long to gaze out upon the sea, to be with her in tranquillity, to wander among her peaks, to again explore her heights as if to visit a dear kind old lady but i wonder if i will find her cheery? but i must now continually stay cheery, keep far away from the troubled sea, avoid all of the dangerous heights of live to be able to find tranquillity but still the beautiful ageless lady is luring me continually with her peaks. how glimmering and cheery with ice her peaks high above the sea, do glow from their heights, she is without tranquillity, a chilly frozen lady.

The loneliest number is the number one combined with you is the duo two those combined you see, make the number three two duos that score, equal the number four a trio and duo strive to make five two trios will mix to get the number six a hockey team's sticks is comprised of six solitaire my son is a game played by one a basketball team is alive, with the starting five a tennis match with you, is between only two a square or a door has corners that add to four a triangle's corners you see, only equals three there still can be glee, with a family of three but then double it to fix on the number six i'd rather go to the store with at least four dollars, instead to be stunned, with only just one in my crew there are always at least two more with me, but i never arrive with more than five when in a group it's better to have five than to have me and only three it's not hard to glue when you have two people to pick up the sticks laid down by six don't go to a gun fight with only one knife, i'd rather even the score, and have four there's fun in store when you have four but you're more alive when you have five thank god our sun is the only one in our little world, where we are three planets away from the center, and we'd be in a fix if we were six away from the sun, and we'd burn if i knew, we were only two a couple in love can only be two unless you're twins and that makes four three couples picks will add up to six if one doesn't thrive, then we'll only have five when we got a dog, then we were three then you took the dog to your son, leaving me the only one i only want to be a party of two, that will start at five if you come early, at a quarter to four, then it might only be us three if you stay late, after six, then you may become, the only one.
Scattered on an elevation are the konkani huts adjoining the beach in an elegane resort, with it's 'tarang', the beach restaurant. on a platter natural beauty the duo present. the divine scenic beauty and its hypnotism spell bounds a spectator and pushes him in bosom of the mother nature n he enters a trance, sitting under umbrella facing ocean arabian. blowing hot air on scorching summer noon humid atmosphere soaking in perspiration compell even the birds to find their shelter leaving solitary ocean with his tides to roar. solace could be found from sip through straw when ambrosia from raw coconut you draw that can make you in scorching summer calm standing beneath meager shadow of a palm.
The cowherds listens the song the cows straightens the ears as if entertaining themselves their happiness visible in eyes the herdsmen pride of the singer krishna the embodiment of devotion the songs from the bamboo equipment how wonderful the song feels still songs have mystical powers songs have entertaining powers songs related to epic poems a pride the great traditional songs were the talent shown by the herding men their leisure time they made equipment from the nature they took the material made holes their own and tried to sing the air in specific rhythmical styles rhythmically the songs created nature and men ever co related the songs are a part of nature itself.
I've talked to many each day this year a wife a businessman, a teen, a queer from teen to ancient all say the same this year is epic, no one to blame not in the future, will it be, but each now day, we will, we'll see.
Away from there in cities mumbai pune another ocean exists formed of humans. it too has tides high and still higher of immigrants, never to recede, as in ocean. theory of objectivism propounded ayn rand break on exploitation of talent was her demand. she had come down heavily on second raters who stole ideas from genius and were cheaters. to socialists too she had taken to task she mounted an attack for tearing their mask. the clever suck the life blood of genius they are selfish, inhuman said she, and vacuous. leaders cheat people in the name of altruism, only selfishness they nurture in their bosom. motley plans they devise for the development with hidden agenda of self aggrandizement. no doubt they help in development process by throwing some morsels among the masses which too are gulped by their lieutenants the common man is forced only to lament.
Kunti the great mother of pandavas the princes of hastinapura the great characters of mahabharata the great mother kunti and her woes her tears for her beloved sons her dedication for her beloved ones her sadness and sympathy hid in mind of karna the son whom she abandoned mother kunti the great epic mother.
Ramayana the epic poem of india the story of a noble kingdom the story of noble couple the story of truth, sacrifice ramayana a revered epic of all times. epics have a universal appeal to love the humanity to the love the subjects of kingdom to sacrifice for the beloved. ramayana, the fight for justice the final victory of justice the war against injustice a war the final outcome justice. the text of epic a symbol of affection the affection and dedication of brothers the affection and dedication of subjects to their noble and dedicated kingdom. ramayana the great epic written by valmiki who lived in forest and a hermit in nature wonderful creativity ever respected, revered in indian context of philosophy a great work. ramayana the epic poetry and its characters magical realism, war, final victory the final outcome of events a great story the month of ramayana is celebrated now.
Unpredictability of future is a spice of life, it may even prove wrong 'as you sow, so you reap'. enormous endeavours to succeed may here be flop good deeds may be rewarded in place of joy by grief. man the social animal has to learn a lesson, fortune may not laugh at him with his permission. stopping its onslaught may be beyond his power, prepared he should be to be a defeated emperoor. happy he could be by welcome developments grief too he could feel by unwelcome incidents. balance of mind be maintained in both the events, he should not forgo ever his own contentment.
I like to write an epic about a prince who went away to find his destiny who met his enemies beasts and bad spirits who slew them all who found his own kingdom on top of the tallest mountains reaching the skies who rode on a pegasus and swept away another helen there was this war for a thousand years and there were betrayals and losses and gains and at the end the tragedy happens the epic is unfinished all the while i will finish it but then my friend you fall short of time at the happy ending when the prince finally comes home as a king you are dead.
To hear some news, the village men gathered close around. the town crier began and no one made the slightest sound. 'the dead men's bones where found bleaching, beneath the noonday sun, the stinging gnats and black flies, swarming over every blessed one. black carrion birds enjoyed a dreadful feast, i would say and the marauding killer beastie has gotten clean away. '.
Blood relations too are estranged by the greed to disintigration of a family it gives more speed. for wealth it may be or for landed property it breaks bonds of a family living in harmony. pretty women too had been often the reason bone of contention between learned men, propelling them for war and confrontation for nothing else, other than her possession. ramayana n mahabharta, the great hindu epics on genesis of great wars both were specific. great wars they say were fought for honor, of equally great women, between great warriors. scholar par excellence was ravan king of srilanka dearest devotee too he was of lord shiva. he too was a victim of inherent six enemies, by abducting vaidehi, he charted own destiny. throne of hastinapur kingdom n lust for power his lust for dropadi and anger against her had driven duryodhana to wage the great war against the pandavas, his own cousin brothers. acute hatred and anger had driven adolf hitler to go for annihilation of a race called jews. such brutal precedents history has very few. its aftermath caused british empires shatter. poet and c; ratnakar d mandlik.
Heroic names, holistic names they gave to the great rivers every where in indian epic texts rivers widely revered gratitude and salutes they gave rivers played a vital role in human life history made in the banks of rivers wars fought for water and rivers enemies came swimming across rivers the rivers an inseparable thing to nature story of the great king bhageeratha believed to have bought the river ganges from heights of heaven he bought it for the welfare of the great country india bhageeratha the king's name remembered bhageerathi the river ever called. the great country blessed with rivers.
Cosmic dust vast realms more cupfuls than all coffee cups ever drunk drained since first brewed historic original cups quenching coffee cups face cosmic questions scientists astronomers study momentous singularity event big bang creations spontaneous moment expands everything miracle births explodes accelerated realities zero naught nothing instant inescapable genesis creation science affirms creating new all things.
There once was a lonely banana pretty ugly but otherwise sana. poet allan came by dressed it up on the sly the banana then wore a bandana. do you know why bananas aren't straight? they would never fit into a crate. and when eaten in haste for their wonderful taste they'll go down, slightly bent, to their fate. each banana here has its own bender they are twisted according to gender. if a straight one slips through it's the evening crew and it always goes back to the sender.
On the raft down the mississippi were the wife and her husband hippie. when they brought back the melons from the striped, shackled felons they soon sank and the water was nippy. but they had, for the voyage, prepared and that is why both of them fared rather well in the end and this limerick was penned so the story could truly be shared.
I miss you more, it's winters again, heat is fading, flowers are blooming days gone shorter, i work at nights you never come by, i keep waiting, holding hands, those sweet nothings. long phone calls, till either went sleeping clutching to memories, shi. says move on.. why, how, with whom, tell me come on.. i'm not rich, but i have the riches, my feelings are real, there ain't any glitches, stop it, go away, will you. shi. goes mum, when i say 'i love you'.
Heroic couplet for the share of love june 11, 2019 with love in the world the creatures come and firstly they get it from their dear mom, then, in time helplessness is overcome getting both reliance and love from him, in society social touch eases to obtain much love from other sources.
Heroic couplet for contemplation april 14, 2019 once in the yellow midland with long hair face with heavy mood and elegant fair standing and moving i watched the earth, all made me wondered that i praised the earth, instantly, clearly the earth returned me the name of the creator almighty.
Heroic couplet for the ocean of corruption february 26, 2020 it is an ocean of high corruption corrupted ones have extra ambition, here committing it is open secret but unfortunately all aren't punished, it's just watering root but cutting top so the honest ones here can never hope.
Heroic couplet for this winter loves us march 17, 2019 this misty winter isn't ready to pass leaving our nice and luxurious house, leaving the warm of our blankets and wool leaving our joy and enjoyment, at all; leaving us fully healthy and active leaving us for all the tasks and deeds fit.
Heroic couplet for the mind of hypocrite january 29, 2019 mind of hypocrite is a burning hell please, be aware of that o, dear people, it wants whole world to turn into big hell where mankind shall be ever born devil and only shall commit crimes forever by whom satan is quite defeated here.
Heroic couplet for the smooth path february 25, 2019 i am on the way to destination therefore, i have been walking from morning; you remove from here all of frustrations, here all the paths, except one are unsmooth; you kindly alot for me all that are smooth, of course, i'll obey your order, warm both.
Bright feelings of love fall from the sacred tree, memories are time limbs coming from the past, whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me. kisses feed my hunger for your bel esprit and rock us to heights in this basic contrast. bright feelings of love fall from the sacred tree. come dance with me in the thoughts' ring to be free. the rays of dream shine through the room's pain to last. whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me. open your eyes to this mystery to see these seconds, coming into a sense, so fast. bright feelings of love fall from the sacred tree. feelings are flowers to make a potpourri. we are small in this immensity so vast. whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me. someday, you will bounce your baby on your knee. in the broken horizon, dreams will be passed. bright feelings of love fall from the sacred tree. whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me.
Let our love be as it ought while you are true to me, with something special in every thought as something valuable that we have brought that goes much further than just charity. let our love be as it ought simple, sincere as if its joy cannot be bought as it is present with us daily with something special in every thought that comes by itself out of the blue unsought as a gift from the divine without iniquity. let our love be as it ought like a pool of cool water in the drought, that more than quenches and sets the spirit free with something special in every thought as if we found something we have constantly sought, in the way that by god it is set to be. let our love be as it ought with something special in every thought.
We had to fight in a war for what is right, as children we were called to be brave men, did bring deliverance in that dark night, at a time when our fancies could take flight, had to act like great heroes against each omen. we had to fight in a war for what is right, were forced to learn discipline and might; for two years we were gone from all women, did bring deliverance in that dark night, we bended to orders when the sun was bright, was humiliated, trained, used when we had to fight in a war for what is right, as we acted selfless in our great fright to survive, like machines, were trained then did bring deliverance in that dark night, while politicians talked from their height for a whole country boys carried the burden; we had to fight in a war for what is right, did bring deliverance in that dark night.
A legacy of broken dreams. she came to me, for love is never what it seems, may the lord hear my screams, i never wanted it to be, a legacy of broken dreams. a pensive longing so it seems, lost in a reverie of her and me, for love is never what it seems, i pray to the savior who redeems, will she ever feel this love for me? a legacy of broken dreams. searching for what love really means, will there ever be love between her and me? for love is never what it seems, from the empyrean her radiance gleams, she says, do you not see? there will only be, a legacy of broken dreams. for love is never what it seems.
The lord jesus has delayed his second coming violence, wars and rumors of wars have been spread and we are still here watching acts unbecoming the world is set for destruction; drums are drumming belief in him and former day prophets are dead the lord jesus has delayed his second coming the world is divided; attacks are incoming with trucks, guns, knives and bombs; and the street runs red and we are still here watching acts unbecoming social media broadcasts a self's shortcoming bringing repercussions of the things that you dread the lord jesus has delayed his second coming elijah has come; we look to our homecoming the scriptures verify everything he has said and we are still here watching acts unbecoming the savior's foot on mount zion is forthcoming our sins are remitted from the time that he bled the lord jesus has delayed his second coming and we are still here watching acts unbecoming.
In the warmth of the sun wildflowers bloom along the side of the road and on the gower where cornflower poppy and daisies lift the gloom summers blaze of colour explodes with a boom with such an overwhelming sense of power in the warmth of the sun wildflowers bloom they blow in the breeze with their sweet perfume the autumn hawkbit foxglove and cuckooflower where cornflower poppy and daisies lift the gloom a wildflower meadow charm will utterly consume and the thoughts of their beauty will empower in the warmth of the sun wildflowers bloom bewitched by the beauty of their petal costume or the colour of foxgloves delightful bellflower where cornflower poppy and daisies lift the gloom wildflowers are the glory of nature we can assume in their company your senses they will overpower in the warmth of the sun wildflowers bloom where cornflower poppy and daisies lift the gloom.
Your frame was like a hare, lissom in tone and women courted you, sweet tongued and fair death crept up slyly, stole you for his own now you have vanished to the shadow zone on the horizon dark clouds of despair nothing to do but suffer and bemoan the saw of grief has cut me to the bone nothing avails, what use of psalm and prayer? why take the son and leave the mother crone? such troubled times and sorrow you had known living a fugitive in a sad lair within a spider's web the fates had sewn life is a gift we occupy on loan each one must ascend jacob's mystic stair how hard when blossoms are too early blown the world's a shattered lyre since you have flown future's a sundered oak its branches bare living emotion has been turned to stone so much i'd change, too late now to atone now you have entered the ethereal air beyond the reach of card or telephone may we meet soon, my disembodied heir oh i am hungry for your face and for your filial embrace could i rewind life to the start i'd take more care of you, dear heart.
A shepherdess with a lamb to her breast against a dry stone wall on a windy hill she cradles it with love so truly blessed over steep welsh hills they roam best hardy hill sheep bred to wander at will a shepherdess with a lamb to her breast long fleeces waving in springs unrest bleating lambs at teats taking their fill she cradles it with love so truly blessed a brooding landscape the ultimate test the valley below a patchwork sits still a shepherdess with a lamb to her breast her love is her flock she tenders with zest caring for her lambs with love and skill she cradles it with love so truly blessed a shepherdess her lambs so caressed her life with her sheep is always a thrill a shepherdess with a lamb to her breast she cradles it with love so truly blessed.
From me do not take flight, we should be happy at the brake of day when the darkness is conquered by light. in the morning suddenly everything is clear and bright, even birds on the branches do twitter and play. from me do not take flight, know that my feelings for you are true and right, are there in times of sorrow and when everything is gay, when the darkness is conquered by light. even if at times we argue, at times in conversations fight you still do love me even when you threaten to go away. from me do not take flight, sometimes you look lovely even through my tearful sight and here now i beg you to stay, when the darkness is conquered by light and love me as intense as you did last night, know my true feelings i pray. from me do not take flight, when the darkness is conquered by light.
Do not go yowling into that late night. why can't you make that racket in the day? your caterwauling will give folks a fright. you scream so loud it spoils my appetite, but i should curb my intake, so they say. do not go yowling into that late night. you clumsy ball of fur; you're quite a sight, but you must learn to keep your voice at bay. your caterwauling will give folks a fright. your wail is not more gentle than your bite; you're louder than a donkey with his bray. do not go yowling into that late night. sometimes i think you do it out of spite, or instincts call and you can but obey. your caterwauling will give folks a fright. i tend to think that you are not that bright, yet i'm inclined to love you anyway. do not go yowling into that late night. your caterwauling will give folks a fright.
Bright feelings of love start to fall from the life tree, memories are limbs of times coming from the past, whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me. sweet kisses feed my hunger of your bel esprit rocketing us to heights in this basic contrast, bright feelings of love start to fall from the life tree. come dance with me on this ring of thoughts to be free. the rays of dream shine through the pains of room to last, whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me. open your eyes in this new mystery to see these seconds, coming into a new sense, so fast, bright feelings of love start to fall from the life tree. memories are flowers to make a potpourri. we are too small in this immensity so vast, whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me. tomorrow you will bounce your baby on your knee. in broken horizon, your bad dreams will be passed. bright feelings of love start to fall from the life tree. whispered words are fruits picked up by you and me.
There shall come spring rains when all seems lost to the cold decay and winter shall release its icy reign when hopes anew are all but slain by the bitter hold of frigid days there shall come spring rains vernal longings shall make their way as colors emerge from shades of gray and winter shall release its icy reign nature's display may seem bleak and inane as winter's chill yet still remains there shall come spring rains joy will abound where sorrow had lain as spring once more holds sway and winter shall release its icy reign cold may rear its head time and again bear faith and do not dismay there shall come spring rains and winter shall release its icy reign.
Soft shoots spring gently forth from the earth they look to the sky with their open face after the cold winter comes springs rebirth new buds on trees grow for all their worth each day they welcome the suns warm embrace soft shoots spring gently forth from the earth the sparrows and robins have all given birth and nature wakes up at a slow walking pace after the cold winter comes springs rebirth the daffodils now open their face full of mirth and crocuses blossoms all over the place soft shoots spring gently forth from the earth natures bright canvas spreads forth its girth apple blossoms fragrant blooms now race after the cold winter comes springs rebirth the warmth of the sun providing safe berth for all creatures of the wood or open space soft shoots spring gently forth from the earth after the cold winter comes springs rebirth.
A little mouse sings in a bowl a little fish runs on a wheel a little worm hops in a hole a little hat has lost its sole a little petal has no peel a little mouse sings in a bowl a little dog dances a reel a little frog jumps on a mole a little fish runs on a wheel a little boat rings out a peal a little bell loses its keel a little mouse sings in a bowl a little rock slips on a seal a little perch walks on a pole a little fish runs on a wheel a little card shakes on a deal a little sigh fancies a meal a little mouse sings in a bowl a little fish runs on a wheel.
A dark cloak does the evening fill, people know a deadly virus by name, throughout the world some are ill, the strong wind to it has a sharp chill, the world has changed nothing is the same. a dark cloak does the evening fill, there are marks on the windowsill, suddenly a thunderstorm came, throughout the world some are ill and from china a deadly thing does kill while the un holds nobody to blame. a dark cloak does the evening fill, scientists on television brag about their skill, that people were not warned in time is a shame, throughout the world some are ill, outside everything is deadly still all excuses now do sound very lame. a dark cloak does the evening fill, throughout the world some are ill,.
Come with me to this island in the sea tears of stone shed by ancient mountains bones the curving shore for all good men to see from storming seas and flooding rip tides free this island of white stone only neptune owns come with me to this island in the sea stand alone on these stark broken cliffs, that be from pounding of the sea, the broken stones the curving shore for all good men to see portland's sheltered stony bay, that's in the lee the island and her pulpit rock that groans come with me to this island in the sea steer your ship towards the bill's lightning tree sail safe to the bay, from the wind that roams the curving shore for all good men to see come all god's seamen, pray, come walk with me find peace away from king neptune's unholy moans come with me to this island in the sea the curving shore for all good men to see.
Depression is a fact of life for me. as much a part of life as food and air, it hovers like a dreaded entity. it scatters joys like useless stale debris, and sews the ashes of my dreams in gloom. depression is a fact of life for me. it poises like a shadowing banshee with somber wings just waiting to enshroud. it hovers like a dreaded entity, and i can almost always guarantee secreted in my spectral holidays depression is a fact of life for me. my life becomes a frequent abductee purloined by mirthless bird of prey it hovers like a dreaded entity.. a vulture pouncing when my back is turned, but hidden, and not easily discerned. depression is a fact of life for me it hovers like a dreaded entity.
I am a spoiled, lazy ginger cat i am lying on the sofa all day long and yes, i am a cat that is very fat i am posh and proud to be your pet i n your eyes i never do wrong i am a spoiled, lazy ginger cat i will not chase that dirty rat i am ok, on the sofa is were i belong and yes, i am a cat that is very fat you can bash the rat with a bat cook him in a pot, feed him to mr chong i am a spoiled, lazy ginger cat other cats see me and they frat i am a top cat, i lead with a midnight song and yes i am a cat that is very fat i am that fat cat who sat on the mat all morning, until you heard the gong i am a spoiled, lazy ginger cat and yes, i am a cat that is very fat.
Love me with sincerity, with the true feelings in your heart in times of loss and of prosperity while our influence linger into posterity and may our lives never part. love me with t sincerity, as if our words and deeds are more than surety in truthfulness that is something of an art in times of loss and of prosperity and when we are old without any dexterity may our feelings then last and never depart. love me with sincerity that brings feelings to a kind of clarity, that daily anew does start in times of loss and of prosperity. and may we constantly act in solidarity as if nothing our affections can thwart. love me with sincerity, in times of loss and of prosperity.
Kindness is to show you care in any way. kindness is giving something unselfishly. kindness is to show respect to anyone we meet or know. kindness is showing compassion when someone needs it to. kindness is giving a sincere smile. kindness is caring for others. kindness is saying a kind word or two. kindness is being nice to each other. kindness is not being rude to anyone. kindness is spreading god's love to all.
Star, star, star so bright star, star of heavenly light star so high up in the sky showed the way to go that night camel, camels, camels, they rode camels, camels, i've been told camels carrying wise men wise men with a heavy load gold, gold, gold, they took gold, gold, and frankincense gold, frankincense, and myrrh gifts for their new prince light, light, light so bright light, light, what a heavenly sight light that shined down below on the manger where he lay that night wrapped, wrapped, wrapped he was wrapped, wrapped in swaddling clothes wrapped so the wise men would know he was the one god chose isaiah, isaiah, isaiah was one isaiah, isaiah, and daniel of old isaiah, daniel, and jeremiah three prophets that foretold child, child, child so fair child, child with the red hair child under heavenly father's care savior of the world and his heir.
It's not easy to cope with life all the time it's not easy to pray when all has gone wrong it's not easy to control emotions as they come it's not easy to heal a broken heart sometimes it's not easy to give thanks when you feel lost it's not easy to be just you each day in and out it's not easy for some folks just to do what's right it's not easy for folks just to pray to god everyday it's not easy to show true feeling to others sometimes it's not easy to stop loving someone whenever you want to it's not easy just to stop worrying and stressing every day it's not easy for some folks to show they really love and care it's not easy to conquer some obstacles and many times accept defeat it's not easy to be strong and live with losses and burdens everyday it's not easy to let go of negativity and just smile through all the pain it's not easy just to move on and press forward when your heart is tired it's not easy for most folks to thank god for all they have be good or bad it's not easy to do all these and more but with god's help we can do anything.
I read books because just very much like it i read them everyday when i can night or day i read and read them more as mood sees fit i read only books that pleases soul and eye i read all kind of books so i can grow i read books that inspires and spirit heal i read poetry that like a song in heart flow i read of art poetry fiction and much more i read and try to get as many books i can i read and wish have more time to read so i read and keep books for research and scan i read and makes me happy thats all i know i read many books that just can never forget i read many that just speak to soul and heart i read tons of them and many havent got yet i read keep forever from them can never part.
Her spirit is as free as heaven's air, the gorgeous girl whose love i long to share while tripping through the light of passion's air where i shall find the way to say i care. if darkened eyes reveal a simple verse can love be shown within a poet's verse? perhaps my pen should practice more, rehearse, before the pond'rous thoughts my dreams immerse. to rest my pen when hearing lover's call her smiling face that muses to my all even my words are hers to beck and call. a poet seeks the ways of old romance, and writes of love while courting new romance, inviting her to join the tribade dance.
The carrion cry tonight, the queen of phantoms calls my name as in a witch's fire there burns her flame, i look to the skies and answer her claim, with pagan heart that none shall dare to tame. her honour is mine born on ravens wings, the mantle of honour a warrior brings, she is the promise a celtic dream sings, in life and death and all eternal things. she is the maiden where beauty is shown the maternal light that lets all be known for hers is the wisdom of ancient crone. here in the cry of the carrion bird hers is the echoed voice that can be heard and now in darkness hear her guiding word. by jem farmer.
Old leaves have no defence against the wind. a gray hawk is october's inner cry. the bells of salem church play elegies. distance becomes a single snowflake's fall. the mood is blue as autumn's last frost flowers, small bits of heaven hidden in the grass. tom roach who called them by their favored name, went home across the green fields long ago. yet sometimes when the light moves slowly west, and bells summon a faithful few for prayers, i see his shadow picking a bouquet. to live in memory is to be alive. for my grandfather who started to work in the coal mines of west virginia when he was twelve years old.
By the rude bridge that arched the flood, their flag to april's breeze unfurled, here once the embattled farmers stood and fired the shot heard round the world. the foe long since in silence slept; alike the conqueror silent sleeps; and time the ruined bridge has swept down the dark stream which seaward creeps. on this green bank, by this soft stream, we set today a votive stone; that memory may their deed redeem, when, like our sires, our sons are gone. spirit, that made those heroes dare to die, and leave their children free, bid time and nature gently spare the shaft we raise to them and thee.
Faith of things unseen. heb. 11 faith is the brightest evidence of things beyond our sight, breaks through the clouds of flesh and sense, and dwells in heav'nly light. it sets times past in present view, brings distant prospects home, of things a thousand years ago, or thousand years to come. by faith we know the worlds were made by god's almighty word; abram, to unknown countries led, by faith obeyed the lord. he sought a city fair and high, built by th' eternal hands, and faith assures us, though we die, that heav'nly building stands.
O god of earth and altar, bow down and hear our cry, our earthly rulers falter, our people drift and die; the walls of gold entomb us, the swords of scorn divide, take not thy thunder from us, but take away our pride. from all that terror teaches, from lies of tongue and pen, from all the easy speeches that comfort cruel men, from sale and profanation of honour and the sword, from sleep and from damnation, deliver us, good lord. tie in a living tether the prince and priest and thrall, bind all our lives together, smite us and save us all; in ire and exultation aflame with faith, and free, lift up a living nation, a single sword to thee.
Woman you are god's gift to the world woman you are the flowers that grow wild around the river woman the water of the river is flowing slowly woman your eyes are so beautiful woman your smile is like a rainbow so let it shine woman don't be afraid to show your smile.
Wilt thou forgive that sin where i begun, which was my sin, though it were done before? wilt thou forgive that sin, through which i run, and do run still, though still i do deplore? when thou hast done, thou hast not done, for i have more. wilt thou forgive that sin which i have won others to sin, and made my sin their door? wilt thou forgive that sin which i did shun a year or two, but wallow'd in, a score? when thou hast done, thou hast not done, for i have more. i have a sin of fear, that when i have spun my last thread, i shall perish on the shore; but swear by thyself, that at my death thy son shall shine as he shines now, and heretofore; and, having done that, thou hast done; i fear no more.
O eros, silently smiling one, hear me. let the shadow of thy wings brush me. let thy presence enfold me, as if darkness were swandown. let me see that darkness lamp in hand, this country become the other country sacred to desire. drowsy god, slow the wheels of my thought so that i listen only to the snowfall hush of thy circling. close my beloved with me in the smoke ring of thy power, that we way be, each to the other, figures of flame, figures of smoke, figures of flesh newly seen in the dusk.
I have learnt some things about death recentl this is what i have discovered death is a race, it is more then one being it kills people everywhere everyday as it can't be everywhere unless it was more then one death is a secret, it is livings worst kept secret for we are surrounded by death in life constantly we fear it, as it must fear us death has its fear, that is the end of everything for when the universe is gone and nothing is left death end, and ceases to exist death plays its games, every few centuries or millenium it lets us thrive to the point where we are too many then it kills us excessively in multiple ways death is merely us, though invisible it wonders too, looking for something to do while it wonder the universe it has purpose.
Your eyes are the colour of water but it is completely frozen over and there is no way into your vision unless i somehow warm you up first alas, that is something i can't do unless you're willing to let yourself go and press your body against my body in hopes that the sparks will make a fire so until our bones lie in the ground i will have a fire inside of me and it is burning like andromeda just because you aren't here for me but i wonder, if you come around will i want to burn for you much more?.
The spirit drips so golden from the still. persistent as a beating heart. oh that my words would learn the part to be as constant as my will to write. some days i look upon a page my mind as blank, with no desire to raise a spark to light the fire no phrases can i forage. o dark night.
You are my muse of many months mutterings born from misery you were in my heart when it bled for others so an essence of you laces every verse and now. no longer miserable. so happy i'm lost for words.
I am being accused of loving you, that is all it is not an insult, but a praise, that is all my heart is pleased at the words of the accusers o my dearest dear, they say your name, that is all for what i am ridiculed, it is not a crime my heart's useless playtime, a failed love, that is all i haven't lost hope, but just a fight, that is all the night of suffering lengthens, but just a night, that is all in the hand of time is not the rolling of my fate in the hand of time roll just the days, that is all a day will come for sure when i will see the truth my beautiful beloved is behind a veil, that is all the night is young, faiz start saying a ghazal a storm of emotions is raging inside, that is all.
Aainon ko tootte dekha isi mehfil mein hay, keya bataoon aap ko keya mere is dil mein hay. hamnasheen main tujhko apna dil dikha sakta nahin, dagh tere nakhunon jaisa bhi ek is dil mein hay. zindagi ka lutf to aaghosh mein maujon ki hay, zindagi woh zindagi keya gharq jo sahil mein hay. kaif woh jo justujoo mein tha kahan per reh geya, aaj main kahne laga hoon rakha keya manzil mein hay. mere hone ya na hone se bhala keya farq hay, aap chup to khamushi chai huyee mehfil mein hay.
Kutch gham woh mile ke tadap uththe, kutch aise mile jo sah bhi gaye, chand aansu humne pee daley chand peetey peetey bah bhi gaye. toofan na jane kitne uthe sab jhele humne chup hi rahe, aankhon ke ubalte ashkon se hum apne fasane kah bhi gaye. do hont laraz ke tham hi gaey woh bat zuban tak aa na saki, kai bar kisi ke samne hum do palken utha kar rah bji gaye. armanon ki chakki mein pis kar dil khoon huwa aankhon se baha, is ek muhabbat ki khatir hum lakhon masaib sah bhi gaye. paththar pe asar keya maujon ka takra ke bikhar jati hain khudhi, jazbat ke sarkash dharon mein hum tinkon ki manind bah bhi gaye. in jagti aankhon ke sapne deewana bana kar choren ge, woh nazren jhukae aae yehan aur deir talak phir rah bhi gaye. hansti huwi chanchal aankhon ne jhuk jhuk kar uthna seekh liya, jo kah na sake they hum ab tak woh sari baten kah bhi gaye.
Received and given, preening doves in courtship sway, they play for love. children bouncing balls off walls, a ricochet they play for love. sculptors stories live in folds of molded clay they play for love. gamblers stake to make or break in rash parley they play for love. newlyweds on feather beds in hideaways, they play for love. chiropractors whack the cracks on vertebrae they play for love. glissandi slip from fingertips, a strummed segue they play for love. scrabble rivals settle scores in worded fray they play for love. shady names inflame with games in sobriquet, they play for love. players love and lovers play i love to play, i play for love.
Jab aankhein batien karne lagen khamoshi achi lagti hay, ab hosh ko rakh kar keya karna behoshi achi lagti hay. koi hosh urane wala ho aur aur toot ke chahne wala ho, aur shanon pe zulfein bikhri hon madhoshi achi lagti hay. koi dekh na le koi sun na le, gul kar do sari shamen ab, in narm achoote honton ki sargoshi achi lagti hay. zara dekho iski shararat ko yeh har singhar ke barse phool, yeh chadar kaisi urhai hay gulposhi achi lagti hay. main tummei chupa tum mujmein chupe, koi dhoondh raha, yeh chand hay aur yeh kahta hay ruposhi achi lagti hay. jab gal ki rangat nikhri ho jab aankhon mein masti utri ho, ay chasme ghizalan chalakti raho may noshi achi lagti hay. jab hont hon kaliyon ki manind jab phool ke jaisa paikar ho, bareek gulabi libadeh mein khushposhi achi lagti hay.
Traveller o, why your feet have halted there? your terminus is still nowhere near. hear the brook that goes on singing in the woods, see the clouds that go on sailing in the air. all who came to see you off were not your friends, some had for you neath their sleeves daggers bare. thank them all alike and wish a happy life, god almighty high above takes your care. make some music with your footfalls on the road, milestones that lie ahead would like to hear.
Ay kash mujhe wuh neend aaye jo rat mein phir na toote kabhi, subh ko jab main so ke uthoon wuh bichde mujhe mil jaen sabhi. han abbhi jag raha hoon main jane keyun neend aati nahin, lekin tum keyun jagte ho aa jao sula doon tumko abhi. wuh jadoo abbhi tak bhoola nahin tum aao to cha jaye ga, tum abbhi aa jate ho lekin bhoole bhatke kabhi kabhi. yeh hont sakat kho baithe hayn chup rehna acha lagta hay, yeh aankhein abtak zindah hayn yeh bol rahi theen abhi abhi. chahat bhi keya jurm hay yaro na karte to acha tha, jinse muhabbat maine ki barham se hayn wuhi sabhi.
I wish to go and dwell, in such a place, where there's no one else. no one to understand my speech, no one around to talk with, there, i want to reach. i wish to build, one such house, without a door to enter, without the boundary walls, thus there will be no neighbours, and there will be no guard. there will be no one thus, to take care of me, when i will fell ill. and there will be no one, to mourn or cry, when i will die.
Arsa e zeest ko sadiyon ka safar jana hay phir bhi ik roz tou hr shakhs ko mr jana hay meray mabood tamannaon ka ambaar lye dar tera chhor kar ab aur kidhar jana hay jald ponhchay khabar e khair musafir ki k phir sham ki qabr mein suraj ko utar jana hay kitnay dilkash se hua krtay hen aksar lekin ankh khultay hi tou khwabon ko bikhar jana hay saans chalti hey jisay dekh k hur dum apni uss ko duniya ki tamaazat mein shajar jana hay yeh jo manzil tumhe lagti he yeh manzil to nhi akhir iss se bhi kisi pal mein guzar jana hay dil agar mujh se lagao gay to pachhtao gay mein musafir hun mujhe laut k ghar jana hay ghair mumkin nhi dunya men koi kam batool jo kisi se nhi hota hay wo kr jana hay.
Dil ne chaha ke suna doon use main bhi batein, yad aane lageen guzri hui bheegi ratein. aaj chingarian sholon mein badal jane do, aa bhi jao, na chali jaen sulagti ratein. subh ban jayen gi chehre pe sajao to inhein, tummein dikhti hayn abhi kitni mehekti ratein. mujhko bikhrane do zulfon ko, sanwar jaen gi, sath pao ge bahut sari sanvarti ratein. aaj chalne do zara rat ka rangeen jadoo, azmane do zara mujhko bhi bhooli ghatein. jeetne wale kabhi har ka chakho to maza, zindigi keya hay yehi peyar ki dilkash matein khamushi rat ki khushboo hay to chane do ise, subh aayegi to kar lenge hum aisi batein.
If beauty had been a necessary condition for delicacy in the world, then these poor beauties would not have sold for pennies. god has bestowed beauty upon them. if delicacy had come ultimately then the ribs of poverty would have broken for only one penny.
Fly like a kite in the passion of storms, why don't you love and enjoy its charms. sink yourself in the ocean of two eyes, life is between two lovely soft arms. kiss smile of roses that blossom on her face, kiss line of love in the pair of her palms. those in love are nice gentlemen, if one is deprived he loses his norms. kiss the mirror while watching your face, love is a beauty whatever may its forms. why are you burning in the fire of hate? look at the ashes of the melting norms. get rid of hate it's a friend you need, see magic of love that a friend performs. forgive your enemy send a bouquet to him, melt ice of the past with a gift that warms. message of christmas is help and service, icing of the cake is love that warms. at least exchange few words that are pleasant, it's eve of christmas bid farewell to the arms.
The buds of wishes have grown and became flowers, now. the fragrance of it is spreading to all parts and directions, now. what my mind conceived and heart did not endorse has remained like a storybook in shelf, now. the waves of my youth life that reached its zenith has started to calm down year by year, now. the inner voice of my conscience has become an unsolved question, now. the stroke of my pen produced a poetry like the taj mahal, a symbol of love, now.
Woyese to hum mile na kahin, ajnabi se they, rishte na jane kaise kahan ke kabhi ke they. dekha jo unko aankhon ne chupke se keya kaha, alam ajeeb dil pe mere bebasi ke they. majboor kar ke jane kahan ja ke chup gaye, andaz badalon se dhanki roshni se they. who din bhi kaise din they ke unke liye mere, asar thore thore se deewangi ke they. mujhko pata chala hi nahin le gaye woh dil, dil ke irade unse zara dillagi ke they. thori si cher char per roothe they kistarah, andaz thore thore zara berukhi se they. ghusse ki chadar orhkar kab tak chupao ge, honton ke zaviey to tumhare hansi ke they.
Zidigi ay zindigi tujhse main ukta geya, yeh jagah hay kaun si main kahan per aa geya. apnon ne ayse dukh diye jinka beyan mumkin nahin, keya kahoon kisse kahun keya kho geya keya pa geya. keya bataoon reza reza hoke keyun bikhra hoon main, main khud apne aap se ghabra geya takra geya. tujhko kho kar yun laga shayed khuda bhi kho geya, tujhko pakar yun laga tha main khuda ko pa geya. phool kante bun gaye dil mein jakar chubh gaye, na zamin hi hil gayee na aasman tharra geya. pehle hi keya pas tha han ek bharam tha jo geya, loot kar rehzen bhi mujhko aaj to sharma geya. chup raho akhtar ke khamoshi hi mein hay aafiat, keya zamana kho geya aur keya zamana aa geya.
Not important sweetheart what your brain concedes, important is the truth of your heart it feeds. not important sweetheart, how much knowledge you have, important is application when you sow its seeds. not important sweetheart, how nice is your belief, important is its reflection in your day to day deeds. not important sweetheart your outer charms, important is attraction from inside that pleads. not important sweetheart the smiles and joys, important is attention to the eye that bleeds. not important sweetheart forget your sins, important is regression after human misdeeds, not important sweetheart, how much i love you, important is my passion in the time of needs.
Love is my habit i am helpless sweetheart, wish in your heart i get access sweetheart. i'll not let you go you are prisoner of heart, pass a few days of recess lifelong sweetheart. it's your beauty that raged this war of love, now face with smile consequences sweetheart. surrender unconditional, i shall impose on you, imprisonment of life, are sentences sweetheart. a night is followed after all sunny days, like moon light i see are the chances sweetheart. should i purchase uniforms for the pretty nice prisoner? i have seen a few charming bridal dresses sweetheart. wish you the dreams of lovely bridal shower, i can imagine that's not in access sweetheart.
Chahata hoon main magar, har chahat ko fikr nahi milti chal pada hoon main magar, rah ko manzil nahi milti kashtiyan tofano me ghir jaye agar, usko sahil ki khabar nahi milti badal jab chaha jaye ghane, panchiyon ko udneki dagar nahi milti kafile gar kho jaye kahin, udti ret per unki nakshe pa nahi milti, mushkilon me ghire logon ko kisi ki sohbat nahi milti. aasmaan mein udnewale parindon ko zameen pr rengte kido ki shanakht nahi milti ud jaye gar koi insaan aasmano ke sair per, usko khake dafan ki jagah nahi milti, doobne wale ko tinke ka sahara mil jata hai tairne wale ko aksar gehraiyon ki khabar nahi milti.
Wo ghazal walon ka usloob samajhte honge chand kahte hein kise khoob samajhte honge itni milti hai miri ghazlon se sutat teri log tujh ko mira mehboob samjhte honge dekh kar phool key sathaat pe shabnam kuchh log mera ashkon bhara maktoob samajhte honge bhool kar apna zaman a ye buzurgane jadeed aaj ke pyar ko mayoob samajhte honge.
Fragrance has scattered in the wind the birds have flown from the orchid it is about to rain as clouds have grown thick and the earth will satisfy its thirst when nature plays tricks how can the heart remain untouched? let free your wishes to dance let free your heart to sing who knows tomorrow they may not be there? and this earth will be surrounded by smoky air.
Jo guzar gai woh thi zindigi jo guzar rahi woh sawal hay, tum ise bhi kahte ho zindigi yeh to apna apna khyal hay. ye hawa ke jhonke kabhi kabhi yeh jo gugdgudi si lagate hayn, kabhi rote rote jo hans pada in hawaon ka yeh kamal hay. na to main raha na to tum rahe yeh zamana kitna badal geya, yeh jo phool humne khila diya yehi baqi ek jamal hay. yeh safar to sara hi kat geya jo bacha hay usko bhi kat lein hum, zara kakulon ko woh kham to do woh jo kabka inse nikal geya, kabhi bole tum jo lagao se to lohoo bhi ruk geya ghao se, koi bheegi aankhen bhi hans padin koi ghamzada bhi bahal geya. kabhi socha tumne jo paya hay kabhi socho keya keya ganwaya hay, koi uska dhoondo jawab bhi tum ke yeh zindigi ka sawal hay. main to mutmain hoon naseeb se jo sila mila woh bahut mila, woh jo aaj tak na mila kabhi mujhe kutch na uska malal hay. mera mazi mujhse bichar geya main use kabhi na bhula saka, magar iska husn bhi kam nahin ke bada haseen mera hal hay.
yeh jo dhoop chaon ka khel hay ise khelna hi hay zindigi, kabhi bheeg jati hay aankh agar yeh to ek waqti ubal hay.
You who are not kept anxiously awake for love's sake, sleep on. in restless search for that river, we hurry along; you whose heart such anxiety has not disturbed, sleep on. love's place is out beyond the many separate sects; since you love choosing and excluding, sleep on. love's dawn cup is our sunrise, his dusk our supper; you whose longing is for sweets and whose passion is for supper, sleep on. in search of the philosopher's stone, we are melting like copper; you whose philosopher's stone is cushion and pillow, sleep on. i have abandoned hope for my brain and head; you who wish for a clear head and fresh brain, sleep on. i have torn speech like a tattered robe and let words go; you who are still dressed in your clothes, sleep on.
Rat ke pardon mein sahmi si mulaqat nahin, ek muddat se woh mehke hue din rat nahin. teri madhosh jawani ki inayat nahin, shokh nazron mein woh rangeen isharat namin. bat keya apni sunaen jo teri bat nahin, woh tasawar hi nahin ab woh kheyalat nahin. ab nahin waslke hangamon mein lazzat baqi, ab tere hijr ke woh pehle se sadmat nahin. dost hangamae dunya mein hain hum tum uljhe, fursale ishq kise hay ke woh halat nahin.
I don't need a companion who is nasty sad and sour the one who is like a grave dark depressing and bitter a sweetheart is a mirror a friend a delicious cake it isn't worth spending an hour with anyone else a companion who is in love only with the self has five distinct characters stone hearted unsure of every step lazy and disinterested keeping a poisonous face the more this companion waits around the more bitter everything will get just like a vinegar getting more sour with time enough is said about sour and bitter faces a heart filled with desire for sweetness and tender souls must not waste itself with unsavory matters.
You smile sweetheart many flowers sprung, wordsworth and shelley and keats are sung. tide of beauty brings out many pearls, ugliness sweeps out like dirt and dung. my days are yours my nights are yours, you are a song round the clock it's sung. i remember sweetheart a heart i had, with your earrings something is hung. i cannot see if your eyes are wet, my heart with you, see never it's wrung.
Jo shaiy apnon mein unqua hay who beganon mein milti hay, muhabbat darhaqueequat sirf deewanon mein milti hay. farishta jurm karta hay to sharminda nahin hota, khataon per pasheemani to insanon mein milti hay. wh bholi bali aurat jab kabhi kutch kho si jati hay, to mere dil ke chote se nihan khaanon mein milti hay. parishan zulfon wali shan pariyon jaisi teri hay, tu ghqazlon mein bhi dikhti hay tu afsanon mein milti hay. hay teri mamata chai hui sari khudai per, tu insanon mein milti hay tu haiwanon mein milti hay. who jiski chonch mein zaitoon ki ek shakh hoti thi, who zakhmi fakhta janon na anjanon mein milti hay. diya jo jhonpri mein jal raha hay roshni uski, na masjid na kalisa na sanamkhaanon mein milti hay.
Sun about to die the car broken down and a smell of spring remains as the air sweeps by somewhere a song where are you one afternoon much like this i looked for you in vain in the fog covering the roads i kept finding myself and in the smoke of my cigar a lost bird nobody answered the last pastors drowned and the stray sheep ate flowers and did not give honey the wind that went by piles up their wool between the clouds holding my tears why cry once more about what i've cried already and since the sheep eat flowers sign that you went by.
How to write dizain poem february 19, 2020 to attempt to write a dizain poem where will be total a ten line stanza ten syllabus per line of the poem rhyme scheme also is a term in stanza, meaningful is also term of stanza, a b a b b c c d c d; it is not so easy, even, so hard some techniques are always necessary it may be rare stanza, limerick and any other forms of any poetry.
I walk in loneliness through fields of corn caressing the corn with my hand as i stroll soft wind makes sway in the early morn i walk in loneliness through fields of corn for i lost my sweet love now love is forlorn she has taken everything even my very soul i walk in loneliness through fields of corn caressing the corn with my hand as i stroll.
Money comes and money goes and that is the way it is so be aware all the time that yes money comes and money goes at times we have lots some times less and with it just reap what we sow money comes and money goes and that is the way it is so so don't worry long toss your stress money comes and money goes keep life simple rid of excess if you don't want more debts now money comes and money goes and that is the way it is so.
What can i bring to you in a world where everything is dark? what can i give to you that are true, what can i bring to you, if everything is broken in whatever i do; do you find something more in my eyes, in each remark? what can i bring to you in a world where everything is dark?.
Seeing the fire in your eyes die i walked to the house alone wishing my eyes would let me cry. seeing the fire in your eyes die took away all reason to try and pretend you were not yet gone. seeing the fire in your eyes die i walked to the house alone.
Let the sun shine brightly each day, warming us deeply in our soul, we are happy it's here to stay let the sun shine brightly each day, giving our earth a lovely ray, having found its own final knoll, let the sun shine brightly each day, warming us deeply in our soul.
Why should the devil get all the good tunes, the booze and the neon and saturday night, the swaying in darkness, the lovers like spoons? why should the devil get all the good tunes? does he hum them to while away sad afternoons and the long, lonesome sundays? or sing them for spite? why should the devil get all the good tunes, the booze and the neon and saturday night?.
After the melting of the snow divines depart and april comes; examinations nearer grow after the melting of the snow; the grinder wears a face of woe, the waster smokes and twirls his thumbs; after the melting of the snow divines depart and april comes.
At night i have the strangest dream where all of my hope is swept away but everything is not how it does seem. at night i have the strangest dream but in love you do vow and deem to love me past every night and day but at night i have the strangest dream where all of my hope is swept away.
I stand upon a rocky shore tightly holding your hand and everything is different from before. i stand upon a rocky shore see a rising gale hear the billows roar feel the pelting blowing sand and i stand upon a rocky shore tightly holding your hand.
We posses a promise and dreams to pursue. after our graduation, marry we would. i have done my graduation, you have too. we posses a promise and dreams to pursue. to adorn the future, would long together, work jointly, to make the world better. we posses a promise and dreams to pursue. after our graduation, marry we would.
Love is it good when i see you smile it makes me smile too because when i smile, i smile like the sun. love is it good when i see you smile it brings sweet memories back to me how your smile brighten up my day. love is it good when i see you smile it makes me smile too because when i smile.
We eat food daily not giving a thought how grown in fields, who have sweated. get in kitchen simply think, have bought; we eat food daily not giving a thought. farmers grow things by working so hard just give everything to us, self bear fret. we eat food daily not giving a thought how grown in fields, who have sweated.
Mosquito you have taken my blood with a gentle bite, silently and i am sure it is enough for you to plod and provide the results of my blood if you grow big with a clod, my blood is fine and of good quality but if you die i must rush to check the blood or else i will also die, silently.
There is a troublesome state of mind, when i hate the first morning light and feel rebellious, bitter and unkind. there is a troublesome state of mind, when in everything i something wrong find, a type of spite that nothing turns aright. there is a troublesome state of mind, when i hate the first morning light.
With a deep touch, the red poppy awakes the grass. with a deep touch, red wants green's vibration so much, the sun awakes the sky's watch glass. the sky vibrates like a string bass, with a deep touch. the red flowers bloom in the spring when the time of the green grass comes. the sky vibrates like a bass string. the red flowers bloom in the spring. i see the nature's purest swing. the wind searches his bongo drums, the red flowers bloom in the spring when the time of the green grass comes. i see his love like a white lily among thorns. i see his love like in clefts of the rock, a dove. when red flower its grass adorns and her dead winter, spring mourns, i see his love. shadows are inlaid in color when red poppy awakes the grass. when the land is multicolor, shadows are inlaid in color. when the cuckoo is a caller, the sun awakes the sky's watch glass. shadows are inlaid in color when red poppy awakes the grass.
Dear little heart with dread and pain, consider life a cheat and rise up like day, wind up thy soul and freeze out the strain, dear little heart with dread and pain, trod out thy burn and cast sorrows constrain, linger with days and walk out with rays, dear little heart with dread and pain, consider life a cheat and rise up like day.
Hollow and holes of bamboo played with air. most natural, magical, musical instrument. makes melodious the complete atmosphere hollow and holes of bamboo played with air. in hands of lord krishna, hindus wish to be flute. in tranquillity, ears sense celestial experience. hollow and holes of bamboo played with air; most natural, magical, musical instrument.
Summer season brings us very hot weather but the days cool again when it departs hear the birds and all the butterflies stir summer season brings us very hot weather there is fun and lots of sun and showers we'll see sunshine very bright for most part summer season brings us very hot weather but the days cool again when it departs. june,11,2013.
Fair love what do you want with my poor heart have you come to taunt and play with me to lead me on then quickly to depart fair love what do you want with my poor heart will you take my love then tear it apart and leave making me fool for all to see fair love what do you want with my poor heart have you come to taunt and play with me.
Whenever you away from me stray my little planet has lost its light and my life turns to grey. whenever you away from me stray with someone else go off to play around me there is only night. whenever you away from me stray my little planet has lost its light.
Look up at the stars tonight close your eyes and make a wish just for you they will be shining bright look up at the stars tonight in the soft darkness of the night at a full moon such a perfect dish look up at the stars tonight close your eyes and make a wish.
Our youth has now faded with winged feet and age has lined our weary face with sighs the mirror does not lie nor does it cheat our youth has now faded with winged feet time ends and death we will soon greet and will take us by the hand to our demise our youth has now faded with winged feet and age has lined our weary face with sighs.
As the maker paints the box with flair, breathing music into its grain. he carves each figure with loving care as the maker paints the box with flair. containing whispers to cherish and share a touch of magical arcane. as the maker paints the box with flair, breathing music into its grain. when the dancers glide on musical streams, pirouette within fantasy. they leap and sway in dreamer's dreams, when the dancers glide on musical streams. dance of romance to a lyrical theme, just don't forget to wind the key. when the dancers glide on musical streams, pirouette within fantasy.
Somewhere under the frozen earth beneath the snow so deep lay a soldier born of humble birth somewhere under the frozen earth he died an unsung hero for all its worth now a mother stands silently to weep somewhere under the frozen earth beneath the snow so deep.
You long to go to a place near mountain streams where we wander around in our memories or maybe to the knysna forest you go in your dreams. you long to go to a place near mountain streams for which your heart at times screams where we wander among the trees without worries. you long to go to a place near mountain streams, where we wander around in our memories.
Why we embrace the written word is, a wonder to me, indeed a testament to what we've heard, why we embrace the written word. to those of whom it seems absurd they must rely on what they read, why, we embrace the written word is a wonder, to me indeed.
Love is a palace that's so far away, we ride there on horses nobody has seen; leaped over their paddock and then went astray, love is a palace that's so far away. our hair streaming out, as forgotten the day, on wild horses we go where we've never yet been; love is a palace that's so far away, we ride there on horses nobody has seen.
Taken from rainbow colors of your wing, silken feathers; symbol of pride and glory. fly with hop, can't stay long in the wind, taken from rainbow colors of your wing. your dance inspires us but never you sing, in your beautiful feathers, lies whole story. taken from rainbow colors of your wing, silken feathers; symbol of pride and glory.
As far away as the blue where the sun touches the hillocks lies the things that was once true, as far away as the blue lays memories of me and you, where things are like they had been, like the rocks, as far away as the blue where the sun touches the hillocks.
Each day when sun rises at dawn and on their perch the sparrows tweet heavenly pearls roll down my lawn. each day when sun rises at dawn and rainbows on the sky are drawn the cuckoo sings some melody sweet. each day when sun rises at dawn and on their perch the sparrows tweet.
The kiss of twilight comes too soon sun's dying embers faintly glow dusk's fair cape now heralds the moon the kiss of twilight comes too soon and lovers emerge to caress and swoon nature finds its bed in the hedgerow the kiss of twilight comes too soon sun's dying embers faintly glow.
The ageless passing of the wisdom lies beneath your feet and yet you keep on walking in search of knowledge, information and truth wake up and break this unbroken chain leave your sense behind and walk the walk. the very essence to get organized is killing you do the things you want to do without talking the thing you call rationalize does not exist it is the argument of the mind with the soul don't make your life a file of activities things won't change unless you change don't let your grades define your future course crossing the roads and wondering where to head the sea will never be calm and without the tides the intimidating minds will shell out the intelligence beware of the facts, it's going to reveal without justice.
On a dead dull night when the moon goes hiding and the barn owl hoots for its love the fireflies romance the darkness. the glowing beads dance to celebrate the nights of long past buried for good with the treasures of lost happiness, wind sings a dirge for transience.
Boys and girls that held her dear, do your weeping now; all you loved of her lies here. brought to earth the arrogant brow, and the withering tongue chastened; do your weeping now. sing whatever songs are sung, wind whatever wreath, for a playmate perished young, for a spirit spent in death. boys and girls that held her dear, all you loved of her lies here.
In the greater oyster world all the children eventually grew old the windmills ran down the fields went back to clover the stones kept all their secrets waterways forgot their courses the sundials were covered with moss and time eventually stretched out to touch the edge of infinity.
Another reminder of a life once lived landmarks, a bond for some to share painful precursor three days up, seized and death though aware nevertheless stood aghast from the mouths of two in garments shining why seek ye among the dead the living? he is risen, he is risen, he is risen there, my hope for the hereafter so on earth alive, i carry my hurts, my pains but in a while they shall all abstain and death shall stand aghast for just bones, in my grave remain yonder, my spirit free at last i rose, i rose, i rose.
I silently, silently the new morning awakes and your hands are crossed over your breast while you go to the eternal rest, and deeply, deeply my heart aches. ii colourful new flowers are flowering, with insects buzzing, birds with songs to sing while i miss you during this early spring. ii blue as your eyes the sky is stretching, open and clear while in it multitudes of birds fly and i wish that you were here. iv far too fleetingly you were with me and this remains the earthly thing, where no one is free from death and the way that it stings. v in the early morning breeze at you grave my words are fluttering here and there, fluttering while in sorrow they rave and even the willows are crying.
'twas grace that taught my heart to fear. calm comes from burning. tall comes from fast. comely doesn't come from come. person comes from mask. the kin of charity is whore, the root of charity is dear. incentive has its source in song and winning in the sufferer. afford yourself what you can carry out. a coward and a coda share a word. we get our ugliness from fear. we get our danger from the lord.
My heart keeps drinking shadows of the moon; i've drowned before in darkness when it's bright; my eyes keep spinning silence with a spoon for silent strands to weave a dark cocoon, once blinded by the sweetness of the light. my heart keeps drinking shadows of the moon while crying tearless tears of a monsoon, i'm choking on the shapelessness of night. my eyes keep spinning silence with a spoon, your voice no longer readily in tune, released from pain its bitter mortal plight; my heart keeps drinking shadows of the moon. your face a brightly piercing wild harpoon would leave me as a guardian with no sight; my eyes keep spinning silence with a spoon believing it will one day be immune; until the light and darkness can unite, my heart keeps drinking shadows of the moon; my eyes keep spinning silence with a spoon.
The wind, strums the strings, of the trees, tortured, distorted harps, their notes float gently into the mute night. no sound, no sound. no children's gentle breathings, no tender lovers' murmurings, no men and women talking, laughing. only the bowed trees as the invisible harpist plucks the dark, bent branches, the notes sob in the blackness, and tremble in the silence, their moans echo in the shivering stars. wind cupped, weeping, bitter notes, that ask, why does evil stand tall, why do the good lay fallen.
I have often wondered about grasping men, i have wondered about the way that the world goes under the people that were elected to lead the way and about their desire for fortune and fame, about presidents that do not waver to tell a lie, about leaders that sent soldiers off to war and wondered if they do consider the consequences or is there something evil that besets each great good man a corruption that power does always bring?.
And with you brought a myriad of memories, of happy times, of sad times, of events that we did experience together and at times we were in bliss and it felt like only yesterday that we did kiss for the very fist time and in your presence life held a special kind of promise as if there was something great to come in every new tomorrow.
We live in a world where war, disasters and destruction are continually harassing us as if destiny is pursuing us, as if everything in this world is out of control, as if the portals of hell are standing wide open and sometimes we become ill without any chance of being healed and sometimes we loose loved ones to death and it feels as if we are living on the edge of the abyss but still the hope remains that life will become better, that deliverance will come with the new tomorrow as if a happier future is only waiting on us.
I'm only as amazing as i left myself be let my mind wander so the light i can finally see see now baby i made this far and i did it with you my shining star it's true, i adore you and if you only knew too i don't want to leave you behind i want you forever by my side you're the one from which i can't hide with your hazel eyes why won't you just come with me so we can be side by side under this italian moonlight baby darling, don't you know you got me smiling girl you know i'm proud of you with a soul as beautiful as cerulean blue and if you think that i never knew you better think twice 'cause you're my sweet dearest keep you the nearest to my heart, sweetheart i love you and adore you all day and night, this has to be right our bond is packed tight at the end of this letter, doll you better write back so i can go with you to and fro 'cause it's best we don't let this go standing by your side weary, oh so eerie with affection i hope you do hear me, and share the adoration as you put your lips up to mine, i'll tell you that your loving will always be true baby i'm going with you be happy with me all the way through you're my soul mate baby, who knew that it would be us, who knew.
There are fires in the west typhoons in the east socialists live in the north with reds in the southern heat concrete tattoos the land exhaust scratches at the atmosphere so, mother earth sends a hand to brush away her only tear let us overload let us think we know let us push forward to our hindsight dredged and indifferent ends.
How vast is the mind in all it surveys? humanity's blip can be measured in days, yet i hold hallowed my meager plight as i plummet blind through this icy night. with all prime focus centered on me as my reigning identity i quake confused by all my eyes see. shall i be sequestered in perpetuity? my body buckles with forces profound since i find no hope to orbit around only more egos that need to be stroked waiting for my light to get revoked.
Heaven cries, the people are crippled on whom it relies, crippled of the mind eyes opened but blind, to the necessary evil plaguing our hearts, pulling us apart from the love shared from above, making us teach corruption instead of salvation sundays has become boring, i get tired of pretending to be listening to all those false teachings and preachings and doctrines that i wonder where they come from, was it not the same bible i read this morn' so where did you get that interpretation from i kindly ask you dear one. and they tell me everyone's got a different understanding i tried but they pushed me aside i corrected them, but i became a problem so i just chill every sunday morning realizing this problem is without solving and i leave them all to god when we die, we'll be judged based on our records.
Enjoy life everyday god gives you this day to love, enjoy.don't live in the past just be glad that you have today this day try to do your best and be strong when you are feeling low. don't waste time and enjoy.
Satin as your lips are pressed to mine as velvet soft and full with rounded sweetness two gentle petals alive with the night misted in the summer beauty of rains that shower love 'pon your lips of satin by jason d. wilkins.
Oh moon the friend of mine in my dark mood you shine in my lone place you are present to accompany me in my yearning your presence i feel the comfort a good buddy of mine thanks a lot pal oh moon ency bearis 2015 all rights reserved.
Burlesque they did detest. so they stood outside the club to protest. they were surprised when their pastor came out with a smile. they couldn't believe that this was his style. he told them that he was there to save the dancers' souls. his story smelled more like dead fish than a rose.
Oh peaches store ample beauty aids thus, for a long your charm you can guard. beware oh glamour aided by beauty aids we are nationalizing them within short period. monopoly then will be with the government officials will decide the cream for you best. lip sticks will be kept then in state banks talcs will be found with treasury's trade mark. you have to apply then for every beauty aid straight to the justices with tiny bench. the quota of your cloths will be sanctioned on recommendations of anti beauty branch.
Dear beautiful lady the poor devil very humbly thanks you for your two melons and prays for you to content yourself with his small thanks. he would like to send you some wonder because wonder he names melons. but in a man of his kind from whom nothing comes out and nothing comes in he goes nuts for wonderful melons. if only your beautiful eyes his house would light would be very well. so just please truth be told from little thanks. and if that is insufficient pierce me at an angle with a sharp dart and may my heart be skewered on the spot. may i love you with all my soul. do not doubt ebony bait nor my eyes spearing your melons.
Beware oh teachers and also professors you both must have to always remember that by saction xx of our constitution we have made knowledge's nationalization. we are storing it now in bank reserve we warn you dears that you will deserve a penalty for govt orders' contempt in 3 days your knowledge you 've to deposit. in the metropolitan knowledge godown and with it you will give an affidavit that you will accept death as penal action if from syllabi your teaching deviates.
Alex affectionate, understanding, thoughtful. wishes to see the good in everyone. dreams of thought behind words, yearns to see the heart behind the eyes. who wonders if the grass is greener on the other side, who fears to find out. who is afraid of fear, who likes the warmth of a friend's given heart. who believes in his prayers. who loves his best friends, who loves all of his friends. who loves the sound of laughter, who loves the music of the heart. who plans to be a father, who plans to be a husband, who plans to be a hero. the friendship and memories i have are the things held by my heart in a box marked forever.
My thoughts of today and the meaning of life lay groom.the cancer by what we call sience has torn my thoughts into poor shame of this nation we call usa.i shall pray and even seek god for help, and for witch i have.i think as the chosen one that lives and strives for all man kind to live and breath the 'ten commandments' and those are being honest, truthful, compassionate, loving, generous, unselfish, trying to keep the ten commandments and even going to church will not get you heaven? when reading my bible i turn to a part where is said jobs, and this what is said here lions may roar and that i am a leo. it also say choose to ignore and shall be vanished.
This 5ft girl may be short, but she has the heart as big as a building. people think she's small minded, but they don't know jack. looks can be deceiving. mess with her, make the ambulance stitch ya tissue or have a bag stuck on your hip to crap through. shown you once, show it again if she gotta. she only respects those who are respectful to her. she loves to meet new people, her mind is set on her obsession. her old brother tells her to just smile and win your obsession. live life.
A bio chemistry of digital heart i locked my heart and forgot the password how you got it to enter? atria and ventricle chambers interchange the coronary blood our hearts too have interchanged. handful only is our heart, depth and breadth are manifolds of the ocean. you told me to occupy a tiny point but, you're flying all around my heart; like a butterfly leaving any single spot. thermal power, nuclear power hydroelectric power, which everyone knows heart electricity, feel it only now. intimacy compliments mutually in love gifted are the hearts in wet dried hearts will only rest. my heart weighed so high flying easy now just because of you.
The day's tumultuous events caused poreris to drift back to when his niece, desiree, was a little girl, and remembering her uncle, bill; her dad's brother who would come over and visit. one day while she was lying on the bed watching television, he walked into the room and began to talk to her. just before walking into the room, he pulled a laura bush biography of the shelf with the intentions of having her read a few pages for him, simultaneously trying to create an atmosphere and cordial pattern of picking up a book when she has free time, on the weekends when a child thinks, and should think that it's time to forget everything that happened academically, and without a doubt during the summer when most things will discretely fade out through the osmosis of a long, hot, relaxing vacation. her grandmother had a small bookshelf at the end of the hall way, about two or three shelves of books; each of a different genre; half that her uncle bill put there himself after reading, from poe, to melville, to an autobiography of the former head of the joint chiefs of staff; colin powel, who once said how ironic it was that his dad never owned a gun, yet his son becomes head of the most powerful military in the world; to hillary clinton a modern day female activist, former first lady and senator of new york. at that moment, also trying to show by example, how to take the time and have reading becoming an entertaining event as well as an academic one, and thus he had also brought with him and was in the middle of a fourteen hundred and fifty page novel by victor hugo; les mieserables, though right about at the halfway point he said that he wished that he had either taken a speed reading course or had bought the abridged version.
and condoleezza rice, which he was telling a young lady named shay that he met in atlanta one day while passing through, whom he had a chance to have supper with one evening, that just halfway through the autobiography of her, condoleezza rice, that it had made him dizzy; she, as they say, has been everywhere and done everything, from a professor at stanford university to secretary of state; coming from a small conservative christian family, and becoming a diligent female role model. he would have given her it to read, but he was only halfway through and refused to let it go. desiree would remember him saying that 'he wasn't certain how they; kids viewed time, and how they saw it in relationship to the future; their future'. they say that they have no true concept of time, or that was the teacher's way back then of explaining to us of how we sometimes seemed oblivious to the controlling of fate and manipulation of our destinies, the dreams of being teachers, firemen, doctors, lawyers and politicians attained rather than hoped for.' she would hand him her progress report card, and it had mainly a's and b's, which he would say, 'that's great'. at her age, and probably in the same classroom that she was now sitting in on a day to day basis, about thirty years ago, he ran down those same halls, and since the outside of the building had not changed very much, poreris could precisely imagine seeing them there and literally speak of her and her cohorts walking back and forth from class to class and even stopping for lunch in the cafeteria, and could also remember what the inside of othello price's office, the head principle, looked like, unfortunately from being more truant than academic, though he was certain that he left the academy with a b average.
and thus most likely from that point, although not having graduated from a university, though he may have had about a couple of hundred credit hours from different schools and universities, and was still in the process of thinking about attaining a degree in some field between then and retirement, thus believing by that time in her life as it was in his, the pattern of having the ability and desire for learning, should have begun to become somewhat of a fixed foundation; though at that moment he had more of a conviction to a stern work ethic. there was also an autobiography about three hundred pages long, which was of george w. bush; the president. and his wife about two hundred pages long, so he grabbed it; the one on his wife, laura bush; a light paperback, with vital information from a cultural to a political perspective, by a female role model, and thus desiree began to read page one. because the first lady was a librarian, a teacher, and had also formed and chaired a reading program, it was probably written to capture the attention of the youth as well, something that could easily be assigned as a reading project by either a teacher or parent. therefore there were only a number of words that she needed help with as he sat there listening to her read aloud. he did the same with the little princess, one of the first books that he had bought her that he eventually read himself, thinking that he should not only buy them books, but just about read every page of each one that he had gotten them, and enjoy it equally as much. tv is educational, the radio can equally be as informative as entertaining, and sitting down with a good book somewhat helps make a complete and healthy mind, though the lack of seeing them not as often enough with the latter is what prompted his interest in how they; desiree and her brother, were doing academically.
he would say, ' i guess if you do good in school, and not do the latter of the above, reading as much as possible whenever the opportunity presents itself, it should be a forced extracurricular home chore'. 'desiree, you are eleven years old, born june the 26th 1992, and i was fortunate enough to see you as a new born infant even before leaving the hospital; and seeing you over the years as your dad's only baby daughter, and only three years younger than your brother, and seeing y'all, who up until recently, looked almost like twins, talked alike and acted alike, though the only difference is due to the stronger will of biology that separates the two of you at the moment as you mature into young men and women.' and while sitting there listening and thinking about the last eleven years of her life as an uncle and friend, he began to notice how she had become taller, as she held the book in her hands. he first noticed how long and slender her fingers were; only a few days earlier, he had made her brother hold up his hand against his; at fifteen, he was just about as tall as his uncle bill and her fingers were just as long although more slender, and stopped her in the middle of reading and placed her palm against his and told her that she would probably be a doctor or a lawyer; that's what people use to say to those whom had unique hands.
then he began to notice how much she had grown; he had always said that she and her brother had that athletic physique, thus noticing her legs, then arms, listening how she read while in reverie of the past eleven years that he had known her, then realized, or had noticed as a father would notice, who works, and spends more time seeing that everything is secure and happy, after mom, brother sister and friends, that his baby girl has already begun to blossom into a young lady; and still like that father, left at the moment, too speechless to say anything about it without having to admonish himself for not noticing it earlier, though he has heard it a thousand times, that one day it just happens, accepting that it happens even to those that you love, then stopping to realize that standing in the eye of the storm, there is a maturing beautiful young lady.
Each cell has life. each organ has life. each body has life. unicellular, multicellular and multi organed as they are. life is a force that lives in each cell and in continuity. bio force is different fro other forces in that it has a drive to grow unlike others that grow when fed. aim of the bio force is to thrive and struggle to thrive. it knows no sin, no god. 13.08.2010.
Sperm is meant to swim. ovum can reject or accept. it never condemns. bull is meant to chase. cow can yield or flee. it never scorns. man is meant to advance. woman can assent or descent. but the woman alone betrays. shed virtuous posture; follow bio nature. 17.10.99.
Though i live far south of claraghatlea my first home place where mine years ago was a well known face since the years have left me looking older and gray perhaps there i would be a stranger today i have traveled a bit in my sixty six years life span and though i have been to new zealand and britain and japan i have not been to paris or berlin or rome big cities not distant from my first irish home as a teenager i lived and worked in new york for a few years where for claraghatlea i did shed nostalgic tears and here in koroit in victoria where i live today the clock on my life does keep ticking away worked in woods in muskerry and duhallow felling spruce and pine trees in temperatures often close to zero degrees worked on building sites and as a drainer and in the old sherbrooke shire on travel towers lopping trees i worked hard for my hire a brief bio in rhyme of my life that and little else more and i do feel my age now six years with three score i have traveled a bit since my life's journey began but compared to some i am not a well traveled man.
At least to poemhunter i'm dead it refuses to do bio update, the date is worng, it should be 30 june, but no the page cannot be displayed, i will make my peace with this i have made my peace with everything else that does not work out in my life soft, green tendrils of life will eventually find their way against the tide of dead wood and dead skeletons.
Soft as an easy chair, fresh as a morning air, there's something i want to share, it's jesher i can't compare. she grows in the city of good luck, aplace for better companionship, gingoog city with love, the heart of native land. her treasures and keep a happy family that complete, samayla and you will see, from rosario and rodelio she flees. her character as a woman, ran after by man, captures the heart of everyone, but gives her heart to only one. she's a good friend to remind you, big sister to abide you, seek and you shall find, she knows what is the best for mankind. she never forgets to pray, when she's down in astray, god always follows her way, for her to be famous one day.
Wykeshia anonymous, benevolent, glamorous, and promiscuous lover of bobby valentino, bratz diamondz, and poetry who feels sexy, fine, and independent who needs money, car, and be more successful who fears horror movies, snakes, and death who gives respect, honor, and love who would like to see bobby valentino in baton rouge, myself looking like a real diamond angel and myself as one of the members of disturbing tha peace family whenever i'm going for my music career. resident of clinton, la mccallister.
You have to try. you see the shrink. you learn a lot. you read. you think. you struggle to improve your looks. you meet some men. you write some books. you eat good food. you give up junk. you do not smoke. you don't get drunk. you take up yoga, walk and swim. and nothing works. the outlook's grim. you don't know what to do. you cry. you're running out of things to try. you blow your nose. you see the shrink. you walk. you give up food and drink. you fall in love. you make a plan. you struggle to improve your man. and nothing works. the outlooks grim. you go to yoga, cry and swim. you eat and drink. you give up looks. you struggle to improve your books. you cannot see the point. you sigh. you do not smoke. you have to try.
We strive in all what we do and we are somehow for truth, for something to outlast our humanity, our dwindling youth in a world that is in constant decay but each untruth in our humanity is buried deep while in life we yearn, learn, laugh, play and weep.
Sweet smelling like peaches or oranges like a girl's breath, i have forgotten how nice women could be, lived in death with a longing hidden for someone true far underneath, until you came along, looked at me with a kind of serene tranquillity.
The eyes of my love shines like the sun, summer fades, in the presence of her most lovely smile, autumn shades against the colour of her vibrant hair, spring degrades against her charm and personality and vivid she stays lingering with me.
'all things end, ' and i knew that from the start, now i need to say it to a very stubborn heart. she refuses to believe, she refuses to see, that the pain inside will vanish, once i set you free. there are no misgivings, dearest, i could not have loved you more, so in tenderness, i bid you 'addio, senza rancore. '.
Your smile, your touch, your glance flowers in a eternal spring, there is a kind of radiance that comes to everything; constantly a hidden, holy, message keeps whispering while great joy you bring with your own presence, to my life you are bringing the essence.
From the orange free state to the transvaal farms and towns burn, from concentration camps women, children, do not return, up in the hillocks european farmers fight; not taciturn emily hobhouse does expose some ills, many innocents the british do kill. hard driven men who read the word of god fight very brave, hear the british sing their god save their queen; they cannot save some twenty thousand women and children, but they do crave for freedom and for a place of their own, are forced to swear loyal to the crown. after that bitter war they have to sing 'god save the queen, ' return to decimated farms and towns, their pain unseen, impoverished they make a living, for peace are keen; to today their kinsmen do not forget, in god's record his punishment is set.
While nature in the spring is flowering something is there, is visiting the broken earthly sphere and everywhere there are signs of a divine presence coming with care and in the sheer purest loveliness, we see something that god's love does possess.
There is a land of endless light, where night never does come, where spring and summer boundless stays in that eternal home, where love and delight only true joys bring, where no fears roam; in that bright place that brings eternal rest, there is a god, that selfless loves me best.
Red they bloom as if coals from flaming hell, they do glitter, are shivering in the slight wind, i do sometimes titter at their emblazing beauty, while bees buzz, birds do twitter; god must have made them to be so lovely, they awake feelings of longing in me.
We sat near the steps of the porch with your hand touching my own your eyes sparkled like those of a wildcat; i have not known a glance as sweet as a lingering kiss, saw a small frown creasing your brow against the bright hot sun while just being with you were the greatest fun.
I am grieved at that what you did do, amiss our love have been trampled into the very mud, as to remove that which had close bonded the two of us; i disapprove, calling upon all that is still holy, as you are treating me very lowly.
When i close my eyes you are right next to me, but you are gone when i awake and for some long moments i am alone; daily your sweet company brings me joy, you are the one whose absence brings the greatest kind of pain but in my thoughts you constantly remain.
Thinking of your work and life, a yearning to earn much more; where now i do lack all kinds of good things, where you deplore me for my lack to breed, build and to become great as before; still i have a good sense of confidence while my words are reaching for excellence. yet with similar conviction i am still reaching out to a world that is beyond all human sight, loud you may shout and act in word and deed very harshly and bring about great acts of violence and great strife while unseen forces of darkness wreck my life; but hours and days of utter loneliness wreaks their havoc and forever ticking and running on is the old clock; wealth and snobbism enfolds you like a cloak; running amok are the words and deeds of my enemies while constantly i only long for peace.
As a pretty butterfly that flutters along she came, rapidly always running up and down; nothing could tame that childish sweet happy rushing spirit; her lovely name is not heard anymore as she is gone, from life into death she has moved on. some soothing summer sunshine must be lost, she does not pass, no small shadow falls or lingers at times; outside the grass is quite soft where her small feet once did tread, like clear bright glass the sky is clear without a single fleck; from her i cannot my sad thoughts direct.
That night thunder flash after thunder flash roared blood red, i could smell scorched flesh, saw the havoc of the burnt dead, while the armoured car's gun hammered; cubans had fled, left their pristine battle tanks to run away, while we fought through the night into the day.
While loving you i entered into a world unknown where the boundaries are ever changing, where the things shown carries hidden messages of you and me, where we both own a kind of beauty, finding pain and bliss, the deepest kind of passion in each kiss.
In the depths of a grim winter when life felt desolate there was a fluttering, a twittering at the front gate when chilly the wind rocked the big trees. i could not wait to go to look and see what made that sound and a little redbreast sang to all around.
When the early the morning does begin and you arise my lady, the first doves do happy sing, while the dew lies on your garden's most pretty flower cups and in your eyes with greatest joy golden the sun does shine and forever i want you to be mine.
When all around me the breakers toss and turn, as the tempest, the surging swell threatens to wreck my life, there is no rest while i am heading to the distant shore and life at best is but a fleeting passing kind of thing that is at times painful and amazing.
The nearer that i do come to thee, my god, iniquity i find more and much more that are present in all of me; i am a creature of sin from my own begin, my sanctity does not exist but in your loving grace, my painful scars are etched on your face.
Quite indolent somewhat like purple orchids; a rich fragrance comes as they do a nice fruity scent spill; they draw a glance as they hang jointed, course and delicate, like a romance that comes with a sudden kind of whiff changing to certainty from just an if.
Overpowering the machine mowed with its roaring stifling all other kinds of garden sounds, the nylon string of the edge cutter frayed at times and approaching a butterfly fluttered about in silence, far away was a child's shout. wild doves and sparrows pecked small insects on the green lawn, orange hoopoes were fluttering about while some did fawn where i had laboured lonely hours after first dawn, extremely bright shone the white hot sun, on another summer day full of great fun.
Under the summer sun's harsh glare i hoed and i weeded, to and fro i planted the seed in rows, flowers i needed to like their mother grow almost waist high but unheeded of all my efforts not a single one appeared as the soil turned to stone. some more seeds i harvested from dried buds as spring came on, some the weavers might as their food devour, they may be gone with the whispering churning rampant wind but some alone would burst through the earth, would no season mar, like blazing flaming yellow and red stars.
Close to the waterside were daffodils, hidden by trees, some of their seeds might have been blown ashore by the strong breeze, but many more appeared suddenly they did not freeze, blossomed in the icy winter snow and among the mossy stones they did glow.
Long before i had experienced strive, a force unknown when i was young in life took my own thoughts, suddenly grown; not from sin or a search of fame it came in words full blown as a constant companion in my life, more cruel and dear to me than any wife.
Lord, never might i truly understand, that god and man you are both, but your divine selfless love does widely span through all my thoughts, through all what i do see, your godly plan brings to my greatest iniquities grace and i long to see your loving kind face.
From your own hands i get my daily bread, you know my heart, above living and dead you are supreme; you know each part which makes me and you know everything; in my own art you are present, even in each dispute; you make me great, grand, good and resolute.
Perhaps because pain stayed rather too long it made me numb. i've faced it so often that to coldness now i succumbed. strange how the constancy of tears may seem like rain falling. and it's true the heart gets used to it, always breaking. happiness looks far like the distant sun, no longer warm. i go on blind and deaf to love for it has lost its charm. the heart can only take so much and learns. some find true love, some don't, and some get burned.
Love comes to me both selfishly and selfless; every thought has something happy, a own purity silently brought by your very presence, a essence that's heartfelt sought, up to the very heights you do me raise, with all the unspoken words of your gaze.
Alone he watches the water ripple, without movement he waits with the line going in quite deep, in a moment the muddy water stirs in little circles, tense enjoyment goes through the boy as line sings, starts running, he jerks the rod, the fish jumps, it's stunning with its golden silver scales glittering, it dips under and the fight is on as it twists and turns, quick like thunder again it jumps and twists back to escape, without blunder the boy reels in, still better hooking it, over the river fighting bit by bit.
I wonder if all men long for a girl who has some stay, acts at time as a harpy, whore and mate; as she portray a woman of utmost consequence, every day an angel in her own beauty and wit, and truly blessed is she that has it.
Without a song or sound it lays waiting, gathering dust, in the right hands it could sound quite lovely, to sing it must, songs of happiness and of some despair, very unjust life sometimes is; death brought the great silence, that is now a lingering odd presence.
In times of some great kind of solitude, the veldt, the bush, catches me in living great memories, a tranquil hush brings back a new kind of awakening, in does then rush the trees, birds, bees and many wild flowers, like some thundering life bearing showers.
The comforting warmth of the sun falling through the window, the voices of many birds calling serene from the meadow while the new morning rushes on boundless, the pure blue glow of a ethereal sky does reminds me of the joys of summer, of tranquillity.
Quite romantic an ancient ship passes during twilight with the setting sun ropes, cords, sails thrum; the coming night rushes in with a myriad of stars and out of sight a man stand with a fist high against the wind, to eternity rest he will not find.
They can be sharp and cut deeply without a second thought, the soul can warp at mere words that are said indifferent, or like a harp the sounds of love and speech can be quite true, can bring happiness in all that they do.
God gives us life and what we do with it is up to us, we can turn it into a wretched thing and obvious live some shattered lives or it can be quite prodigious while in love, hope and trust we go along, living as we must life can be a song.
Long before my birth, my father walked, talked with you and before being substance you knew all that i would do; nothing escapes you, you are everywhere, you do stay true when all around me my world falls apart, you do still live in the depths of my heart.
I do not pity that darkness do come at end of day, nor flowers fading at the end of spring, are swept away by the coming of the new summer fruit, loose you i may with the summer sun in every kiss when no other love could be just like this.
How joyfully surprised you made me on a week day as tears of happiness did spill and something strange was at play when quite suddenly your words and actions did your thoughts betray as if you have seen me in a new light, that day was far past lovely, sunny and bright.
In the depths of a grim winter when life felt desolate there was a fluttering, a twittering at the front gate when chilly the wind rocked the big trees; i could not wait to go to look and see what made that sound and a little weaver sang to all around.
How will i daily look upon god's face, while i do sin and still daily continually do fall? when i begin each day with a prayer, inside my heart his love is in, while he daily makes my life again new, much more pure than all of the morning dew.
Somewhat solitary some flowers grew in a little knot, looking gay and they were ever changing, i found a lot, they did toss, did in the stormy wind reel where other sorts rot, they grew to a kind of sheer perfection, glorious waving in each direction.
Sprouting like strings of purple morning glories our love grows wild; with vines reaching, stretching, opening; like a small child believing in the magic of the light, with nothing mild funnels reach flaring blossoms to the sun while all kinds of barriers are overrun.
Although you think that i am different you know the things i do love and hate and do relate to happy tidings, in your selfless love, to my greatest dreams, you give some wings, you love to walk with me on wet rainy days and know me in some very special ways.
In all of heaven and on earth no one can challenge your vast dominion, there's no other god, in radiance your pure love outstrips any other being; in deviance mere men disregards your great existence your endless, selfless love they do not sense.
Continually surges break on the shore by design, not chance, as if it is written by godly wit. in every glance the beauty of nature does overflow. in a balance the laws of nature are set exactly, while continually chaos wants to break free.
Stripped naked to the most inner core as during winter a leafless tree stood very near to death a branch did splinter; as if out of proportion drawn, printed on a printer; lonesome my heart was there in the weather, as nothing good could bring us together.
At times the thought that you know me too well does unnerve me as i do not constantly think about love, charity; the good and great things does at times elude my thoughts, frankly i am at times full of the vilest sin and still in my life you do enter in.
Just touching your hand is overwhelming, blazing passion runs through us both like an electric stream, the sheer emotion have depths that to us are always unknown with affection that goes far beyond any boundaries set blazing from the very day that we met.
Hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me. rinse mine eyes of christmas stars water me hot and redly rare o fey, the fey stars blear me. water me hot and redly rare scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me. is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds to see eternally yours, he.
Hints of love as imparted by your touch, excited me to wistful sweet extremes, implanting deeply these things in my dreams; in fantasy things had always been such, when very real everything then seems, like hints of love imparted by your touch, exciting me to wistful sweet extremes; yet omens and stars augur not so much for such a love, no doting god esteems, not even by truth, that itself redeems hints of love as imparted by your touch, exciting me to wistful sweet extremes, implanting deeply these things in my dreams.
Madrigal it is six in the morning i get down and move the car from the place reserved for vans. this the best of times cooling before the heat begins only a few people out walking their dogs enjoying the peace of a beginning. i could have parked my car in the space between two cars, but i lose my nerves, this after 60 years of driving. in the night the wind blew hard from the sea tiring itself out, and me too i hate the wind it takes my breath away leaves me a husk falling asleep in front of the tv. yesterday i carried water to the house, the porter usually do this but my wife thinks he takes too much money. being able to carry bottles of water is better than not being able to carry water, my heart does not agree.
Nectaria, sweet, cry not yourself to sleep i came to sing for you this lullaby oft sang by angels, wherever they fly no cause is there for you to ever weep i said goodnight, but never once goodbye nectaria, sweet, cry not yourself to sleep i came to sing for you this lullaby your cheeks i kissed while you have slept so deep your dreams have risen higher than the sky and when you wake up, i will tell you why why you need never cry yourself to sleep for i will sing for you this lullaby oft sang by angels wherever they fly.
1 hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me wash my hair of splendid fears water me hot and redly rare o trumps, the trumpets blear me scars heal me up to here scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds for see eternally yours, he. 2 hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me. rinse mine eyes of christmas stars water me hot and redly rare o fey, the fey stars blear me. water me hot and redly rare scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me. is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds to see eternally yours, he. 3 hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me rinse mine eyes of christmas fears water me hot and redly rare o fey, the fey stars blear me. wash mine hair of splendid fears water me hot and redly rare o trumps, the trumpets blear me scars heal me up to here scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds to see eternally yours, he.
Dear maiden, angel full of grace rays of sun sing before your face. your beauty is written with incredible perfection, by the angels of heaven with true inspiration. gracious princess carved by gods of creation, you're a poem created by the hands of illumination. your voice is a sweet symphony, your body is a sculpture. your skin is the honey of destiny, dear comely creature.
3 hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me rinse mine eyes of christmas fears water me hot and redly rare o fey, the fey stars blear me. wash mine hair of splendid fears water me hot and redly rare o trumps, the trumpets blear me scars heal me up to here scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds to see eternally yours, he.
A night of love exquisite as a concert from old venice played on exquisite instruments. healthy as a buttock of a little angel. wise as an anthill. garish as air blown into a trumpet. abundant as the reign of a royal negro couple seated on two thrones cast in gold. a night of love with you, a big baroque battle and two victories.
Like the idalian queen, her hair about her eyne, with neck and breast's ripe apples to be seen, at first glance of the morn in cyprus' gardens gathering those fair flow'rs which of her blood were born, i saw, but fainting saw, my paramours. the graces naked danced about the place, the winds and trees amazed with silence on her gazed, the flowers did smile, like those upon her face; and as their aspen stalks those fingers band, that she might read my case, a hyacinth i wish'd me in her hand.
O sweet nectaria, keep a song to sing. and fill your mind with thoughts that make you sigh, your heart, with hopes that sooner rise sky high. should august's stormy days, their strong winds bring, dark clouds that often hide the sun and sky, love finds you once you keep a song to sing, and fill your mind with thoughts that make you sigh. when autumn leaves but one leaf left to cling, and songbirds search for nests where else to fly, think not this moment as a time to cry. but mark, to always keep a song to sing and fill your mind with thoughts that make you sigh, your heart, with hopes that sooner rise sky high.
Seems just yesterday, when we fought as kids when came puppy love, and i felt aghast waking up to find, sixteen came too fast; with lashes that curl, and shades on your lids oh so different, when i saw you last seems just yesterday, when we fought as kids when came puppy love, and i felt aghast goodbye now to dolls, as your lipstick bids goodbye lollipops, pigtails of the past sultry now you look, coming with a blast when just yesterday, we have fought as kids when came puppy love, and i felt aghast waking up to find, sixteen came too fast.
My dreams are belated orioles that flee the mournful mists to find, in the heaven of thy soul, the lost summer and the balsam of all the fugitive flowerings. my dreams are dying flowers, but ever their fragrant lives mount toward the altar of thy heart in a soft and heatless air where indolent clouds are bom. my dreams are olden songs sung on a clouded evening, that mount among the petals of pale and perfumed roses falling at thy shadowy shutters.
. hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me wash my hair of splendid fears water me hot and redly rare o trumps, the trumpets blear me scars heal me up to here scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds for see eternally yours, he.
Moon can wane, stars can dim, and sun can set, but mark, they always hold on to the sky, as dreams may fade, but hopes can never die; love sometimes change, hearts also may forget, for dreams are hard to hold, though hard you try, your moon could wane, stars dim, and sun could set, so best, to always hold on to the sky; and look upwards, with no pain or regret, but do not try to find the reasons why, for life proceeds, by ways none can deny, moon can wane, stars can dim, and sun can set, so mark, to always hold on to the sky, as dreams may fade, but hopes can never die.
A madrigal flowed from the priest's heart in this temple of love, where these ringing bells forced the peaceful doves to leave the temple. but when i bowed my head before the goddess, one fleeting dove brought me the sign of a true love, so fearful, yet so simple.
May we not love as others do, dearest, because we love, a mistress i, a husband you? nay, our delights must prove either the double or the part of those who love with single heart. sweet friend, i find not any wrong in your divided soul; nor you, that mine should not belong entire to one control. let simple lovers if they will contemn us, we outwit them still. for small and poor and cold indeed is any heart that can hold but the measure of the need, the joy, of any man. both spare and prodigal were we, to love but you, to love but me.
I now pledge a love that's without compare, in a heart that beats for no one but you that keeps doing so in ways all so true; for this soul, its simplicity beware, how so very pure, all it knows to do is to pledge a love that's without compare, in a heart that beats for no one but you; and should now by chance, you would choose to care, and to this passion, with spirit imbue, all to cheer this fool that declares anew, and pledges a love that's without compare, in a heart that beats for no one but you, that keeps doing so in ways all so true.
Walking in a cave defter than before a hard rocky breast covererd in stoles the wind passing through the walls singing a song so richlier making you want to spin in the dizzy cold air that stole twirling everywhere the amazing madrigal repeating its name an amazing madrigal repeating the same.
Today is here, tomorrow might not come, let us kiss with lips, blazing hot with fire, keep me glowing red, burning with desire; surely now will i, to your wiles succumb, my flesh will, to passion of yours aspire, today is here, tomorrow might not come, let us kiss with lips, blazing hot with fire; or give me hell, if heaven is to come, or drag me along thorns, midden or mire, if i, soon after, would solace acquire, today is here, tomorrow might not come, let us kiss with lips, blazing hot with fire, keep me glowing red, burning with desire.
Hours before dawn we were woken by the quake. my house was on a cliff. the thing could take bookloads off shelves, break bottles in a row. then the long pause and then the bigger shake. it seemed the best thing to be up and go. and far too large for my feet to step by. i hoped that various buildings were brought low. the heart of standing is you cannot fly. it seemed quite safe till she got up and dressed. the guarded tourist makes the guide the test. then i said the garden? laughing she said no. taxi for her and for me healthy rest. it seemed the best thing to be up and go. the language problem but you have to try. some solid ground for lying could she show? the heart of standing is you cannot fly. none of these deaths were her point at all. the thing was that being woken he would bawl and finding her not in earshot he would know. i tried saying half an hour to pay this call. it seemed the best thing to be up and go. i slept, and blank as that i would yet lie. till you have seen what a threat holds below, the heart of standing is you cannot fly. tell me again about europe and her pains, who's tortured by the drought, who by the rains. glut me with floods where only the swine can row who cuts his throat and let him count his gains. it seemed the best thing to be up and go. a bedshift flight to far eastern sky. only the same war on a stronger toe. the heart of standing is you cannot fly. tell me more quickly what i lost by this, or tell me with less drama what they miss who call no die a god for a good throw, who say after two aliens and one kiss it seemed the best thing to be up and go. but as to risings, i can tell you why.
it is on contradiction that they grow. it seemed the best thing to be up and go. up was the heartening and strong reply. the heart of standing is we cannot fly.
My song this morning as the sun rises the gentle breezes wake the songbirds tune i hope is gentle with no surprises. their songbird chirps sweep across the sand dune the surf continues its endless motion to our feet encased in the squishy sand always bringing evermore the ocean life today is more than extremely grand sweet memories fading from my old mind bringing sweet thoughts and views unfurled just now bring a smile to my face as they unwind of our life together and yet somehow the undertow has me and down i go never seen again outward i now flow.
My love, you have the right to remain .silent. anything you say can and will be recorded .in my pillow. if you desire, you may request a transcript .of every crushed feather. you have that right, too. .knowing and understanding these .rights as i sing them, are you willing to answer .without a moon present? put your hands in the air .and walk toward me. tell me what you know.
Train chuffing, prayer in the mosque, milkman's calling, albarado playing, slumberous moans, water running, , newspaper tumbling, , eggs frying, phones ringing, crows cawing, hymns chanting, leaves rustling, these are the beautiful sounds of early morning. glasses clinking, breaking news, women praying, birds chirping, old lady sweeping, joggers mumbling, alarms chiming, toilets flushing, babies wailing, peaceful, melancholy, matinal silence these are the beautiful sounds of early morning.
Stars, fading fast behind the sun's morning sheen, shine a little extra light on us, before we part. in time, our love will burn up our lives, and return to you a tiny measure of the light we borrowed today.
At dawn this song of love is sung, a sweet serenade carressing, a beauties eardrum, lost within the sweeness of this melody, we slowly slip in and out of reality, more than mere clothes shall come undone, words are left to be pondered, and replayed, a repition of my crimson heart beat. at dawn this song of love is sung, a sweet serenade, carressing a beauties eardrum, a faint tinge of blood rushes to her cheeks, love dost touch the faint color from the heart, marks upon the mind are made, from the gentle notes of this serenade.
Carnival of wonders marketing in dreams venders of miracles bazaar magic and nonsense market of the faeries casting through the chimes and cries exotic smells strange faces he found her and she gave him a flower and stole a kiss promised him everything gave him his heart's desire all he had to do was hoot like a little owl and the meadow made a bed and the stars were a room and she gave him things he'd never had before and the exotic girl a slave whom his love could not free she held him spell bound and the night was wrapped in gasping breaths the heat of kisses the salt of tears and two people so close they took the space of one the heavens glittered and the starlight sang soft hands roamed along free expanses and they lay together quietly for a while then the world woke around them and the silk of her raiment once more covered her lavender eyes closed a final time the last of the blackberry kisses and she stole back to the caravan while he was left to wonder if she had ever really been there while he was left to wonder on faraway places and magic never dreamed of.
Mornings are for prayers and silky rays of sunshine peeking over the mountain range mornings are for jacks bounding over the desert sand and for coyotes retreating to the far off hills mornings are for doves cooing on the telephone wires and the quail bunched together moving their tiny feet impossibly fast mornings are for clear blue skies and the santanas scented breezes gently moving the leaves on the creosote and the desert willow mornings are a renewal of life one more chance to make things right with the maker of all things february 25 2016 twenty nine palms california.
Darkness submits and day is borne shrouded mist engulfs the morn stillness echoes through the air silence screams beyond compare dewdrops crash against the ground earths scented smells, so profound sunbeams glint from high above wisps of cloud fit like a glove whispering breeze of senses rife unfolding morn, awakens life copyright brian peza perrins 2009.
So beautifully you sleep in my dreams today, but like everyday, the dawn will take you away, and leave me all alone for yet another day. so, won't you put the flowers from the bouquet, once more, just like the olden days, in your hair, and let them adorn you, before you go away? i will live, waiting for another night, another day, but these flowers will die if you don't stay, leave me, but take the flowers with you, unlike me, they cannot live without you.
Aube the darkness parts reluctantly a dog in the black barks once, and bats flit silently beside the house at a boar come by to gnaw the melons or a deer dipping for a sweet chew of lettuce the crow of the coq seems premature the church bells sound seven but nothing happens, the village is fumbling for the snooze button then the first hint of lifting suffuses the horizon the light of cars along the dordogne appear and disappear as they round curves cats, cold and complaining from the chill sound sour, then the clatter of a beer truck rattling its bottles on a bump in the road and then the church bell bangs for a whole half minute and the fathers stumble out of bed you can hear the ignition and the groan, the ohs and ahs of changing gears and madame fleury is up in her night coat, and the dark holds a candle to the world.
There is nothing waiting at end of night, merely the onset of regular day, practiced routines pawned off in the light. dreams suddenly unknown slip out of sight, hurrying from the stage as if in a play, there is nothing waiting at end of night. now the morning folds over pale and bright, bringing once more a familiar way, practiced routines pawned off in the light. outside the sky like a migraine glares white, discharged from sleep and impressed here to stay. there is nothing waiting at end of night. get up, get up, for the time is now right to start anew your ritual dismay, practiced routines pawned off in the light. awakened you fall as from a great height and the black nocturnal vault fades to gray, there is nothing waiting at end of night, practiced routines pawned off in the light.
I walk carelessly down the dark road my heavy black boots constantly clicking clicking on the cold cement my long black and velvet trench coat billowing in the slight breeze my chest slightly rising under my tight corset my chains on my pants jingling together as i walk down this moon lit road staring up at the midnight moon this is the ballad the ballad of the lost of the silent warriors of the people you pass by and call freaks of the people who will save your soul for our souls are pure our souls sing this ballad the ballad of the night the ballad of the pure hearts.
Sometimes you just have to accept that you don't belong to anyone or anybody or any group or society at first it is painful to accept trying to spell out this misery but then there is always that on the other hand that blessing in disguise there is peace in your being you there is originality in your journey now that you are alone but not really lonely lovely is the scene without any taint of any one of them their shadows stink and you begin to close your mouth.
At the height of your conceit you even think that the sun shines only for you this morning well, i cannot blame you you are the better poet in your little corner and yes, the earth is still the center of this universe and all the planets. the moons and that stars all revolve around you mister poet. i know i miss the sun, and the infinite voiceless void they too bow before your highness dear poet.
The conceit for time february 5, 2020 time is universal for the universe, multiverse, superverse and for its beings and things but creator is out of time concerned, he was, is and shall be forever the same, he has created time for the purposes of his entire creations and creatures to count their ages and lifespan so, how many years they will last he knows, as he is the regulator of all these and time, he is the sacred free from companion, consumption, slumber, sleep, snooze and more as he is of all's only creator and savior, time can noway touch him, he has created time for the happiness and sadness of entire creations in time for their deeds they shall be partly or fully pleased or sad, but time can never touch him.
Take my one conceit out of my mouth, so i may kiss your lips. and place my tongue upon your palate, better to form my words, ushered, 'your each world; before i speak them of you, if and when it is poetry. take my thoughts pressed hot to your ear, so i can know, your the voice of my one self, and make me, into you. while my mind, when you return it, was made true, for the better of being used.
What i have in my hands are only stones if you search for more pebbles my mind can give you but first you must entice me with a flower in your hand for you to have stones that soon will grow you some leaves of sand that soon shall show you how pebbles can be flowers too what you have are only flowers a little bit lighter than the twigs of their source what i have in my hands are pebble that give us weight yes, weight is wisdom and they are all stones.
As i watch myself naked before the mirror taking comfort in every muscle and bone that i have to form this magnificent body, god's work of art my temple my transport to this place i feel the greatness of the creator of such beauty and grace every woman falls before my knees and beg for pleasure.
Oh you of so much self conceit you think that you are great but with the truly gifted i dare say you do rate you suffer from a strong dose of too much self esteem and your ego needs deflating at least that's how 'twould seem. oh you with so much self conceit you mistake those with humility as those who lack in talent or so 'twould seem to me at your own self promotion you surely do okay though empty vessels do make the most noise a wise one once did say. oh you so full of ego of you it can be said that just a little success has gone straight to your head than you there are many greater though you don't see it that way you will not go down in history as the greatest of your day. oh you so full of yourself of your success you brag you surely fit the billing of the arrogant windbag you are not even the number 1 in your small country town and for you there's a long climb to the summit of renown.
Self conceit and self love are a different thing the self conceited expect others their praises to sing but those who love themselves love other people too herein lay the big difference between the two self conceited people are of narcisstic kind any excuse for to talk of themselves they will find but self love quite different to conceit very different indeed for to be a good person self love you do need as different 'twould seem as a weed to a rose just one way to describe them one would have to suppose self conceited people of their own lives only wish to hear that themselves only matter seems obviously clear but those who love themselves to others love can give and without self adulation they gladly can live.
Make my mouth yours and place my tongue on your roof, better to form my words, before i speak them in poetry. so take my thoughts pressed hot to your ear, so i can know your one my self, and make of me your other. while my voice, when you return it, was hard used, for the better of we.
She spun a line. she knew he was listening to her. she spun it and he took the fraying ends. whatever she was saying, it was cotton, then as he rolled the thread between forefinger and thumb it turned to silk, and as he took the needle up to thread it the line she spun became thin finest gold. he knew not to believe her but he took it because she kept on spinning like the truth was ravelling from her lips; he watched her lips. cotton, silk and gold, she wanted him to take the line and sew the wound right up although she held the blade still in her hand behind her back, and it was dripping, steaming. there under his left arm the gash lay open like a mouth in disbelief. and he believed her.
Don't say sir pigeon in his cobalt bonnet. don't find among your notes jottings on duvets and blizzards and the page unwalked across black missives of girlhood must be sent off and do not claim the furnace of the universe is powered by human screams. when the dark turns dark or when the bullet lifts a scalp, it is enough to know the lover feels the slap that the world can hear the sharp shout which wakes the cat her claws one inch from the rabbit's bobbing scut.
Her shoulder length wavy hair was chestnut brown her eyes blue as the sky on a clear and sunny day in summer in the warmth of july from her duhallow village she traveled far away the former rose of cullen where might she be today? did she marry bear and raise children or as childless and single did she stay and does she use anti aging creams and hair dyes for to cover time's decay? as many aging women do in their battle against time for beauty it is quick to fade in women past their prime the former rose of cullen in her prime was lovely to behold she would now be in her early seventies one could say getting old in my memory she remains young and i picture her again walking hatless in the village her brown hair blowing in the wind and rain she left her duhallow village to live in the u s a when the hawthorns of the hedgerows wore their white blooms of the may the former rose of cullen free of conceit and guile a beautiful young woman she did have a lovely smile.
It is something i learned as a boy in millstreet that pride is a thing that is linked to conceit most people in public do like to talk loud of the things in life that does make them feel proud pride of your country and your national flag to many these are quite a common brag proud of your children and proud of your wife and proud of your many successes in life so many others do love to impress with what to them is their idea of success others our praises we love to hear sing this crave for recognition is a human thing it is something i learned as a boy in millstreet that pride is a thing that is linked to conceit.
The grandstand graced with greed a design of deprivation a backdropp of betrayal choreographies of corruption music of manipulation and dance of deception hear the drummings of devilish dreams and echoes of exploitation the symphonies of no sympathy a spectacle of spite an aura of autocracy the audience severely starved, stay stupefied in the wonderments of woe tenderly tortured by the thrill but blissfully blind innumerable interludes of bad intentions magical moments of misery a complete concert of conceit shall soon reach its curtain call.
Listening to all of you i finally choose not to talk i travel inward in my blood running inside my vessels inside my heart i feel that i am much better and then i sit inside my brain still thinking about so many things those that i have not ever met those that i have never for once thought of. my hands are folded, my feet lotus i float in the water above the mud.
As it was, is and always will be, so shall my daughter always be to me. beautiful as she is kind, smart as she is funny, caring as she is charming, it's really quite alarming, that she can be so disarming; eyes of brilliance and unique delicate beauty, containing a universe of hopes, dreams and possibility, so deep, one can barely conceive of an after, all in all her smile is as infectious as laughter; her humble and gentle nature, belies the simple truth of her exquisite demeanor, so know your place and fall on your face, for she is a lady of infinite majesty and grace; as it was, is and always will be, so shall my daughter always be to me.
Heroic couplet for the mind of hypocrite january 29, 2019 mind of hypocrite is a burning hell please, be aware of that o, dear people, it wants whole world to turn into big hell where mankind shall be ever born devil and only shall commit crimes forever by whom satan is quite defeated here.
Heroic couplet for this winter loves us march 17, 2019 this misty winter isn't ready to pass leaving our nice and luxurious house, leaving the warm of our blankets and wool leaving our joy and enjoyment, at all; leaving us fully healthy and active leaving us for all the tasks and deeds fit.
Heroic couplet for the share of love june 11, 2019 with love in the world the creatures come and firstly they get it from their dear mom, then, in time helplessness is overcome getting both reliance and love from him, in society social touch eases to obtain much love from other sources.
Better a broken heart than a shattered soul for shards of a heart only quake the mind and break the dam of tears but a spoilt soul massacres optimism brings about somberness pushes one to consider themselves worthless and attract suicidal thoughts and once the spell is cast it's almost impossible to dispel better a be abacinated than have a sighting of doom a taste of perdition soul cacophonies inner man conflictions collapsed soul reeking, leaking drowning the heart, the mind corroding one's identity effacing confidence what can the hands do? if not to witness the body drown, submerged in a corrosive body of soul.
Disturbance is uncouth you do not prize your drums you are in soup again with this your healing band there were two fellowships already in that house what spirit possessed you to begin your own club? you talk of latter rain now in this dry season but dust and faded grass are all we see around you say you know jesus but we as well know him witnesses gave us books and taught us how to pray not with loud enchanting not too with drums and pipes but quiet song and talk we all as well did sob we did not fall at all no one was slain in spirit who was it that told them to kick you out of town?.
Cacophony of sound, delivering sounds quickly and quietly to inner pages of books, long since written and foretold. seasons taking me away into summer heat and winter frost, stirring the mixtures of unbegotten silence. tapping life into poetry as words fly into my mind, not leaving any of them behind to belabor the chances of never being heard.
Cute is the crass cacophony twisted is the turning tide prose is the poem phoney web is the world wide open is the opulent orgy tweaked is the twinkling time closed are the kinky clergy lovely is the lemony lime talk is the time turner jabbering is the joker job book is the brain burner mocking is the mundane mob.
This time of year offers naught for our comfort so it might appear days draw in. the year seems tired at the thought of doing it all over again colder as if the heart has said its last and hope itself had forgotten what it's supposed to do this time of year is a test of mind. a huge seasonal game, thought up by a child's wisdom and suppressed laughter, lips bubbling with love on a sunny day, this time of year, feel the spring, with suppressed laughter haha caught you stealing in like dad to your bedroom on christmas eve with something the heart hopes for but didn't expect it would get this year pull this cracker with me and a little present falls out wrapped in a curl of timeless. here, read it for yourself.
Orient yourself in time toward the prepossessing dawn. disenchanted by the past, turn your back forever on the decadent and splendid west and all your yesterdays in flame. tomorrow is a promised land inevitable as success following the era you wasted in the wilderness. all the prophecies are true and their fulfillment is at hand. tomorrow seemed a sinecure available by force or guile. after your years of servitude endured beside the dirty nile, what were you able to secure but exile, want and solitude? disorient yourself away from the disappointing east. forget the fair, unfortunate fake embellishments of day, its phoney promises. the last disaster has not happened yet.
Adil jussawalla as a poet is one of poetic fragmentation, fragmented time, man and his spirit, everything but fragmented, patched up and darned, loosely tagged and conversational, full of the broken rhythms of speech and expression, disjointed and distorted, telling of the life spent in england, in india, especially bombay, but lineage and hierarchy taking him back to lahore and to the heyday of the zoroastrian, gujarati and marathi the tongues adopted and owned.
Imagery cause love sees no reason find no fault with person the only one condition prevails that one sided wish always fails it has to be two side affairs love with earnest and fair no cheating and no deception only love with good relation love has no color ibex should ask with honor even if you are poor love shall mushroom next door the girl finds her home and always welcomes a person who is real worth and stays up to death we should not assign and resign with imagery cause it must immediately pause.
Riding the waves of sorrow gliding through imagery in pursuit of salvation flies a poet's imagination. bearing brunt of the legacy almighty's gift of inheritance absorbed is the hermit in a trance in poverty too feeling quite cozy. omnipresence through inheritance omnipotent command over words, the lord in celestial kingdom trades dreams to humanism. long live the dream merchant, his fountains of joy to us enchant.
Playing with melodies and their rhythms in this poetical mind, feeling joyful and free in the midst of nature while sitting outside in a landscape filled with imagery. writing it all down, translating it from memories and experiences, a little bit of happiness and joy settled within as everything is compiled into poetry and prose. a sincere and truthful way to express the experience of this temporary life on earth, giving rise to thoughts coming from every direction.
You create thoughts visions from your rife imagination single ones will love to share what you deem to create in the wildest of dreams they can't imagine how love can simply flow from a single glow and seed electric currents of such high voltage none can hope to blow creative imagination continues decent lovers still try to find creative imagination love is a creation of the human mind some are lusty many and most are still of gentle and kind creating lover's imagination the youthful of all creating lovers imagination where will we still find such lovely ones to keep in the inner closets of one's brazened mind.
There were cold needles in my head silently wringing down my neck then there was a sudden shift of rain to a sunny day of shame to love i was running in a meadow you're meeting me there i fall into your arms saw a mango tree your name i carved then bang my head i gotta wake up.
When someone is feeling anxious about a situation or task ahead of them, guided imagery can help. this practice involves imagining completing the task that is causing anxiety calmly and successfully. for instance, imagining finishing an important meeting or event before it happens can reduce anxiety about it. some people also find it beneficial to visualize an environment in which they feel safe and relaxed.
Switching gears into another realm and section of music, building towards a crescendo of tango sounding tones, gyrating throughout an entire atmosphere, being felt tangibly and vibrantly through being and intellect. curiosity being awakened and set upon the center of life exuberantly, tantalized and completed in a marvelous and novel way. superb and delicious are the images being portrayed in visions of total imagery, stepping up to the doors of imagination.
A collision of voices getting tangled with rhythms as they're being played across a stage and into the audience. bringing feelings along with clouds of imagery, drifting by with open doors swinging both ways. wanting imagination to enter and leave while depositing imagery into equations of tomorrows assignations.
Slippery, sliding down canyon walls, viewing every minute detail on the way down. being excited and happy as life takes off before me, wondering and having a love of imagery in sight. touching and releasing significant particles of intellect into coded mysteries within rhythm. exercising and finding answers that are created from innate knowledge. knowing that i can equate the equations of various impossibilities with an accuracy beyond intellect. dreaming of incessant fibers that are needed to be attached to molecules that are dancing to rhythms.
Poets are imagery animals wait for thoughts arrival think a lot and then write use head more to ignite thoughts are burnt wish ashes to turn into new form to upraise the status to be up and praised but normally they are quiet allow things to let down at low level with proper time to excel now millions come up like flowers even without rainy showers they are product of fast age not much to impress with each page one in million stars is praised taken to recognition and believed poets are known as star family twinkle little in their own capacity not all may be able to speak with authority some may define imagery love and some may praise almighty some may put with all the times to remember and some with variety it is all about poets tenure and may not be remembered like deity it is their job to create pure imagination sometimes to be painted with correct relation not all the incidences pure images some ideas are meant to take out souls from the cages it is reasonable stand to expose to be known as poet and pose with whatever capacity and thrust the poet's position is commendable and is must.
What lovely imagery we become old naturally as it's wintry and yes snows are really slippery we can sledge into infinity just hold me tightly alone i won'tlike an entry in to a place unknown to me become slide in beside me it's last of 20 nineteen pre 2019.
Feelings have all turned blue, calm, yet saddened with a sorrow that will not be quiet. finding a place to hide, using imagery to deal with it, picturing a lake, ducks and swans swimming. a pier stretching out into the water where i am fishing, line in the water, looking out over the scenery and letting life flow over and through intellect. there maybe some logical reasoning that will occur to make me feel more like myself again.
Well knit imagery where beautiful scenery takes place all around the flowers are on ground who stops from remaining happy? even if one is not at all ready? the timing should be made correct then must be injected into an act i find poet well beyond boundary and dreaming about moon to be bathed soon to certain extent, i prefer to go but come down with wind's blow that suggests reality with powerful blessings from an almighty poetry does not mean use good words alone the sequence should also be carefully done one needs to be fully convinced as lay man after all we are simple human i would love and care but remain with poor who daily dreams about bright sun but for bread has to toil and run.
Love needs rose flowers with petals open and red in color that fascinates young people so i write more about it and choose the purple yes readers go after light poems and sometimes differ but i take their each word with smiles as grace from lord how do i know about their feelings? they want instant feeding "i love you and you love me " totally like innocent birds flying free yes, yes, we need to feel that stage the writer should not feel an age he must behave like child rush to mother for acting blind make them wild with imagery style that can only work in present time they want world to know and advise them nicely to go.
Imagery world and friday,27th december 2019 i only can imagine and take deep divine i have nothing special to dream as an individual nothing changes even if i wish and finish it with my own colors it gives me satisfaction with an honor i extend my hand it is turned down as friend is this an end? has love and affection no positive trend? no, i press more i must explore wherever i find the space and move ahead with steady pace love must win and create favorable scene even if you build an imagery bridge there is something new write on the page just dream about your world and live in the fold where you have so much to feel and fill only you must have the positive thinking and strong will hasmukh mehta.
Back of imagery we call a day from early morning that brings sun light for all human beings i was reading many reviews suddenly i thought of few personalities nobody was struck in mind and i tried to find what shall be going on in thinking? my mind got onto it and started sinking here was simple but intelligent woman capable of writing on human pattern i changed my focus on her face it was altogether calm and at peace the innocent smile that rushed for a while brought her at comparison to moon that was to set in straight after sun was going down the silvery light shall not shadow and she will grow even in dark as her mind shall be at work again normally imagination starts as in the form of an art the poets and imagination make it like mercury with all the colors at back of imagery.
We walked alongside one another and did not talk went past a pond filled with lotus and saw the swimming ducks we did not stop to discuss anything and reached our pine tree collected fallen pines and put them straight in a row sat for a while looking at the sky heavy clouds gathered and it started raining instead of looking for shed we allowed water to fall our body and wipe our past the scars which i felt in my heart started to heal by the song of the rain.
I am desperately searching an image of what i feel to make you understand inside of me which runs wild i close my eyes switch on the power of imagination but no image i get the wish i hold for you neither have i got any object to compare my delight when i see your hanging portrait things go abstract no vehicle, no tenor i get to say something on beauty you posses.
The valleys are dark and deep.. all guys do still sweep. let em. as they wish to do . . 'tis their won't. not meant for guys like you . you are simple folks all know. so with sixes and may be fives. make do. smiles for you alone will do.. be happy will you.
Pure imagery yes, the joy is immense that can be seen on face whenever i write on some issues surely it reflects not only as poet from the beginning but from the days of reckoning i used to offer sweet cake thoughts based on pure imagery and sight "it is not enough" my conscious revolted what good is the purpose when stated? i was puzzled at receiving no reply but i left no sincere try the poets are not helpless or spent force they have something to bank upon and rightly come over to score and win so let people take you as stature of no importance but you shall find it as golden chance when your articles find good place in hearts of millions.
The stark difference between rich and poor has its serious takers in india than europe and north america but poor fellows along with poets do not have images to show off so writings after writings come out but none of them get any success, poor remains poor rich gets richer widening chasm more literature does not have effects upon politics and politicians do not understand literature culprit is not resources or intention it is for the poor fellow writers who fails to portray vivid images.
I read some innocent comments on sexy poetry of ph poets they remain silent to avoid controversy i have been a poet since decades so many there is no smoke without a fire so poets add sugar nectar and when they want to make it spicy add salt and pepper can ever a child be born without human seeds all men and poets love to breed can a woman deny having a desire by devouring seeds of a hubby and if impotent aboy friend lover's just let me any poet of ph tellme truthfully are you ready.
Imagery world it is new world that has been told he thinks of his surroundings with his own findings no one is known nobody fits to his own yet it is his dreamland no dear one and no friends like he looks outside with sight of singing birds lovely and sweet as they fly his mind also tries freely when they are free? and taking rest on tree with no worry of building refuge how can i say no to the fact and refuse to accept.
Tell me of your anger in whispers a silence is most fine thing when irate. emotions can cause words to over state i ask that first you test your words alone. if anger stems from blunder of my own you'll want to be assured your meaning's clear. if meaning's very clear, then is it fair? are these first words intended to repair? unleashed, harsh words will travel like a spear. it's wise of you my dear, therefore, to wait, for now, until your anger can abate. if i have stumbled i'll get straight, don't fear. there's nothing risked delaying words that grate. my love, use whispers closely late tonight. i love you, dearly; i will make it right. by lawrence eberhart.
I've felt quite lonely lately. it really puts the plight of the lonely in perspective. i don't like it much. it's rather boring. you see, not much happens to a lonely man. anyhow, i have a friend named ted. he lives in halifax. disliking the weather, i gave him a call. i said, 'hello, ted. how are you? ' 'quite alright.' i think he said something like that. 'i feel a bit lonely, ' i said after a bit. i recall him chuckling. 'what for? ' 'i don't know.' 'well, ' he replied, 'you got me, you know.' 'i think.' i recall pausing, to think. i just wasn't sure. you know how that is, right? 'what do you mean? ' he asked, as a friend would ask. 'well, ' i replied, 'i think you are why i'm lonely.' he laughed again. ted was a laugher. 'why's that jim? ' i paused again. 'because you died, ted. ten years ago. and i'm standing here, receiver in hand, the tone in my ears, and your voice in my head.' he paused. i paused. we both paused. there was pausing enough to stop time. and then he said, 'wow, you must be lonely.' i am.
Unchanged is the narrative. unchanged and limited, as if restricted to go beyond. to make attempts to expand the mind, in an enhancement to advance. from what is repetitious. decaying yet not considered, overstating a worthlessness. but kept to value for the purpose, of knowing a dead horse to beat it. gives many comfort to repeat this activity, over and over again. with it done to feel good about themselves. and rely upon receiving immediate validation.
I delve beneath the news to probe underlying views i believe inform perspectives so immersed in adjectives they cloud messages in swathes of bromide passages paraded as the gospel truth on television and in the social media booth where simpletons devour poppycock they lap up around the clock repeating fallacies they elevate to the level of delicacies i rate beneath contempt regardless of the attempt to disregard the immutability of fact so long as the contract of tact leads news consumers to graduate into verisimilitude subsumers capable of teasing fact from fiction in an era when half truths fuel friction catalyzing misunderstandings by ignoring veracity underpinnings and vilifying social standings.
A giant tear rolls on the face of moon and intend to ask, why did you crave for the thing which you don't get. and then you would smile to match the burning lakes in the eyes of the distant star. a void was coming up in strange rituals. how will you make a temple of panacea? the hysteria erupts in a mud dance, to plant the lotus seeds, kissing water of god. smokeless flames rise from the nameless fire of the savage embrace. forthrightly a poem was ready to be boon.
In my country democracy has been tasted and it is a bitter pill its tenets of freedom and liberty are grossly abused and the dictum of one man one vote a mockery of the fact there is a transition and elections stare in the faces of citizens but it appears they will never see the ballot boxes in which their franchise will be exercised the road to the eight senate is murky and crooked that prediction of perdition is becoming inevitable and we are waiting.
The water is blackish, green, and dark. it gathers from its separated state, gathers from rain, gathers into stream. it gathers in the mountain. it gathers then travels, collects to become brackish. water travels, falls over a cliff, is falling. water is falling. falling onto rocks. because water falls it is. because water streams it is. because water collects into a pool it is narrative. the pool is cold. the pool is sheltered from sun by a cliff. the pool is filled with rocks. water gathers over rocks, on rocks. moss gathers over rocks, on rocks. three arrive at this scene. this scene where water is cold. where rocks are mossy. when the three enter the pool their feet slip on rocks that are mossy. as they slip, they slip deeper into water. slip on mossy coldness. slip into water so cold it makes their chest close. slip deeply in. water gathers them, gathers them by their slipping. water covers them. because water is brackish it is narrative. because water is brackish they don't open their mouths. because water is brackish they are closed in their immersion. they do immerse. but they don't open as they swim to falling water. they stand beneath falling water. water beats down on them. beats on their shoulders. beats on their heads. beats on them. they stand beneath water that is a roar of a falling. they stand in roar, in narrative. but water is brackish. so they do not kiss. do not open their mouth beneath the waterfall. they let brackish water fall over them. over their heads. over their lips. over their eyes. over their ears. over their hands which they hold up to feel the roar landing into their palms. down their body. brackish water. closed bodies. water gathers them to this place, this narrative place.
water covers them and they are covered with brackish water. they do immerse. they don't open. immersion seals them off. there is no open mouth. no opening. no exchanging. because it is brackish it is narrative falling over them. it falls over. it falls over them. sealed yet together. they have come together with brackish. they have let brackish wash over then even if they don't let it inside. because water falls it is narrative. because they are immersed it is narrative. because they love each other while separated it is narrative. because the rocks are slippery with green moss it is narrative. because they slip on the rocks it is narrative. because they slip deeper into water. because they allow the slip, are prepared for the slip and love its immersion it is narrative. because it involves love it is narrative. because it leaves them alone it is narrative.
A beautiful narrative stalls, is led to a stable of gold. or it is a sugar loaf for children at a rustic table who break off pieces to dip in blue bowls of milk. this reminds them of clouds like silk contained in a blue sky and the sugar loaf is bright, sparkling like snow outside or it is buttered gold as sunrise the world without lies dew beading on the leaves. or all of these at the same time in needlepoint. it is a rose trellised hour. the children are their mama's best roses, the heirlooms; this is how she thinks. but the teller of tales must choose which ruse to pursue though the children want everything for christmas they were made for that to go down every last jeweled road singing their scraps of song to swing on the swings in moonlight too long so that they grew cold with no fortune told but the star so far from auntie em in a crystal globe pleading oh please return return from a poppy bright sleep; it should be spring. but the trees break out into weeping instead of flowers. mary angela douglas 30 april 2019.
Feeling the onset of artificial tension, swallow that pill, as a headache arrives at about the same time, hearing talk about the price that is paid for moderate genius, hearing too much right now the ringing begins while the rigging was in place, the narrative became rearranged, then mangled, facial expression gone wayward, eyes sunken, gone six feet under in appearance now he no longer wants to see, all he can do is cry for help, until the next events occur which leave him speechless as well something stinks, but his ability to smell left him years ago he can taste, but he's too bitter to be interested, as it makes no sense to him.
Parts of a narrative will define, combine, confine. thematic developments will confuse, abuse, refuse. now write and rewrite the words, find the rhyme and reason defining and redefining an intricate plot. the words and the sentences, paragraphs and chapters, the pages and the covers, all parts of the narrative. a voice from a tale you're surprised to find few will want to hear, so put the book down. i've tried to write and rewrite, to find the poetry, to characterize the causes of the present state i'm in. the words and the sentences, paragraphs and chapters, the pages and the binding, all parts of my narrative. so ends the story, the feelings felt, the words have failed. put the book down.
How do you intend to deliver your speech? with it done uninterrupted, and attention given to you successfully? aren't you expecting to offend, those who attend every meeting. asking questions you have answered in the past? before you had taken positions, to not have them heard or understood. you know everyone comes, with it wished to make their suggestions. how do you suppose this time will be different? what makes you believe this speech will be effective? 'i am going to videotape those decisions i've made. and what will be done to take place. those who oppose will find 'something' as always, to prevent a moving forward. with their mouths open to initiate conflict.' but that step you take, will be considered as controlling the narrative. and many will object to your impersonal approach. 'and. is there a point you'd like to make? impersonal, personal to offend or not. i have decided we will move forward. without listening to hear, what was done in the past. that has left all of us complaining, what to do, how to do it and 'who' is reluctant. to offend those seeking acceptance and approval.' what if some leave the meeting, more disgusted than they normally do. to say nothing about their future is being done? 'that future will come to go. and they still will show their disgust, because someone had the guts to move forward. '.
I grew up with the promises sweet, golden, yet never fulfilled i worked the meaneal jobs for livin wages, only there wasnt much to live on, merely exist from sad ghetto windows hollow, burned out i watched snow fall like jesus renewing the earth for us to dirty felt no reform in prison but the solitude held the flag high if no other reason worshipped the neon gods of night spilled into the ragged eyes try, buy, something new only nothing is new only innocence that we dirty i saw dreamers killed no future but the one wanted gorged myself on the banquets of glory lived on the crumbs of remorse danced in the street so violent as a matador each step as if fate held life, death and death was the only certainty.

As the festive season draws near, there is excitement in the air, spurring a welcome sense of cheer, which both adults and children share, there's hopes a snowfall will occur, and you see loved ones as planned for, surplus from the harvests there were, means that there is a feast in store, as soon as advent has begun, days can't pass fast enough for some, light candles till the wait is done, and the awaited shall soon come, good will to those that have it tough, as christmas spirit grows in us, to be with loved ones is enough, there is no need for too much fuss, make sure preparations are laid, and you have stocked full the cupboard, while mixing pudding to be made, voice wishes you hope get answered, claim the best fir tree there's to find, which shan't go up before it should, keep the superstition in mind, wait till christmas eve if you could, dress the house up with evergreen, those plants in which spirits remain, they promise a spring shall be seen, cold and darkness won't always reign, the tree we take care to adorn, shades gifts we're eager to open, as they cannot wait until dawn, glee is seen in eyes of children, since there is no evil about, on christmas eve people unite, signalled by church bells ringing out, there is praise given at midnight, faithful kneel to see out advent, it's said creatures too do this act, till sunup time's restlessly spent, as promises of joy distract, soon after children stir they wake, and to the christmas tree they sneak, while careful of the noise they make, at their presents they hope to peek, that in which kris kringle partook, spurs us to give and receive back, warmed by a sincere thankful look, which on christmas morning few lack, only brief moments are tranquil, till kitchens have goods to reveal, with rich foods to give us our fill, all gather for the family meal, the pudding is the most special, because it's used to fortune tell, silver hidden in a morsel, means in the new year you'll do well, each festive day should be joyous, so keep decorations in place, up till the twelfth day of christmas, else there will be bad luck to face, the season has come to a close, it's one others cannot surpass, saddened when the festive cheer goes, for till there's more a year must pass.
Oily, gleaming mirrors on tarmac, tyres causing greasy bubbles, birds dancing in natures baths, trees stretching out to catch the moisture, rainbow of umbrellas bobbing along, puddles ready for the children, not made though for the mums, cyclists despising every moment, raindrops racing down the window, internally betting which one will win, protected in my warm cocoon, indulging in the creature comforts, i don't do drowned rat very well, i will stay in this heavenly sanctuary, enjoying the narrative of the rain.
His time and wealth all there for him, possessed just to enjoy but hunting was a pleasure where his shooting skills he could employ. flew his plane to the island at will, he shot the fleeing birds the gun obeyed his able hand only the sound of death was heard. one shot took down the creature its partner gave a chilling cry, as though its heart the bullet tore seeing its love, fall there to die. around, around, it wailed in anguish a bird lamenting the one it lost it would not leave the love it cherished unmindful of what it would cost. the man was dazed, he felt its pain, it tormented his ears with grief. shot it down where its love had lain sealed the union, though it was brief. that day he left, and never came back. vowed never more to kill for pleasure the bird had shown what he really lacked, real peace and concern for nature. cynthia buhain baello 11.10.12.
I bumped into a guy he said watch out i said hi he pushed me out out into the street i go honk honk the cars go bump the big truck hits me and all the cars drive over me the powpow pulled his gun out and shot the man on his mouth and there i landed lost my life lonely in a silent night.
Adam lay ibounden, bounden in a bond. four thousand winter thoght he not too long. and all was for an appil, and appil that he tok, as clerkes finden wreten in here book. ne hadde the appil take ben, the appil taken ben, ne hadde never our lady a ben hevene quene. blessed be the time that appil take was, therefore we moun singen deo gracias.
Should you be moved to speak in anger dear i ask that first you test your words alone. if meaning's very clear, then is it fair? unleashed, harsh words will travel like a spear, if anger stems from blunder of my own you know i'll be contrite and seek repair. why not delay, so anger can abate? is it essential now that blame be found? attack invokes defense without much thought. there's nothing risked delaying words that grate. with calmer words we'll both seek common ground. use dulcet tones to reap the goal now sought. my love, use whispers closely late tonight. i love you, honey; i will make it right. by lawrence eberhart.
Pressures in life strong and many. the devil just want to destroy. he'll do this only if allowed. but with god he has no power. world beautiful but fill'd of sin. pressures in life strong and many. what's good to have all without god? there's lack of love and compassion. nothing in this world's forever. try to live my life best i can. pressures in life strong and many. i may not have friends but have god. god watches my back all the time. with him i have my life and more. without god i'd been gone and lost. pressures in life strong and many.
He'll give you peace and hope when with life you can't cope he'll help you to be strong when everything go wrong. when you fight and struggle in vain he'll give you peace and hope and he'll take away your pain when you're at end of rope his love in your heart will flow when your spirit is sad and low he'll give you peace and hope each time you reach an steep slope when troubles pile wide and high ask lord almighty for help each day before god just kneel and pray he'll give you peace and hope.
We can't have everything we want. some walk around with almost all. while most folks don't even get some. that's life and better accept it. can't force feeling on anyone. we can't have everything we want. you either gonna be lov'd or not. the point is get with the program. life easy or hard you name it. we make decisions along way. we can't have everything we want. many folks win while the rest lose. and that's the way all goes in life. with god will make it thru rough times. loved or hated always be yourself. we can't have everything we want.
There are many tracks on the ground, enemies could be anywhere, the spoor does the tracker astound, he looks carefully here and there. to me the tracks look all the same, there are many tracks on the ground, i do not know from where they came, how enemies are to be found. to the tracker it is renowned, the way that it is set, its line there are many tracks on the ground, to me looking almost as mine. we drink water under a tree find a booby trap tightly bound that almost is disposing me, there are many tracks on the ground.
Maybe sometimes i'm just a fool maybe i just love you too much maybe sometimes can't understand that all that i do is not enough maybe what i want can not have maybe sometimes i'm just a fool and none of my dreams will come true maybe you don't know how to love and can't face each day with a smile maybe cry and cry when we're alone maybe sometimes i'm just a fool and you can not really change maybe all good days are behind accept happiness doesn't exist maybe we're cursed from birth to pain maybe sometimes i'm just a fool.
From this city i want to flee, to find a place of some solace, not again i want to return, where city lights sometimes blind people. i still think about how it was, from this city i want to flee, i cannot fit in this anthill, a bridge to escape, i must find. the city makes me uneasy, i want to wander on the beach, from this city i want to flee, i want to vanish by bus or train. now i splash in a city stream, at times are in the open air, about freedom i can just dream, from this city i want to flee.
Because he's our savior and king let's unite our voices in praise to world proclaim all his glory today is time to praise the lord. seek his face and you'll find his grace because he's our savior and king he's my defender and refuge and want to serve him forever. my heart sing for him many songs my soul in him always rejoices because he's our lord and king with him i am never afraid. he's with me, when i feel lonely and just know that i'm not alone jesus is near, not far away because he's our lord and king.
Experiences earn'd from living life. you can read but are you learning? everything in life has price tag. you can't pass tests without fire. don't look out too much see inside. experiences earn'd from living life. when life throw you rocks make a soup. turn page of book when done go next. nothing in this life last forever. look 'round twice do you see things same? experiences earn'd from living life. make peace with self don't look back. life's school of learning everyday. are you learning from your mistakes? when life hand you lemons make juice. experiences earn'd from living life.
France is a beautiful place, with so much history to see, and so many people to meet, and so much food to eat. this is what makes it fun because france is a beautiful place, and meeting victor hugo would be great, and meeting french poets even greater. the enlightenment happened here, with montaigne, rousseau, and diderot, since france is a beautiful place, and alexandre dumas would have been proud. kings and queens ruled here, until robespierre took control, and democracy started, and ah, france is a beautiful place.
Day by day with god make my way. with courage i need to do this. i'll never quit no matter what. i will hold my head high all time. rise walk thru all in spite of wrongs. day by day with god make my way. in heart want to follow his plan. that can be done i know can be. proceed with care with song in heart. within it i listen his voice. day by day with god make my way. with him beside accomplish this. sometimes i have lots in my plate. always set goals where belong to. with god and faith conquer fear all. day by day with god make my way.
As we grow old we all slow down. our bodies go through many changes. metabolism slows down that too. we lose muscle, some hair and teeth. nothing works the same when you're old. as we grow old we all slow down. as the body ages you get more tired. harder to get up, get going. when getting old you lose your youth. most folks gain lots of wisdom too. as we grow old we all slow down. you forget more than used before. our children may all be grown up. for senior's harder to move 'round. we get wrinkles, gray hair, body hurts. as we grow old we all slow down.
Heavy burden of heady days on breath killing slowly slowly from inside made each and every moment of life vain when you acquitted me from your love inkling of serenity through introspection brought me closer to god and far away from you.
A depth of feeling within my heart is so intense when we are apart for in my dreams i feel your touch that i know i long for thee much oh how that smile doth beguile me from lips that whisper i love thee. yearn to savour thy tender touch my dearest i doth love thee much for moments apart hath told me so this absence tells me thus i know oh how that smile doth beguile me from lips that whisper i love thee. i long to be held twixt loving arms feeling warmth and sensual charms one day soon we shall fly together raising our spirits on high forever oh how that smile doth beguile me from lips that whisper i love thee.
Delight adorns butterfly's fluttering wings in flight, flight is his beauty and the anemones' delight. wings flutter freely and the fragile spring can swing, swing dances he teaches the white flowers with his wing. breeze finds him out among the blooming red buckeye trees, trees push his innocent pure spirit into the breeze. dance nurtures the flower to put her into a trance, trance is his way to gather pollen freely to dance. dreams fiery rise in crimson, when the sweet flower gleams, gleams of dawn in the sky are his love powerful dreams. charms are her powers to fling herself into his arms. arms are his wings when he searches for some different charms.
Let god from you keep all kinds of evil let him banish all kinds of constant fear, all wicked men, fiends, the very devil; while his mighty angels always draw near, draw a fiery laager around you walls, that they may only be hallowed halls.
Like some roots anchoring the same big tree in life you do constantly anchor me at times when it is really very dark your very presence covers me like bark while in life you try to hold me sturdy like some roots anchoring the same big tree.
Lies from you in the sweetest guise, guise you were, spilling lies. tears on my pillow with all my fears, fears of drowning in all my tears. pained with truth, my heart is stained, stained with lies, my soul is pained. 'i love you' you say, your greatest lie, lie about love between you and i. true, you spoke it and i said it to you, you said it as words, i said it as true. with him you are not, that was a myth, myth filled with lies, it's me you're not with.
Its presence was here with a faint glow, if it was a godly or demonic messenger i did not know and to act i was quite slow as on this earth i am only a passenger and am alone as life goes on. but the strange visiting envoy is now gone.
On the red branch of an autumn tree orange yellow sun sitting silently lost in the thoughts of his love whom he ever never have met is in love with night from coon's age just listening to the stories by dew of dawn.
At a time i did truly love, as if it comes from god above with something in every kiss, something that i cannot explain, and i longed for you again, longed for happiness and bliss. memory brought me to this place to your words, to your smiling face the kisses from your glowing lips and all of this comes back to me as if i can once again be between your loving tender hips but life cannot be as before, time we cannot turn back, once more and sometimes we do love in vain and although we know to forgive the words, all that i then did give, brought nothing to me but sheer pain and time now does move somewhat on, years and some feelings are now gone and at a time love meant something, to some it stays through a lifespan and now i am another man, who finds life and love amazing.
Keen on suit and tie, but what do coat and tie mean? mean indeed, can the gentlemen be if only on money they're keen lean on compassion, liking to put up a scene seen as handsome but on their shoulder not a cripple could lean obscene in their language, always looking clean. clean hanky in pocket, but harassing a teen, truly obscene.
She need not be selfish but he may add they like my way it is partly mine in which case for them to foil or not please come which they may they may in june. not having all made plenty by their wish in their array all which they plan should they be called covered by which it is fortunately their stay that they may in which and because it suits them to fan not only not with clover but with may it matter that not only at a distance and with nearly that they ran for which they will not only plan but may be rain can be caught by the hills just as well as they can with what they have and they may have it not only because of this but because they may be here. or is it at all likely that they arrange what they like. nohody knows just why they are or are not anxious while they sit and watch the horse which rests not because he is tired but because they are waiting to say will they wait with them in their way only to say it relieves them that they go away this is what they feel when they like it most of them do or which it is very often their need not to be either just why they are after all made quickly faster just as they might do. it is what they did say when they mentioned it or this. it is very well to go up and down and look more than they could please that they see where it is better that they are there.
Why can pansies be their aid or paths. he said paths she had said paths all like to do their best with half of the time a sweeter sweetener came and came in time tell him what happened then only to go he nervous as you add only not only as they angry were be kind to half the time that they shall say it is undoubtedly of them for them for every one any one they thought quietly that sunday any day she might not come in half a way of coining that they wish it let it be only known as please which they can underrate they try once to destroy once to destroy as often better have it changed to pigeons now if the room smokes not only if it does but happens to happens to have the room smoke all the time. in their way not in their way it can be all arranged not now we are waiting. i have read that they wish if land is there land is there if they wish land is there yes hardly if they wish land is there it is no thought of enterprise there trying might they claim as well as reclaim. did she mean that she had nothing. we say he and i that we do not cry because we have just seen him and called him back he meant to go away once now i will tell all which they tell lightly. how were we when we met. all of which nobody not we know but it is so. they cannot be allied they can be close and chosen. once in a while they wait. he likes it that there is no chance to misunderstand pansies.
There may be pink with white or white with rose or there may be white with rose and pink with mauve or even there may be white with yellow and yellow with blue or even if even it is rose with white and blue and so there is no yellow there but by accident.
I think very well of susan but i do not know her name i think very well of ellen but which is not the same i think very well of paul i tell him not to do so i think very well of francis charles but do i do so i think very well of thomas but i do not not do so i think very well of not very well of william i think very well of any very well of him i think very well of him. it is remarkable how quickly they learn but if they learn and it is very remarkable how quickly they learn it makes not only but by and by and they may not only be not here but not there which after all makes no difference after all this does not make any does not make any difference i add added it to it. i could rather be rather be here.
The religion game only one right way; there can be only the one. fear haunts such small minds seeing through their broken glass, blind leading the blind. no heaven no hell can remove love from within; relax and just breathe. the spirit indwells beyond the understanding. a whispering love whose strength surrounds us, guides us along each day; just what is it, we should fear?.
They are slaves who fear to speak for the fallen and the weak; they are slaves who will not choose hatred, scoffing, and abuse, rather than in silence shrink from the truth they needs must think; they are slaves who dare not be in the right with two or three.
Why am i if i am uncertain reasons may inclose. remain remain propose repose chose. i call carelessly that the door is open which if they may refuse to open no one can rush to close. let them be mine therefor. everybody knows that i chose. therefor if therefore before i close. i will therefore offer therefore i offer this. which if i refuse to miss may be miss is mine. i will be well welcome when i come. because i am coming. certainly i come having come. these stanzas are done.
If they snatch my ink and pen, i should not complain, for i have dipped my fingers in the blood of my heart. i should not complain even if they seal my tongue, for every ring of my chain is a tongue ready to speak.
Should they may be they might if they delight in why they must see it be there not only necessarily but which they might in which they might for which they might delight if they look there and they see there that they look there to see it be there which it is if it is which may be where where it is if they do not occasion it to be different from what it is. in one direction there is the sun and the moon in the other direction there are cumulus clouds and the sky in the other direction there is why they look at what they see they look very long while they talk along and they may be said to see that at which they look whenever there is no chance of its not being warmer than if they wish which they were. they see that they have what is there may there be there also what is to be there if they may care they care for it of course they care for it. now only think three times roses green and blue and vegetables and pumpkins and pansies too which they like as they are very likely not to be reminded that it is more than ever necessary that they should never be surprised at any one time at just what they have been given by taking what they have which they are very careful not to add with as they may easily indulge in the fragrance not only of which but by which they know that they tell them so.
I caught a bird which made a ball and they thought better of it. but it is all of which they taught that they were in a hurry yet in a kind of a way they meant it best that they should change in and on account but they must not stare when they manage whatever they are occasionally liable to do it is often easy to pursue them once in a while and in a way there is no repose they like it as well as they ever did but it is very often just by the time that they are able to separate in which case in effect they could not only be very often present perfectly in each way whichever they chose. all of this never matters in authority but this which they need as they are alike or in an especial case they will fulfill not only what they have at their instigation made for it as a decision in its entirety made that they minded as well as blinded lengthened for them welcome in repose but which they open as a chance but made it be perfectly their allowance all which they antagonise as once for all kindly have it joined as they mind.
At christmas i have been listening to it since i was knee height and i cannot say it fills me with a sense of delight the carol singers in the park are singing silent night and among the congregation not an atheist in sight from generation to generation of christians this carol has been passed down and at christmas sung in every language worldwide in every village and city and town and though the sentiments in the words and the music in the carol one can only admire of listening to it repeatedly sung over christmas i for one tend to tire but we all look at things in a different way and it is each to their own as the wise one does say with the carol singers the audience silent night sing along in a show of harmony for peace there can be nothing wrong the carol singers in the park are singing silent night and among the congregation not an atheist in sight.
I see the downtown civilizations banned by those with tickets in their hands to all the glittering soirees though im not one to candle gaze and eat my bread as best i can and buttered well at god's command and listening to his sweet leaves blow around the town where treetops grow to touch the turquoise skies they love to boast of to the up and comers here. have no fear in the yellow castle, tower set to be banished here at any hour, disposed of. be filled with so much christmas cheer for shepherds saw a lovely light on bethlehem's plain and they were poor with the sheep so often in the rain but it is right they saw the glory kings could not. and i still know he's not forgot the king in lowly manger born all those still here the small and worn the ones they'll move to outer space to own the glitzy downtown space with one accord. he's not ignored who sees the smallest sparrow fall and doesn't like the proud at all. mary angela douglas 17 december 2018.
Lulley, lully, lulley, lully, the faucon hath born my mak away. he bare hym up, he bare hym down, he bare hym into an orchard brown. in that orchard ther was an hall, that was hanged with purpill and pall. and in that hall ther was a bede, hit was hangid with gold so rede. and yn that bede ther lythe a knyght, his wowndes bledyng day and nyght. by that bedes side ther kneleth a may, and she wepeth both nyght and day. and by that bedes side ther stondith a ston, 'corpus christi' wretyn theron.
Sometimes i wonder in the dark still of night about you laying cold and white in sleeps repose, gowned yet dead a shroud of pills about your head your debt to asclepius surely paid upon that bed so neatly made you asked of me a simple task not much at all to really ask not money nor power, not even wine just a moment of my time to read you a poem i wonder sometimes in dark the still of night if i had read you the poem would it have mattered dedicated to carol who kept shop at the withlapoka community store.
See the snow coming down from our sky today feel the wind blowing at your face while you walk outside to get some fresh air see the moon shining above in the sky because she is folowing you while you are walking outside see the trees covered with snow because you are now walking in a winter land.
Good on you there dear c mccoy you spread the simple gift of joy you sing so well your voice so clear and pleasing to the listening ear. must say your talents i admire one of the best in sherbrooke shire for you the peals of applause ring each time that you stand up to sing. i only know your face to see and doubt that you've heard tell of me so my opinion must hold weight when i say some your talents under rate. you never cease to give delight and so often you have made my night yet it's not your voice though good it be but your bubbling personality. so good on you there carol mccoy and keep on sharing your gift of joy you sing so well your voice so clear and pleasing to the listening ear.
It's certain i am he counted every needle and pin, every dropped stitch as a real attempt. as for me, i wanted to live by the rick rack stream near the mill wheel turning and all the millers, free. why shouldn't it be i'd ask him dearly, this being my very own prayer and clearly wanting it to be so that the spokes in the tangerines would carry us to all the balls and the honeysuckled air would breathe and flow around the fairy tale's obstacles as in the paintings of van gogh with the marshmallow clouds all billowing and we would stand small, firm and arm in fairy like arm with all our bracelet charms before our grandfather's rose garden as it it were the entire world. mary angela douglas 20 july 2015.
Christmas stands at the door and knocks the coming king, small, dependent, sleeps visitors from near and far, high and low called by the heavenly host and cosmic sign. stand in awe, as all creation looks on. we to should stand reflect upon his coming ask the question of ourselves, what brought us here? what do we expect to find this night and christmas morn? this birth unlike no other, brings change to the world to all creation a cosmic kingship celebrated in the heavenly realms as on earth, alleluia.
1 hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me wash my hair of splendid fears water me hot and redly rare o trumps, the trumpets blear me scars heal me up to here scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds for see eternally yours, he. 2 hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me. rinse mine eyes of christmas stars water me hot and redly rare o fey, the fey stars blear me. water me hot and redly rare scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me. is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds to see eternally yours, he. 3 hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me rinse mine eyes of christmas fears water me hot and redly rare o fey, the fey stars blear me. wash mine hair of splendid fears water me hot and redly rare o trumps, the trumpets blear me scars heal me up to here scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds to see eternally yours, he.
Five in the morning i hear some noise open my eyes find out its a voice. voice of a man he sings an old song for all to enjoy a sweet christmas tongue. tired, but done my best for my dears around. large smiles on their face these days shall be found. time to enjoy sing and dance time for all hearts to open their gates. no needed are keys no chains nor passwords love and forgiveness peace of all sorts. giving a smile sharing good thoughts that's the best christmas i wish to you all.
Ruthie, rachel, ann and carol slept inside a cider barrel. it was summer and quite hot, though permission they had not. came, on foot a travelling fellow carried rucksack, huge and yellow, sat his body near the barrel woke not ruthie, ann or carol. rachel though, was cloak and dagger daughter of a carpetbagger, raised her nose to hear and see what intruder this could be. click, there goes the spark of ages it's when conscious thought engages, and finds nothing in arrears but the heart cries heavy tears. hoibel was, let's call it bitten, rachel, likewise felt quite smitten, so they wandered through the mountains, stopped to drink from rumbling fountains, never ever looking back, to the past's serpentine track. in the spring they stopped to settle in a field of stinging nettle, built a house of logs and bark, made small lamps to light the dark. all alone they were contented, neither silly nor demented. lived there, off the promised land with their own, delicious brand of a code to suit their feelings, far away from human dealings, found that ruthy, ann and carol had escaped their crowded barrel, all were living now together, birds, they say, of one dear feather.
Silent night holy night bombs in flight birds big fright men will fight for their right putting might first in sight jesus slight small in height has a bite like a knight angels not tight fly like a kite silent night holy night.
The bonfires of midwinter burn; we conjure up the sun's return. this is the black depth of the year in which the seasons, circling near, are pulled into the vortex; here the bonfires of midwinter burn. the quickening spirits of the spring whirl round their bright bewildering, and with the energies they bring we conjure up the sun's return. the summer's heavy heat and bloom is swept into december's gloom and heady ripeness fills the room. the bonfires of midwinter burn. the fallen leaves and fruits of fall attend us, and, as we recall that grey rain's ever drifting shawl, we conjure up the sun's return. we gather round the towering tree in whose perpetual green we see this old earth's ancient potency. the bonfires of midwinter burn. the radiant necklace threaded bright within the leaves reclaims delight for darkness and within its light we conjure up the sun's return. traditions ancient as the earth tell how within this cold and dearth there blooms miraculous rebirth. the bonfires of midwinter burn, and we lift up our voices to the heart of life that will renew itself in us and all we do. the bonfires of midwinter burn; we conjure up the sun's return.
Looking back upon my youth as the holiday season is near, i can recall the happiness filled with excitement as each day approached i remember the days when daddy would take us out to cut our very own christmas tree, and of course, it was the most beautifull tree of all bringing it home and decorating it with lights of green, red, blue, mother made hot chocolate and chocolate chip cookies for the event, as daddy was always in his usual place the kitchen trying feverishly to 'unweb' last years string of lighting, we had no stores to run out to get last minute this or that so we had to make do with what we had like every other family and daddy always came through and the finishing touches were done with tinsel and of course the star up top to offically indicate christmas was now on its way looking from my window at night, looking out at the street light which was covered with freshly fallen snow, seeing tiny ice clycles casting their wintery shadows seemed like tiny snow fairies doing their snow dance, the trees were coverd with white snow caps which made a setting like a winter wonderland that would stay in my heart forever todays world has become so commercialized that the beauty has been taken away somehow, i sound like a very old sentimental fool, but i would not trade those days of my memories from an era where family knew how to celebrate christmas with the family spirit of togetherness christmas is that time of year when it brings you back to the time when happiness shadowed each and every jingle bell that we rang filled with much joy and love from my heart to yours, this is my christmas carol to each and every one of you.
Walmart, the modern day scrooge tiz. billionaire walton family cares only about greedy biz. their workers slave in poverty. some union backed xmas ghosts do picket and strike the walmart stores, relentless pr campaign to dry up the cash register drawers, force this scrooge from such wicked ways, pay more wages, walmart, or close. no job's better the more it pays, as any laid off worker knows. go elsewhere with the shopping cart. shame the dickens out of walmart.
Depression chases after as i run ahead away from the blues as fast as my running shoes will take me around the corner down the road i fly with the wind behind and no hills to climb depression chases after depression chases after and catches me carol hughes.
The hot summer how did make me forget, those buds in spring whose i not know, earth be staring at sun and i be finding a date, to claim her with stares and kiss and bow, those woods in yellow standing far alone, all with rare hats and rarest glow, and all shall be in dark when asks them none, like as in good times all try to show. long, long i stare at those listless bees, with my true eyes that minutes not spare, then when a golden sunbird at them sees, both embrace in nuptials with their breasts, bare. the more you stare at those glittering flowers, the more heart shall wish to spend more hours.
God bless you all this christmas day and drive the cares and griefs away. oh, may the shining bethlehem star which led the wise men from afar upon your heads, good sirs, still glow to light the path that ye should go. as god once blessed the stable grim and made it radiant for him; as it was fit to shield his son, may thy roof be a holy one; may all who come this house to share rest sweetly in his gracious care. within thy walls may peace abide, the peace for which the savior died. though humble be the rafters here, above them may the stars shine clear, and in this home thou lovest well may excellence of spirit dwell. god bless you all this christmas day; may bethlehem's star still light thy way and guide thee to the perfect peace when every fear and doubt shall cease. and may thy home such glory know as did the stable long ago.
I sing of a maiden that is makeles; king of all kings to her son she ches. he came al so still there his mother was, as dew in april that falleth on the grass. he came al so still to his mother's bour, as dew in april that falleth on the flour. he came al so still there his mother lay, as dew in april that falleth on the spray. mother and maiden was never none but she; well may such a lady goddes mother be.
Christina, you a village girl going with the copy of the holy bible into the hands of yours to sing a christmas carol. the countryside, the wilds, the houses with pastoral settings with the blooms bedecking, the shepherds frolicking, the psalms and hymns taking the days. come, come christina, come and sing you the carol in the company to celebrate happy christmas, light the candles, the bells tolling, the cross sparkling.
Hair of soap and head of tears rinse mine eyes of christmas stars o bells, the bells sear me. rinse mine eyes of christmas stars water me hot and redly rare o fey, the fey stars blear me. water me hot and redly rare scald me pinkly if you dare o gay, the gay sleds slay me. is that flesh floating on the surface me who swims or sinks fraternally? i know a strange me with soap for eyes and suds to see eternally yours, he.
The nearly right and yet not quite in love is wholly evil and every heart that loves in part is mortgaged to the devil i loved or thought i loved in sort was this to love akin? to take the best and leave the rest and let the devil in? o lovers true and others too whose best is only better take my advice shun compromise forget him and forget her.
I sing that canzone per lo spirito that will wake up my spirit that was sleeping for so long and at the same time i believe that my spirit had 13 hours of sleep last night canzone per lo spirito helps me to bring back the energy that i need by singing the canzone per lo spirito.
I know every doggerel i do pen is one doggerel nearer to my last and i know the years on me are telling that my better days are in the past but why worry for what never can be and why pine for what has long gone the love of life is what should matter and the will to keep on keeping on i know life for many is not easy and many far worse off than me and that fifty per cent of the human population are living in dire poverty i feel in life i have been lucky that lady luck is on my side circumstances of birth not against me and to a fair go i've never been denied, for millions life is their great battle of hope they do live in despair they will live and they will die as the have nots of the bigger world out there one must pity the poor and forgotten though they need more than sympathy though all people supposed to be equal in a world of inequality but the reaper makes everyone equal since to his scythe everyone does fall so why not drink a toast to the reaper and a toast to a fair go for all.
She says's it's raining out no mo' so i guess this rhyme has got to go the white stuff's falling she say's it's snow i wrote about rain but it had to go so the poem i worked on with so much pain must disappear just like the rain so the rain has turned into flake this poem is over it's my mistake. sorry.
I know that she does have me under her spell the one who is known as goddess doggerel every morning she whispers in my ear and say i order you to pen more doggerel today she claims to be my friend but i know she is my foe but i lack in the mental strength for to her to say no so her every order i feel compelled to obey one reason i cannot give penning doggerel away her spell of addiction she has cast on me and only in death of her i will be free she preys on the minds of every aspiring to be poet of those who will never become worthy of literary note she pretends she is my friend though i know she is my foe and i lack in the mental strength for to her to say no.
I am one with rhyme words who does love to play and for me it has been one more doggerel day and though my worth as a rhymer as ever i do doubt there are no shortage of things for to write rhymes about the fourth day of march in the calendar fall but it does not feel that much like autumn at all it seems like a warm day in summer with just a slight breeze on a weather temperature high for the day of close to thirty degrees in the mostly blue sky just a few clouds of gray in the shade of the trees the cattle chewing their cuds lay among the rank grass the color of hay not good for cattle weight gain would seem true to say with the sun on their dark wings chirping as they fly welcome swallows chasing flying insects across the sky and with so little time to mate, lay eggs and breed the cabbage white butterflies flit above the mustard weed such beautiful weather for the time of year the warbling of the magpies are pleasant to hear and in a familiar voice to many and familiar to me the black and white magpie larks singing pee wee.
If penning of doggerel was a crime i would be serving prison time and the more judgemental of me might say we told you so crime doesn't pay. i've written reams of rhyming stuff in reference to slang a literary duff my rhymes around the edges rough my best is hardly good enough. for literary success at least i did try and i will not die wondering why at penning of good rhyme i did not succeed since i tried my best i did indeed. not everyone can be a poet or even one of literary note few so few pass the good poet test yet one can only try their best. since the less kind call it doggerel my sort of stuff nowadays don't sell 'tis out of fashion nowadays rhyme and it has been for quite some time. my better days in life long gone but true to myself i just rhyme on and since to you i will not lie as a poetaster i will die.
There isn't any doggerel there this morning the inspiration well in me is dry i hear the sound of footsteps on the sidewalk and silver gulls along the foreshore cry. and on the silky oaks house sparrows chirping for house sparrows don't have a song to sing and magpie lark the black and white bird whistling his pee wee notes have a familiar ring. and through it all the noise of passing traffic and gas and smog pollute suburban skies and humankind i feel is the big loser where voice of nature compete with man created noise. of any inspiration i feel empty i feel burnt out from scribbling doggerel the poets are gone to join the poets of heaven and i am bound for the poetasters hell. on silky oak the plain house sparrows chirping and magpie lark is whistling pee wee and man created noise compete with nature and silver gulls are calling by the sea.
You call it stuff or doggerel or call it what you may i've written reams and reams of it and i've known a better day i've got a penning addiction that would seem fair to say but few of us near perfect or so 'twould seem that way. when i look in the mirror an ageing bloke i see and i never use the word poet when i'm describing me and that is just being honest not false humility self praise seems rather boastful as many would agree. i had my dreams of wealth and fame going back decades ago but life's not a blooming garden as one like me should know in life as i've discovered there's many an up and down and i've done my share of living far south of my hometown. an ageing addictive rhymer just that and nothing more like the migratory birds on their wintering grounds far from their homeland shore but unlike the migratory birds who go home to breed in spring i remain here on a distant shore and of the homeland sing. you can call it stuff or doggerel or what you so decide and you may say i'm low in self esteem or one who lacks in pride i've aged but i have not matured like well fermented wine and what you think about me is your business not mine.
I am one with words who likes to have a play for me it has been one more doggerel day the stuff comes to my mind and i just pen it down but never for money or any hope of renown but so much to write about for anyone that way inclined though if poets are few poetasters not hard to find it is easy so easy for one to pen rhyme but only a poem does stand the test of time though your worth as a writer yourself you may doubt there is always so much for one to write about and if you enjoy writing as much as i do it is not a waste of time not to write at all would seem more of a crime it has been one more doggerel day for me suppose we are what we are that's how it seems to be.
The puppy protests he is wrapped around a tree constraint of leash the reason he is not free but growl he will and carry on with me as he only understands it is i who move but it is the power of the leash he does not see.
I have penned one might say a lot of rhyme though i do not write that well i am just one of the ordinary a man of doggerel yet penning rhymes on different things brings lots of joy to me and to rhyme to me is easy as easy as can be the years on me begin to show my better years long gone but i am happy when i am rhyming and i will keep rhyming on i hoped i might become a poet but that is going back in time perhaps three decades or more ago when i was in my prime that was in my daydreaming days but daydreams seldom come true and from life i am one who receive what only is my due that poets are few and far between is surely not a lie and i will be a rhymer until the day i die though i will never be a poet i have come to realize perhaps i will keep rhyming on until my last sunrise.
The raindrops on the rooftop pitter patter and the wind the leaves on the verandah scatter on this wild and wet january sunday in the summer the type of day the aussies call a 'bummer' today lovers not out walking hand in hand together one might say this is doggerel writing weather for to scribble useless rhymes in moments of leisure not for wealth or fame but for one's own pleasure. just like our image in the mirror is reflected it has been said by weather our mood is affected but i for one don't see cause for complaining and i feel happy even though it's raining the neighbour and his wife are shouting at each other she screams at him i will go home to mother yesterday in the sunshine they walked hand in hand together perhaps their crankiness due to the weather? a doggerel day for the old doggerel writer and in the house across the street now all seems quieter and tomorrow of love they will be only talking whilst hand in hand out in the sunshine walking.
The love of penning doggerel in me does remain though for me in such there's no financial gain i write for enjoyment that and nothing more that's something you may have heard me say before my best days in life to the forever gone but for as long as i can i will keep rhyming on yes i will keep rhyming despite those who say that i should give my literary ambitions away for many years i have been a rhyming buff i am one who has written a whole pile of stuff and though writing does not bring me money or fame it is something i do quite enjoy doing just the same and for to give it away i do not have a plan i just hope to keep doing it for as long as i can.
Those who define what is doggerel from poetry in their own ways seem small to them even a well written rhyme poem is not poetry at all are their souls without music is poetry not song or is my thinking outdated have i got it wrong? what to them is or is not poetry is their business not mine they have their opinions and that suits me fine as for me one who can't separate blank verse from prose must be unenlightened one would have to suppose. yet i do not apologize for my liking of rhyme and for my favourite poets i must go back in time and perhaps i do seem old fashioned in my antiquated way when i say i do not have a liking of the poems of the major poets of today. of one deceptive modernist terminology i have taken note there is no such a thing as a doggerel poet the point of music in rhyme they somehow seem to miss but even amongst some of the highly educated ignorance can be bliss.
Heard from sages, that only words can change; the world and ages. but my tongue has been fettered and pen got banned, and words those often resonate in minds die in freezing dark. yet nobody knows where heaven lies? in a painted smile or in a heart, gone wild.
Just one more man of doggerel i write a lot though not that well with rhyming words one who loves to play i do write new rhymes every day for many years a rhyming buff i do write reams of rhyming stuff i did love reading rhymes as a boy and writing them i now enjoy unworthy of the title of poet or to be seen as one worthy of literary note but the rhyming bug is with me to stay it is each to their own as the wise one say in life everybody of some hobby are in need but how boring we would be indeed if in our pursuit of wealth and fame we all in our ways were the same in my late twenties i penned my first rhyme of years this is going back in time one who has written much but not that well i will die as a man of doggerel.
The mantle of greatness i never will don but the demon of doggerel urges me to write on he is in my mind and is controlling me and of his influence i will never be free. he is in my mind and he is in my soul and my very existence he seems to control he compels me to pen doggerel every day with him i can't ever give writing away. though writing of slipshod verse is not a crime he urges me to pen more doggerel rhyme poetasters are anonymous in every town and they never do know of literary renown. since by the demon of doggerel i have been possessed i cannot say of talent that i have been blessed due to his influence i feel compelled to write and to post more stuff in to the internet literary site.
Though to my reputation as a writer it has come at a cost i feel grateful to doggerel without it i would feel lost though the stuff i pen won't outlive me failed by the test of time but what matter it makes me happy for to pen doggerel rhyme for many years and seasons i have been a rhyme buff and i have written one might say a lot of rhyming stuff but anybody can pen rhyme 'tis easy as can be like bill does always rhyme with hill and bee does rhyme with tree, no two do look at life the same that's how it does seem to me through our different eyes as the wise one said a different world we see suppose we would be boring if we all thought in the same way our different views on life makes us interesting as some are known to say the type of stuff i pen in book form the sort that does not sell but to rhyming i'm addicted and i do love doggerel.
Help rondel or roundel poetry january 1, 2020 help in good is always good help in bad is always bad, in both one does another helps methinks both do and help. help well the disabled ones again, help the unable ones. help in good is always good help in bad is always bad. help your relatives, friends help in good whole mankind, help the creatures living good, help in good is always good help in bad is always bad,.
Momma dove sits on her nest to hatch her eggs with care and love, while daddy dove flies back and forth with new twigs for the nest to make her nest more comfortable? , or to keep the hatchlings safe?.
Contest compete, she yearned to write by gleaning from prose penned. competitive when offend proved words met his work below. then she could seed a seeker won to talk, competitive. beautiful feet reason a. poteet beautiful feet, he learned to walk by leaning on a friend. more beautiful when that friend moved on to let him walk alone. when he can lead a weaker one to walk, most beautiful.
Cold sunshine writes our elegy in frost, author of light a million snowflakes lost, all gone forever into swirling air, a dance of death that is no longer there. pure poetry becomes a stanza said, classical white a message left unread, while we stand longing for a winter past, hurt by a mood that was too fey to last. west is a shadow wrapped around frail bones, your hand in mine for eloquence atones. touch is a brevity that needs no sound to turn the weather of the world around.
Not one corner of a foreign field but a span as wide as europe; an appearance of a titan's grave, and the length thereof a thousand miles, it crossed all europe like a mystic road, or as the spirits' pathway lieth on the night. and i heard a voice crying this is the path of glory.
In the thin classroom, where your face was noble and your words were all things, i find this boily creature in your place; find you disarranged, squatting on the window sill, irrefutably placed up there, like a hunk of some big frog watching us through the v of your woolen legs. even so, i must admire your skill. you are so gracefully insane. we fidget in our plain chairs and pretend to catalogue our facts for your burly sorcery or ignore your fat blind eyes or the prince you ate yesterday who was wise, wise, wise.
What's good, know not. what's bad, as well, know not. but lo, my heart does swell with love, o' lord and eyes do well when hear your name. and why my lips always drivel your tales and fame? i try no logic lord. no doubt as well i entertain about your greatness, since my brain isn't stout and faith, just blind. these songs i sing and pleas i shout are undefined. wisdom is no wisdom; they say, unless it lays a floral way to reach, at last, your sacred quay. but what's wisdom? know not i; but belongs my clay to your kingdom.
Fluttering with a broken wing or diving with a voice that ring, like a mad little flying thing a plover bombards me, before again it is rising trying to make me flee and i am astounded by it drawing me away bit by bit or in anger catching a fit as i near the small nest, falling down as if it is hit; to be leaving seems best.
Even such is time, which takes in trust our youth, our joys, and all we have, and pays us but with age and dust, who in the dark and silent grave when we have wandered all our ways shuts up the story of our days, and from which earth, and grave, and dust the lord will raise me up, i trust.
No matter how he toil and strive the fate of every man alive with luck will be to lie alone, his empty name cut in a stone. grim time the fairest fame will flout, but though his name be blotted out, and he forgotten with his peers, his stone may wear a year of years. no matter how we sow and reap the end of all is endless sleep; from strife a merciful release, from life the crowning prize of peace.
Here lies the body of this world, whose soul alas to hell is hurled. this golden youth long since was past, its silver manhood went as fast, an iron age drew on at last; 'tis vain its character to tell, the several fates which it befell, what year it died, when 'twill arise, we only know that here it lies.
Let no profane ignoble foot tread neer this hallow'd peece of earth, dorset lies here. a small sad relique of a noble spirit, free as the air, and ample as his merit; whose least perfection was large, and great enough to make a common man compleat. a soul refin'd and cull'd from many men, that reconcil'd the sword unto the pen, using both well. no proud forgetting lord, but mindful of mean names and of his word. one that did love for honour, not for ends, and had the noblest way of making friends by loving first. one that did know the court, yet understood it better by report then practice, for he nothing took from thence but the kings favour for his recompence. one for religion, or his countreys good that valu'd not his fortune nor his blood. one high in fair opinion, rich in praise; and full of all we could have wisht, but dayes. he that is warn'd of this, and shall forbear to vent a sigh for him, or lend a tear; may he live long and scorn'd, unpiti'd fall, and want a mourner at his funerall.
These, in the day when heaven was falling, the hour when earth's foundations fled, followed their mercenary calling and took their wages and are dead. their shoulders held the sky suspended; they stood, and earth's foundations stay; what god abandoned, these defended, and saved the sum of things for pay.
George augustus clough a native of liverpool, died suddenly of "stranger's fever" nov'r 5th 1843 aged 22 he died of "stranger's fever" when his youth had scarcely melted into manhood, so the chiselled legend runs; a brother's woe laid bare for epitaph. the savage ruth of a sunny, bright, but alien land, uncouth with cruel caressing dealt a mortal blow, and by this summer sea where flowers grow in tropic splendor, witness to the truth of ineradicable race he lies. the law of duty urged that he should roam, should sail from fog and chilly airs to skies clear with deceitful welcome. he had come with proud resolve, but still his lonely eyes ached with fatigue at never seeing home.
This little, silent, gloomy monument, contains all that was sweet and innocent ; the softest pratler that e'er found a tongue, his voice was musick and his words a song ; which now each list'ning angel smiling hears, such pretty harmonies compose the spheres; wanton as unfledg'd cupids, ere their charms has learn'd the little arts of doing harms ; fair as young cherubins, as soft and kind, and tho translated could not be refin'd ; the seventh dear pledge the nuptial joys had given, toil'd here on earth, retir'd to rest in heaven ; where they the shining host of angels fill, spread their gay wings before the throne, and smile.
Fair, kind, and true, a treasure each alone, a wife, a mistress, and a friend, in one; rest in this tomb, raised at thy husband's cost, here sadly summing, what he had, and lost. come, virgins, ere in equal bands ye join, come first and offer at her sacred shrine; pray but for half the virtues of this wife, compound for all the rest, with longer life; and wish your vows, like hers, may be returned, so loved when living, and, when dead, so mourned.
All her hours were yellow sands, blown in foolish whorls and tassels; slipping warmly through her hands; patted into little castles. shiny day on shiny day tumble in a rainbow clutter, as she flipped them all away, sent them spinning down the gutter. leave for her a red young rose, go your way, and save your pity; she is happy, for she knows that her dust is very pretty.
Wouldst thou hear what man can say in a little? reader, stay. underneath this stone doth lie as much beauty as could die; which in life did harbor give to more virtue than doth live. if at all she had a fault, leave it buried in this vault. one name was elizabeth, th' other let it sleep with death; fitter, where it died to tell, than that it lived at all. farewell.
Hereunder lyth a man of fame, william walworth callyd by name; fishmonger he was in lyfftime here, and twise lord maior, as in books appere; who, with courage stout and manly myght, slew jack straw in kyng richard's sight. for which act done, and trew entent, the kyng made him knyght incontinent; and gave him armes, as here you see, to declare his fact and chivaldrie. he left this lyff the yere of our god thirteen hundred fourscore and three odd.
So fair, so young, so innocent, so sweet, so ripe a judgment, and so rare a wit, require at least an age in one to meet. in her they met; but long they could not stay, 'twas gold too fine to fix without allay. heaven's image was in her so well exprest, her very sight upbraided all the rest; too justly ravished from an age like this, now she is gone, the world is of a piece.
In the end it doesn't matter brush or roller paint afloating as the consequences scatter dribbles show through extra coating. brush or roller paint afloating canvas, plaster wall or papers dribbles show through extra coating elongated teardropp tapers. canvas, plaster wall or papers home is dry or sometimes soggy elongated teardropp tapers drooling gape of grinning doggy. home is dry or sometimes soggy early man tamed wolf from wild drooling gape of grinning doggy vestige of a beast bred mild. early man tamed wolf from wild modern man tamed rocket power vestige of a beast bred mild tripper humming at the tower. modern man tamed rocket power vital need for space exploring tripper humming at the tower engines roaring, now we're soaring. vital need for space exploring exercise for bones and muscles engines roaring, now we're soaring random span of weighty tussles. exercise for bones and muscles sometimes parts and paths are bendless random span of weighty tussles next to nil, a moment's endless. sometimes parts and paths are bendless as the consequences scatter next to nil, a moment's endless in the end it doesn't matter.
I did respect her passion for the arts neigh that riverbed reflecting soothing light that called her eyes another measure with her scarf arresting minds constantly neigh that riverbed reflecting soothing vibes of something deeper than the skies up her painting trumps the ink within the time i heard the colors answer back to vibes of something deeper than the skies up and higher than the sea above it's floor where the vines brushed to symbolize the dove as descriptive as it was flying higher than the sea above it's floor as it was shining even though the purples met the oranges and it blended well the brush of hope of faith. adjusting more where the vines brushed to symbolize the dove and olive branches showed the proof of hope a magnet or a nail into attraction leaving lines crushed from all the abstract stuff that was shining even though the purples blended with the brighter area's shaping's neigh that riverbed imagined from the shards i did respect her passion for the arts.
Early morning when the first rays fall, when the sun hangs blood red this part of the universe recall, in moments of awakening that has been acquired. when the sun hangs blood red, birds twitter with the songs they sing in moments of awakening that has been acquired as the good news of the morning that they bring. birds twitter with the songs they sing, to and thro insects and bees fly as the good news of the morning that they bring, with butterflies rocking on flowers under the blue sky. to and thro insects and bees fly, the buds of morning glories open to the sun, with butterflies rocking on flowers under the blue sky, ants in brigades begin their daily fun. the buds of morning glories open to the sun early morning when the first rays fall, ants in brigades begin their daily fun in moments of awakening that has been acquired.
I had two rats, to fill my days through spines of books and bed clothes they chewed their lazy way and when they saw you, froze through spines of books and bed clothes released out of their cage and when they saw you, froze for chewing was their rage released out of their cage and when they saw you, froze for chewing was their rage their pile of booty grows and when they saw you, froze they lurked behind the dresser their pile of booty grows the cage mess is the lesser they lurked behind the dresser they chewed their lazy way the cage mess is the lesser i had two rats, to fill my days.
You are the only one for me, i wrap my pillow in my arms, when memories invade my spiritual infinity, i start remembering those days. i wrap my pillow in my arms, your face was there in moonlight, i start remembering those days, when your magnetic eyes were watching me. your face was there in moonlight, each every single day i lived, when your magnertic eyes were watching me, my heart felt safe and rich. each every single day i lived, when memories invade my spiritual infinity, my heart felt safe and rich, you are the only one for me.
When the air connection's rent and open borders are excized instead of foaming succulent while the pillar fruit arise and open borders are excized before the tail is even blazed while the pillar fruit arise till hops of melancholy daze before the tail is even blazed and the old corsages sizzle till hops of melancholy daze where there's gulp instead of guzzle and the old corsages sizzle while who breaks into a rump where there's gulp instead of guzzle because old accounts are dumped while who breaks into a rump and you cannot tell the difference because old accounts are dumped if they sneeze or only stiffen and you cannot tell the difference when the air connection's rent if they sneeze or only stiffen instead of foaming succulent translated by rosmarie waldrop.
I think i can see it now clear as the day i thought and prayed he'd love me i wished and hoped he'd stay now i realize that it was never meant to be. i thought and prayed he'd love me in the end im always alone now i realize that it was never meant to be my bodies chilled im frozen to the bone in the end im always alone tortured and broken i lay down to die my bodies chilled, im frozen to the bone does he even realize he's the reason i cry tortured and broken i lay down to die i wished and hoped he'd stay does he even realize that he's the reason i cry i think i can see it now as clear as day.
Follow me child past the stillness of this land chase me beyond the rainbow farther than the eye can see past the stillness of this land there lies a truth in every pain farther than they eye can see the horizon stretches beyond pale there lies a truth in every pain a child in every soul the horizon stretches beyond pale beyond the knowledge of this world a child in every soul seeking answers in their quest beyond the knowledge of this world follow me child.
Clearing the obstacles that line his path, she dances between shadows in his mind. although she is the object of his wrath, at times he speaks of her as being kind. she dances between shadows in his mind, illuminating corners that are dark. at times he speaks of her as being kind, while her love registers to find its mark. illuminating corners that are dark, she whispers words that speak to him alone. while her love registers to find its mark, she lives and blooms where nothing else has grown. she whispers words that speak to him alone. a pearl which hangs upon a jeweled strand. she lives and blooms where nothing else has grown, an orchid in the barren desert sand. a pearl which hangs upon a jeweled strand, reflecting love that bathes his soul in light. an orchid in the barren desert sand, she fills his blinded eye with treasured sight. reflecting love that bathes his soul in light, his slate skies are transformed to azure hue. she fills his blinded eye with treasured sight, her love touched with the grace of floral dew. his slate skies are transformed to azure hue, although she is the object of his wrath. her love touched with the grace of floral dew, clearing the obstacles that line his path.
The heavens shimmer with points of light they poke their image through a canopy of dark raging and churning with awesome might they burn themselves a wondrous mark they poke their way through a canopy of dark to shine upon our imagination they burn themselves a wondrous mark for countless eons will they occupy their station to shine upon our imagination it is a goal for which they do not strive for countless eons will they occupy their station reminding man it is a mystery to be alive it is a goal for which they do not strive raging and churning with awesome might reminding man it is a mystery to be alive the heavens shimmer with points of light.
As she dances under the moonlit stars feeling the adrenalin rushing through her veins for now she is alone, but not lonely she makes her own music as her heart beats in time feeling the adrenalin rushing through her veins passers by shoot a glance as her aura reflects she makes her own music as her heart beats in time she loves to perform, dancing is her life passers by shoot a glance as her aura reflects for now she is alone, but not lonely she loves to perform, dancing is her life as she dances under the moonlit stars.
In the midst of all your dreams i tiptoe through your heart while the stars about us gleam i put to work my art i tiptoe through your heart the stars alone can see i put to work my art to bring your love to me the stars alone can see how i cast my sovereign spell to bring your love to me for nobody can tell how i cast my sovereign spell and i wrap your dreams with mine for nobody can tell and i do it every night and i wrap your dreams with mine while the stars about us gleam and i do it every night in the midst of all your dreams.
They stand the test of time in fields of gold, considered best when husks have ripened fine for cutting wheat then too should corn be told, whilst autumn tends the scorn before this sign? considered best when husks hath ripened fine that harvest trusts the sun for the per cent whilst autumn tends the scorn before this sign could night time too retract whilst too it leant. that harvest trusts the sun for the per cent, retrieving light through its persistent lapse could night time too retract what too it leant against the moonlit ochres made perhaps? retrieving light through its persistent lapse surveying sweet tagettes as host grandeur, against the moonlit ochres of perhaps, prepared by natures clock, the raconteur. surveying sweet tagettes as host grandeur for cutting wheat then too should corn be told; prepared by natures clock, the raconteur they stand the test of time in fields of gold.
Isabel, so fair and sweet worry not your pretty head clap your hands and dance your feet flowers will grow wherever you tread worry not your pretty head laugh and sing all through the day flowers will grow wherever you tread angels will guide you if you pray laugh and sing all through the day worry not of things undone angels will guide you if you pray be not afraid of what will come worry not of things undone clap your hands and dance your feet be not afraid of what will come isabel, so fair and sweet.
Sunlight bleeds through forest canopy slipping between my fingers the daisies glare at me with sympathy when crushed their scent still lingers slipping between my fingers white petals soft caress when crushed their scent still lingers care free, i could care less white petals soft caress green blades tickle my feet care free, i could care less it's nearing summer's heat green blades tickle my feet content, yet all alone it's nearing summer's heat reaching for a home content, yet all alone desperately searching for what i won't find reaching for a home each breath awkwardly timed desperately searching for what i won't find sunlight bleeds through forest canopy each breath awkwardly timed the daisies glare at me with sympathy.
Eyes shining without mystery, footprints eager for the past through the vague snow of many clay pipes, and what is in store? footprints eager for the past the usual obtuse blanket. and what is in store for those dearest to the king? the usual obtuse blanket. of legless regrets and amplifications for those dearest to the king. yes, sirs, connoisseurs of oblivion, the usual obtuse blanket. of legless regrets and amplifications for those dearest to the king. yes, sirs, connoisseurs of oblivion, of legless regrets and amplifications, that is why a watchdog is shy. yes, sirs, connoisseurs of oblivion, these days are short, brittle; there is only one night. that is why a watchdog is shy, why the court, trapped in a silver storm, is dying. these days are short, brittle; there is only one night and that soon gotten over. why the court, trapped in a silver storm, is dying some blunt pretense to safety we have and that soon gotten over for they must have motion. some blunt pretense to safety we have eyes shining without mystery, for they must have motion through the vague snow of many clay pipes.
When youthful zest sits down to dine with age the wizened one consumes exotic fare as youth becomes seduced by thyme and sage one hopes they will enjoy the meal they share the wizened one consumes exotic fare while listening to youth describe today one hopes they will enjoy the meal they share as wisdom tells the tales of yesterday while listening to youth describe today perhaps the meal will teach age something new as wisdom tells the tales of yesterday will youth consume the words of wisdom too perhaps the meal will teach age something new as youth becomes seduced by thyme and sage will youth consume the words of wisdom too when youthful zest sits down to dine with age 112109.
The lord is my shepherd; there is nothing i shall want. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. even though i walk in the dark valley i fear no evil; for you are at my side. the lord is my shepherd; there is nothing i shall want.
When folks are mean, just let it go in silence forgive, then move on sometimes is best to go with flow anger brings pain none good to show. in silence forgive, then move on not easy, but right thing to do anger brings pain none good to show allow no one to turn your day blue. not easy, but right thing to do sometimes is best to go with flow allow no one to turn your day blue when folks are mean, just let it go.
The second of the first goes to the first of the second, the fourth of the first, to the third. the second of the second goes to the first of the third, the fourth, to the third of the third. the second of the third goes to the first of the fourth, and the fourth goes to the third. there are four lots of four. to complete the waltz of the the irregular pantoum you need to know no more.
When nightime comes in pale dark hues i wonder why it brings the blues like shadows falling from the sky you feed my doubts, i sob and cry i wonder why it brings the blues your love turned cold, i'm now confused you feed my doubts, i sob and cry it hurts to say that eyes don't lie your love turned cold, i'm now confused in velvet haze, the fiery fire defused it hurts to say that eyes don't lie in coldest nights, the more i die in velvet haze, the fiery fire defused when nightime comes in pale dark hues in coldest nights, the more i die like shadows falling from the sky.
The horseman of red rides today. he is war and puts people to bed, while some don't deserve doomsday. rides today, the horseman of black. while some don't deserve doomsday, the food he does not give back. the horseman of black is nothing to that of disease. the food he does not give back, while pestilence infects who he please is nothing to that of disease, death follows the other horseman. while pestilence infects who he please, death finishes what the others began. death follows the other horseman, on the earth now. death finishes what the others began. the horseman are starting to rule and we bow.
As she sits alone on the hillside watching the sunrise silence is golden, movement is absent upon the grassy fields she sees shadowing darkness the freshness in the air surrounds her intensely silence is golden, movement is absent dawn breaks, the skies come alive the freshness in the air surrounds her intensely birds flutter freely tweetering 'good morning' dawn breaks, the skies come alive upon the grassy fields she sees shadowing darkness birds flutter freely tweetering 'good morning' as she sits alone on the hillside watching the sunrise.
Check the sky aim high and just fly there's so much you can just achieve just set mind and focus today god has great plans for all your life. there's so much you can do achieve don't let bad things get in your way god has great plans for all your life sky's the limit don't ever quit. there's so much you can just achieve just set mind and focus today god has great plans for all your life check the sky aim high and just fly. january,30,2014.
Is this not beautiful, she said this colonnade of greenery cicadas sing and bellbirds ring above about and in between this colonnade of greenery where fantails skit and skite above about and in between and water softens every sight where fantails skit and skite delighting in our company and water softens every sight yes this is beautiful indeed delighting in our company our togetherness together yes this is beautiful indeed it may be paradise, she said our togetherness together cicadas sing and bellbirds ring it may be paradise, she said this colonnade of greenery.
Robust, fresh breeze, smooth seduction all my senses tantalizing dew kissed limbs of insurrection languid hunger, appetizing all my senses tantalizing moonlight bathing in illusion languid hunger, appetizing heart beats quiver, mass confusion moonlight bathing in illusion shooting stars caress the skyline heart beats quiver, mass confusion growing intuition define shooting stars caress the skyline mesmerizing, scintillating growing intuition define introspection, aggravating mesmerizing, scintillating dew kissed limbs of insurrection introspection, aggravating robust, fresh breeze, smooth seduction.
Oh return me my days of happiness before i finally close my eyes take my soul back to that special place and i'll show you where all my secret lies before i finally close my eyes let the clock tick slow for a while and i'll show you where all my secret lies a place far beyond the thousand mile let the clock tick slow for a while for i am running out of time a place far beyond the thousand mile waiting there is the love of mine for i am running out of time take my soul back to that special place waiting there is the love of mine oh return me my days of happiness.
On sandy beaches with no wind gentle sunshine warming skin turquoise water topaz skies periwinkle shaded eyes gentle sunshine warming skin perfect summer days begin periwinkle shaded eyes blocking sun and hiding lies perfect summer days begin on this spinning rock time flies blocking sun and hiding lies on sandy beaches with no wind.
You in the cold and wrapped in winter lace, the wind with grace moves down the cheerless field. i cannot send you sun except my heart. my tears impede the vision of your face. the wind with grace moves down the cheerless field. the stones lie still as children fast asleep. my tears impede the vision of your face. perhaps what was will in the spring be healed. the stones lie still as children fast asleep. the distance now is kept by cool embrace. perhaps what was will in the spring be healed, a watering of tears can heal where love lies deep. the distance now is kept by cool embrace. i cannot send you sun except my heart. a watering of tears can heal where love lies deep, you in the cold and wrapped in winter lace.
Our lives avoided tragedy simply by going on and on, without end and with little apparent meaning. oh, there were storms and small catastrophes. simply by going on and on we managed. no need for the heroic. oh, there were storms and small catastrophes. i don't remember all the particulars. we managed. no need for the heroic. there were the usual celebrations, the usual sorrows. i don't remember all the particulars. across the fence, the neighbors were our chorus. there were the usual celebrations, the usual sorrows thank god no one said anything in verse. the neighbors were our only chorus, and if we suffered we kept quiet about it. at no time did anyone say anything in verse. it was the ordinary pities and fears consumed us, and if we suffered we kept quiet about it. no audience would ever know our story. it was the ordinary pities and fears consumed us. we gathered on porches; the moon rose; we were poor. what audience would ever know our story? beyond our windows shone the actual world. we gathered on porches; the moon rose; we were poor. and time went by, drawn by slow horses. somewhere beyond our windows shone the actual world. the great depression had entered our souls like fog. and time went by, drawn by slow horses. we did not ourselves know what the end was. the great depression had entered our souls like fog. we had our flaws, perhaps a few private virtues. but we did not ourselves know what the end was. people like us simply go on. we had our flaws, perhaps a few private virtues, but it is by blind chance only that we escape tragedy. and there is no plot in that; it is devoid of poetry. anonymous submission.
I'm the king of the world i'm the king that rules i'm the king of the blues it's a sin how good i am it's a sin how good i play all the bluesmen love to hear me sing even though i'm better than all of them i'm the king of the blues.
An ode to happiness happiness is one of the many emotions maybe the greatest off all it can make you feel all jumpy inside a first kiss, first love its all to do with happiness. but yet happiness never gets thanked for every thing it has done for us so im saying thank you for bringing me steven, amy, fayeness, india and everyone else that means something to me thank you happiness.
Butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you hide in the shadows? spread wide your wings, let your heart sing and come dance with me in the meadow butterfly, oh butterfly, why do you fear? you'll never stray, i'll lead the way just follow the path, i'll be near butterfly, oh butterfly, have you no hope? drink of the sun, our life's just begun thro time's hills and valleys we'll lope butterfly, oh butterfly, dare you to dream? on our hearts we depend, shall we follow the wind and consign to the fates grander scheme?.
I made a paper valentine all red and edged with lace. and on my paper valentine, i drew a pretty face. i painted on two big blue eyes and then a great big grin and knew it wouldn't be complete without a dimpled chin. i love you, paper valentine, and just between us two, i hope someday when i grow up i'll look as sweet as you.
Our muse it doth refuse to sing of cheese made early in the spring, when cows give milk from spring fodder you cannot make a good cheddar. the quality is often vile of cheese that is made in april, therefore we think for that reason you should make later in the season. cheese making you should delay until about the first of may. then cows do feed on grassy field and rich milk they abundant yield. ontario cannot compete with the northwest in raising wheat, for cheaper there they it can grow so price in future may be low. though this a hardship it may seem, rejoice that you have got the cream, in this land of milk and honey, where dairy farmers do make money. utensils must be clean and sweet, so cheese with first class can compete, and daily polish up milk pans, take pains with vats and with milk cans. and it is important matter to allow no stagnant water, but water from pure well or stream the cow must drink to give pure cream. canadian breeds 'tis best to pair with breeds from the shire of ayr, they thrive on our canadian feed and are for milking splendid breed. though 'gainst spring cheese some do mutter, yet spring milk also makes bad butter, then there doth arise the query how to utilize it in the dairy. the milk it floats in great spring flood though it is not so rich and good, let us be thankful for this stream of milk and also curds and cream. all dairymen their highest aims should be to make the vale of thames, where milk doth so abundant flow, dairyland of ontario.
Queen of every moving measure, sweetest source of purest pleasure, music; why thy powers employ only for the sons of joy? only for the smiling guests at natal or at nuptial feasts? rather thy lenient numbers pour on those whom secret griefs devour; bid be still the throbbing hearts of those, whom death, or absence parts, and, with some softly whisper'd air, smooth the brow of dumb despair.
The sun can rise again, the moon bitterly sleeps. nor friend nor foe tonight, the day merrily calls. the trees, the grass, the lakes, their lip tenderly keeps the moonlight kiss, when night in dreams carefully falls. the stars still dance all dreams with grace in their light twist. in trees, the wind may swing the true changeable greens to shake and wake the flower buds' murmuring mist, when love as sense of self for him turpitude means.
A walk to have be the one come with the truth dream the best not the worst even if the worst is true forget about it give in? not a chance have to walk back i know you dont want to just do it anyways know the truth live it move on never a chance to stay in front over your head people will say queen will agree rest your head at night stay still tighten up up in the view view is right walk that way xylophone plays in the background you are doing right zero mistakes you made in this walk.
Katja rieckermann truly is a "horn star." lovely, sexy saxophone player. musician playing performing with rod stewart, brooks and dunn, al green, and more. night time player of song for those that love to dance. open up on the saxophone. play that music white girl. queen of the saxophone. rieckermann is a "horn star." saxophone player to the stars. timeless sax player.
Actress jeanine anderson portraying nurses, waitresses, housewives beautiful smile and kind eyes cute soda shop customer, juror and lovely eyes dream big, go for the sky eternity dreams of an actress friendly smile of an actress girl next door? honest face of the girl next door in reality an actress jeanine anderson a lovely lady.
Autograph collector, american writer, cliff anderson. beauty surrounds mr. anderson. cliff anderson, person of mystery. drinking water out of a stream. enjoying life's greatest dream. friendly person drinking from a stream. great autograph collector. honest writer of books. indeed a great collector of autographs.
What happen if my name is 'happy ' when i am sad. if people call me, i wouldn't say yes. what if my name is 'bitter ' while people call me sweetheart. life's already difficult to get a name like this, now diabetes is also coming close to me. what if my name is 'cry ', meanwhile people stress we should smile. like i've offended the world, committed many crimes. but lucky that my name is 'abby sze', as simple as that. usually they call me 'abc', i've immuned to this joke. but i did like how they laugh at this, having their own time. hey, what if my name is 'cde'.
Austria, beauty queen of 1965. beautiful queen of austria. cute in hogan heroes. dreams of takes a thief. eternity of a beauty queen. fraulein actress inge jaklin an actress. girl playing in like flint. hogan hero as anna mannheim. inge jaklin, a lovely lady. jaklin, a wonderful last name of miss austria,1965, a lovely lady.. kind smile of a beauty. producer of movies.
In the evening after tea of bread and jam and a glass of milk you went out and met helen under the railway bridge in rockingham street next to the duke of wellington pub and she was waiting there looking up and down the street and when she saw you she waved and walked towards you where's your doll battered betty? you asked mum's washing her clothes and i didn't want to bring her out with nothing on she said no that wouldn't be decent you said where are we going? she asked i want to show you the passages behind the abc cinema you said it's like a cavern of dark passages and once i saw a rat running along by a wall oh god she said putting a hand to her mouth not a rat yes it run along one of the walls not sure i want to go there she said softly one little rat isn't going to hurt you you said besides i'll chase it away if it comes will you? she said yes of course i will nothing is going to harm you while i am here you said you showed her the toy gun tucked in the inside pocket of your jacket she nodded and she took your hand and you walked her along and up behind the trocodero cinema and onto the new kent road and you crossed quickly before the traffic lights changed and once you got to the other side you took her to the abc cinema and went down beside the cinema walls along the dark passages that went on beside and behind the cinema all the time she gripped your hand and now and then her grip tightened when she thought she saw something out of the corner of her eye what was that? she said stopping still clutching your hand tight just a piece of paper blown by the wind are you sure?
yes just paper she untightened her grip and you both walked on with the sound of traffic and voices in the distance and at the back of the cinema you came to an entrance where two doors where and you said sometimes the doors are open and you can sneak in free she looked at you her eyes behind her thick lens glasses large and innocent is that allowed? she asked no you replied if they catch you you get into trouble but if you're lucky you can get in no trouble you said oh she said my mum wouldn't like it if i got into trouble we won't get in tonight anyway you said the doors are locked another time maybe and she gripped your hand and her face looked shocked.
A lovely smile of a queen. beautiful queen of the virginia miss teen. cute desiree williams, queen of virginia. dreams of kindness, world peace. eyes of a dreaming queen, desiree williams. friendly smile of a lady. girl next door turned into a fairy tale dream. hope shown in lovely eyes. indeed, a lady who is a lovely beauty queen lady.
A female politician working for the people. born a german, working for germany. christine is a german politician. doer in the christian democratic union. even as the first woman to become head of government in thuringia. foundation member of many activities. german lady with a christian thought, let us hope in christ. hope for change in germany to jesus christ. indeed, germany needs to change to christ.
Allowing your way blaming my name claiming it was me during your game enduring the silence forgetting our fight gaining my trust hoping were alright insisting you love me justifying your choice knowing its a lie listening to your voice missing our laughs noting my flaws owning my heart prisoned in your jaws quieting my thoughts reading my heart sighing on the inside thinking of the start underestimating my strength versing your pefectness writing this poem xing you worthlessness you were a jerk zeroing in on my weakness.
Albert moses in a spy who loved me. bright smile of an actor. character with a smile. dreams of the stage of life walking, strutting upon the stage of life. eye of a spy. friendly albert moses with james bond. grand friend from across the ocean blue. honest albert moses an actor.
A is for abby b is for bobbie c is for christine d is for dan e is for ella f is for freddy g is for georgia h is for herald i is for isabella j is for james k is for kaylee l is for logan m is for michelle n is for nick o is for olivia p is for patrick q is for quinn r is for ryan s is for stephanie t is for tj u is for uniquea v is for vernal w is for wendy x is for xian y is for yaylee z is for the end of the alphabet.
Again the rain is back after a year or so, buzzing of the clouds jolts one and all. clouds are having no mercy. drops of water are dazzling on the leaves. everyone is enjoying a cup of hot coffee or tea. fingers are trying to catch those tiny drops. ground is flooded with flowing water. hairs are unable to hold the water. in every way i wish to dance, but i couldn't do so. juxtapose the mountains and hill it gushes, kazoo of paper boat makes music to the ears. love the fall and on the tin roof. my life rejuvenates after seeing this beauty again. no other occasion makes me feel esthetic. over and above the sky gets cleared. pulling up our umbrellas i enjoy a walk. quite interesting it is to take a ride on a bike. rinsing the dirt settled on the building and the floors. surprised i am, by the package of a lightning in between. tonight reflection of the moonbeams will enthrall. unique nature will pay a tribute to the clouds. very happy i am, flying without wings. what a joy to all the living creatures. xylem of energy will flow everywhere. yes, my heart, my body and my soul all wet tonight. zillion drops scattered all over the earth again.
A woman's poet with poems about women. beautiful thoughts of a woman. catherine m. wilsonis a poet. dreaming of journeys of the heart. ever a hero's tale. finding a warrior's path. girls love to read poems by catherine m. wilson. honest poet talking about life as a woman.
An account of my life can be transformed into an epic. belonging of mine can be displayed at museum. creations of my thought can create a new civilization. death of my destructible body can define my life better. i always gave sth and will always and will always have sth to offer.
Actress atalanta harmsworth an english actress. britons of equity actress. christmas animal kracker bongo actress drinker in many a television commercial actress. eternity will remember a lovely smile. friendly smile. girl with a beautiful smile. honest lady from england. in front of you on the tele a lovely lady from the united kingdom.
What hand cast stardust into the void abyss thrust into the dark emptiness of eternity and whose breath cast them adrift with a kiss what source of glory started this maternity when the radiant glow of creation broke and tiny myriads of stardust start to glow the point when from nothingness time awoke where glowing beauty of spheres did grow those youthful orbs then sped away through the inky darkness they sung in glorious splendour of colour they play the symphony of their choir then rung oh cosmic dawn when did you start in the vast empty wideness of space before time started to play his part where is the glory of your divine face now you dance such glowing orbs you continue to expand in space drunk with your charm our minds absorb the infinity of your ageless grace.
A depth of feeling within my heart is so intense when we are apart for in my dreams i feel your touch that i know i long for thee much oh how that smile doth beguile me from lips that whisper i love thee. yearn to savour thy tender touch my dearest i doth love thee much for moments apart hath told me so this absence tells me thus i know oh how that smile doth beguile me from lips that whisper i love thee. i long to be held twixt loving arms feeling warmth and sensual charms one day soon we shall fly together raising our spirits on high forever oh how that smile doth beguile me from lips that whisper i love thee.
The lord is always with me when i pray what i can not do i know that he can i don't know why bad things happen each day but with god by my side can't be too blue god help me through everything all the way he comforts me when troubles start to brew when things seems impossible i know i can with god nothings impossible to man.
A beautiful day it appears, to see such a beautiful sky; and i have no such fears, when i am going to fly; for life is like string to shears, so all you can do is try; you got to give it your best, before you go to eternal rest.
Scrapin' along long bars, her cup of tea was sweeter than honey and the honeycomb. there were gleams in her eyes and her esprit. a breeze was comin' from a funeral home. the moon's hollow eyes climb'd the night to see the ashes of dead and the fire fill'd with foam. from dawns o' hope to sunsets o' despair, the leaves were shadows dancin' in the cold air. her rigid body was a glassy slight. ne'er dying white lilies threw one off the scent. tearin', roarin', she felt her soul in light, in sweet, comin' death with pitiful lament. her soul had terrified wings for her flight. she was confin'd, lagg'd in fears by devil's night. she bestrode the abyss holdin' the pain. she could 'scape of whippin' memories in vain. she felt a scent of garbage and perfume. the fog was in her eyes; she wheez'd in fear. she search'd the heaven to dispel her gloom, but she couldn't o'erpass her last life frontier, more than real, o'er her new returnin' doom, she lost her happiness, but she felt her tear. she was aware of all she had to leave through her hellish paradise startin' to reeve.
We meander through meadows of blazing corn sit under ancient oaks now dry in the sun the dry hot summer making flowers forlorn an everlasting drought that that took all the fun under its canopy in the early morn we sit entwined our two hearts beating as one thoughts of love flowing rampantly through my head but the sight of your husband filled me with dread.
Oisin, my love i shall ever wait for you in the misty lands of the forever young away to the green hills of ireland you flew to find peace on the isle of the setting sun set no foot on the mortal soil you once knew or age replaces the youth to which you've clung so ride ever swift and dare not touch the ground 'till you are home far beneath the fairy mounds.
Love is like the air that we breathe in invisible but always around us it does maintain life, where the effects of it is visible in words and acts and in all that we do strive and distance is something that does rob you from me, where longing is something straight from hell, while your tears and laughter in moments i do see that does about the depth of your feelings tell.
Deep in prayer i have walked while pouring rain came down, with the strong southeaster blowing you i called my own about our love i have talked, as mercies he has shown to the lord who is all knowing while strong our love had grown.
A coherent blab packed within a matured mind seeking a genuine reason all, remoted for a season attempt to make a tune results in a pure distune psyche of chracteristic inferiority affects the dame of superiority tale of historics reiterates a relic of a damsel hitting for the cosmic. there was a rapture later resulted in rupture in a giant school of thought where great ants were taught experts a tension observed professionals, a novice reserved one without a tonic will suffer like song without a tonic sofa one who wants to be first lady shoud first learn to be a lady.
At times you are my all in all, and we are not alone but at times you make me feel small as if your love is gone and at times your heart has a wall build from thick hard ironstone and at times you do make me tall as my heart's only one.
You are present in each deep thought in each new day that come, our love was as if by god brought to my heart's peaceful home after many battles were fought, you bring hope and then some, you bring faith as it ought and everything wholesome.
To me you are really quite fair, beautiful to the eye, and i love your soft stings of hair that is blonde without dye, the kind of clothes that you do wear and that you do stand high; nothing does your spirit impair as life passes us by.
In bliss your white body glows in the dark where streched out you lie in your sleep as if in another world you do embark while an arm do me close to you keep. when the rays of the moon do over your face fall your eyes do open slowly where in silence you look at me in this time and place in the universe, it's you and me in it all, while moments linger do become a kind of eternity.
Unseen air comes in and gets out of us doing some seen internal vital works supplying oxygen and removing poisons are among those life saving necessaries without causing problems but leaving thoughts that catch the brain, swell heart and veins with every entering and getting out breaths which a general brain can hardly guess.
From this mountain, stand tall a love bird finding its pair sing a heart melody, a soul call so cool to feel, so pleasing to share it speaks of a fairy quietly crafted on a unique dawn well made in whole without query like a rainbow in the sun.
Season of chaos now comes to my world wandering through dusty days, rainy nights, changes from green to gold, quick unfurled buds now dropping in death before my sight, soon chaos cocoons the earth in it's pearl blanket of frozen tears, blindingly light, even at dusk all is a twinkle twirl delight, for tulips pink await sun's bright.
Daily i do know that you do love me as our feelings ought to be and it does show as you do glow as if alight constantly and without pretence even when tears do flow you are mine, you are in every sense, in innocence like sparkling pure whine you constantly shine with great competence with a kind of love that is hard to define.
Your presence is a true delight, just like the summer sun where i am welcome at your door, since our love has begun, where you smile at my sight, you are the only one and where for true love i was poor my need you did not shun.
Not a thing can remove you from all of my thoughts, your face does there constantly rove and in my heart there is no hate, only for you deep love, as you have a pure kind of grace that does me always move.
You are at my side wherever i do go, in times of woe and of great bliss, in each kiss of our love i do know and we do glow in the way that it is, i do miss you when you are gone, as you are the one that brings me joy, as a boy and a girl daily we do atone as life goes on, we love without any ploy.
Daily our love does somehow increase with some gentle ease you charmingly smile and a while feelings linger and do not cease and i have peace as i travel mile by mile while nothing can beguile the joy you bring as love is happening and you become part of me and i am free as the birds that happily sing free from every sting as life is what it has to be.
Shadow spiders crawl on the wall at the red sunset's glare and some are short and some are small or very thin like hair while others are narrow and tall like a long twisting stair but still you are my all in all following everywhere.
Now in the very late summer of life, you are my wife after many years and without fears in tranquillity and strive i am truly alive in happiness and tears as if in arrears our true love catches on, all heartaches are gone while without fright our love seems right, as if set in stone, as you are the one in every day and night.
Together we both do belong like the sun and the sky, and like the sweetest kind of song through all its notes does fly through this great life we move along, with true love you and i grow near and cannot go wrong as time passes us by.
Last night i saw the spine of the night, i saw stars glow, glitter and jump far away i did wonder about a god, who creates pure light, who comes with deliverance to those who stray. still the earth revolves on a set orbit and he is preparing to come back again while to utter sin the world falls bit by bit and the day of his judgement does remain.
So much more happy than before with love you have made me, as destiny had brought me loss and you tranquillity, forever you i do adore and in your eyes i see a lovely golden kind of gloss; as true love has to be.
We love each other without pretence, in each sense there is a kind of longing in every awakening a kind of insistence, in each experience a new kind of thing that does bring great joy to our love as if god above is daily with us and we do trust without any reprove that our love does move in the way it must.
You must return to the very start just look into your mind and heart and so you can be born again heed my words for i do not lie to be born again old must die free from all the pain and the sin you must return to the very start just look into your mind and heart for, if i may be really bold the new is born out of the old and so you can be born again free from all the pain and the sin you must return to the very start just look into your mind and heart september 19,2009 the sonnetina rispetto is a new poetry form created by dorian petersen potter on september 8,2009.
I know he can be a beast, when you look into his eyes; i know how he feasts, especially as he tells lies. it is not surprising to me to see that you are free; at least you're away from, so he won't make your mind so dim.
I can just tell you how great the world seemed and what at the time you had meant to me, suddenly destiny at a time deemed fit to unleash unknown pain and tragedy from which you could not be saved, redeemed; nothing could avoid coming calamity claiming you to the cold and uncaring ground, turning my whole world upside down and around.
Was that his step that sounded on the stair? was that his knock i heard upon the door? i grow so tired i almost cease to care, and yet i would that he might come once more. it was the wind i heard, that mocks at me, the bitter wind that is more cruel than he; it was the wind that knocked upon the door, but he will never knock nor enter more.
These carefree spirits, thrive on the weak minds who falls prey to superstition, they believe in. ah, these poor chaps, they know not, that these so called saints, will suck their blood, and will take them to task, by creating smoke screens, and will make life miserable, making return uphill task, and till the time they live, will serve as unpaid slaves, do not follow them blindly, into a tunnel which has no lights.
Her body is a melting pot on the silken sheet with pillow beneath trying hard to hold spinning head temperature falling heartbeat rising body heat ignites the fumes smell of love in the air and everywhere my wishes spiral bind the body and mind hairs like desert of vast eternity with dunes of desires silken arms making waves and despair was meager to obliterate yearning to slurp those juicy lips yet he dare not to ignite mutual flames.
Oh, at last, i'm passed it, those feelings, i trashed it, i'm leaving, won't last it, she's squealing, i smashed it, i'm bleeding, from blast hit, that stuff hurt, but i'm not done, i ate dirt, that wasn't fun, psyche, i spurt, out a ton, then it squirt, but i'm her son, i'm no pervert, now i'm done. but i'm back, talking random, i'm not black, yet i'm candid, when my smack, becomes platinum, there's a stack, for the ransom, chill with hoodlums, always get caught, that just bout' sums, up what happens not, throw stuff together, see if it works, if it doesn't, keep it in still, cause it makes a mark.
Hard bitter a learning experience as it shows the true colours of this life it show the colourful things about life far extended than the real truth of facts both entwined together to make this life meaningful, successful and a worthwhile.
I am no shepherd of a child's surmises. i have seen fear where the coiled serpent rises, thirst where the grasses burn in early may and thistle, mustard, and the wild oat stay. there is dust in this air. i saw in the heat grasshoppers busy in the threshing wheat. so to this hour. through the warm dusk i drove to blizzards sifting on the hissing stove, and found no images of pastoral will, but fear, thirst, hunger, and this huddled chill.
Pastoral care by internet is a very strange thing where i try to share what survival of three wars, plus those who loved me greatly, have allowed me to glean. reality is not as it may seem. this is true and here it is my gift to you.
The pastoral song february 24, 2020 moo the big cows bawl the calves and bellow the oxes bleat the big goats, baa the babies bleat the rams baa the babies neigh the horses, bleat the calves squeak the rabbits suack the ducks cluck the hens; all day long ruffle these at evening ends then the cattle take rest in the dark shed.
In time, though snow would fall, the barn keeps warm, as chores for summer had been done complete the sleepy spell that soon befalls the farm could not, by slightest bit, its mirth deplete the cows have all the hay on which to feed with grains that with the fodder would enmesh if hay is brown, i guess what cows would need for each a green eyeglass, so things look fresh the barn sparrows found crevices for nests though naught are seen by cat's eyes that explore one way to find if flock thereat still rests is by the droppings scattered on the floor insects abide, in sizes big and small and crawl among the bales, to chirp or play crickets and kin, that since the end of fall have lodged as ground tenants without delay as ants have piled a great mound of their own in maze of subways, sans a subway train the matriarchal state nature has shown bonded together on a female brain.
Her whisper in the thorny bush when she blooms and her fragrance spread all over the pasture. a shepherd boy with the cattle and the muddy river flows monotonously. this beauty will change in near future as they bring the bulldozer and caterpillar the earth moving equipment. a big project to establish a power plant by the riverside. the contrary is give the light to the country before the general election. but wild flowers in agony as they are scared to expose to the light.
Pastoral the egrets like whitecaps on the plowed fields the treeline across the long way arched as a blanket over a sleeper's hip, and over the road, the bahia where the cattle feed and the pale moon, still there because she cannot bear to leave the soft slope of the pond where they sat as the man's fingers moved lightly across her wrist, although he has turned and walked away, and is even now thinking of someone else, the sun, more beautiful in her flame clothes. and the pond itself, where desire's secret fish swim, their spread tails swaying in the shadowed light as now, under the clodded earth of fields something stirs as if stroked and seeds open, release and easily, and this is how it is and no one is thinking of the young woman in the blue print dress, how one leg twisted under her and her mouth turned red as he slammed her against the wall, desiring her more than he has ever wanted anything and they fell together on the unmade bed, she tearing at his clothes, and this was opening too.
If you keep reading, reading even in your old age, when, when will you smile with me, talk with me, my love? as say they really if he keeps reading, reading all the time, he may go mad, fully mad as for being lost in studies and researches. if leave you, leave you not your studies, i shall, shall leave you for my parents' home and shall never, never return. my love, what has it happened to you that smile you not, talk you not, what has it to you? have you, have you not time for talking with me, gossiping, no time to see me, see me? who will, who will bring the ribbon, lipstick, nail polish, hair oil, red water colour, vermillion, bangles, if remain you lost in books? if leave you not your studies, if leave you not, i shall have the last option left with me that to burn your papers if leave you not our studies. i shall fling all of your books and papers, shall burn them down by pushing into the hearth, the earthen oven for the cooking purpose. having said it, marked it for sometime more, the rustic love started weeping none but herself, flinging the cups and dishes, rolling on the muddy floor of the country home. a pastoral girl who used to love and live with the goats, sheep and cows dwelling in the country, never could she take it in a light way, a village girl she, a pastoral shepherd girl. and what twitched it more that somebody had communicated to her that he would move overseas if he went on reading as thus being lost in books and rapt in studies surely would to vilayat and so she before the happening of all this wanted to desist him from.
o, i see, he would got to foreign, foreign and would bring a rival, an english, a european memsahib and would smile in her company which but how shall i tolerate it?.
Containing you in words was that my goal? sizing you to fit what space i had to give? writing each small part of you did i lose the whole? describing your structural elements, the body of my text neatly ordered and composed, effected with a loose style, stoic; yet, rigidly controlled. you were to be the idyllic poem, supple and flexible as speech, with a rising and falling rhythm all your own. what is significant is that to each expanding layer of thought i press inward for the answers seeking to contain the true nature and germ of your flesh. sin has no place in pastoral settings. i sought to have you as my lover thoroughly enjoyed and then forgotten; but, i find no great ease in forgetting all the wonderful lessons, which you taught me, how to write and love without the bed. i ask, then; 'can the genius and heat of passion survive solely in the head? '.
Progressive curtains of darkness drop onto coppice and fields deepening shades of gloom increase into stillness of night feelings acquire an edge not there in day acrobatic senses wing their way as if on a breeze the hearing leaps great distances to light upon a whisper the eye spy's movement in impenetrable dark the sure silent owl, no longer comic, is felt more than seen riding a breeze with bodkin claws at ready the heightened mind feels movement other senses miss and i know that the field mouse stills the rabbit crouches the wood pigeon stifles a coo this is no silly blinking clown but death hungry and reaching to not respond is to lose the right creatures of night whisper and shift as a momentary scream says the owl is down now the stoat equally silent, just as deadly who's innocent eye belies cold heart seeks to bloody his fur with another life the playful rolling otter cuffs his mate then running calls to her to follow as they too seek life on which to chew the trout moves in on the fly.
