CHAPTER 25 Two cousins are subjected by witchcraft to the assaults of demons And the Magic Jade meets an old acquaintance while rather the worse for wear We have seen how Crimson, after lying a long time a prey to confused and troubled thoughts, at last dozed off to sleep and how later, when Jia Yun grabbed at her, she turned and fled, only to stumble and fall on the threshold of her room.
At that point she woke in bed and discovered that she had been dreaming.
She did not get to sleep again after that, but lay tossing restlessly throughout the night.
When daylight came at last, she got up, and shortly after was joined by the other maids who shared with her the early morning duties of sweeping the rooms and courtyards and fetching water for the others washing.
Crimsons own toilet was a simple one a brief look in the mirror while she coiled her hair, a quick wash and she was ready to join the others in their sweeping.
Her encounter with Bao-yu had made a stronger impression on that impressionable young man than she realized.
He had even thought of asking for her by name to wait upon him, but hesitated, partly from fear of offending Aroma and the rest and partly because he did not know what she was really like and dreaded the unpleasantness of sending her away again if she proved unsatisfactory.
The question still preoccupied him when he woke that morning.
He rose quite early and sat musing silently on his own, making no effort to begin his toilet.
In a little while the paper-covered shutters were removed and he was able to see clearly through the silken gauze of the casement into the courtyard outside.
He could see several girls there sweeping, all of them heavily made-up and with flowers and ornaments in their hair, but no sign of the quiet, neat girl of the day before.
He went outside in his slippers to look around, pretending that he had gone out to inspect the flowers.
He could see someone leaning on the balustrade in the south-west corner of the cloister-like covered walk, but she was half hidden by the crab-apple tree and he could not make out who it was.
He approached and looked more closely.
It was she, yesterdays girl, standing there on her own, apparently lost in thought.
He was a little shy of ad-dressing her at that particular moment and was still hesitating when Emerald came up and asked him to come in and wash.
He had to go in again without having spoken to her.
While Crimson stood there musing, she suddenly became aware that Aroma was beckoning to her, and hurried up to see what she wanted.
Our spittoon is broken, Aroma said.
Can you go to Miss Lins and ask them if they will lend us one until we can get a replacement?
Crimson hurried off in the direction of the Naiads House.
When she got to Green Haze Bridge, she stopped a moment to look around.
She noticed that cloth screens had been set up all along the side of the artificial hill, and remembered that this was the day on which the workmen were coming into the garden to plant trees.
She could just make out a knot of workmen digging a hole in the distance and Jia Yun sitting on some rocks supervising them.
She would have liked to go over, but did not quite dare, and having collected the spittoon, returned, in very low spirits, and lay down in her own room to brood.
The others all assumed that she must be feeling unwell and took no notice.
Next day was the birthday of Wang Zi-tengs lady.
A message had already been received from that quarter inviting Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang to spend the day with her.
Lady Wang would have liked to go but felt unable, even though the invitation was from her brothers wife, because she could see that Grandmother Jia did not want to.
Wang Zi-tengs other.
sister, Aunt Xue, went instead, together with his niece Xi-feng, Bao-chai, Bao-yu and the three Jia girls.
They did not return until the evening.
Not long before they returned, Jia Huan got back from school and Lady Wang gave him the task of copying out the text of that prolonger of life and highly efficacious prophylactic against sickness and misfortune, the Dharani of the Immaculate Diamond.
He seated himself on Lady Wangs kang, called for a candle to be lit, and, with a great deal of self-important fuss, began his copying, one minute calling for Suncloud to pour him tea, the next requiring Silver to trim the wick of his candle, and shortly after that informing G6lden ?hat she was standing in his light.
The maids all hated Jia Huan and took no noticeall, that is, except Sunset, who had always had a soft spot for him.
She poured him a cup of tea and, observing that Lady Wang was engaged in conversation with someone elsewhere in the apartment, quietly counselled some restraint Try not to throw your weight about so!
she said.
Its silly to put peoples backs up.
Jia Huan scowled angrily I know what Im doing, he said.
Iont talk to me like a child!
Youre friends with Bao-yu nowadays, arent you?
You dont like me any more.
I know.
Ive watched you both.
Sunset clenched her teeth.
She stabbed the air above his head with her finger You ungrateful thing!
Youre like the dog that bit L Dong-bin you dont know a friend when you see one.
They were still exchanging words when Xi-feng came in, having just got back from the birthday party.
Lady Wang wanted to know about the other ladies who had been invited, whether the plays had been any good, and what sort of things they had had to eat and drink.
In a little while Bao-yu, too, arrived, and after a few respectful words to his mother, asked the servants to take off his headband and gown for him and help him off with his boots.
Disencumbered, he flung himself into his mothers bosom to be fondled and petted by her, then, worming his way up and nuzzling affectionately against her neck, he proceeded to add his own amusing commentary on the days events.
Youve been drinking again, child, said Lady Wang.
Your face is burning.
All this romping about will make you sick.
Lie down quietly for a while over there!
She made them bring him a head-rest.
and he lay down behind her, towards the back of the kang.
Sunset was instructed to massage him by gently patting his legs.
He tried to joke with Sunset as she knelt beside him, but she barely acknowledged his questions and answered frigidly, directing her eyes and all her attention upon Jia Huan.
Bao-yu seized her hand Come, my dear!
You must take notice of me if I speak to you!
He tugged at her hand as he spoke, but she snatched it from his grasp.
If you do that again, she said, I shall call out!
Jia Huan heard every word of this exchange.
He had always hated Bao-yu, and this flirting with Sunset his Sunsetwas the last straw.
He must be revenged or burst.
A moments reflection suggested the means.
He had only to feign a slight clumsiness of the hand and it was done.
The candle, brimming with molten wax, toppled straight on to Bao-yus face.
There was a piercing cry, which made everyone else in the room jump.
Quickly they brought standard lamps up from the floor below.
By their light Bao-yus face was seen to be covered all over in wax.
Torn between anguish for him and anger with Jia Huan, Lady Wang urged the servants to remove it as quickly as possible, while alternately berating the other boy for his carelessness.
Xi-feng scrambled up on to the kang to help the servants, grumbling at Jia Huan as she did so Huan, you are the most cack-handed creature I have ever met!
You are simply not fit for decent company.
I dont know why Aunt Zhao hasnt taught you better.
Her words reminded Lady Wang that she had been abusing a Master in front of the servants.
She ceased rebuking Jia Huan at once and, summoning Aunt Zhao, directed all her wrath upon that luckless concubine This is a fine son you bore us, I must say!
He is a black-hearted little monster!
You might at least try to teach him better.
But no.
Time and again I have overlooked this sort of thing, but instead of feeling sorry, you glory in it.
You think that when I do nothing, you have got the better of me.
Aunt Zhao was obliged to swallow her anger and endure these taunts in silence.
She climbed up onto the kang and made a show of helping the others with the injured boy.
She looked at his face.
The whole left side of it was badly blistered.
It was a wonder that the eye had not been damaged.
When Lady Wang saw it, she was both full of anguish for her son and at the same time, when she thought of the questioning to which she would inevitably be subjected by Grandmother jia and wondered what she would say, terrified on her own account.
To relieve her fear she turned once more on Aunt Zhao.
Then, after tongue-lashing the concubine, she comforted her beloved son and applied Antiphlogistic Ointment to the blistered part of his face.
It does hurt a bit, said Bao-yu when she asked him, but nothing very terrible.
When Grandma asks about it we had better tell her that I did it.
Shell blame the rest of us for not looking after you properly, even if you say you did it yourself, said Xi-feng.
Therell be a row, whatever you say.
Lady Wang told them to see him back to his room.
It was a great shock to Ar6ma and the other maids when they saw him.
Dai-yu had had a dull time of it with Bao-yu away all day, and in the course of the evening sent several times round to his room to inquire whether he was back yet.
It was in this way that she heard about his scalding.
She hurried round immediately to see for herself how he was.
She found him with a mirror in his hand, examining the extent of the damage.
The entire left side of his face was thickly plastered with ointment, from which she deduced that the injury must be a serious one.
But when she approached him to look closer, he averted his head and waved her away.
He knew how squeamish she was, and feared that the sight of it would upset her.
Dai-yu for her part was sufficiently aware of her own weakness not to insist on looking.
She merely asked him whether it hurt very badly Not so bad as all that, said Bao-yu.
A couple of days and it will probably be all right again.
Dai-yu sat with him a little longer and then went back to her room.
Next day Bao-yu had to see Grandmother Jia.
Although he told her that he had burned himself through his own careless-ness, the old lady, as had been predicted, berated his attendants for having allowed the accident to happen.
Another day went by, and Bao-yus godmother, old Mother Ma, called round.
Mother Ma was a Wise Woman.
Her special relationship with Bao-yu had been arranged in his infancy to ensure him the protection of her powers.
She was shocked by her godsons appearance and, on being informed of the cause, shook her head and tutted sympathetically.
She made a few signs over his face with her fingers, muttering some gibberish as she did so, after which she assured them that he would soon be better the malignant aura that had caused the accident was of a transitory, impermanent nature.
She turned to Grandmother Jia Bless you, my lucky lady!
Bless you dearie!
You dont know a half of the unseen harms and dangers the Scripture tells us of.
All the sons of princes and great folks the moment they begin to grow up are f6llowed round everywhere they go by troops of invisible little impsspiteful little creatures who nip them and pinch them whenever they can.
Some-times they knock the rice bowl from their hands when theyre eating.
Sometimes they push them over when they are walking.
Its on account of these creatures that so many young gentlemen of good family dont live to make old bones.
Grandmother Jia was anxious to know if the afflicted person could be freed from these unwelcome attentions.
Easily, said Mother Ma.
By doing good works.
Giving a bit more to charity on the young persons behalf.
There is another way, though.
According to what the Scripture says, theres a Bodhisattva of Universal Light living in the Paradise of the West who spends his time lighting up the dark places where these evil spirits lurk, and if any believer, male or female, will make offerings to that Bodhisattva in a proper spirit of devoutness, he will grant their children and grand-children his holy peace and protect them from possession by devils and from the powers of darkness.
What sort of offerings do you make to this Bodhisattva?
Grandmother Jia asked her.
Nothing very special.
Apart from the usual incense offerings, we take a few pounds of sesame oil each day and make what we call a sea of light by burning wicks in it.
We believe that this sea of light is the trans-substantial body of the Bodhisattva.
It has to be kept burning night and day and never allowed to go out.
How much oil does it take to keep it burning for one whole day and night?
said Grandmother Jia.
I should like to do this for the boy.
Theres no fixed amount, said Mother Ma.
We leave it to our clients to decide how much they want to give.
There are several members of the aristocracy among those I do this service for.
Lets see .. .
Theres the Prince of An-nans lady.
Shes my biggest subscriber.
Her subscription is for forty-eight pounds of oil and a pound of lampwicks a day.
Her sea of light is pretty nearly as big as a cistern.
Then theres the Marquis of Jin-xiangs lady twenty pounds of oil a day.
Oh, and theres some pays for ten pounds a day, some for eight pounds, three pounds, five pounds- all sorts.
All of them I keep their seas of light burning for them, back at my house.
Grandmother Jia nodded thoughtfully.
One thing I should mention, said Mother Ma observing the thoughtfulness if the offering is for an older persona mother or father, sayit doesnt matter how much you subscribe but if its an older person making it for a younger one, like as it may be Your Ladyship for Bao-yu, you dont want to subscribe too much, or it would overload his luck and have the opposite effect.
In the case of Your Ladyship subscribing for Bao-yu, I should suggest between five and seven pounds a day.
Make it five pounds a day, then, said Grandmother Jia.
Well work out the total and send you a months supply every month.
Amitabha, Merciful Buddha!
Bless His Holy Name!
said Mother Ma.
As a further precaution Grandmother Jia called in some of Bao-yus maids and told them that in future whenever Bao-yu went out anywhere his pages were to be provided with several strings of cash to give as alms to any itinerant monks or priests or any poor or afflicted persons they might meet upon the way.
After seeing Grandmother jia, Mother Ma drifted round the mansion calling at various other apartments.
Presently she came to Aunt Zhaos room.
After they had exchanged greetings, Aunt Zhao told her little servant to pour the old woman a cup of tea.
Aunt Zhao was pasting pieces of cloth together for soling shoes with, and Mother Ma observed that the kang around her was piled with miscellaneous remnants of material.
Im looking for something to make a pair of uppers out of, dearie, said Mother Ma.
I suppose you havent got an old bit of silk or an old bit of satin that would do?
It doesnt matter about the colour.
Aunt Zhao heaved a long-suffering sigh Take a look at this lot!
You wont find anything much worth having here.
Nothing worth having in this family ever comes my way.
But youre welcome to pick out a couple of pieces if you dont mind the poor quality.
Mother Ma rummaged around in the heap, and having picked out several pieces, stuffed them into her sleeve.
I sent someone round to you the other day with five hundred cash to pay for an offering to the Medicine Buddha, said Aunt Zhao.
Have you managed to make it yet?
Oh yes.
That was done days ago.
Holy Name!
said Aunt Zhao.
Id do it oftener if things were a bit easier but you know the saying my heart is willing but my purse is lean.
Dont you worry about that!
said Mother Ma.
You only have to hold out a few more years.
When your Huan has grown up and got himself a job in the Service, youll be able to afford all the good works you want.
Aunt Zhao made a scornful sound in her nose Hfn!
Lets not talk about it!
Itll be no different then from what it is now Huan and I will never be able to compete with the Other One.
Its like the Heavenly Dragon appearing when he comes on the scene.
Mind you, I dont hold it against the child.
Hes a good-looking boy, is Bao-yu, and you can understand the grown-ups being silly about him.
No, th is is the one I cant stand.
As she uttered the word this, she held up two fingers.
Mother Ma guessed her meaning Number Twothe younger of the Rong mansions two daughters-in-law.
You mean Mrs Lian?
she said.
Aunt Zhaos face assumed an expression of terror.
Motioning agitatedly to the other to remain silent, she got up, went to the door, raised the door-blind, looked around, and having satisfied herself that there were no eavesdroppers, came back and sat down again, her face close to Mother Mas.
Shes a dreadful person dreadful!
If that woman doesnt end up by carrying off every stick of property belonging to this family to line her own nest with, my names not Zhao!
Mother Ma sensed interesting possibilities in this conversation, and was quick to explore them It doesnt need you to tell me that, she said.
You surely dont think I havent noticed that?
Ive often wondered why you all let her get away with itthough I suppose its probably just as well you do.
My dear good woman, said Aunt Zhao, weve no choice but to let her get away with it.
Who would ever have the nerve to stand up to her?
Well, said Mother Ma, I dont want to seem a trouble-maker, but if you dont mind my saying so, you do all seem to have acted a hit helpless about hernot that Im blaming you, mind.
But I mean to say, even if you darent stand up to her openly, there are things you could do in secret.
Im surprised you havent thought of it before.
To Aunt Zhao the words seemed to contain a hidden promise.
She concealed her pleasure.
What do you mean things we could do in secret?
she said.
Im willing enough to do them its just that Ive never met anyone who could tell me how.
If you would show me the way, Id pay you.
Id pay a lot.
Mother Ma could see that they understood each other, but she was taking no chances.
Holy Name!
Dont ask me about things like that!
I dont touch that kind of business.
No, no, no.
Thats wicked.
There you are!
said Aunt Zhao.
Thats all the help I ever get.
And I thought you were such a kind person, always helping those in trouble.
Are you prepared to stand by and watch me and my Huan being made mincemeat of by that scheming woman?
I suppose its because you think I wouldnt pay you.
If you was to say that I am too tender-hearted to stand by and watch you and your boy being wronged, said Mother Ma, you would be saying no more nor less than the truth.
But I dont know what you mean about pay.
What have you got that you could tempt me with, dearie, even if I was willing to do it for pay?
Aunt Zhao observed that her opposition to the very idea of helping her in the desired way had considerably weakened.
For someone so clever, she said, arent you being rather stupid?
If you help me and it works, with the two of them safely out of the way, everything in this household will be ours.
Youll be able to ask for what you like.
Fancy not thinking of that!
Mother Ma lowered her head and reflected for a while in silence.
When that time comes and youre safely landed, she said eventually, you wont want to have anything more to do with me, dearienot when Ive got no proof to show what I done for you.
Thats no problem, said Aunt Zhao.
Ive got a few taels put by of my own savings, and Ive got some dresses, and theres my jewellery.
You can take some of each to be getting on with and I can give you an IOU promising to pay you so much later on.
We can have a witness too, if you like.
Are you sure?
Why should I tell a lie?
said Aunt Zhao, and summoned a trusted crone into whose ear she whispered instructions Ps-ps-ps-ps-ps-ps-ps-ps.
The old crone nodded and went out, returning after a few minutes with a promissory note for five hundred taels of silver.
Aunt Zhao made her mark on it and then went to the wardrobe to get out her savings.
The white shine of silver and the signed and sealed IOU dispelled whatever residual doubts the Wise Woman may have entertained, for she seized and pocketed both with alacrity, giving hearty assurances of her aid as she did so then, after rummaging for some time in the capacious waistband of her trousers, she fished out twelve little paper cut-out figuresten of them demons with green faces and red hair and two of them plain human figuresand handed them to Aunt Zhao.
Dropping her voice to a whisper, she instructed her to write the eight symbols of her victims nativitytwo for the year, two for the month, two for the day and two for the houron each of the human figures, wrap five of the demons round each of them, and slip them somewhere under her victims beds.
Thats all you have to do, she said.
1 shall be doing other things at home to help you.
Its sure to work - no question of that.
But you must be very, very careful.
And you mustnt be afraid.
While she was still talking, one of Lady Wangs maids came in looking for her.
Oh, here you are!
Her Ladyship is waiting for you.
Mother Ma went off in the company of the maid.
And there we leave her.
Because of the injury to his face, Bao-yu had stopped going out of doors since his accident and Dai-yu spent a good deal 6f time in his apartment talking to him.
One morning after lunch she had settled down to read, but after a couple of chapters grew bored with the book and did some sewing instead with the maids Nightingale and Snowgoose.
When that, too, became boring, she stood for a while leaning against the doorway, vacantly looking out.
The young bamboo shoots were just breaking through in the forecourt, and after inspecting them, she drifted out into the Garden.
Everywhere the flowers were blooming, the birds were singing, and the water splashed and tinkled, but not a human soul was to be seen.
Almost without thinking where she was going, she made her way to the House of Green Delights.
A group of maids had fetched some water from the well and were watching the white-eyes in the gallery giving themselves a bath.
A sound of laughter came from inside the house.
Li Wan, Xi-feng and Bao-chai were there already.
Their friendly laughter greeted Dai-yu as she entered Another one!
Come in!
Come in!
What is this?
said Dai-yu, joining in the good humour.
A party?
I sent someone round to you the other day with two caddies-full of tea, said Xi-feng, but you were out.
Yes, said Dai-yu.
Im sorry I forgot to thank you.
Have you tried it?
said Xi-feng.
What did you think of it?
I wouldnt ask, if I were you, said Bao-yu, chipping in.
I thought it was rotten.
I dont know what the rest of you thought about it.
I thought the flavour was all right, said Bao-chai.
The colour wasnt up to much.
That was tribute tea from Siam, said Xi-feng.
I didnt like it at all.
I thought it wasnt as nice as the tea we drink every day.
Oh, I quite liked it, said Dai-yu.
Your palates must be more sensitive than mine.
If you really like it, said Bao-yu, youre welcome to have mine.
Ive still got quite a bit left, said Xi-feng.
If you really like it, you can have it all.
Thank you very much, said Dai-yu.
Ill send someone round to fetch it.
No, dont do that, said Xi-feng.
Ill send it round to you.
Theres something I want you to do for me.
The person I send round about it can bring the tea as well.
Dai-yu laughed mockingly Do you heat that, everybody?
Because shes given me a hit of her old tea, I have to start doing odd jobs for her.
Thats fair enough, said Xi-feng.
You know the rule drink the familys tea, the familys bride-to-be.
Everyone laughed at this except Dai-yu, who turned her head away, blushing furiously, and said nothing.
Cousin Feng will have her little joke, Li Wan observed to Bao-chai with a smile.
Do you call that a joke?
said Dai-yu.
It was a silly, idle remark, and very irritating.
She gave a snort of disgust by way of reinforcement.
Xi-feng laughed Whats so irritating about it?
Look at him!She pointed at Bao-yu - Isnt he good enough for you?
Good looks, good family, good income.
There are no snags that I can see.
Its a perfect match!
Dai-yu rose and fled.
Oh, Frowners in a rage!
Come back Frowner!
Bao-chai called out after her.
If you go, it will spoil all the fun.
She got up and went after Dai-yu to bring her back.
At the doorway they ran into Jia Zhengs two concubines, Aunt Zhao and Aunt Zhou, come to see Bao-yu.
Li Wan, Bao-chai and Bao-yu made them welcome and invited them to sit down and talk, but Xi-feng and Dai-yu conversed with each other and rather pointedly ignored them, Bao-chai was in the middle of saying something to the rest of the group when a maid arrived from Lady Wangs to say that Wang Zi-tengs wife had come and the presence of the young ladies was requested.
Li Wan and Xi-feng rose to go.
Aunt Zhao and Aunt Zhou hurriedly took their leave.
I cant go out, said Bao-yu.
For heavens sake dont let Aunt Wang come over here!
- Cousin Lint he called to Dai-yu.
Stay here a bit!
Theres something I want to say to you.
Hearing him, Xi-feng turned back to address Dai-yu Do you hear that?
Someone wants a word with you.
Youd better go back and see what he wants to say!
She gave her a push in the direction of the house then she and Li Wan went off, both laughing.
When they were alone together, Bao-yu took Dai-yu by the hand.
He smiled and smiled, but said nothing.
Dai-yu felt herself blushing, and tried to break away.
Aiyo!
he said.
My head!
Good!
said Dai-yu.
It serves you right!
Then Bao-yu let out a dreadful cry, lumped two or three feet into the air, and began to shout and babble deliriously.
Dai-yu and the maids were terrified and ran to tell Lady Wang and Grandmother Jia.
Wang Zi-tengs lady was with them and hurried over with the rest to see him.
By the time they arrived he had already tried several times to kill himself and was raving like a madman.
His mother and grandmother were so stricken by the sight that for a few moments they stood mute and trembling.
Then, breaking into loud weeping, they cried Out to him piteously between their sobs my son I, my child!, my darling!
Soon the news had spread to the other parts of the Rong household and to the household next door and Jia She, Lady Xing, Cousin Zhen, Jia Zheng, Jia Lian, Jia Rong, Jia Yun, Jia Ping, Aunt Xue and Xue Pannot to mention Zhou Ruis wife and a great bevy of domestics both high and lowcame hurrying into the garden, adding numbers and confusion to the group of helpless spectators.
While they were still wondering what to do with Bao-yu, Xi-feng appeared, brandishing a gleaming knife in one hand and attacking whatever came in her path.
She had already massacred several luckless dogs and hens and now, seeing people ahead, glared at them madly and would have rushed upon them too had not Zhou Ruis wife and a few hefty and resourceful women servants advanced upon her while the others looked on helplessly, clasped her about the arms and body, wrested the knife from her hand, and carried her off to her room.
Patience and Felicity wept piteously to see their mistress in such a state.
On this occasion even Jia Zhengs customary impassivity seemed to have deserted him, as he turned this way and that, uncertain on whom to direct his attention.
And if Jia Zheng was distraught, the state of the others can be imagined.
Most remarkable, perhaps, was the.
spectacle of Xue Pan fussing over his womenfolk, one moment afraid that his mother would be jostled in the crush, the next that Bao-chai might be ogled or Caltrop glad-eyed by some wanton male.
Cousin Zhen, he knew for a fact, was a notorious womanizer.
Then he caught sight of Dai-yu whom he had never seen before and forgot his anxiety in gawping admiration of that ethereal beauty.
Although no one knew what to do themselves, there were a great many opinions about what ought to be done.
Some said an exorcist should be called in to expel the malignant spirits, some that it required a dancing medium to draw them out, some offered charm-sheets invoking the demon-quelling powers of the Heavenly Master and issued under the hand of the Taoist pontiff yet in spite of prayers, incantations, divination, and all the expedients that faith and physic could provide, there was no visible improvement in the condition of the patients.
At sundown Wang Zi-tengs lady took her leave and went home.
Next day she made another visit to inquire after them.
This was followed by Visits from the wife of Grandmother Jias nephew the Marquis, from Lady Xings brothers wives, and from the wives of other marriage connections of the family.
Bottled charm-water, wonder-working monks and Taoists and highly recommended physicians were also sent round to the mansion by various friends and relations.
But the cousins continued delirious and lay on their beds burning with fever and babbling incomprehensibly.
At nightfall they became even worse, so that the maids and even the older women no longer dared go near them.
The two of them had to be carried into Lady Wangs room on their beds and set down there side by side so that Jia Yun and a group of pages could watch over them in shifts throughout the night.
Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang, Lady Xing and Aunt Xue stayed near at hand, refusing to budge, though unable to do anything but sit by and weep.
Jia She and Jia Zheng, afraid that their mothers health would suffer, displayed their concern by keeping themselves and everyone else up throughout most of the night.
There were lights burning everywhere and hardly anyone slept at all.
Jia She continued to hunt everywhere for monks and exorcists reputed able to cure diseases of the mind.
Finally, Jia Zheng, who saw that their methods were all useless, lost patience with him and tried to make him stop Young people will die if they must.
Nothing can alter fate.
And that they are fated to die would appear from the fact that all efforts to cure them have been unavailing.
I think we should allow them to die in peace.
But Jia She took no notice, and the commotion continued as before.
By the third day the patients were so weakened that they lay on their beds motionless and their breathing was scarcely perceptible.
The whole family had by now abandoned hope and were already making preparations for their laying-out.
Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang, Jia Lian, Patience and Aroma had cried themselves into a state bordering on prostration.
Only Aunt Zhao was cheerfulthough she did her best to look miserable.
Early on the fourth day Bao-yu suddenly opened his eyes wide and spoke to Grandmother Jia From now on I can no longer stay in this family.
You must get my things ready and let me go.
To the old lady the words were a tearing of heart from body but Aunt Zhao, who also heard them, had the temerity to urge their acceptance Your Ladyship shouldnt take it so hard.
Its already all up with the boy.
We should be getting his grave clothes ready so that he can go in peace.
It will be better that way.
If we wont let him go now, when hes ready, it will only make more suffering for him in the world to come She would have gone on, but Grandmother Jia spat in her face.
No empty gesture it was a full gob of spittle.
Evil woman!
May your tongue rot!
How do you know its all up with him?
You want him to die, dont you?
But if you think you will gain by his death, you must be dreaming because if he does die, I shall hold you responsible.
Its your spiteful meddling that has forced him to do all this studying.
You have reduced the poor child to such a state that the mere sight of his father makes him more scared than a mouse with the cat after it.
You have done this, you and the others of your kind.
And now I suppose, if you succeed in murdering him, you will be satisfied.
But dont imagine you will escape me any of you!
She railed and wept.
Jia Zheng was close at hand while she was saying all this and was deeply distressed by it.
Peremptorily dismissing the concubine, he tried to calm his mother and reasoned against the injustice of her charges.
It was unfortunate that just at that moment a servant should have come in to announce that the two coffins that had been ordered were now ready.
The words were as oil upon fire.
The old lady blazed.
Who gave orders for those coffins to be made?
Where is the man who made them?
Go and get the man who made those coffins!
Flog him to death!
Suddenly, as she raged and stormed, the faint tock tock of a holy mans wooden fish was heard upon the air and a high monotone chant that kept time with the beat -1680 Na-mah A-mi-ta-bha Bo-dhi-satt-va!
Mer-ci-ful de-li-ve-rer!
All a-fflic-ted and tor-men-ted, All a-ttacked by e-vil spi-rits, -1707 All de-mo-ni-ac po-sse-ssion, I cure, I cure, I cure.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang at once sent someone into the street to see who it was.
The source of the chanting proved to be a disreputable-looking Buddhist monk.
Stone describes him in the following quatrain A bottle nose he had and shaggy brows, Through which peeped eyes that twinkled like bright Stats.
His robe was patched and torn, his feet straw-shod, His unclean pate blotched with unsightly scars.
He was accompanied by a lame Taoist, for whom a similar quatrain has been supplied by our poetical Stone -1067 Up, down he hopped on his unequal legs, From mud and puddle not a stitch left dry.
Yet, if you asked him where his dwelling was, Westward of Paradise he would reply.
Jia Zheng had them invited in and asked them what monastery they were from.
The monk was genially dismissive There is no need for Your Worship to waste time on formalities.
Suffice it to say that I heard you had sickness in this house and have come to cure it.
Two members of this family have, indeed, fallen victims to some kind of witchcraft, said Jia Zheng.
Might one inquire what charm you intend to cure them with?
Charm?
The monk laughed.
You already possess in your own house a precious object capable of curing them.
What other charm is necessary?
Jia Zheng gave a start.
To be sure.
My son was born with a piece of jade whose inscription makes some such claim - Dispels the harms of witchcraft.
But as you see, it does not appear to possess the power it lays claim to.
That is because the world and its temptations have con-fused it, said the monk.
It certainly used to have the power.
If you will have the goodness to fetch it for me and allow me to hold it in my hand and say a wee prayer over it, I think I can undertake to bring the power back again.
Jia Zheng took the Magic Jade from Bao-yus neck and handed it to the monk, who held it on the palm of his hand and addressed it with a sigh Thirteen years, old friend, since we first met under Green -sickness Peak!
Time certainly flies.
But you have not finished with this world yet, you know.
Dear, dear, dear!
You arent the Stone you were, are you?
-1174 Time was you lived in perfect liberty, Your heart alike from joy and sorrow free, Till, by the smelters alchemy transformed, Into the world you came to purchase misery.
-534 By the bye, I am sorry you have been having such a disagreeable experience these last few days.
Vain sensual joys the jades sheen have besmirched The poor bird droops, in its close prison perched.
From drunken dreaming one day youll recover Then, when all debts are paid, the play will soon be over.
When the monk had finished apostrophizing the stone, he rubbed it and polished it between his hands and muttered some strange-sounding words over it.
There!
Its power has now been restored.
He handed it back to Jia Zheng.
But you must be careful that it does not become contaminated again.
Hang it above the threshold of the bedroom and let no women apart from the patients own mother and grandmother go inside.
If you will do that, I can guarantee a complete recovery in thirty-three days.
Jia Zheng would have liked to detain the monk for tea and offer him some remuneration, but he and the Taoist slipped quietly away and could not be traced.
The monks directions were scrupulously followed.
Lady Wang guarded the doorway in person and prevented any unauthorized person from getting into the bedroom.
By evening the sufferers had regained consciousness and said they were hungry.
This news, so precious to the ears of Lady Jia and Lady Wang, who at once had rice gruel brought in to feed them with, was relayed to the girls in the outer room.
Bless His Holy Name!
Dai-yu murmured fervently.
Bao-chai laughed, but said nothing.
The others were mystified.
Why do you laugh, Cousin Bao?
Xi-chun asked her.
I was thinking how busy He of the Holy Name must be, Bao-chai said.
Apart from working for the salvation of all sentient beings, He has to protect the sick and hasten their recoverynot to mention watching over plighted couples to make sure that they marry and live happily ever after.
What a lot He has to keep Him busy!
Dont you find the thought rather amusing ?
Dai-yu affected scorn, but was blushing hotly.
You are all horrid.
Instead of following good examples, you all imitate Feng and make nasty, cheap jokes all the time.
She raised the portiere and went out.
But if you wish to know more, you will have to wait for the next chapter.
CHAPTER 26 A conversation on Wasp Waist Bridge is a cover for communication of a different kind And a soliloquy overhead in the Naiads House reveals unsuspected depths of feeling By the time the thirty-three days convalescence had ended, not only were Bao-yus health and strength completely restored, but even the burn-marks on his face had vanished, and he was allowed to move back into the Garden It may be recalled that when Bao-yus sickness was at its height, it had been found necessary to call in Jia Yun with a number of pages under his command to take turns in watching over him.
Crimson was there too at that time, having been brought in with the other maids from his apartment.
During those few days she and Jia Yun therefore had ample opportunity of seeing each other, and a certain familiarity began to grow up between them.
Crimson noticed that Jia Yun was often to be seen sporting a handkerchief very much like the one she had lost.
She nearly asked him about it, but in the end was too shy.
Then, after the monks visit, the presence of the menfolk was no longer required and Jia Yun went back to his tree-planting.
Though Crimson could still not dismiss the matter entirely from her mind, she did not ask anyone about it for fear of arousing their suspicions.
A day or two after their return to Green Delights, Crimson was sitting in her room, still brooding over this handkerchief business, when a voice outside the window inquired whether she was in.
Peeping through an eyelet in the casement she recognized Melilot, a little maid who belonged to the same apartment as herself.
Yes, Im in, she said.
Come inside!
Little Melilot came bounding in and sat down on the bed with a giggle.
Im in luck I she said.
I was washing some things in the yard when Bao-yu asked for some tea to be taken round to Miss Lins for him and Miss Aroma gave me the job of taking it.
When I got there, Miss Lin had just been given some money by Her Old Ladyship and was sharing it out among her maids, so when she saw me she just said Here you are!
and gave me two big handfuls of it.
Ive no idea how much it is.
Will you look after it for me, please?
She undid her handkerchief and poured out a shower of coins.
Crimson carefully counted them for her and put them away in a safe place.
Whats been the matter with you lately?
said Melilot.
If you ask me, 1 think you ought to go home for a day or two and call in a doctor.
I expect you need some medicine.
Silly!
said Crimson.
Im perfectly all right.
What should I want to go home for?
I know what, then, said Melilot.
Miss Lins very weakly.
Shes always taking medicine.
Why dont you ask her to give you some of hers?
It would probably do just as well.
Oh, nonsense!
said Crimson.
You cant take other peoples medicines just like that!
Well, you cant go on in this way, said Melilot, never eating or drinking properly.
What will become of you?
Who cares?
said Crimson.
The sooner Im dead the better!
You shouldnt say such things, said Melilot, It isnt right.
Why not?
said Crimson.
How do you know what is on my mind?
Melilot sho6k her head sympathetically.
I cant say I really blame you, she said.
Things are very difficult here at times.
Take yesterday, for example.
Her Old Ladyship said that as Bao-yu was better now and there was to be a thanksgiving for his recovery, all those who had the trouble of nursing him during his illness were to be rewarded according to their grades.
Well now, I can understand the very young ones like me not being included, but why should they leave you out?
I felt really sorry for you when I heard that theyd left you out.
Aroma, of course, youd expect to get more than anyone else.
I dont blame her at all.
In fact, I think its owing to her.
Lets be honest none of us can compare with Aroma.
I mean, even if she didnt always take so much trouble over everything, no one would want to quarrel about her having a bigger share.
What makes me so angry is that people like Skybright and Mackerel should count as top grade when everyone knows theyre only put there to curry favour with Bao-yu.
Doesnt it make you angry?
I dont see much point in getting angry, said Crimson.
You know what they said about the mile-wide marquee Even the longest party must have an end?
Well, none of us is here for ever, you know.
Another four or five years from now when weve each gone our different ways it wont matter any longer what all the rest of us are doing.
Little Melilot found this talk of parting and impermanence vaguely affecting and a slight moisture was to be observed about her eyes.
She thought shame to cry without good cause, however, and masked her emotion with a smile Thats perfectly true.
Only yesterday Bao-yu was going on about all the things hes going to do to his rooms and the clothes hes going to have made and everything, just as if he had a hundred or two years ahead of him with nothing to do but kill time in.
Crimson laughed scornfully, though whether at Melilots simplicity or at Bao-yus improvidence is unclear, since just as she was about to comment, a little maid came running in, so young that her hair was still done up in two little girls horns.
She was carrying some patterns and sheet of paper.
Youre to copy out these two patterns.
She threw them in Crimsons direction and straightway darted out again.
Crimson shouted after her Who are they for, then?
You might at least finish your message before rushing off.
What are you in such a tearing hurry about?
Is someone steaming wheatcakes for you and youre afraid theyll get cold?
Theyre for Mackerel.
The little maid paused long enough to bawl an answer through the window, then picking up her heels, went pounding off, plim-plam, plim-plam, pimpam, as fast as she had come.
Crimson threw the patterns crossly to one side and went to hunt in her drawer for a brush to trace them with.
After rummaging for several minutes she had only succeeded in finding a few worn-out ones, too moulted for use.
Funny!
she said.
I could have sworn I put a new one in there the other day ... She thought a bit, then laughed at herself as she remembered Of course.
Oriole took it, the evening before last.
She turned to Melilot.
Would you go and get it for me, then?
Im afraid I cant, said Melilot.
Miss Aromas waiting for me to fetch some boxes for her.
Youll have to get it your-self.
If Aromas waiting for you, why have you been sitting here gossiping all this time?
said Crimson.
If I hadnt asked you to go and get it, she wouldnt have been waiting, would she?
Lazy little beast!
She left the room and walked out of the gate of Green Delights and in the direction of Bao-chais courtyard.
She was just passing by Drenched Blossoms Pavilion when she caught sight of Bao-yus old wet-nurse, Nannie Li, coming from the opposite direction and stood respectfully aside to wait for her.
Where have you been, Mrs Li?
she asked her.
I didnt expect to see you here.
Nannie Li made a flapping gesture with her hand What do you think, my dear His Nibs has taken a fancy to the young fellow who does the tree-plantingYin or Yun or whatever his name isso Nannie has to go and ask him in.
Lets hope Their Ladyships dont find out about it.
Therell be trouble if they do.
Are you really going to ask him in?
Yes.
Why?
Crimson laughed If your Mr Yun knows whats good for him, he wont agree to come.
Hes no fool, said Nannie Li.
Why shouldnt he?
Any way, if he does come in, said Crimson, ignoring her question, you cant just bring him in and then leave him, Mrs Li.
Youll have to take him back again yourself afterwards.
You dont want him wandering off on his own.
Theres no knowing who he might bump into.
Crimson herself, was the secret hope.
Gracious me!
I havent got that much spare time, said Nannie Li.
All Ive done is just to tell him that hes got to come.
Ill send someone else to fetch him in when I get back presently - one of the girls, or one of the older women, maybe.
She hobbled off on her stick, leaving Crimson standing there in a muse, her mission to fetch the tracing-brush momentarily forgotten.
She was still standing there a minute or two later when a little maid came along, who, seeing that it was Crimson, asked her what she was doing there.
Crimson looked up.
It was Trinket, another of the maids from Green Delights.
Where are you going?
Crimson asked her.
Ive been sent to fetch Mr Yun, said Trinket.
I have to bring him inside to meet Master Bao.
She ran off on her way.
At the gate to Wasp Waist Bridge Crimson ran into Trinket again, this time with Jia Yun in tow.
His eyes sought Crimsons and hers, as she made pretence of conversing with Trinket, sought his.
Their two pairs of eyes met and briefly skirmished then Crimson felt herself blushing, and turning away abruptly, she made off for Allspice Court.
Our narrative now follows Jia Yun and Trinket along the winding pathway to the House of Green Delights.
Soon they were at the courtyard gate and Jia Yun waited outside while she went in to announce his arrival.
She returned presently to lead him inside.
There were a few scattered rocks in the courtyard and some clumps of jade- green plantain.
Two storks stood in the shadow of a pine-tree, preening themselves with their long bills.
The gallery surrounding the courtyard was hung with cages of unusual design in which perched or fluttered a wide variety of birds, some of them gay-plumaged exotic ones.
Above the steps was a little five-frame penthouse building with a glimpse of delicately-carved partitions visible through the open doorway, above which a horizontal board hung, inscribed with the words CRIMSON JOYS AND GREEN DELIGHTS So thats why its called The House of Green Delights Jia Yun told himself.
The name is taken from the inscription.
A laughing voice addressed him from behind one of the silk gauze casements Come on in!
It must be two or three months since I first forgot our appointment!
Jia Yun recognized the voice as Bao-yus and hurried up the steps inside.
He looked about him, dazzled by the brilliance of gold and semi-precious inlay-work and the richness of the ornaments and furnishings, but unable to see Bao-yu in the midst of it all.
To the left of him was a full4ength mirror from behind which two girls now emerged, both about fifteen or sixteen years old and of much the same build and height.
They addressed him by name and asked him to come inside.
Slightly overawed, he muttered something in reply and hurried after them, not daring to take more than a furtive glance at them from the corner of his eye.
They ushered him into a tent-like summer cabinet of green net, whose principal furniture was a tiny lacquered bed with crimson hangings heavily patterned in gold.
On this Bao-yu, wearing everyday clothes and a pair of bedroom slippers, was reclining, book in hand.
He threw the book down as Jia Yun entered and rose to his feet with a welcoming smile.
Jia Yun swiftly dropped knee and hand to floor in greeting.
Bidden to sit, he modestly placed himself on a bedside chair.
After I invited you round to my study that day, said Bao-yu, a whole lot of things seemed to happen one after the other, and Im afraid I quite forgot about your visit.
Jia Yun returned his smile Lets just say that it wasnt my luck to see you then.
But you have been ill since then, Uncle Bao.
Are you quite better now?
Quite better, thank you.
I hear youve been very busy these last few days.
Thats as it should be, said Jia Yun.
But Im glad you are better, Uncle.
Thats a piece of good fortune for all of us.
As they chatted, a maid came in with some tea.
Jia Yun was talking to Bao-yu as she approached, but his eyes were on her.
She was tall and rather thin with a long oval face, and she was wearing a rose- pink dress over a closely pleated white satin skirt and a black satin sleeveless jacket over the dress.
In the course of his brief sojourn among them in the early days of Bao-yus illness, Jia Yun had got by heart the names of most of the principal females of Bao-yus establishment.
He knew at a glance that the maid now serving him tea was Aroma.
He was als6 aware that she was in some way more important than the other maids and that to be waited on by her in the seated presence of her master was an honour.
Jumping hastily to his feet he addressed her with a modest smile You shouldnt pour tea for me, Miss!
Im not like a visitor here.
You should let me pour for myself!
Oh do sit down!
said Bao-yu.
You dont have to be like that in front of the maids I I know, said Jia Yun.
But a body-servant!
I dont like to presume.
He sat down, nevertheless, and sipped his tea while Bao-yu made conversation on a number of unimportant topics.
He told him which household kept the best troupe of players, which had the finest gardens, whose maids were the prettiest, who gave the best parties, and who had the best collection of curiosities or the strangest pets.
Jia Yun did his best to keep up with him.
After a while Bao-yu showed signs of flagging, and when Jia Yun, observing what appeared to be fatigue, rose to take his leave, he did not very strongly press him to stay.
You must come again when you can spare the time, said Bao-yu, and ordered Trinket to see him out of the Garden.
Once outside the gateway of Green Delights, Jia Yun looked around him on all sides, and having ascertained that there was no one else about, slowed down to a more dawdling pace so that he could ask Trinket a few questions.
Indeed, the little maid was subjected to quite a catechism How old was she?
What was her name?
What did her father and mother do?
How many years had she been working for his Uncle Bao?
How much pay did she get a month?
How many girls were there working for him altogether?
Trinket seemed to have no objection, however, and answered each question as it came.
That girl you were talking to on the way in, he said, isnt her name Crimson?
Trinket laughed Yes.
Why do you ask?
I heard her asking you about a handkerchief.
Only it just so happens that I picked one up.
Trinket showed interest.
Shes asked me about that handkerchief of hers a number of times.
I told her, Ive got better things to do with my time than go looking for peoples handkerchiefs.
But when she asked me about it again today, she said that if I could find it for her, shed give me a reward.
Come to think of it, you were there when she said that, werent you?
It was when we were outside the gate of Allspice Court.
So you can bear me out.
Oh Mr Jia, please let me have it if youve picked it up and Ill be able to see what she will give me for it!
Jia Yun had picked up a silk handkerchief a month previously at the time when his tree-planting activities had lust started.
He knew that it must have been dropped by one or another of the female inmates of the Garden, but not knowing which, had not so far ventured to do anything about his discovery.
When earlier on he had heard Crimson question Trinket about her loss, he had realized, with a thrill of pleasure, that the handkerchief he had picked up must have been hers.
Trinkets request now gave him just the opening he required.
He drew a handkerchief of his own from inside his sleeve and held it up in front of her with a smile Ill give it to you on one condition.
If she lets you have this reward you were speaking of youve got to let me know.
No cheating, mind!
Trinket received the handkerchief with eager assurances that he would be informed of the outcome, and having seen him out of the Garden, went back again to look for Crimson.
Our narrative returns now to Bao-yu.
After disposing of Jia Yun, Bao-yu continued to feel extremely lethargic and lay back on the bed with every appearance of being about to doze off to sleep.
Aroma hurried over to him and, sitting on the edge of the bed, roused him with a shake Come on!
Surely you are not going to sleep again?
You need some fresh air.
Why dont you go outside and walk around for a bit?
Bao-yu took her by the hand and smiled at her.
Id like to go, he said, but I dont want to leave you.
Silly!
said Aroma with a laugh.
Dont say what you dont mean!
She hoicked him to his feet.
Well, where am I going to go then?
said Bao-yu.
I just feel so bored.
Never mind where, just go out I said Aroma.
If you stay moping indoors like this, youll get even more bored.
Bao-yu followed her advice, albeit half-heartedly, and went out into the courtyard.
After visiting the cages in the gallery and playing for a bit with the birds, he ambled out of the courtyard into the Garden and along the batik of Drenched Blossoms Stream, pausing for a while to look at the goldfish in the water.
As he did so, a pair of fawns came running like the wind from the hillside opposite.
Bao-yu was puzzled.
There seemed to be no reason for their mysterious terror.
But just then little Jia Lan came running down the same slope after them, a tiny bow clutched in his hand.
Seeing his uncle ahead of him, he stood politely to attention and greeted him cheerfully Hello, Uncle.
I didnt know you were at home.
I thought youd gone out.
Mischievous little blighter, arent you?
said Bao-yu.
What do you want to go shooting them for, poor little things?
Ive got no reading to do today, said Jia Lan, and I dont like to hang about doing nothing, so I thought Id practise my archery and equitation.
Goodness!
Youd better not waste time jawing, then, said Bao-yu, and left the young toxophilite to his pursuits.
Moving on, without much thinking where he was going, he came presently to the gate of a courtyard.
Denser than feathers on the phoenix tail The stirred leaves murmured with a pent dragons moan.
The multitudinous bamboos and the board above the gate confirmed that his feet had, without conscious direction, carried him to the Naiads House.
Of their own accord they now carried him through the gateway and into the courtyard.
The House seemed silent and deserted, its bamboo door-blind hanging unrolled to the ground but as he approached the window, he detected a faint sweetness in the air, traceable to a thin curl of incense smoke which drifted out through the green gauze of the casement.
He pressed his face to the gauze but before his eyes could distinguish anything, his ear became aware of a long, languorous sigh and the sound of a voice speaking Each day in a drowsy waking dream of love.
Bao-yu felt a sudden yearning for the speaker.
He could see her now It was Dai-yu, of course, lying on her bed, stretching herself and yawning luxuriously.
He laughed Why each day in a drowsy waking dream of love?
he asked through the window the words were from his beloved Western Chamber then going to the doorway he lifted up the door-blind and walked into the room.
Dai-yu realized that she had been caught off her guard.
She covered her burning face with her sleeve, and turning over towards the wall, pretended to be asleep.
Bao-yu went over intending to turn her back again, but just at that moment Dai-yus old wet-nurse came hurrying in with two other old women at her heels Miss Lins asleep, sir Would you mind coming back again after shes woken up?
Dai-yu at once turned over and sat up with a laugh Whos asleep?
The three old women laughed apologetically.
Sorry, miss.
We thought you were asleep.
Nightingale!
Come inside now!
Your mistress is awake.
Having shouted for Nightingale, the three guardians of morality retired.
What do you mean by coming into peoples rooms when theyre asleep?
said Dai-yu, smiling up at Bao-yu as she sat on the beds edge patting her hair into shape.
At the sight of those soft cheeks so adorably flushed and the starry eyes a little misted with sleep a wave of emotion passed over him.
He sank into a chair and smiled back at her What was that you were saying just now before I came in?
I didnt say anything, said Dai-yu.
Bao-yu laughed and snapped his fingers at her Put that on your tongue, girl!
I heard you say it.
While they were talking to one another, Nightingale came In.
Nightingale, said Bao-yu, what about a cup of that excellent tea of yours?
Excellent tea?
said Nightingale.
Theres nothing very special about the tea we drink here.
If nothing but the best will do, youd better wait for Aroma to come.
Never mind about him!
said Dai-yu.
First go and get me some water!
He is our guest, said Nightingale.
I cant fetch you any water until Ive given him his tea.
And she went to pour him a cup.
Good girl!
said Bao-yu.
If with your amorous mistress I should wed, Tis you, sweet maid, must make our bridal bed.
The words, like Dai-yus languorous line, were from Western Chamber, but in somewhat dubious taste.
Dai-yu was dreadfully offended by them.
In an instant the smile had vanished from her face.
-294 What was that you said?
He laughed -294 I didnt say anything.
Dai-yu began to cry.
This is your latest amusement, I suppose.
Every time you hear some coarse expression outside or read some crude, disgusting book, you have to come back here and give me the benefit of it.
I am to become a source of entertainment for the menfolk now, it seems.
She rose, weeping, from the bed and went outside.
Bao-yu followed her in alarm.
Dearest coz, it was very wrong of me to say that, but it just slipped out without thinking.
Please dont go and tell!
I promise never to say anything like that again.
May my mouth rot and my tongue decay if I dot Just at that moment Aroma came hurrying up Quick!
she said.
You must come back and change.
The Master wants to see you.
The descent of this thunderbolt drove all else from his mind and he rushed off in a panic.
As soon as he had changed, he hurried out of the Garden.
Tealeaf was waiting for him outside the inner gate.
I suppose you dont know what he wants to see me about?
Bao-yu asked him.
I should hurry up, if I were you, said Tealeaf.
All I know is that he wants to see you.
Youll find out why soon enough when you get there.
He hustled him along as he spoke.
They had passed round the main hall, Bao-yu still in a state of fluttering apprehensiveness when there was a loud guffaw from a corner of the wall.
It was Xue Pan, clapping his hands and stamping his feet in mirth.
Ho!
Ho!
Ho!
Youd never have come this quickly if you hadnt been told that Uncle wanted you!
Tealeaf, also laughing, fell on his knees.
Bao-yu stood there looking puzzled.
It was some moments before it dawned on him that he had been hoaxed.
Xue Pan was by this time being apologeticbowing repeatedly and pumping his hands to show how sorry he was Dont blame the lad!
he said.
It wasnt his fault.
I talked him into it.
Bao-yu saw that he could do nothing, and might as well accept with a good grace.
I dont mind being made a fool of he said, but I think it was going a bit far to bring my father into it.
I think perhaps Id better tell Aunt Xue and see what she thinks about it all.
Now look here, old chap, said Xue Pan, getting agitated, it was only because I wanted to fetch you out a bit quicker.
I admit it was very wrong of me to make free with your Parent, but after all, youve only got to mention my father next time you want to fool me and well be quits I Aiyo I said Bao-yu.
Worse and worse!
He turned to Tealeaf Treacherous little beast I What are you still kneeling for?
Tealeaf kotowed and rose to his feet.
Look, said Xue Pan.
I wouldnt have troubled you otherwise, only its my birthday on the third of next month and old Hu and old Cheng and a couple of the others, I dont know where they got them from but theyve given me a piece of fresh lotus root, ever so crisp and crunchy, as thick as that, look, and as long as that a huge great melon, look, as big as that a freshly-caught sturgeon as big as that and a cypress-smoked Siamese sucking-pig as big as that that came in the tribute from Siam.
Dont you think it was clever of them to get me those things?
Maybe not so much the sturgeon and the sucking-pig.
Theyre just expensive.
But where would you go to get a piece of lotus root or a melon like that?
However did they get them to gr ow so big?
Ive given some of the stuff to Mother, and while I was about it I sent some round to your grandmother and Auntie Wang, but Ive still got a lot left over.
I cant eat it all myself it would be unlucky.
But apart from me, the only person I can think of who is worthy to eat a present like this is you.
Thats why I came over specially to invite you.
And were lucky, because weve got a little chap who sings coming round as well.
So you and I will be able to sit down and make a day of it eh?
Really enjoy ourselves.
Xue Pan, still talking, conducted Bao-yu to his study, where Zhan Guang, Cheng Ri-xing, Hu Si-lai and Dan Ping-ren the four donors of the feast and the young singer he had mentioned were already waiting.
They rose to welcome Bao-yu as he entered.
When the bowings and courtesies were over and tea had been taken, Xue Pan called for his servants to lay.
A tremendous bustle ensued, which seemed to go on for quite a long time before everything was finally ready and the diners were able to take their places at the table.
Bao-yu noticed sliced melon and lotus root among the dishes, both of unusual quality and size.
It seems wrong to be sharing your presents with you before I have given you anything myself, he said jokingly.
Yes, said Xue Pan.
What are you planning to give me for my birthday next month?
Something new and out of the ordinary, I hope.
I havent really got anything much to give you, said Bao-yu.
Things like money and food and clothing I dont want for, but theyre not really mine to give.
The only way I could give you something that would really be mine would be by doing some calligraphy or painting a picture for you.
Talking of pictures, said Xue Pan genially, thats reminded me.
I saw a set of dirty pictures in someones house the other day.
They were real beauties.
There was a lot of writing on top that I didnt pay much attention to, but I did notice the signature.
I think it was Geng Huang, the man who painted them.
They were really good!
Bao-yu was puzzled.
His knowledge of the masters of painting and calligraphy both past and present was not in-considerable, but he had never in all his experience come across a Geng Huang.
After racking his brains for some moments he suddenly began to chuckle and called for a writing-brush.
A writing-brush having been produced by one of the servants, he wrote two characters with it in the palm of his hand.
Are you quite sure the signature you saw was Geng Huang?
he asked Xue Pan.
What do you mean?
said Xue Pan.
Of course Im sure.
Bao-yu opened his hand and held it up for Xue Pan to see You sure it wasnt these two characters?
They are quite similar.
The others crowded round to look.
They all laughed when they saw what he had written Yes, it must have been Tang Yin.
Mr Xue couldnt have been seeing straight that day.
Ha!
Ha!
Ha!
Xue Pan realized that he had made a fool of himself, but passed it off with an embarrassed laugh Oh, Tankin or wankin, he said, what difference does it make, anyway?
Just then Mr Feng was announced by one of the servants, which Bao-yu knew could only mean General Feng Tangs son, Feng Zi-ying.
Xue Pan and the rest told the boy to bring him in immediately, but Feng Zi-ying was already striding in, talking and laughing as he went.
The others hurriedly rose and invited him to take a seat.
Ha!
said Feng Zi-ying.
No need to go out then.
Enjoyin yourselves at home, eh?
Very nice too!
Its a long time since weve seen you around, said Bao-yu.
Hows the General?
Fahvers in good health, thank you very much, said Feng Zi-ying, but Muvver hasnt been too well lately.
Caught a chill or somethin.
Observing with glee that Feng Zi-ying was sporting a black eye, Xue Pan asked him how he had come by it Been having a dust-up, then?
Who was it this time?
Looks as if he left his signature!
Feng Zi-ying laughed Dont use the mitts any more nowadaysnot since that time I laid into Colonel Chous son and did him an injury.
That was a lesson to me.
Ive learned to keep my temper since then.
No, this happened the other day durin a huntin expedition in the Iron Net Mountains.
I got fficked by a goshawks wing.
When was this?
Bao-yu asked him.
We left on the twenty-eighth of last month, said Feng Zi-ying.
Didnt get back till a few days ago.
Ah, that explains why I didnt see you at Shens party earlier this month, said Bao-yu.
I meant at the time to ask why you werent there, but I forgot.
Did you go alone on this expedition or was the General there with you?
Fahver most certainly was there, said Feng Zi-ying.
I was practically dragged along in tow.
Do you think Im mad enough to go rushin off in pursuit of hideous hardships when I could be sittin comfortably at home eatin good food and drinkin good wine and listenin to the odd song or two?
Still, some good came of it.
It was a lucky accident.
As he had now finished his tea, Xue Pan urged him to join them at table and tell them his story at leisure, but Feng Zi-ying rose to his feet again and declined.
I ought by rights to stay and drink a few cups with you, he said, but theres somethin very important Ive got to see Fahver about now, so Im afraid I really must refuse.
But Xue Pan, Bao-yu and the rest were by no means content to let him get away with this excuse and propelled him insistently towards the table.
Now look here, this is too bad!
Feng Zi-ying good-humouredly protested.
All the years weve been knockin around togevver weve never before insisted that a fellow should have to stay if he dont want to.
The fact is, I really cant.
Oh well, if I must have a drink, fetch some decent-sized cups and Ill just put down a couple of quick ones!
This was dearly the most he would concede and the others perforce acquiesced.
Two sconce-cups were brought and ceremoniously filled, Bao-yu holding the cups and Xue Pan pouring from the wine-kettle.
Feng Zi-ying drank them standing, one after the other, each in a single breath.
Now come on, said Bao-yu, lets hear about this lucky accident before you go!
Feng Zi-ying laughed Couldnt tell it properly just now, he said.
Its somethin that needs a special party all to itself.
Ill invite you all round to my place another day and you shall have the details then.
Theres a favour I want to ask too, by the bye, so well be able to talk about that then as well.
He made a determined movement towards the door.
Now youve got us all peeing ourselves with curiosity!
said Xue Pan.
You might at least tell us when this party is going to be, to put us out of our suspense.
Not more than ten days time and not less than eight, said Feng Zi-ying and going out into the courtyard, he jumped on his horse and clattered away.
Having seen him off, the others went in again, reseated themselves at table, and resumed their potations.
When the party finally broke up, Bao-yu returned to the Garden in a state of cheerful inebriation.
Moma, who had had no idea what the summons from Jia Zheng might portend and was still wondering anxiously what had become of him, at once demanded to know the cause of his condition.
He gave her a full account of what had happened.
Well really!
said Aroma.
Here were we practically beside ourselves with anxiety, and all the time you were there enjoying yourself!
You might at least have sent word to let us know you were all tight.
I was going to send word, said Bao-yu.
Of course I was.
But then old Feng arrived and it put it out of my mind, At that moment Bao-chai walked in, all smiles.
I hear youve made a start on the famous present, she said.
But surely you and your family must have had some already ?
said Bao-yu.
Bao-chai shook her head Pan was very pressing that I should have some, but I refused.
I told him to save it for other people.
I know Im not really the right sort of person for such superior delicacies.
If I were to eat any, I should be afraid of some frightful nemesis overtaking me.
A maid poured tea for her as she spoke, and conversation of a desultory kind proceeded between sips.
-1014 Our narrative returns now to Dai-yu.
Having been present when Bao-yu received his summons, Dai-yu, too, was greatly worried about him - the more so as the day advanced and he had still not returned, Then in the evening, some time after dinner, she heard that he had just got back and resolved to go over and ask him exactly what had happened.
She was sauntering along on the way there when she caught sight of Bao-chai some distance ahead of her, just entering Bao-yus courtyard.
Continuing to amble on, she came presently to Drenched Blossoms Bridge, from which a large number of different kinds of fish were to be seen swimming about in the water below.
Dai-yu did not know what kinds of fish they were, but they were so beautiful that she had to stop and admire them, and by the time she reached the House of Green Delights, the courtyard gate had been shut for the night and she was obliged to knock for admittance.
Now it so happened that Skybright had just been having a quarrel with Emerald, and being thoroughly out of temper, was venting some of her ill-humour on the lately arrived Bao-chai, complaining sotto voce behind her back about people who were always inventing excuses to come dropping in and who kept other people staying up half the night when they would like to be in bed.
A knock at the gate coming in the midst of these resentful mutterings was enough to make her really angry.
Theyve all gone to bed, she shouted, not even bothering to inquire who the caller was.
Come again tomorrow I Dai-yu was aware that Bao-vus maids often played tricks on one another, and it occurred to her that the girl in the courtyard, not recognizing her voice, might have mistaken her for another maid and be keeping her locked Out for a joke.
She therefore called out again, this time somewhat louder than before Come on!
Open up, please!
Its me.
Unfortunately Skybright had still not recognized the voice.
I dont care who you are, she replied bad-temperedly.
Master Baos orders are that Im not to let anyone in.
Dumbfounded by her insolence, Dai-yu stood outside the gate in silence.
She could not, however much she felt like it give vent to her anger in noisy expostulation.
Although they are always telling me to treat my Uncles house as my own, she reflected, I am still really an outsider.
And now that Mother and Father are both dead and I am on my own, to make a fuss about a thing like this when I am living in someone elses house could only lead to further unpleasantness.
A big tear coursed, unregarded, down her cheek.
She was still standing there irresolute, unable to decide whether to go or stay, when a sudden volley of talk and laughter reached her from inside.
It resolved itself, as she listened attentively, into the voices of Bao-yu and Bao-chai.
An even bitterer sense of chagrin took possession of her.
Suddenly, as she hunted in her mind for some possible reason for her exclusion, she remembered the events of the morning and concluded that Bao-yu must think she had told on him to his parents and was punishing her for her betrayal.
But I would never betray you!
she expostulated with him in her mind.
Why couldnt you have asked first, before letting your resentment carry you to such lengths?
If you wont see me today, does that mean that from now on we are going to stop seeing each other altogether?
The more she thought about it the more distressed she became.
Chill was the green moss pearled with dew And chill was the wind in the avenue -1014 but Dai-yu, all unmindful of the unwholesome damp, had withdrawn into the shadow of a flowering fruit-tree by the corner of the wall, and grieving now in real earnest, began to cry as though her heart would break.
And as if Nature herself were affected by the grief of so beautiful a creature, the crows who had been roosting in the trees round about flew up with a great commotion and removed themselves to another part of the Garden, unable to endure the sorrow of her weeping.
Teats filled each flower and grief their hearts perturbed, And silly birds were from their nests disturbed.
The author of the preceding couplet has given us a quatrain in much the same vein -934 Few in this world fair Frowners looks surpassed, None matched her store of sweetness unexpressed.
The first sob scarcely from her lips had passed When blossoms fell and birds flew off distressed.
As Dai-yu continued weeping there alone, the courtyard door suddenly opened with a loud creak and someone came out.
But in order to find out who it was, you will have to wait for the next volume.
EXPLICIT PRIMA PARS LAIDIS HISTORIAE
CHAPTER 27 Beauty Perspiring sports with butterflies by the Raindrop Pavilion And Beauty Suspiring weeps for fallen blossoms by the Flowers Crave TO CONTINUE OUR STORY, As Dai-yu stood there weeping, there was a sudden creak of the courtyard gate and Bao-chai walked out, accompanied by Bao-yu with Aroma and ah bevy of other maids who had come out to see her off.
Dai-yu was on the point of stepping forward to question Bao-yu, but shrank from embarrassing him in front of so many people.
instead she slipped back into the shadows to let Bao-chai pass, emerging only when Bao-yu and the rest were back inside and the gate was once more barred.
She stood for a while facing it, and shed a few silent tears then, realizing that it was pointiess to remain standing there, she turned and went back to her room and began, in a listless, mechanical manner, to take off her ornaments and prepare herself for the night.
Nightingale and Snowgoose had long since become habituated to Dai-yus moody temperament they were used to her unaccountable fits of depression, when she would sit, the picture of misery, in gloomy silence broken only by an occasional gusty sigh, and to her mysterious, perpetual weeping, that was occasioned by no observable cause.
At first they had tried to reason with her, or, imagining that she must be grieving for her parents or that she was feeling homesick or had been upset by some unkindness, they would do their best to comfort her.
But as the months lengthened into years and she still continued exactly the same as before, they gradually became accustomed and no longer sought reasons for her behaviour.
That was why they ignored her on this occasion and left her alone to her misery, remaining where they were in the outer room and continuing to occupy themselves with their own affairs.
She sat, motionless as a statue, leaning against the back of the bed, her hands clasped about her knees, her eyes full of tears.
It had already been dark for some hours when she finally lay down to sleep.
Our story passes over the rest of that night in silence.
Next day was the twenty-sixth of the fourth month, the day on which, this year, the festival of Grain in Ear was due to fall.
To be precise, the festivals official commencement was on the twenty-sixth day of the fourth month at two oclock in the afternoon.
It has been the custom from time immemorial to make offerings to the flower fairies on this day.
For Grain in Ear marks the beginning of summer it is about this time that the blossom begins to fail and tradition has it that the flower-spirits, their work now completed, go away on this day and do not return until the following year.
The offerings are therefore thought of as a sort of farewell party for the flowers.
This charming custom of speeding the fairies is a special favourite with the fair sex, and in Prospect Garden all the girls were up betimes on this day making little coaches and palanquins out of willow-twigs and flowers and little banners and pennants from scraps of brocade and any other pretty material they could find, which they fastened with threads of coloured silk to the tops of flowering trees and shrubs.
Soon every plant and tree was decorated and the whole garden had become a shimmering sea of nodding blossoms and fluttering coloured streamers.
Moving about in the midst of it all, the girls in their brilliant summer dresses, beside which the most vivid hues of plant and plumage became faint with envy, added the final touch of brightness to a scene of indescribable gaiety and colour.
All the young peopleBao-chai, Ying-chun, Tan-chun, Xichun, Li Wan, Xi-feng and her little girl and Caltrop, and all the maids from all the different apartmentswere outside in the Garden enjoying themselvesall, that is, except Dai-yi, whose absence, beginning to be noticed, was first commented on by Ying-chun Whats happened to Cousin Lin?
Lazy girl!
Surely she cant still be in bed at this hour?
Bao-chai volunteered to go and fetch her The rest of you wait here Ill go and rout her out for you, she said and breaking away from the others, she made off in the direction of the Naiads House.
While she was on her way, she caught sight of lgante and the eleven other little actresses, evidently on their way to join in the fun.
They came up and greeted her, and for a while she stood and chatted with them.
As she was leaving them, she turned back and pointed in the direction from which she had lust come Youll find the others somewhere over there, she said.
Im on my way to get Miss Lin.
Ill join the rest of you presently.
She continued, by the circuitous route that the gardens contours obliged her to take, on her way to the Naiads House.
Raising her eyes as she approached it, she suddenly became aware that the figure ahead of her just disappearing inside it was Bao-yu.
She stopped and lowered her eyes pensively again to the ground.
Bao-yu and Dai-yu have known each other since they were little, she reflected.
They are used to behaving uninhibitedly when they are alone together.
They dont seem to care what they say to one another and one is never quite sure what sort of mood one is going to find them in.
And Dai-yu, at the best of times, is always so touchy and suspicious.
If I go in now after him, he is sure to feel embarrassed and she is sure to start imagining things.
It would be better to go back without seeing her.
Her mind made up, she turned round and began to retrace her steps, intending to go back to the other girls but just at that moment she noticed two enormous turquoise-coloured butterflies a little way ahead of her, each as large as a childs fan, fluttering and dancing on the breeze.
She watched them fascinated and thought she would like to play a game with them.
Taking a fan from inside her sleeve and holding it outspread of her, she followed them off the path and into the grass.
To and fro fluttered the pair of butterflies, sometimes alighting for a moment, but always flying off again before she could reach them.
Once they seemed on the point of flying across the little river that flowed through the midst of the garden and Bao-chai had to stalk them with bated breath for fear of startling them out on to the water.
By the time she had reached the Raindrop Pavilion she was perspiring freely and her interest in the butterflies was beginning to evaporate.
She was about to turn back when she became aware of a low murmur of voices coming from inside the pavilion.
Raindrop Pavilion was built in such a way that it projected into the middle of the pool into which the little watercourse widened out at this point, so that on three of its sides it looked out on to the water.
It was surrounded by a verandah, whose railing followed the many angles formed by the bays and projections of the base.
In each of its wooden walls there was a large paper-covered casement of elegantly patterned lattice-work.
Hearing voices inside the pavilion, Bao-chai halted and inclined her ear to listen.
Are you s ure this is your handkerchief?
one of the voices was saying.
If it is, take it but if it isnt, I must return it to Mr Yun.
Of course its mine, said the second voice.
Come on, let me have it!
Are you going to give me a reward?
I hope I havent taken all this trouble for nothing.
I promised you I would give you a reward, and so I shall.
Surely you dont think I was deceiving you?
All right, I get a reward for bringing it to you.
But what about the person who picked it up?
Doesnt he get anything?
Dont talk nonsense, said the second voice.
Hes one of the masters.
A master picking up something belonging to one of us should give it back as a matter of course How can there be any question of rewarding him?
If you dont intend to reward him, what am I supposed to tell him when I see him?
He was most insistent that I wasnt to give you the handkerchief unless you gave him a reward.
There was a long pause, after which the second voice replied Oh all right.
Let him have this other handkerchief of mine then.
That will have to do as his reward - But you must swear a solemn oath not to tell anyone else about this.
May my mouth rot and may I die a horrible death if I ever tell anyone else about this, amen!
said the first voice.
Goodness!
said the second voice again.
Here we are talking away, and all the time someone could be creeping up outside and listening to every word we say.
We had better open these casements then even if anyone outside sees us, theyll think we are having an ordinary conversation and we shall be able to see them and know in time when to stop.
Bao-chai, listening outside, gave a start.
No wonder they say venery and thievery sharpen the wits, she thought.
If they open those windows and see me here, they are going to feel terribly embarrassed.
And one of those voices sounds like that proud, peculiar girl Crimson who works in Bao-yus room.
If a girl like that knows that I have overheard her doing something she shouldnt be doing, it will be a case of the desperate dog will jump a wall, the desperate man will hazard all therell be a great deal of trouble and I shall be involved in it.
There isnt time to hide.
I shall have to do as the cicada does when he jumps out of his skin give them something to put them off the scent There was a loud creak as the casement yielded.
Bao-chai advanced with deliberately noisy tread.
Frowner!
she called out gaily.
I know where youre hiding.
Inside the pavilion Crimson and Trinket, who heard her say this and saw her advancing towards them just as they were opening the casement, were speechless with amazement but Bao-chai ignored their confusion and addressed them genially Have you two got Miss Un hidden away in there?
I havent seen Miss Lin, said Trinket.
I saw her just now from the river-bank, said Bao-chai.
She was squatting down over here playing with something in the water.
I was going to creep up and surprise her, but she spotted me before I could get up to her and disappeared round this corner.
Are you sure shes not hiding in there?
She made a point of going inside the pavilion and searching then, coming out again, she said in a voice loud enough for them to hear If shes not in the pavilion, she must have crept into that grotto.
Oh well, if shes not afraid of being bitten by a snake!
As she walked away she laughed inwardly at the ease with which she had extricated herself from a difficult situation.
I think Im fairly safely Out of that one, she thought.
I wonder what those two will make of it.
What indeed!
Crimson believed every word that Bao-chai had said, and as soon as the latter was at a distance,.
she seized hold of Trinket in alarm Oh how terrible!
If Miss Lin was squatting there, she must have heard what we said before she went away.
Her companion was silent.
Oh dear!
What do you think shell do?
said Crimson.
Well, suppose she did hear, said Trinket, its not her back-ache.
If we mind our business and she minds hers, theres no reason why anything should come of it.
If it were Miss Bao that had heard us, I dont suppose anything would, said Crimson but Miss Lin is so critical and so intolerant.
If she heard it and it gets aboutoh dear!
But just at that moment Caltrop, Advent, Chess and Scribe were seen approaching the pavilion, and Crimson and Trinket had to drop the subject in a hurry and join in a general conversation.
Crimson noticed Xi-feng standing half-way up the rockery above the little grotto, beckoning.
Breaking away from the others, she bounded up to her with a smiling ce What can I do for you, madam?
Xi-feng ran an appraising eye over her.
A neat, pretty, pleasantly-spoken girl, she decided, and smiled at her graciously I have come here without my maids and need someone to a message back to my apartment.
I wonder if you are clever enough to get it right.
Tell me the message, madam.
If I dont get it right and make a mess of it, it will be up to you to punish me.
Which of the young ladies do you work for?
said Xi-feng.
Id better know, so that I can explain to her if she asks for you while you are doing my errand.
I work for Master Bao, said Crimson.
Xi-feng laughed.
Ah ha!
You work for Master Bao.. No wonder.
Very well, then, if he asks for you while you are away, I shall explain.
I want you to go to my apartment and tell Patience that there is a roll of money under the stand of the Ru-ware dish on the table in the outside room.
There are a hundred and twenty taels of silver in it to pay the embroiderers with.
Tell her that when Zhang Cais wife comes for it, she is to weigh it out in front of her before handing it over.
And theres one other thing.
Theres a little purse at the head of the bed in my inside room.
I want you to bring it to me.
Yes madam, said Crimson, and hurried off.
Returning shortly afterwards, she found that Xi-feng was no longer on the rockery but Chess had just emerged from the little grotto beneath it and was standing there doing up her sash.
Crimson ran down to speak to her Excuse me, did you see where Mrs Lian went to?
Fraid I didnt notice, said Chess.
Crimson looked around her.
Bao-chai and Tan-chun were standing at the edge of the pool looking at the fish.
She went up to them Excuse me, does either of you young ladies happen to know where Mrs Lian went to just now, please?
Try Mrs Zhus place, said Tan-chun.
Crimson hurried off in the direction of Sweet-rice Village.
On her way she ran head-on into a party of maids consisting of Skybright, Mackerel, Emerald, Ripple, Musk, Scribe, Picture and Oriole.
Here, what are you gadding about like this for?
said Skybright as soon as she saw who it was.
The flowers want watering the birds need feeding the stove for the tea-water needs seeing to.
Youve no business to go wandering around outside!
Master Bao gave orders yesterday that the flowers were only to be watered every other day, said Crimson.
I fed the birds when you were still fast asleep in bed.
What about the stove?
said Emerald.
It isnt my day for the stove, said Crimson.
The tea-water today has nothing to do with me.
Listen to Miss Pert!
said Mackerel.
I wouldnt bother about her, if I were youjust leave her to wander about as she pleases.
Im no wandering about, if you really want to know, said Crimson.
If you really want to know, Mrs Lian sent me outside to take a message and to fetch something for her.
She held up the purse for them to see at which they were silent But when they had passed each other, Skybright laughed sneeringly You can see why shes so uppity.
Shes on the climb again.
Look at herall cock-a-hoop because someones given her a little message to carry!
And she probably doesnt even know who its about.
Well, one little message isnt going to get her very far.
Its what happens in the long run that counts.
Now if she were clever enough to climb her way right out of this Garden and stay there, that would be really something!
These words were spoken for Crimson to hear, but in such a way that she was unable to answer them.
She had to swallow her anger and hurry on to look for Xi-feng.
Xi-feng was in Li Wans room, as Tan-chun had predicted, and Crimson found the two of them in conversation.
She went up to Xi-feng and delivered her message Patience says that she found the silver just after you had gone and took care of it and she says that when Zhang Cais wife came for it she did weigh it out in front of her before giving it to her to take away.
Crimson now produced the purse and handed it to Xi-feng.
Then she added Patience told me to tell you that Brightie has just been in to inquire what your instructions were for his visit, and she said that she gave him a message to take based on the things she thought you would want him to say.
Oh?
said Xi-feng, amused.
And what was this message based on the things she thought I would want him to say?
She said he was to tell them Our lady hopes your lady is well and she says that the Master is away at present and may not be back for another day or two, but your lady is not to worry and when the lady from West Lane is better, our lady will come with their lady to see your lady.
And our lady says that the lady from West Lane sent someone the other day with a message from the elder Lady Wang saying that she hopes our lady is well and will she please see if our Lady Wang can let her have a few of her Golden Myriad Macrobiotic Pills and if she can, will our lady please send someone with them to her, because someone will be going from there to the el der Lady Wangs in a few days time and they will be able to take them for her Crimson was still in full spate when Li Wan interrupted her with a laugh What an extraordinary number of ladies!
I hope you can understand what its all about, Feng.
Im sure I cant !
Im not surprised, said Xi-feng.
There are four or five different households involved in that message.
She smiled graciously at Crimson.
Youre a clever girl, my dear, to have got it all rightnot like the simpering little ninnies I usually have to put up with.
You have no idea, cousin, she said, turning to Li Wan again.
Apart from the one or two girls and one or two older women that I always keep about me, I just dread talking to servants nowadays.
They take such an interminable time to tell you anything so long-winded!
And the airs and graces they give themselves!
and the simpering!
and the urn-mg and ah-mg!
If they only knew how it makes me fume!
Our Patience used to be like that when she first came to me.
I used to say to her, Do you think it makes you seem glamorous, all that affected humming?like a little gnat!
I had to talk to her several times about it before she would mend her ways.
Li Wan laughed I suppose if they were all peppercorns like you, it would be all right.
This girls all right, said Xi-feng.
Those two messages she gave me just now may not have been very long ones, but you could see how clear-cut her delivery of them was.
She smiled at Crimson again.
How would you like to come and work for me and be my god-daughter?
With a little grooming from me you could go far.
Crimson suppressed a giggle.
Why do you laugh?
said Xi-feng.
I suppose you think Im too young to be your god-mother.
Youre very silly if you think that.
You just ask around a bit there are plenty much older than you whod give their eats to be my god-daughter.
What Im offering you is a very special favour.
Crimson smiled.
I wasnt laughing because of that, madam.
I was laughing because you had got the generation wrong.
My mother is your god-daughter already.
If you made me your god-daughter too, I should be my own mothers sister I Who is your mother?
said Xi-feng.
Do you mean to say that you dont know who this girl is that youve been talking to all this time?
said Li Wan.
This is Lin Zhi-xiaos daughter.
Xi-feng registered surprise You mean to tell me that this is the Lins daughter?
She laughed.
That couple of old sticks?
I can never get a peep out of either of them.
Ive always maintained that Lin Zhi-xiao and his wife were the perfect match one hears nothing and the other says nothing.
Well!
To think they should have produced a bright little thing like this between them!How old are you?
she asked Crimson.
Sixteen.
And whats your name?
Crimson, madam.
I used to be called Jade, but they made me change it on account of Master Bao.
Xi-feng looked away with a frown of displeasure.
I should think so too, she muttered.
Odious people!
One can hear them saying it Weve got a Jade in our family the same as you, or some such impertinence.
She turned to Li Wan again I dont think you know, Wan, but I told this girls mother that as Lai Das wife is so busy nowadays that she doesnt even know who half the girls in the household are any longer, I wanted her to pick out a couple of likely-looking girls to work under me.
Now she promised that she would do this but you see, not only has she not done so, but shes actually gone and sent her own daughter to work for someone else.
Do you suppose she really thinks her girl would have had such a terrible time with me?
Dont be so touchy, said Li Wan.
Her mother is not to blame.
The girl had already started service in the Garden before you ever spoke to her about it.
Oh well, in that case, said Xi-feng, recovering her good humour, Ill have a word with Bao-yu about it tomorrow.
Ill tell him to find someone else and let me have this girl to work under me.
Still she turned to Crimson, perhaps we ought to ask the party most concerned if she is willing.
Crimson smiled.
As to being willing or not, madam, I dont think its my place to say.
But I do know this that if I was to work for you, I should get to know whats what and all the inside and outside of household management.
Im sure it would be wonderful experience.
Just then a maid arrived from Lady Wangs asking for Xi-feng, who promptly excused herself to Li Wan and left.
Crimson returned to Green Delightswhere our story now leaves her.
We now return to Dai-yu, who, having slept so little the night before, was very late getting up on the morning of the festival.
Hearing that the other girls were all out in the garden speeding the fairies and fearing to be teased by them for her lazy habits, she hurried over her toilet and went out as soon as it was completed.
A smiling Bao-yu appeared in the gate-way as she was stepping down into the courtyard.
Well, coz, he said, I hope you didnt tell on me yesterday.
You had me worrying about it all last night.
Dai-yu turned back, ignoring him, to address Nightingale inside When you do the room, leave one of the casements open so that the parent swallows can get in.
And put the lion doorstop on the bottom of the blind to stop it flapping.
And dont forget to put the cover back on the burner after youve lighted the incense.
She made her way across the courtyard, still ignoring him.
Bao-yu, who knew nothing of the little drama that had taken place outside his gate the night before, assumed that she was still angry about his unfortunate lapse earlier on that same day, when he had offended her susceptibilities with a somewhat risqu quotation from The Western Chamber.
He offered her now, with energetic bowing and hand-pumping, the apologies that the previous days emergency had caused him to neglect.
But Dai-yu walked straight past him and out of the gate, not deigning so much as a glance in his direction, and stalked off in search of the others.
Bao-yu was nonplussed.
He began to suspect that something more than he had first imagined must be wrong.
Surely it cant only be because of yesterday lunchtime that shes carrying on in this fashion?
There must be something else.
On the other hand, I didnt get back until late and I didnt see her again last night, so how could I have offended her?
Preoccupied with these reflections, he followed her at some distance behind.
Not far ahead Bao-chai and Tan-chun were watching the ungainly courtship dance of some stork.
When they saw Dai-yu coming, they invited her to join them, and the three girls stood together and chatted.
Then Bao-yu arrived.
Tan-chun greeted him with sisterly concern How have you been keeping, Bao?
Its three whole days since I saw you last.
Bao-yu smiled back at her.
How have you been keeping, sir?
I was asking Cousin Wan about you the day before yesterday.
Come over here a minute, said Tan-chun.
I want to talk to you.
He followed her into the shade of a pomegranate tree a little way apart from the other two.
Has Father asked to see you at all during this last day.
or two?
Tan-chun began.
No.
I thought I heard someone say yesterday that he had been asking for you.
No, said Bao-yu, smiling at her concern.
Whoever it was was mistaken.
He certainly hasnt asked for me.
Tan-chun smiled and changed the subject.
During the past few months, she said, Ive managed to save up another ten strings or so of cash.
Id like you to take it again like you did last time, and next time you go out, if you see a nice painting or calligraphic scroll or some amusing little thing that would do for my room, Id like you to buy it for me.
Well, I dont know, said Bao-yu.
In the trips I make to bazaars and temple fairs, whether its inside the city or round about, I cant say that I ever see anything really nice or out of the ordinary.
Its all bronzes and jades and porcelain and that sort of stuff.
Apart from that its mostly dress-making materials and clothes and things to eat.
Now what would I want things like that for?
said Tan-chun.
No, I mean something like that little wickerwork basket you bought me last time, or the little box carved out of bamboo root, or the little clay burner.
I thought they were sweet.
Unfortunately the others took such a fancy to them that they carried them off as loot and wouldnt give them back to me again.
Oh, if those are the sort of things you want, said Bao-yu laughing, its very simple.
Just give a few strings of cash to one of the boys and hell bring you back a whole cartload of them.
What do the boys know about it?
said Tan-chun.
I need someone who can pick out the interesting things and the ones that are in good taste.
You get me lots of nice little things, and Ill embroider a pair of slippers for you like the ones I made for you last timeonly this time Ill do them mote carefully.
Talking of those slippers reminds me, said Bao-yu.
I happened to run into Father once when I was wearing them.
He was Most Displeased.
When he asked me who made them, I naturally didnt date to tell him that you had, so I said that Aunt Wang had given them to me as a birthday present a few days before.
There wasnt much he could do about it when he heard that they came from Aunt Wang so after a very long pause he just said, What a pointless waste of human effort and valuable material, to.
produce things like that!
I told this to Aroma when I got back, and she said, Oh, thats nothing!
You should have heard your Aunt Zhao complaining about those slippers.
She was furious when she heard about them Her own natural brother so down at heel he scarcely dares show his face to people, and she spends her time making things like that!
Tan-chuns smile had vanished How can she talk such nonsense?
Why should I be the one to make shoes for him?
Huan gets a clothing allowance, doesnt he?
He gets his clothing and footwear provided for the same as all the test of us.
And fancy saying a thing like that in front of a roomful of servants!
For whose benefit was this remark made, I wonder?
I make an occasional pair of slippers just for something to do in my spare time and if I give a pair to someone I particularly like, thats my own affair.
Surely no one else has any business to start telling me who I should give them to?
Oh, shes so petty!
Bao-yu shook his head Perhaps youre being a bit hard on her.
Shes probably got her reasons.
This made Tan-chun really angry.
Her chin went up defiantly Now youre being as stupid as her.
of course shes got her reasons but they are ignorant, stupid reasons.
But she can think what she likes as far as I am concerned, Sir Jia is my father and Lady Wang is my mother, and who was born in whose room doesnt interest methe way I choose my friends inside the family has nothing to do with that.
Oh, I know I shouldnt talk about her like this but she is so idiotic about these things.
As a matter of fact I can give you an even better example than your story of the slippers.
That last time I gave you my savings to get something for me, she saw me a few days afterwards and started telling me how short of money she was and how difficult things were for her.
I took no notice, of course.
But later, when the maids were Out of the room, she began attacking me for giving the money Id saved to other people instead of giving it to Huan.
Really!
I didnt know whether to laugh or get angry with her.
In the end I just walked out of the room and went round to see Mother.
There was an amused interruption at this point from Bao-chai, who was still standing where they had left her a few minutes before Do finish your talking and come back soon Its easy to see that you two are brother and sister.
As soon as you see each other, you get into a huddle and start talking about family secrets.
Would it really be such a disaster if anything you are saying were to be overheard?
Tan-chun and Bao-yu rejoined her, laughing.
Not seeing Dai-yu, Bao-yu realized that she must have slipped off elsewhere while be was talking.
Better leave it a day or two, he told himself on reflection.
Wait until her anger has calmed down a bit.
While he was looking downwards and meditating, he noticed that the ground where they were standing was carpeted with a bright profusion of wind-blown flowerspomegranate and balsam for the most part.
You can see shes upset, he thought ruefully.
Shes neglecting her flowers.
Ill bury this lot for her and remind her about it next time I see her.
He became aware that Bao-chai was arranging for him and Tan-chun to go with her outside.
Ill join you two presently, he said, and waited until they were a little way off before stooping down to gather the fallen blossoms into the skirt of his gown.
It was quite a way from where he was to the place where Dai-yu had buried the peach-blossom on that previous occasion, but he made his way towards it, over rocks and bridges and through plantations.
of trees and flowers.
When he had almost reached his destination and there was only the spur of a miniature mountain between him and the burial-place of the flowers, he heard the sound of a voice, coming from the other side of the rock, whose continuous, gentle chiding was occasionally broken by the most pitiable and heart-rending sobs.
It must be a maid from one of the apartments, thought Bao-yu.
Someone has been ill-treating her, and she has run here to cry on her own.
He stood still and endeavoured to catch what the weeping girl was saying.
She appeared to be reciting something The blossoms fade and falling fill the air, Of fragrance and bright hues bereft and bare.
Floss drifts and flutters round the Maidens bower, Or softly strikes against her curtained door.
The Maid, grieved by these signs of springs decease, Seeking some means her sorrow to express, Has rake in hand into the garden gone,.
Before the fallen flowers are trampled on.
Elm-pods and willow-floss are fragrant too Why care, Maid, where the fallen flowers blew?
Next year, when peach and plum-tree bloom again, Which of your sweet companions will remain?
This spring the heartless swallow built his nest Beneath the eaves of mud with flowers compressed.
Next year the flowers will blossom as before, But swallow, nest, and Maid will be no more.
-1983 -1983 Three hundred and three-score the years full tale From swords of frost and from the slaughtering gale How can the lovely flowers long stay intact, Or, once loosed, from their drifting fate draw back?
Blooming so steadfast, fallen so hard to find!
Beside the flowers grave, with sorrowing mind, The solitary Maid sheds many a tear, Which on the boughs as bloody drops appear.
At twilight, when the cuckoo sings no more, The Maiden with her rake goes in at door And lays her down between the lamplit walls, While a chill rain against the window falls.
I know not why my hearts so strangely sad, Half grieving for the spring and yet half glad Glad that it came, grieved it so soon was spent.
So soft it came, so silently it went!
Last night, outside, a mournful sound was heard The spirits of the flowers and of the bird.
But neither bird nor flowers would long delay, Bird lacking speech, and flowers too shy to stay.
And then I wished that I had wings to fly After the drifting flowers across the sky Across the sky to the worlds farthest end, The flowers last fragrant resting-place to find.
But better their remains in silk to lay And bury underneath the wholesome clay, Pure substances the pure earth to enrich, Than leave to soak and stink in some foul ditch.
Can I, that these flowers obsequies attend, Divine how soon or late my life will end?
Let others laugh flower-burial to see Another year who will be burying me?
As petals drop and spring begins to fail, The bloom of youth, too, sickens and turns pale.
One day, when spring has gone and youth has fled.
The Maiden and the flowers will both be dead.
-1983 All this was uttered in a voice half-choked with sobs for the words recited seemed only to inflame the grief of the reciterindeed, Bao-yu, listening on the other side of the rock, was so overcome by them that he had already flung him-self weeping upon the ground.
But the sequel to this painful scene will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 28 A crimson cummerbund becomes a pledge of friendship And a chaplet of medicine-beads becomes a source of embarrassment ON the night before the festival, it may be remembered, Lin Dai-yu had mistakenly supposed Bao-yu responsible for Sky-brights refusal to open the gate for her.
The ceremonial farewell to the flowers of the following morning had transformed her pent-up and still smouldering resentment into a more generalized and seasonable sorrow.
This had finally found its expression in a violent outburst of grief as she was burying the latest collection of fallen blossoms in her flower-grave.
Meditation on the fate of flowers had led her to a contemplation of her own sad and orphaned lot she had burst into tears, and soon.
after had begun a recitation of the poem whose words we recorded in the preceding chapter.
Unknown to her, Bao-yu was listening to this recitation from the slope of the near-by rockery.
At first he merely nodded and sighed sympathetically but when he heard the words Can J, that these flowers obsequies attend, Divine how soon or late my life will end?
and, a little later, -800 One day when spring has gone and youth has fled, The Maiden and the flowers will both be dead.
he flung himself on the ground in a fit of weeping, scattering the earth all about him with the flowers he had been carrying in the skirt of his gown.
Lin Dai-yu dead!
A world from which that delicate, flowerlike countenance had irrevocably departed!
It was unutterable anguish to think of it.
Yet his sensitized imagination did now consider itwent on, indeed, to consider a world from which the others, tooBao-chai, Caltrop, Aroma and the resthad also irrevocably departed.
Where would he be then?
What would have become of him?
And what of the Garden, the rocks, the flowers, the trees?
To whom would they belong when he and the girls were no longer there to enjoy them?
Passing from loss to loss in his imagination, he plunged deeper and deeper into a grief that seemed inconsolable.
As the poet says Flowers in my eyes and bird-song in my ears Augment my loss and mock my bitter tears.
Dai-yu, then, as she stood plunged in her own private sorrowing, suddenly heard the sound of another person crying bitterly on the rocks above her.
The others are always telling me Im a case, she thought.
Surely there cant be another case up there?
But on looking up she saw that it was Bao-yu.
Pshaw!
she said crossly to herself.
I thought it was another girl, but all the time it was that cruel, hate Hateful she had been going to say, but clapped her mouth shut before uttering it.
She sighed instead and began to walk away.
By the time Bao-yus weeping was over, Dai-yu was no longer there.
He realized that she must have seen him and have gone away in order to avoid him.
Feeling suddenly rather foolish, he rose to his feet and brushed the earth from his clothes.
Then he descended from the rockery and began to retrace his steps in the direction of Green Delights.
Quite by coincidence Dai-yu was walking along the same path a little way ahead.
Stop a minute!
he cried, hurrying forward to catch up with her.
I know you are not taking any notice of me, but I only want to ask you one simple question, and then you need never have anything more to do with me.
Dai-yu had turned back to see who it was.
When she saw that it was Bao-yu still, she was going to ignore him again but hearing him say that he only wanted to ask her one question, she told him that he might do so.
Bao-yu could not resist teasing her a little.
How about two questions?
Would you wait for two?
Dai-yu set her face forwards and began walking on again.
Bao-yu sighed.
If it has to be like this now, he said, as if to himself its a pity it was ever like it was in the beginning.
Dai-yus curiosity got the better of her.
She stopped walking and turned once more towards him.
Like what in the beginning?
she asked.
And like what now?
Oh, the beginning!
said Bao-yu.
In the beginning, when you first came here, I was your faithful companion in all your games.
Anything I had, even the thing most dear to me, was yours for the asking.
If there was something to eat that I specially liked, I had only to hear that you were fond of it too and I would religiously hoard it away to share with you when you got back, not daring even to touch it until you came.
We ate at the same table.
We slept in the same bed.
I used to think that because we were so close then, there would be something special about our relationship when we grew upthat even if we werent particularly affectionate, we should at least have more understanding and forbearance for each other than the rest.
But how wrong I was!
Now that you have grown up, you seem only to have grown more touchy.
You dont seem to care about me any more at all.
You spend all your time brooding about outsiders like Peng and Chai.
I havent got any real brothers and sisters left here now.
There are Huan and Tan, of course but as you know, theyre only my half-brother and half-sister they arent my mothers children.
Im on my own, like you.
I should have thought we had so much in common -But whats the use?
I try and try, but it gets me nowhere and nobody knows or cares.
At this pointin spite of himselfhe burst into tears.
The palpable evidence of her own eyes and ears had by now wrought a considerable softening on Dai-yus heart.
A sympathetic tear stole down her own cheek, and she hung her head and said nothing.
Bao-yu could see that he had moved her.
I know Im not much use nowadays, he continued, but however bad you may think me, I would never wittingly do anything in your presence to offend you.
If I do ever slip up in some way, you ought to tell me off about it and warn me not to do it again, or shout at mehit me, even, if you feel like it I shouldnt mind.
But you dont do that.
You just ignore me.
You leave me utterly at a loss to know what Im supposed to have done wrong, so that Im driven half frantic wondering what I ought to do to make up for it.
If I were to die now, I should die with a grievance, and all the masses and exorcisms in the world wouldnt lay my ghost.
Only when you explained what your reason was for ignoring me should I cease from haunting you and be reborn into another life.
Dai-yus resentment for the gate incident had by now completely evaporated.
She merely said Oh well, in that case why did you tell your maids not to let me in when I came to call on you?
I honestly dont know what you are referring to, said Bao-yu in surprise.
Strike me dead if I ever did any such thing!
Hush!
said Dai-yu.
Talking about death at this time of the morning!
You should be more careful what you say.
If you did, you did.
If you didnt, you didnt.
Theres no need for these horrible oaths.
I really and truly didnt know you had called, said Bao-yu.
Cousin Bao came and sat with me a few minutes last night and then went away again.
Thats the only call I know about.
Dai-yu reflected for a moment or two, then smiled.
Yes, it must have been the maids being lazy.
Certainly they can be very disagreeable at such times.
Yes, Im sure thats what it was, said Bao-yu.
When I get back, Ill find out who it was and give her a good talking-to.
I think some of your young ladies could do with a good talking-to, said Dai-yu, though its not really for me to say so.
Its a good job it was only me they were rude to.
If Miss Bao or Miss Cow were to call and they behaved like that to her, that would be really serious.
She giggled mischievously.
Bao-yu didnt know whether to laugh with her or grind his teeth.
But just at that moment a maid came up to ask them both to lunch and the two of them went together out of the Garden and through into the front part of the mansion, calling in at Lady Wangs on the way.
How did you get on with that medicine of Dr Baos, Lady Wang asked Dai-yu as soon as she saw her, the Court Physician?
Do you think you are any better for it?
It didnt seem to make very much difference, said Dai-yu.
Grandmother has put me back on Dr Wangs prescription.
Cousin Lin has got a naturally weak constitution, Mother, said Bao-yu.
She takes cold very easily.
These strong decoctions are all very well provided she only takes one or two to dispel the cold.
For regular treatment its probably best if she sticks to pills.
The doctor was telling me about some pills for her the other day, said Lady Wang, but I just cant remember the name.
I know the names of most of those pills, said Bao-yu.
I expect he wanted her to take Ginseng Tonic Pills.
No, that wasnt it, said Lady Wang.
Eight Gem Motherwort Pills?
said Bao-yu.
Zhangs Dextrals?.
Zhangs Sinistrals?
If it wasnt any of them, it was probably Dr Cuis Adenophora Kidney Pills.
No, said Lady Wang, it was none of those.
All I can remember is that there was a Vajra in it.
Bao-yu gave a hoot and clapped his hands Ive never heard of Vajra Pills.
If there are Vajra Pills, I suppose there must be Buddha Boluses !
The others all laughed.
Bao-chai looked at him mockingly.
I should think it was probably The Deva-king Cardiac Elixir Pills, she said.
Yes, yes, thats it!
said Lady Wang.
Of course!
How stupid of me!
No, Mother, not stupid, said Bao-yu.
Its the strain.
All those Vajra-kings and Bodhisattvas have been overworking you!
Youre a naughty boy to make fun of your poor mother, said Lady Wang.
A good whipping from your Pa is what you need.
Oh, Father doesnt whip me for that sort of thing nowadays, said Bao-yu.
Now that we know the name of the pills, we must get them to buy some for your Cousin Lin, said Lady Wang.
None of those things are any good, said Bao-yu.
You give me three hundred and sixty taels of silver and Ill make up some pills for Cousin Lin that I guarantee will have her completely cured before she has finished the first boxful.
Stuff!
said Lady Wang.
Whoever heard of a medicine that cost so much?
No, honestly!
said Bao-yu.
This prescription is a very unusual one with very special ingredients.
I cant remember all of them, but I know they include -5947 the caul of a first-born child a ginseng root shaped like a man, with the leaves still on it a turtle-sized polygonum root and lycoperdon from the stump of a thousand-year-old pine-tree.
Actually, though, theres nothing so very special about those ingredients.
Theyre all in the standard pharmacopoeia.
For sovereign remedies they use ingredients that would really make you jump.
I once gave the prescription for one to Cousin Xue.
He was more than a year begging me for it before I would give it to him, and it took him another two or three years and nearly a thousand taels of silver to get all the ingredients together.
Ask Bao-chai if you dont believe me, Mother.
I know nothing about it, said Bao-chai.
Ive never heard it mentioned.
Its no good telling Aunt to ask me.
You see!
Bao-chai is a good girl.
She doesnt tell lies, said Lady Wang.
Bao-yu was standing in the middle of the floor below the kang.
He clapped his hands at this and turned to the others appealingly.
But its the truth Im telling you.
This is no lie.
As lie turned, he happened to catch sight of Dai-yu, who was sitting behind Bao-chai, stilling mockingly and stroking her cheek with her fingerwhich in sign4anguage means, You are a great big liar and you ought to be ashamed of yourself.
But X-feng, who happened to be in the inner room supervising the laying of the table and had overheard the preceding remarks, now emerged into the outer room to corroborate Its quite true, what Bao says.
I dont think he is making it up, she said.
Not so long ago Cousin Xue came to me asking for some pearls, and when I asked him what he wanted them for, he said, To make medicine with.
Then he started grumbling about the trouble he was having in getting the right ingredients and how he had half a mind not to make this medicine up after all.
I said, What medicine?
and he told me that it was a prescription that Cousin Bao had given him and reeled off a lot of ingredientsI cant remember them now.
Of course, he said, I could easily enough buy a few pearls only these have to be ones that have been worn.
Thats why Im asking you for them.
If you havent got any loose ones, he said, a few pearls broken off a bit of jewellery would do.
Id get you something nice to replace it with.
He was so insistent that in the end I had to break up two of my ornaments for him.
Then he wanted a yard of Imperial red gauze.
That was to put over the mortar to pound the pearls through.
He said they had to be ground until they were as fine as flour.
You see I You see!
Bao-yu kept interjecting throughout this recital.
Incidentally, Mother, he said, when it was ended, even that was only a substitute.
According to the prescription, the pearls ought really to have come from an ancient grave.
They should really have been pearls taken from jewellery on the corpse of a long-buried noblewoman.
But as one cant very well go digging up graves and riding tombs every time one wants.
to make this medicine, the prescription allows pearls worn by the living as a second-best.
Blessed name of the Lord!
said Lady Wang.
What a dreadful idea!
Even if you did get them from a grave, I cant believe that a medicine made from pearls that had been come.
by so wickedlydesecrating peoples bones that had been lying peacefully in the ground all those hundreds of yearscould possibly do you any good.
Bao-yu turned to Dai-yu.
Did you hear what Feng said?
he asked her.
J hope youre not going to say that she was lying.
Although the remark was addressed to Dai-yu, he winked at Bao-chai as he made it.
Dai-yu clung to Lady Wang.
Listen to him, Aunt I she wailed.
Bao-chai wont be a party to his lies, but he still expects me to be.
Bao-yu, you are very unkind to your cousin, said Lady Wang.
Bao-yu only laughed.
You dont know the reason, Mother.
Bao-chai didnt know a half of what Cousin Xue got up to, even when she was living with her mother outside and now that shes moved into the Garden, she knows even less.
When she said she didnt know, she really didnt know she wasnt giving me the lie.
What you dont realize is that Cousin Lin was all the time sitting behind her making signs to show that she didnt believe me.
Just then a maid came from Grandmother Jias apartment to fetch Bao-yu and Dai-yu to lunch.
Without saying a word to Bao-yu, Dai-yu got up and, taking the maids hand, began to go.
But the maid was reluctant.
Lets wait for Master Bao and we can go together.
Hes not eating lunch today, said Dai-yu.
Come on, lets go!
Whether hes eating lunch or not, said the maid, hed better come with us, so that he can explain to Her Old Ladyship about it when she asks.
All right, you wait for him then, said Dai-yu.
Im going on ahead.
And off she went.
I think Id rather eat with you today, Mother, said Bao-yu.
No, no, you cant, said Lady Wang.
Today is one of my fast-days I shall only be eating vegetables.
You go and have a proper meal with your Grandma.
I shall share your vegetables, said Bao-yu.
Go on, you can go, he said, dismissing the maid and rushing up to the table, he sat himself down at it in readiness.
You others had better get on with your own lunch, Lady Wang said to Bao-chai and the girls.
Let him do as he likes.
You really ought to go, Bao-chai said to Bao-yu.
Whether you have lunch there or not, you ought to keep Cousin Lin company.
She is very upset, you know.
Why dont you?
Oh, leave her alone!
said Bao-yu.
Shell be all right presently.
Soon they had finished eating, and Bao-yu, afraid that Grandmother Jia might be worrying and at the same time anxious to rejoin Dai-yu, hurriedly demanded tea to rinse his mouth with.
Tan-chun and Xi-chun were much amused.
Why are you always in such a hurry, Bao?
they asked him.
Even your eating and drinking all seems to be done in a rush.
You should let him finish quickly, so that he can get back to his Dai-yu, said Bao-chai blandly.
Dont make him waste time here with us.
Bao-yu left as soon as he had drunk his tea, and made straight for the west courtyard where his Grandmother Jias apartment was.
But as he was passing by the gateway of Xi-fengs courtyard, it happened that Xi-feng herself was standing in her doorway with one foot on the threshold, grooming her teeth with an ear-cleaner and keeping a watchful eye on nine or ten pages who were moving potted plants about under her direction.
Ah, just the person I wanted to see!
she said, as soon as she caught sight of Bao-yu.
Come inside.
I want you to write something down for me.
Bao-yu was obliged to follow her indoors.
Xi-feng called for some paper, an inkstone and a brush, and at once began dictating Crimson lining-damask forty lengths, dragonet figured satin forty lengths, miscellaneous Imperial gauze one hundred lengths, gold necklets four, Here, what is this?
said Bao-yu.
It isnt an invoice and it isnt a presentation list.
How am I supposed to write it?
Never you mind about that, said Xi-feng.
As long as I know what it is, thats all that matters.
just put it down anyhow.
Bao-yu wrote down the four items.
As soon as he had done so, Xi-feng took up the paper and folded it away.
Now, she said, smiling pleasantly, theres something I want to talk to you about.
I dont know whether youll agree to this or not, but theres a girl in your room called Crimson whom Id like to work for me.
If I find you someone to replace her with, will you let me have her?
There are so many girls in my room, said Bao-yu.
Please take any you have a fancy to.
You really dont need to ask me about it.
In that case, said Xi-feng, Ill send for her straight away.
Please do, said Bao-yu, and started to go.
Hey, come back!
said Xi-feng.
I havent finished with you yet.
Ive got to see Grandma now, said Bao-yu.
If youve got anything else to say, you can tell me on my way back.
When he got to Grandmother Jias apartment, they had all just finished lunch.
Grandmother Jia asked him if he bad had anything nice to eat with his mother.
There wasnt anything nice, he said.
But I had an extra bowl of rice.
Then, after the briefest pause Wheres Cousin Lin ?
In the inner room said Grandmother Jia.
In the inner room a maid stood below the kang blowing on a flat-iron.
Up on the kang two maids were marking some material with a chalked string, while Dai-yu, her head bent low over her work, was engaged in cutting something from it with her shears.
What are you making?
he asked her.
Youll give yourself a headache, stooping down like that immediately after your lunch.
Dai-yu took no notice and went on cutting.
That corner looks a bit creased still, said one of the maids.
it will have to be ironed again.
Leave it alone!
said Dai-yu, laying down her shears.
It will be all right presently.
Bao-yu found her reply puzzling.
Bao-chai, Tan-chun and the rest had now arrived in the outer room and were talking to Grandmother Jia.
Presently Bao-chai drifted inside and asked Dai-yu what she was doing then, when she saw that she was cutting material, she exclaimed admiringly.
What a lot of things you can do, Dai!
Fancy, even dress-making now!
Dai-yu smiled malignantly.
Oh, its all lies, really.
I just do it to fool people.
Ive got something to tell you that I think will amuse you, Dai, said Bao-chai pleasantly.
When our cousin was holding forth about that medicine just now and I said I didnt know about it, I believe actually he was rather wounded.
Oh, leave him alone!
said Dai-yu.
He will be all right presently.
Grandma wants someone to play dominoes with, said Bao-yu to Bao-chai.
Why dont you go and play dominoes?
Oh, is that what I came for?
said Bao-chai but she went, notwithstanding.
Why dont you go?
said Dai-yu.
Theres a tiger in this room.
You might get eaten.
She said this still bending over her cutting, which she continued to work away at without looking up at him.
Finding himself once more ignored, Bao-yu nevertheless attempted to remain jovial.
Why dont you come out for a bit too?
You can do this cutting later.
Dai-yu continued to take no notice.
Falling to get a response from her, he tried the maids Who told her to do this dress-making?
Whoever told her to do it, said Dai-yu, it has nothing whatever to do with Master Bao.
Bao-yu was about to retort, but just at that moment someone came in to say that he was wanted outside, and he was obliged to hurry off.
Dai-yu leaned forward and shouted after him Holy name!
By the time you get back, I shall be dead.
Outside the gateway to the inner quartets Bao-yu found Tea-leaf waiting.
Mr Feng invites you round to his house, said Tealeaf.
Bao-yu realized that this must be in connection with the matter Feng Zi-ying had spoken of on the previous day.
He told Tealeaf to send for his going-out clothes, and went into his outer study to wait for them.
Tealeaf went back to the west inner gate to wait for some-one who would carry a message inside to the maids.
Presently an old woman came out Excuse me, missus, said Tealeaf.
Master Bao is waiting in the outer study for his going-out clothes.
Could you take a message inside to say that lie wants them?
your mothers twat!
said the old woman.
Master Bao lives in the Garden now.
All his maids are in the Garden.
What do you want to come running round here for?
Tealeaf laughed at his own mistake.
Youre quite right.
Im going cuckoo.
He ran round to the gate of the Garden.
As luck would have it, the boys on that gate were playing football in the open space below the terraced walk, and when Tealeaf had explained his errand, one of them ran off inside for him.
He returned after a very long wait, carrying a large bundle, which he handed to Tealeaf, and which Tealeaf carried back to the outer study.
While he was changing, Bao-yu asked for his horse to be saddled, and presently set off, taking only Tealeaf, Ploughboy, Two-times and Oldie as his attendants.
When they reached Feng Zi-yings gate, someone ran in to announce his arrival, and Feng Zi-ying came out in person to greet him and led him inside to meet the company.
This comprised Xue Pan, who had evidently been waiting there for some time, a number of boy singers, a female impersonator called Jiang Yu-han and a girl called Nuageuse from the Budding Grove, a high-class establishment specializing in female entertainers.
When everyone had been introduced, tea was served.
Now come on!
said Bao-yu, as he picked up the proffered cup of tea.
What about this lucky accident you mentioned yesterday?
Ive been waiting anxiously to hear about it ever since I saw you.
Thats why I came so promptly when I got your invitation.
Feng Zi-ying laughed.
You and your cousin are such simple soulsI find it rahver touchin!
Afraid it was pure invention, what I said yesterday.
I said it to make you come, because I fought that if I asked you outright to come and drink wiv me, youd make excuses.
Anyway, it worked.
The company joined in his merriment.
Wine was now brought in and everyone sat down in the places assigned to them.
Feng Zi-ying first got one of the singing-boys to pour for them then he called on Nuageuse to drink with each of the guests in turn.
Xue Pan, by the time he had three little cupfuls of wine inside him, was already beginning to be obstreperous.
He seized Nuageuse by the hand and drew her towards him If youd sing me a nice new song - one of your specials, Id drink a whole jarful for you.
How about it, eh?
Nuageuse had to oblige him by taking up her lute and singing the following song for him to her own accompaniment Two lovely boys Are both in love with me And I cant get either from my mind.
Both are so beautiful So wonderful So marvellous To give up either one would be unkind.
Last night I promised I would go To meet one of them in the garden where the roses grow The other came to see what he could find.
And now that we three are all Here in this tribunal, There are no words that come into my mind.
There you are I she said.
Now drink your jarful!
That ones not worth a jarful, said Xue Pan.
Sing us a better one.
Now just a minute, said Bao-yu.
Just guzzling like this will make us drunk in no time without giving us any real enjoyment.
Ive got a good new drinking-game for you.
Let me first drink the M. C.s starting-cup, and Ill tell you the rules.
After that, anyone who doesnt toe the line will be made to drink ten Sconce-cups straight off as a forfeit, give up his seat at the party, and spend the rest of the time pouring Out drinks for the rest of us.
Feng Zi-ying and Jiang Yu-han agreed enthusiastically, and Bao-yu picked up one of the extra large cups that had now been provided and drained its contents at a single draught.
Now, he said.
Were going to take four wordslets say upset, glum, blest and content.
You have to begin by saying The girl is, and then you say one of the four words.
Thats your first line.
The next line has to rhyme with the first line and it has to give the reason why the girl is whatever it says upset or glum or blest or content When youve done all four, youre entitled to drink the wine in front of you.
Only, before drinking it, youve first got to sing some new popular song and after youve drunk it, youve got to choose some animal or vegetable object from the things in front of us and recite a line from a well-known poem, or an old couplet, or a quotation from the classics Before he could finish, Xue Pan was on his feet, protesting vigorously You can count me out of this Im taking no part in this.
This is just to make a fool of me, isnt it?
Nuageuse, too, stood up and attempted to push him back into his seat What are you so afraid of, a practiced drinker like you?
You cant be any worse at this sort of thing than I am, and Im going to have a go when my turn comes.
If you do it all right, youve got nothing to worry about, and even if you cant, youll only be made to drink a few cups of wine whereas if you refuse to follow the rules at the very outset, youll have to drink ten sconces straight off in a row and then be thrown out of the party and made to pour drinks for the rest of us.
Bravo!
cried the others, clapping and Xue Pan, seeing them united against him, subsided.
Bao-yu now began his own turn -576 The girls upset -768 The years pass by, but no ones claimed her yet.
The girl looks glum Her true-loves gone to follow ambitions drum.
The girl feels blest -1014 The mirror shows her looks are at their best.
The girls content Long summer days in pleasant pastimes spent.
The others all applauded, except Xue Pan, who shook his head disapprovingly No good, no good!
he said.
Pay the forfeit.
Why, whats wrong with it?
they asked him.
I couldnt understand a word of it.
Nuageuse gave him a pinch Keep quiet and try to think what youre going to say, she advised him otherwise youll have nothing ready when your own turn comes and youll have to pay the forfeit yourself.
Thereupon she picked up her lute and accompanied Bao-yu as he sang the following song -2148 Still weeping tears of blood about our separation Little red love-beans of my desolation.
Still blooming flowers I see outside my window growing.
Still awake in the dark I hear the wind a-blowing.
Still oh still I cant forget those old hopes and fears.
Still cant swallow food and drink, cos Im choked with tears.
Mirror, mirror on the wall, tell me its not true Do I look so thin and pale, do I look so blue ?
Mirror, mirror, this long night bow shall I get through?
Ohohoh!
Blue as the mist upon the distant mountains, Blue as the water in the ever-flowing fountains.
General applauseexcept from Xue Pan, who objected that there was no rhythm.
Bao-yu now drank his well-earned cupthe pass cup as they call itand, picking up a slice of pear from the table, concluded his turn with the following quotation Rain whips the pear-tree, shut fast the door.
Now it was Feng Zi-yings turn The girls upset Her husbands ill and shes in debt.
The girl looks glum The gale has turned her room into a slum.
The girl feels blest Shes got twin babies at the breast.
The girls content Waiting a certain pleasurable event.
Next, holding up his cupful of wine in readiness to drink, he sang this song Youre so exciting, And so inviting Youre my Mary Contrary Youre a crazy, mad thing.
Youre my goddess, but oh I youre deaf to my praying Why wont you listen to what I am saying?
If you dont believe me, make a small investigation You will soon find out the true depth of my admiration.
Then he drained his bumper and, picking up a piece of chicken from one of the dishes, ended the performance, prior to popping it into his mouth, with a line from Wen Ting-yun From moonlit cot the cry of chanticleer.
Next it was the turn of Nuageuse The girls upset -5947 she began, Not knowing how the futures to be met Xue Pan laughed noisily.
Thats all right, my darling, dont you worry!
Your Uncle Xue will take care of you.
Shush I said the others.
Dont confuse her.
She continued The girl looks glum Nothing but blows and hard words from her Mum, I saw that Mum of yours the other day, said Xue Pan, and I particularly told her that she wasnt to beat you.
Another word from you, said the others, and youll be made to drink ten cups as a punishment.
Xue Pan gave his own face a slap.
Sorry!
I forgot.
Wont do it again.
The girl feels blest -5947 said Nuageuse, Her young mans rich and beautifully dressed.
The girls content Shes been performing in a big event.
Next Nuageuse sang her song -1152 A flower began to open in the month of May.
-1008 Along came a honey-bee to sport and play.
He pushed and he squeezed to get inside, But he couldnt get in however hard he tried.
-1152 So on the flowers lip he just hung around, -1460 A- playing the see-saw up and down.
-980 Oh my honey-sweet, Oh my sweets of sin, If I dont open up, How will you get in?
After drinking her pass cup she picked up a peach So bonny blooms the peach-tree-o?
It was now Xue Pans turn.
Ah yes, now, lets see!
I have to say something now, dont I?
The girls upset But nothing followed.
All night, whats 8he upset about then?
said Feng Zi-ying with a laugh.
Buck up!
Xue Pan appeared to be engaged in a species of mental effort so frightful that his eyes seemed about to pop out of his head.
After glaring fixedly for an unconscionable time, he said The girls upset He coughed a couple of times.
Then at last it came The girls upset Shes married to a marmoset.
The others greeted this with a roar of laughter.
What are you laughing at?
said Xue Pan.
Thats perfectly reasonable, isnt it?
If a girl was expecting a proper husband and he turned out to be one of them, shed have cause to be upset, wouldnt she ?
His audience were by now doubled up.
Thats perfectly true, they conceded.
Very good.
Now what about the next bit?
Xue Pan glared a while very concentratedly, then The girl looks glum But after that was silence.
Come on!
said the others.
Why was she glum?
His dads a baboon with a big red bum.
Ho!
Ho!
Ho!
Pay the forfeit, they cried.
The first one was bad enough.
We really cant let this one go.
The more officious of them even began filling the sconce-cups for him.
But Bao-yu allowed the line.
As long as it rhymes, he said, well let it pass.
There you are!
said Xue Pan.
The M. C. says its all right.
What are the rest of you making such a fuss about?
At this the others desisted.
The next two are even harder, said Nuageuse.
Shall I do them for you, dear?
Piss off!
said Xue Pan.
Dyou think I havent got any good lines of my own?
Listen to this The girl feels blest In bridal bower she takes her rest.
The others stared at him in amazement I say, old chap, thats a bit poetical for you, isnt it?
Xue Pan continued unconcernedly The girls content Shes got a big prick up her vent.
The others looked away with expressions of disgust.
Oh dear, oh dear!
Hurry up and get on with the song, then.
One little gnat went hum hum hum, Xue Pan began tunelessly.
The others looked at him open-mouthed What sort of song is that?
Xue Pan droned on, ignoring the question Two little flies went bum bum bum, Three little Stop!
shouted the others.
Sod you lot!
said Xue Pan.
This is the very latest new hit.
Its called the Hum-bum Song.
If you cant be bothered to listen to it, youll have to let me off the other thing.
Ill agree not to sing the rest of the song on that condition.
Yes, yes, well let you off, they said.
Just dont interfere with the rest of us, thats all we ask.
This meant that it was now Jiang Yu-hans turn to perform.
This is what he said -2647 The girls upset Her mans away, she fears he will forget.
-2647 The girl looks glum So short of cash she cant afford a crumb.
-2647 The girl feels blest Her lampwicks got a lucky crest.
-2647 The girls content Shes married to a perfect gent Then he sang this song A mischievous bundle of charm and love, Or an angel come down from the skies above?
Sweet sixteen And so very green, Yet eager to see all there is to be seen.
Aie aie aie The galaxys high In the roof of the sky, And the drum from the tower Sounds the midnight hour, So trim the lamp, love, and come with me Inside the bed-curtains, and you shall see!
He raised the pass cup to his lips, but before drinking it, smiled round at his auditors and made this little speech Im afraid my knowledge of poetry is strictly limited, However, I happened to see a couplet on someones wall yesterday which has stuck in my mind and as one line in it is about something I can see here, I shall use it to finish my turn with.
So saying, he drained the cup and then, picking up a spray of cassia, recited the following line The flowers aroma breathes of hotter days.
The others all accepted this as a satisfactory conclusion of the performance.
Not so Xue Pan, however, who leaped to his feet and began protesting noisily Terrible!
Pay the forfeit.
Wheres the little doll?
I cant see any doll on the table.
I didnt say anything about a doll, said Jiang Yu-han.
What ate you talking about?
Come on, dont try to wriggle out of it!
said Xue Pan.
Say what you said just now again.
The flowers aroma breathes of hotter days.
There you are!
said Xue Pan.
Aroma.
Thats the name of a little doll.
Ask him if you dont believe me.
He pointed to Bao-yu.
Bao-yu looked embarrassed.
Cousin Xue, this time I think you do have to pay the forfeit.
All right, all right!
said Xue Pan.
Ill drink.
And he picked up the wine in front of him and drained it at a gulp.
Feng Zi-ying and Jiang Yu-han were still puzzled and asked him what this was all about.
But it was Nuageuse who explained.
Immediately Jiang Yu-han was on his feet apologizing.
The others reassured him.
Its not your fault.
Ignorance excuses all, they said.
Shortly after this Bao-yu had to take temporary leave of the company to ease his bladder and Jiang Yu-han followed him outside.
As the two of them stood side by side under the eaves, Jiang Yu-han once more offered Bao-yu his apologies.
Much taken with the actors winsome looks and gentleness of manner, Bao-yu impulsively took his hand and gave it a squeeze.
Do come round to our place some time when you are free, he said.
Theres something I want to ask you about.
You have an actor in your company called Bijou whom everyone is talking about lately.
I should so much like to meet him, but so far I havent had an opportunity.
Thats me!
said Jiang Yu-han.
Bijou is my stage name.
Bao-yu stamped with delight.
But this is wonderful!
I must say, you fully deserve your reputation.
Oh dear!
What am I going to do about a First Meeting present?
He thought for a bit, then took a fan from his sleeve and broke off its jade pendant.
Here you are, he said, handing it to Bijou.
Its not much of a present, Im afraid, but it will do to remind you of our meeting.
Bijou smiled and accepted it ceremoniously I have done nothing to deserve this favour.
It is too great an honour.
Well, thank you.
Theres rather an unusual thing Im wearing I put it on today for the first time, so its still fairly new I wonder if you will allow me to give it to you as a token of my warm feelings towards you?
He opened up his gown, undid the crimson cummerbund with which his trousers were fastened, and handed it to Bao-yu.
It comes from the tribute sent by the Queen of the Madder Islands.
Its for wearing in summer.
It makes you smell nice and it doesnt show perspiration stains.
I was given it yesterday by the Prince of Beijing, and today is the first time it s ever been worn.
I wouldnt give a thing like this to anyone else, but Id like you to have it.
Will you take your own sash off, please, so that I can put it on instead?
Bao-yu received the crimson cummerbund with delight and quickly took off his own viridian-coloured sash to give to Bijou in exchange.
They had just finished fastening the sashes on again when Xue Pan jumped out from behind and seized hold of them both.
What are you two up to, leaving the party and sneaking off like this ?
he said.
Come on, take em out again and lets have a look!
It was useless for them to protest that the situation was not what he imagined.
Xue Pan continued to force his unwelcome attentions upon them until Feng Zi-ying came out and rescued them.
After that they returned to the party and continued drinking until the evening.
Back in his own apartment in the Garden, Bao-yu took off his outer clothes and relaxed with a cup of tea.
While he did so, Aroma noticed that the pendant of his fan was missing and asked him what had become of it.
Bao-yu told her that it had come off while he was riding, and she gave the matter no more thought.
But later, when he was going to bed, she saw the magnificent blood-red sash round his waist and began to put two and two together.
Since youve got a better sash now, she said, do you think I could have mine back, please ?
Bao-yu remembered, too late, that the viridian sash had been Aromas and that he ought never to have given it away.
He now very much regretted having done so, but instead of apologizing, attempted to pass it off with a laugh.
Ill get you another, he told her lightly.
Aroma shook her head and sighed.
I knew you still got up to these tricks, she said, but at least you might refrain from giving my things to those disgusting creatures.
Im surprised you havent got more sense.
She was going to say more, but checked herself for fear of provoking an explosion while he was in his cups.
And since there was nothing else she could do, she went to bed.
She awoke at first daylight next morning to find Bao-yu smiling down at her We might have been burgled last night for all youd have known about itLook at your trousers!
Looking down, Aroma saw the sash that Bao-yu had been wearing yesterday tied round her own waist, and knew that he must have exchanged it for hers during the night.
She tore it off impatiently.
I dont want the horrible thing.
The sooner you take it away the better.
Bao-yu was anxious that she should keep it, and after a great deal of coaxing she consented, very reluctantly, to tie it on again.
But she took it off once and for all as soon as he was out of the room and threw it into an empty chest, having first found another one of her own to put on in its place.
Bao-yu made no comment on the change when they were together again.
He merely inquired whether anything had happened the day before, while he was out.
Mrs Lian sent someone round to fetch Crimson, said Aroma.
She wanted to wait for you but it seemed to me that it wasnt all that important, so I took it on myself to send her off straight away.
Quite right, said Bao-yu.
I already knew about it.
There was no need to wait till I got back.
Aroma continued Her Grace sent that Mr Xia of the Imperial Bedchamber yesterday with a hundred and twenty taels of silver to pay for a three-day Pro Viventibus by the Taoists of the Lunar Queen temple starting on the first of next month There are to be plays performed as part of the Offering and Mr Zhen and all the other gentlemen are to go there to burn incense.
Oh, and Her Graces presents for the Double Fifth have arrived.
She ordered a little maid to get Out Bao-yus share of the things sent.
There were two Palace fans of exquisite workmanship, two strings of red musk-scented medicine-beads, two lengths of maidenhair chiffon and a grass-woven lotus mat to lie on in the hot weather.
Did the others all get the same?
he asked.
Her Old Ladyships presents were the same as yours with the addition of a perfume-sceptre and an agate head-rest, and Sir Zhengs, Lady Wangs and Mrs Xues were the same as Her Old Ladyships but without the head-rest Miss Baos were exactly the same as yours Miss Lin, Miss Ying-chun, Miss Tan-chun and Miss Xi-chun got Only the fans and the beads and Mrs Zhu and Mrs Lian both got two lengths of gauze, two lengths of chiffon, two perfume sachets and two moulded medicine-cakes.
Funny!
said Bao-yu.
I wonder why Miss Lin didnt get the same as me and why only Miss Baos and mine were the same.
There must have been some mistake, surely ?
When they unpacked them yesterday, the separate lots were all labelled, said Aroma.
I dont see how there could have been any mistake.
Your share was in Her Old Ladyships room and I went round there to get it for you.
Her Old Ladyship says she wants you to go to Court at four oclock tomorrow morning to give thanks.
Yes, of course, said Bao-yu inattentively, and gave Ripple instructions to take his presents round to Dai-yu Tell Miss Lin that I got these things yesterday and that if theres anything there she fancies, I should like her to keep it.
Ripple went off with the presents.
She was back in a very short time, however.
Miss Lin says she got some yesterday too, and will you please keep these for yourself.
Bao-yu told her to put them away.
As soon as he had washed, he left to pay his morning call on Grandmother Jia but just as he was going out he saw Dai-yu coming towards him and hurried forward to meet her.
Why didnt you choose anything from the things I sent you?
Yesterdays resentments were now quite forgotten today Dai-yu had fresh matter to occupy her mind.
Im not equal to the honour, she said.
You forget, Im not in the gold and jade class like you and your Cousin Bao.
Im only a common little wall-flower!
The reference to gold and jade immediately aroused Bao-yus suspicions.
I dont know what anyone else may have been saying on the subject, he said, but if any such thought ever so much as crossed my mind, may Heaven strike me dead, and may I never be reborn as a human being!
Seeing him genuinely bewildered, Dai-yu smiled in what was meant to be a reassuring manner.
I wish you wouldnt make these horrible oaths.
Its so disagreeable.
Who cares about your silly old gold and jade, anyway?
Its hard to make you se what is in my heart, said Bao-yu.
One day perhaps you will know.
But I can tell you this.
My heart has room for four people only.
Grannie and my parents are three of them and Cousin Dai is the fourth.
I swear to you there isnt a fifth.
Theres no need for you to swear, said Dai-yu.
I know very well that Cousin Dai has a place in your heart.
The trouble is that as soon as Cousin Chai comes along, Cousin Dai gets forgotten.
You imagine these things, said Bao-yu.
It really isnt as you say.
Yesterday when Little Miss Bao wouldnt tell lies for you, why did you turn to me and expect me to?
How would you like it if I did that sort of thing to you?
Bao-chai happened to come along while they were still talking and the two of them moved aside to avoid her.
Bao-chai saw this clearly, but pretended not to notice and hurried by with lowered eyes.
She went and sat with Lady Wang for a while and from there went on to Grandmother Jias.
Bao-yu was already at his grandmothers when she got there.
Bao-chai had on more than one occasion heard her mother telling Lady Wang and other people that the golden locket she wore had been given her by a monk, who had insisted that when she grew up the person she married must be Someone who had a jade to match the gold.
This was one of the reasons why she tended to keep aloof from Bao-yu.
The slight embarrassment she always felt as a result of her mothers chatter had yesterday been greatly intensified when Yuan-chun singled her out as the only girl to receive the same selection of presents as Bao-yu.
She was relieved to think that Bao-yu, so wrapped up in Dai-yu that his thoughts were only of her, was unaware of her embarrassment.
But now here was Bao-yu smiling at her with sudden interest.
Cousin Bao, may I have a look at your medicine-beads?
She happened to be wearing one of the little chaplets on her left wrist and began to pull it off now in obedience to his request.
But Bao-chai was inclined to plumpness and perspired easily, and for a moment or two it would not come off While she was struggling with it, Bao-yu had ample opportunity to observe her snow-white arm, and a feeling rather warmer than admiration was kindled inside him.
If that arm were growing on Cousin Lins body, he speculated, I might hope one day to touch it.
What a pity its hers I Now I shall never have that good fortune.
Suddenly he thought of the curious coincidence of the gold and jade talismans and their matching inscriptions, which Dai-yus remark had reminded him of.
He looked again at Bao-chai -2458 that face like the full moons argent bowl those eyes like sloes those lips whose carmine hue no Art contrived and brows by none but Natures pencil lined.
This was beauty of quite a different order from Dai-yus.
Fascinated by it, he continued to stare at her with a somewhat dazed expression so that when she handed him the chaplet, which she had now succeeded in getting off her wrist, he failed to take it from her.
Seeing that he had gone off into one of his trances, Bao-chai threw down the chaplet in embarrassment and turned to go.
But Dai-yu was standing on the threshold, biting a corner of her handkerchief, convulsed with silent laughter.
I thought you were so delicate, said Bao-chai.
What are you standing there in the draught for?
Ive been in the room all the time, said Dai-yu.
I just this moment went to have a look outside because I heard the sound of something in the sky.
It was a gawping goose.
Where?
said Bao-chai.
Let me have a look.
Oh, said Dai-yu, as soon as I went outside he flew away with a whir-r-r- She flicked her long handkerchief as she said this in the direction of Bao-yus face.
Ow!
he exclaimedShe had flicked him in the eye.
The extent of the damage will be examined in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 29 In which the greatly blessed pray for yet greater blessings And the highly strung rise to new heights of passion WE told in the last chapter how, as Bao-yu was standing lost in one of his trances, Dai-yu flicked her handkerchief at him and made him jump by inadvertently catching him in the eye with it.
Who did that?
he asked.
Dai-yu laughingly shook her head.
Im sorry.
I didnt mean to.
Bao-chai wanted to look at a gawping goose, and I accidentally flicked you while I was showing her how it went.
Bao-yu rubbed his eye.
He appeared to be about to say something, but then thought better of it.
And so the matter passed.
Shortly after this incident Xi-feng arrived and began talking about the arrangements that had been made for the purification ceremonies, due to begin on the first of next month at the Taoist temple of the Lunar Goddess.
She invited Bao-chai, Bao-yu and Dai-yu to go with her there to watch the plays.
Oh no I said Bao-chai.
Its too hot.
Even if they were to do something we havent seen beforewhich isnt likelyI think I should still not want to go.
But its cool there, said Xi-feng.
There are upstairs galleries on all three sides that you can watch from in the shade.
And if we go, I shall send someone a day or two in advance to turn the Taoists out of that part of the temple and make it nice and clean for us and get them td put up blinds.
And Ill ask them not to let any other visitors in on that day.
Ive already told Lady Wang Im going, so if you others wont come with me,.
I shall go by myself.
Im so bored lately.
And its such a business when we put on our own plays at home, that I can never enjoy them properly.
All right then, Ill come, said Grandmother Jia, who had been listening.
You ll come, Grannie?
Well thats splendid, isnt it I That means it will be just as bad for me as it would be if I were watching here at home.
Now look here, said Grandmother Jia, I shant want you to stand and wait on me.
Let me take the gallery facing the stage and you can have one of the side galleries all to yourself then you can sit down and enjoy yourself in comfort.
Xi-feng was touched.
Do come!
Grandmother Jia said to Bao-chai.
Ill see that your mother comes too.
The days are so long now, and theres nothing to do at home except go to sleep.
Bao-chai had to promise that she would go.
Grandmother Jia now sent someone to invite Aunt Xue.
The messenger was to call in on the way at Lady Wangs and ask her if the girls might go as well.
Lady Wang had already made it clear that she would not be going herself, partly because she was not feeling very well, and partly because she wanted to be at home in case any further messages arrived from Yuan-chun but when she learned of Grandmother Jias enthusiasm, she had word carried into the Garden that not just the girls but anyone else who wanted to might go along with Grandmother Jias party on the first.
When this exciting news had been transmitted throughout the Garden, the maids some of whom hardly set foot outside their own courtyards from one years end to the next were all dying to go, and those whose mistresses showed a lethargic disinclination to accept employed a hundred different wiles to make sure that they did so.
The result was that in the end all the Gardens inhabitants said that they would be going.
Grandmother Jia was quite elated and at once issued orders for the cleaning and preparation of the temple theatre.
But these are details with which we need not concern ourselves.
On the morning of the first sedans, carriages, horses and people filled all the roadway outside Rong-guo House.
The stewards in charge knew that the occasion of this outing was a Pro Viventibus ordered by Her Grace the Imperial Concubine and that Her Old Ladyship was going in person to burn incensequite apart from the fact that this was the first day of the month and the first day of the Summer Festival consequently the turnout was as splendid as they could make it and far exceeded anything that had been seen on previous occasions.
Presently Grandmother Jia appeared, seated, in solitary splendour, in a large palanquin carried by eight bearers.
Li Wan, Xi-feng and Aunt Xue followed, each in a palanquin with four bearers.
After them came Bao-chai and Dai-yu sharing a carriage with a splendid turquoise-coloured canopy trimmed with pearls.
The carriage after them, in which Ying chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun sat, had vermilion-painted wheels and was shaded with a large embroidered umbrella.
After them rode Grandmother Jias maids, Faithful, Parrot, Amber and Pearl after them Lin Dai-yus maids, Nightingale, Snowgoose and Delicate then Bao-chais maids, Oriole and Apricot then Ying-chuns maids, Chess and Tangerine then Tan-chuns maids, Scribe and Ebony then Xi-chuns maids, Picture and Landscape then Aunt Xues maids, Providence and Prosper, sharing a carriage with Caltrop and Caltrops own maid, Advent then Li Wans maids, Candida and Casta then Xi-fengs own maids, Patience, Felicity and Crimson, with two of Lady Wangs maids, Golden and Suncloud, whom Xi-feng had agreed to take with her, in the carriage behind.
In the carriage after them sat another couple of maids and a nurse holding Xi-fengs little girl.
Yet more carriages followed carrying the nannies and old women from the various apartments and the women whose duty it was to act as duennas when the ladies of the household went Out of doors.
The street was packed with carriages as far as the eye could see in either direction, and Grandmother Jias palanquin was well on the way to the temple before the last passengers in the rear had finished taking their places.
A confused hubbub of laughter and chatter rose from the line of carriages while they were doing so, punctuated by an occasional louder and more distinctly audible protest, such as Im not sitting next to you !
or, Youre squashing the Mistresss bundle!
or, Look, youve trodden on my spray!
-640 or, Youve ruined my fan, clumsy!
Zhou Ruis wife walked up and down calling for some order Girls!
Girls!
Youre out in the street now, where people can see you.
A little behaviour, please!
She had to do this several times before the clamour subsided somewhat.
The footmen and insignia-bearers at the front of the procession had now reached the temple, and as the files of their column opened Out to range themselves on either side of the gateway, the onlookers lining the sides of the street were able to see Bao-yu on a splendidly caparisoned white horse riding at the head of the procession immediately in front of his grandmothers great palanquin with its eight bearers.
As Grandmother Jia and her party approached the temple, there was a crash of drums and cymbals from the roadside.
It was the Taoists of the temple come out to welcome them, with old Abbot Zhang at their head, resplendent in cope and vestments and with a burning joss-stick in his hand.
The palanquin passed through the gateway and into the first courtyard.
From her seat inside it Grandmother Jia could see the terrifying painted images of the temple guardians, one on each side of the inner gate, flanked by that equally ferocious pair, Thousand League Eye with his blue face and Favourable Wind Ear with his green one, and farther on, the benigner forms of the City God and the little Local Gods.
She ordered the bearers to halt, and Cousin Zhen at the head of the younger male members of the clan came forward from the inner courtyard to meet her.
Xi-feng, whose palanquin was nearest to Grandmother Jias, realized that Faithful and the other maids were too far back in the procession to be able to reach the old lady in time to help her out, and hurried forward to perform this service herself.
Unfortunately a little eleven- or twelve-year-old acolyte, who had been going round with a pair of snuffers trimming the wicks of the numerous candles that were burning everywhere and whom the arrival of the procession had caught unawares, chose this very moment to attempt a getaway and ran head-on into her.
Out flew Xi-fengs hand and dealt him a resounding smack on the face that sent him flying.
Clumsy brat!
she shouted.
Look where youre going!
The little acolyte picked himself up and, leaving his snuffers where they had fallen, darted off in the direction of the gate.
But by now Bao-chai and the other young ladies were getting down from their carriages and a phalanx of women-servants clustered all round them, making egress impossible.
Seeing a little Taoist running towards them, the women began to scream and shout Catch him!
Catch him!
Hit him!
Hit him!
What is it?
asked Grandmother Jia in alarm, hearing this hubbub behind her, and Cousin Zhen went forward to investigate.
Its one of the young acolytes, said Xi-feng as she helped the old lady from her conveyance.
He was snuffing the candles and didnt get away in time and now hes rushing around trying to find a way out.
Bring him to me, poor little thing!
said Grandmother Jia.
And dont frighten him.
These children from poorer families have generally been rather spoiled.
You cant expect them to stand up to great occasions like this.
It would be a shame to frighten the poor little thing out of his wits.
Think how upset his mother and father would be.
Go on !
she said to Cousin Zhen.
Go and fetch him yourself Cousin Zhen was obliged to retrieve the little Taoist in person and led him by the hand to Grandmother Jia.
The boy knelt down in front of her, the snuffersnow restored to him clutched in one hand, trembling like a leaf.
Grandmother Jia asked Cousin Zhen to raise him to his feet.
Dont be afraid, she told the boy.
How old are you?
But the little boys mouth was hurting him too badly to speak.
Poor little thing!
said Grandmother Jia.
Youd better take him away, Zhen.
Give him some money to buy sweeties with and tell the others that they are not to grumble at him.
Cousin Zhen had to promise, and led the boy away, while the old lady led her party inside to begin a systematic tour of the shrines.
The pages in the outer courtyard, who had a moment before witnessed Grandmother Jia and her train trooping through the gateway that led into the inner courtyard, were surprised to see Cousin Zhen now emerging from it again with a little Taoist in tow.
They heard him say that the boy was to be taken out and given a few hundred cash and that he was to be treated kindly.
A few of them came forward and led the child away in obedience to his instructions.
Still standing at the top of the steps to the inner gate, Cousin Zhen inquired what had become of the stewards.
Steward!
Steward!
shouted the pages in unison, and almost immediately Lin Zhi-xiao came running out from heaven knows where, adjusting his hat with one hand as he ran.
This is a big place, said Cousin Zhen when Lin Zhi-xiao was standing in front of him, and we werent expecting so many here today.
I want you to take all the people you need and stay here in this courtyard with them.
Those you dont need here can wait in the second courtyard.
And pick some reliable boys to go on this gate and the two posterns to pass word through to those outside if those inside need anything Do you understand?
All the ladies are here today and I dont want any outsiders to get in Is that understood?
Yes sir!
said Lin Zhi-xiao.
Sir!
Well get on with it!
said Cousin Zhen.
Wheres Rong got to?
The words were scarcely out of his mouth when Jia Rong came bounding out of the bell-tower, buttoning his jacket as he ran.
Look at him!
said Cousin Zhen irately.
Enjoying him-self in the cool while I am roasting down here!
Spit at him, someone.
Long familiarity with Cousin Zhens temper had taught the boys that he would brook no opposition when roused.
One of them obediently stepped forward and spat in Jia Rongs face then, as Cousin.
Zhen continued to glare at him, he rebuked Jia Rong for presuming to be cool while his father was still sweating outside in the sun.
Jia Rong was obliged to stand with his arms hanging submissively at his sides throughout this public humiliation, not dating to utter a word.
The other members of Jia Rongs generation who were presentJia Yun, Jia Ping, Jia Qin and the restwere greatly alarmed by this outburst indeed, even the clansmen of Cousin Zhens own generationthe Jia Bins and Jia Huangs and Jia Qiongswere to be seen putting their hats on and slinking out, one by one, from the shadow of the walls.
What are you standing here for?
said Cousin Zhen to Jia Rong.
Why dont you get on your horse and go back home and tell your mother and that new wife of yours that Her Old Ladyship is here with all the Rong-guo girls.
Tell them they must come here at once to wait on her.
Jia Rong ran outside and began bawling impatiently for his horse.
What on earth can have got into him that he should suddenly have picked on me like that?
he muttered to himself resentfully then, as his horse had still not arrived, he shouted angrily at the grooms Come on, bring that horse, damn you!
Are your hands tied or something?
He would have liked to send a boy in his place, but was afraid that if he did, his father would find out when he went back later to report and so, when the horse arrived, he mounted and rode off home.
Cousin Zhen was about to turn and go in again when he discovered old Abbot Zhang at his elbow, smiling somewhat unnaturally.
Perhaps I dont come in quite the same category as the others, said the old Taoist.
Perhaps I should be allowed inside to wait on Her Old Ladyship.
However.
In this inclement heat, and with so many young ladies about, I shouldnt like to presume.
I will do whatever you say.
I did just wonder whether Her Old Ladyship might ask for me, or whether she might require a guide to take her round the shrines However.
Perhaps it would be best if I waited here.
Cousin Zhen was aware that, though Abbot Zhang had started life a poor boy and entered the Taoist church as proxy novice of Grandmother Jias late husband, a former Emperor had with his own Imperial lips conferred on him the title Doctor Mysticus, and he now held the seals of the Board of Commissioners of the Taoist Church, had been awarded the title Doctor Serenissimus by the reigning sovereign, and was addressed as Holiness by princes, dukes and governors of provinces.
He was therefore not a man to be trifled with.
Moreover he was constantly in and out of the two mansions and on familiar terms with most of the Jia ladies.
Cousin Zhen at once became affable.
Oh, youre one of the family, Papa Zhang, so lets have no more of that kind of talk, or Ill take you by that old beard of yours and give it a good pull.
Come on, follow me!
Abbot Zhang followed him inside, laughing delightedly.
Having found Grandmother Jia, Cousin Zhen ducked and smiled deferentially.
Papa Zhang has come to pay his respects, Grannie Help him, then!
said Grandmother Jia and Cousin Zhen hurried back to where Abbot Zhang was waiting a few yards behind him and supported him by an elbow into her presence.
The abbot prefaced his greeting with a good deal of jovial laughter.
Blessed Buddha of Boundless Life!
And how has Your Old Ladyship been all this while?
In rude good health, I trust?
And Their Ladyships, and all the younger ladies?also flourishing?
Its quite a while since I was at the mansion to call on Your Old Ladyship, but I declare you look more blooming than ever!
And how are you, old Holy One?
Grandmother Jia asked him with a pleased smile.
Thank Your Old Ladyship for asking.
I still keep pretty fit.
But never mind about that.
What I want to know.
is, hows our young hero been keeping, eh?
We were celebrating the blessed Nativity of the Veiled King here on the twenty-sixth.
Very select little gathering.
Tasteful offerings.
I thought Our young friend might have enjoyed it but when I sent round to invite him, they told me he was out.
He really was out, said Grandmother Jia, and turned aside to summon the young hero but Bao-yu had gone to the lavatory.
He came hurrying forward presently.
Hallo, Papa Zhang!
How are you?
The old Taoist embraced him affectionately and returned his greeting.
Hes beginning to fill out, he said, addressing Grandmother Jia.
He looks well enough on the outside, said Grandmother Jia, but underneath hes delicate.
And his Pa doesnt improve matters by forcing him to study all the time.
Im afraid hell end up by making the child ill.
Lately Ive been seeing calligraphy and poems of his in all kinds of places, said Abbot Zhang, all quite remarkably good.
I really cant understand why Sir Zheng is concerned that the boy doesnt study enough.
If you ask me, I think hes all right as he is.
He sighed.
Of course, you know who this young man reminds me of, dont you?
Whether its his looks or the way he talks or the way he moves, to me hes the spit and image of Old Sir Jia.
The old mans eyes grew moist, and Grandmother Jia herself showed a disposition to be tearful.
Its quite true, she said.
None of our children or our childrens children turned Out like him, except my Bao.
Only my little Jade Boy is like his grandfather.
Of course, your generation wouldnt remember Old Sir Jia, Abbot Zhang said, turning to Cousin Zhen.
its before your time.
In fact, I dont suppose even Sir She and Sir Zheng can have a very clear recollection of what their father was like in his prime.
He brightened as another topic occurred to him and once more quaked with laughter.
I saw a most attractive young lady when I was out visiting the other day.
Fourteen this year.
Seeing her put me in mind of our young friend here.
It must be about time we started thinking about a match for him, surely?
In looks, intelligence, breeding, background this girl was ideally suited.
What does Your Old Ladyship feel?
I didnt want to rush matters.
I thought Id better first wait and see what Your Old Ladyship thought before saying anything to the family.
A monk who once told the boys fortune said that he was not to marry young, said Grandmother Jia so I think we had better wait until he is a little older before we arrange anything definite.
But do by all means go on inquiring for us.
It doesnt matter whether the family is wealthy or not as long as the girl looks all right, you can let me know.
Even if its a poor family, we can always help Out over the expenses.
Money is no problem.
Its looks and character that count.
Now come on, Papa Zhang!
said Xi-feng when this exchange had ended.
Wheres that new amulet for my little girl?
You had the nerve to send someone round the other day for gosling satin, and of course, as we didnt want to embarrass the old man by refusing, we had to send you some.
So now what about that amulet ?
Abbot Zhang once more quaked with laughter.
Ho!
ho!
ho I You can tell how bad my eyes are getting I didnt even see you there, dear lady, or I should have thanked you for the satin.
Yes, the amulet has been ready for some time.
I was going to send it to you two days ago, but then Her Grace unexpectedly asked us for this Pro Viventibus and I stupidly forgot all about it.
Its still on the high altar being sanctified.
Ill go and get it for you.
He went off, surprisingly nimbly, to the main hall of the temple and returned after a short while carrying the amulet on a little tea-tray, using a red satin book-wrap as a tray-cloth.
Babys nurse took the amulet from him, and he was just about to receive the little girl from her arms when he caught sight of Xi-feng laughing at him mockingly.
Why didnt you bring it in your hand?
she asked him.
The hands get so sweaty in this weather, he said.
I thought a tray would be more hygienic.
You gave me quite a fright when I saw you coming in with that tray, said Xi-feng.
I thought for one moment you were going to take up a collection!
There was a loud burst of laughter from the assembled company.
Even Cousin Zhen was unable to restrain himself.
Monkey!
Monkey!
said Grandmother Jia.
Arent you afraid of going to the Hell of Scoffers when you die and having your tongue cut out?
Oh, Papa and I say what we like to each other, said Xi-feng.
Hes always telling me I must acquire merit and threatening me with a short life if I dont pay up quickly.
Thats right, isnt it Papa?
As a matter of fact I did have an ulterior motive in bringing this tray, said Abbot Zhang, laughing, but it wasnt in order to make a collection, I assure you.
I wanted to ask this young gentleman here if he would be so very kind as to lend me the famous jade for a few minutes.
The tray is for carrying it outside on, so that my Taoist friends, some of whom have travelled long distances to be here, and my old students, and their students, all of whom are gathered here today, may have the privilege of examining it.
My dear good man, in that case let the boy go with it round his neck and show it to them himself!
said Grandmother Jia.
No need for all this running to and fro with traysat your age, too!
Most kind!
Most considerate!But Your Old Ladyship is deceived, said the abbot.
I may look my eighty years, but Im still hale and hearty.
No, the point is that with so many of them here today and the weather so hot, the smell is sure to be somewhat overpowering.
Our young friend here is certainly not used to it.
We shouldnt want him to be overcome by theaheffluvia, should we?
Hearing this, Grandmother Jia told Bao-yu to take off the Magic Jade and put it on the tray.
Abbot Zhang draped the crimson cloth over his hands, grasped the tray between satin-covered thumbs and fingers, and, holding it like a sacred relic at eye level in front of him, conveyed it reverently from the courtyard.
Grandmother Jia and the others now continued their sightseeing.
They had finished with everything at ground level and were about to mount the stairs into the galleries when Cousin Zhen came up to report that Abbot Zhang had returned with the jade.
He was followed by the smiling figure of the abbot, holding the tray in the same reverential manner as before.
Well, theyve all seen the jade now, he said, and very grateful they were.
They agreed that it really is a most remarkable object, and they regretted that they had nothing of value to show their appreciation with.
Here you are!this is the best they could do.
These are all little Taoist trinkets they happened to have about them.
Nothing very special, Im afraid but theyd like our young friend to keep them, either to amuse himself with or to give away to his friends.
Grandmother Jia looked at the tray.
It was covered with jewellery.
There were golden crescents, jade thumb-rings and a lot of motto jewellerya tiny sceptre and persimmons with the rebus-meaning success in all things, a little quail and a vase with corn-stalks meaning peace throughout the years, and many other designsall in goldor jadework, and much of it inlaid with pearls and precious stones.
Altogether there must have been about forty pieces.
What have you been up to, you naughty old man?
she said.
Those men are all poor priests - they cant afford to give things like this away.
You really shouldnt have done this.
We cant possibly accept them.
It was their own idea, I do assure you, said the abbot.
There was nothing I could do to stop them.
If you refuse to take these things, I am afraid you will destroy my credit with these people.
They will say that I cannot really have the connection with your honoured family that I have always claimed to have.
After this Grandmother Jia could no longer decline She told one of the servants to receive the tray.
We obviously cant refuse, Grannie, after what Papa Zhang has just said, said Bao-yu but I really have no use for this stuff.
Why not let one of the boys carry it outside for me and Ill distribute it to the poor?
I think thats a very good idea, said Grandmother Jia.
But Abbot Zhang thought otherwise and hastily intervened Im sure it does our young friend credit, this charitable impulse.
However.
Although these things are, as I said, of no especial value, they arewhat shall I sayobjects of virt, and if you give them to the poor, in the first place the poor wont have much use for them, and in the second place the objects themselves will get spoiled.
If you want to give something to the poor, a largesse of money would, I suggest, be far more appropriate.
Very well, look after this stuff for me, then, said Bao-yu to the servant, and this evening you will distribute a largesse.
This being now settled, Abbot Zhang withdrew, and Grandmother Jia and her party went up to the galleries.
Grandmother Jia sat with Bao-yu and the girls in the gallery facing the stage and Xi-feng and Li Wan sat in the east gallery.
The maids all sat in the west gallery and took it in turns to go off and wait on their mistresses.
Not long after they were all seated, Cousin Zhen came upstairs to say that the gods had now chosen which plays were to be performedby which was meant, of course, that the names had been shaken from a pot in front of the altar, since this was the only way in which the will of the gods could be known.
The first play selected was The White Serpent.
Whats the story?
said Grandmother Jia.
Cousin Zhen explained that it was about the emperor Gao-zu, founder of the Han dynasty, who began his rise to greatness by decapitating a monstrous white snake.
The second choice was A Heap of Honours, which shows the sixtieth birthday party of the great Tang general Guo Zi-yi, attended by his seven sons and eight sons-in-law, all of whom held high office, the heap of honours of the title being a reference to the table in his reception-hall piled high with their insignia.
It seems a bit conceited to have this second one played, said Grandmother Jia.
Still, if thats what the gods chose, I suppose wed better have it.
Whats the third one going to be?
The South Branch, said Cousin Zhen.
Grandmother Jia was silent.
She knew that The South 13ranch likens the world to an ant-heap and tells a tale of power and glory which turns out in the end to have been a dream.
Hearing no reply, Cousin Zhen went off downstairs again to see about the Offertory Scroll, which had to be ceremonially burnt in front of the holy images along with paper money and paper ingots before the theatrical performance could begin.
Our record omits any description of that ceremony and moves back to Bao-yu, who was sitting in the central gallery beside his grandmother, and who now called for a maid to bring the tray up so that he could put on his Magic Jade again.
When he had done so, he began to pick over the other trinkets with which the tray was covered and to hand them one by one to Grandmother Jia for her inspection.
Her attention was taken by a little red-gold kylin with kingfisher-feather inlay.
She stretched out her hand to take it.
Now where have I seen something like this before?
she said.
I feel certain Ive seen some girl wearing an ornament like this.
Cousin Shis got one, said Bao-chai.
Its the same as this one only a little smaller.
Funny!
said Bao-yu.
All the times shes been to our house, I dont remember ever having seen it.
Cousin Ban is observant, said Tan-chun.
No matter what it is, she remembers everything.
Well, perhaps not quite everything, said Dai-yu wryly.
But shes certainly very observant where things like this are concerned.
Bao-chai turned her head away and pretended not to have heard.
Now that he knew the kylin on the tray was like one that Shi Xiang-yun wore, Bao-yu hurriedly picked it up and thrust it inside his jacket.
But no sooner had he done so than it occurred to him that his action might be misconstrued so instead of dropping it into his inside pocket, he continued to hold it there, at the same time glancing about him furtively to see if he had been observed.
None of the others seemed to have noticed except Dai-yu, who was staring at him fixedly and nodding her head in mock approval Bao-yu felt suddenly embarrassed.
Drawing his hand Out again with the ornament still in it, he returned her look and laughed sheepishly Its rather nice, isnt it?
I thought Id keep it for you, he said.
When we get home we can thread it on a ribbon and youll be able to wear it.
Dai-yu tossed her head.
I dont want it!
If you dont want it, Ill keep it for myself, then, said Bao-yu, and popped it once more inside his jacket.
He was about to add something, but just at that moment Cousin Zhens wife, You-shi, and his new daughter-in-law, Hu-shi, arrived and came upstairs to pay their respects to Grandmother Jia.
Now why have you come here?
You really shouldnt have bothered, said Grandmother Jia.
We only came to amuse ourselves.
It isnt a formal visit.
No sooner had she said this than it was announced that representatives from General Fengs household had arrived.
It appeared that Feng Zi-yings mother, hearing that the Jia ladies were having a Pro Viventibus performed at the Taoist temple, had immediately prepared an offering of pork, mutton, incense, tea and cakes and sent it post-haste to the temple with her compliments.
Xi-feng, hearing the announcement, came hurrying round to the central gallery.
She clapped her hands and laughed.
Dear oh dear!
This is something I hadnt bargained for.
My idea was a quiet little outing for us girls but here is everyone sending offerings and behaving as if wed come here for a high mass or something.
Its all your fault, Grannie!
And we havent even got any vails ready to give to the beaters.
Even as she said this, two stewardesses from the Feng household were already mounting the stairs.
And before hey had gone, other messengers arrived with offerings from Vice-president Zhaos lady.
From then on it was a steady stream -934 friends, kinsmen, family connections, business associates - all who had heard that the Jia ladies were holding a Pro Viventibus sent their representatives along with offerings and complimentary messages.
Grandmother Jia began to regret that she had ever come.
It isnt as if wed come here for the ceremony, she grumbled.
We only wanted to enjoy ourselves.
But all we seem to have done is to have stirred up a lot of fuss.
Consequently, although she stayed and watched the plays for that day, she returned home fairly early in the afternoon and next day professed herself too lacking in energy to go again.
Xi-feng reacted differently.
In for a penny, in for a pound was her motto.
They had already had the fuss and since the players were there anyway, they might as well go again today and enjoy themselves in peace.
For Bao-yu the whole of the previous day had been spoilt by Abbot Zhangs proposal to Grandmother Jia to arrange a match for him.
He came home in a thoroughly bad temper and kept telling everyone that he would never see Abbot Zhang again as long as he lived.
Not associating his ill-humour with the abbots proposal, the others were mystified.
Grandmother Jias unwillingness was further reinforced by the fact that Dai-yu, since her return home yesterday, had been suffering from mild sunstroke.
What with one thing and another, the old lady declined absolutely to go again, and Xi-feng had to make up her own party and go by herself.
But Xi-fengs play-going does not concern us.
-934 Bao-yu, believing that Dai-yus sunstroke was serious and that she might even be in danger of her life, was so worried that he could not eat, and rushed round in the middle of the lunch-hour to see how she was.
He found her neither as ill as he had feared nor as responsive as he might have hoped.
Why dont you go and watch your plays?
she asked him.
What are you mooning about at home for?
Abbot Zhangs recent attempt at match-making had profoundly distressed Bao-yu and he was shocked by her seeming indifference.
I can forgive the others for not understanding what has upset me, he thought but that she should want to trifle with me at a time like this !
The sense that she had failed him made the annoyance he now felt with her a hundred times greater than it had been on any previous occasion.
Never could any other person have stirred him to such depths of atrabilious rage.
Coming from other lips, her words would scarcely have touched him.
Coming.
from hers, they put him in a passion.
His face darkened.
Its all along been a mistake, then, he said.
Youre not what I took you for.
Dai-yu gave an unnatural little laugh.
Not what you took me for?
Thats hardly surprising, is it?
I havent got that little something which would have made me worthy of you.
Bao-yu came tight up to her and held his face close to hers You do realize, dont you, that you are deliberately willing my death?
Dai-yu could not for the moment understand what he was talking about.
I swore an oath to you yesterday, he went on.
I said that I hoped Heaven might strike me dead if this gold and jade business meant anything to me.
Since you have now brought it up again, its clear to me that you want me to die.
Though what you hope to gain by my death I find it hard to imagine.
Dai-yu now remembered what had passed between them on the previous day.
She knew that she was wrong to have spoken as she did, and felt both ashamed and a little frightened.
Her shoulders started shaking and she began to cry.
May Heaven strike me dead if I ever willed your death!
she said.
But I dont see what you have to get so worked up about.
Its only because of what Abbot Zhang said about arranging a match for you.
Youre afraid he might interfere with your precious gold and jade plans and because youre angry about that, you have to come along and take it out on meThats all it is, isnt it?
Bao-yu had from early childhood manifested a streak of morbid sensibility, which being brought up in close proximity with a nature so closely in harmony with his own had done little to improve.
Now that he had reached an age when both his experience and the reading of forbidden books had taught him something about worldly matters, he had begun to take a rather more grown-up interest in girls.
But although there were plenty of young ladies of outstanding beauty and breeding among the Jia familys numerous acquaintance, none of them, in his view, could remotely compare with Dai-yu.
For some time now his feeling for her had been a very special one but precisely because of this same morbid sensibility, he had shrunk from telling her about it.
Instead, whenever he was feeling particularly happy or particularly cross, he would invent all sorts of ways of probing her to find out if this feeling for her was reciprocated.
It was unfortunate for him that Dai-yu herself possessed a similar streak of morbid sensibility and disguised her teal feelings, as he did his, while attempting to discover what he felt about her.
Here was a situation, then, in which both parties concealed their real emotions and assumed counterfeit ones in an endeavour to find out what the real feelings of the other party were.
And because when false meets false the truth will oft-times out, there was the constant possibility that the innumerable little frustrations that were engendered by all this concealment would eventually erupt into a quarrel.
Take the present instance.
What Bao-yu was actually thinking at this moment was something like this In my eyes and in my thoughts there is no one else but you.
I can forgive the others for not knowing this, but surely you ought to realize?
If at a time like this you cant share my anxietyif you can think of nothing better to do than provoke me with that sort of silly talk, it shows that the concern I feel for you every waking minute of the day is wasted that you just dont care about me at all.
This was what he thought but of course be didnt say it.
On her side Dai-yus thoughts were somewhat as follows I know you must care for me a little bit, and Im sure you dont take this ridiculous gold and jade talk seriously.
But if you cared only for me and had absolutely no inclination at all in another direction, then every time I mentioned gold and jade you would behave quite naturally and let it pass almost as if you hadnt noticed.
How is it, then, that when I do refer to it you get so excited?
It shows that it must be on your mind.
You pretend to be upset in order to allay my suspicions.
Meanwhile a quite different thought was running through Bao-yus mind I would do anythingabsolutely anything, he was thinking, if only you would be nice to me.
If you would be nice to me, I would gladly die for you this moment.
It doesnt really matter whether you know what I feel for you or not.
Just be nice to me, then at least we shall be a little closer to each other, instead of so horribly far apart.
At the same time Dai-yu was thinking Never mind me.
Just be your own natural self.
If yon were all right, I should be all right too.
All these manoeuvrings to try and anticipate my feelings dont bring us any closer together they merely draw us farther apart.
The percipient reader will no doubt observe that these two young people were already of one mind, but that the complicated procedures by which they sought to draw together were in fact having precisely the opposite effect.
Complacent reader!
Permit us to remind you that your correct understanding of the situation is due solely to the fact that we have been revealing to you the secret, innermost thoughts of those two young persons, which neither of them had so far ever felt able to express.
Let us now return from the contemplation of inner thoughts to the recording of outward appearances.
When Dai-yu, far from saying something nice to him, once mote made reference to the gold and jade, Bao-yu became so choked with rage that for a moment he was quite literally bereft of speech.
Frenziedly snatching the Magic Jade from his neck and holding it by the end of its silken cord he gritted his teeth and dashed it against the floor with all the strength in his body.
Beastly thing!
he shouted.
Ill smash you to pieces and put an end to this once and for all.
But the jade, being exceptionally hard and resistant, was not the tiniest bit damaged.
Seeing that he had not broken it, Bao-yu began to look around for something to smash it with.
Dai-yu, still crying, saw what he was going to do.
Why smash a dumb, lifeless object?
she said.
If you want to smash something, let it be me.
The sound of their quarrelling brought Nightingale and Snowgoose hurrying in to keep the peace.
They found Bao-yu apparently bent on destroying his jade and tried to wrest it from him.
Failing to do so, and sensing that the quarrel was of more than usual dimensions, they went off to fetch Aroma.
Aroma came back with them as fast as she could run and eventually succeeded in prising the jade from his hand.
He glared at her scornfully.
Its my own thing Im smashing, he said.
What business is it of yours to interfere?
Aroma saw that his face was white with anger and his eyes wild and dangerous.
Never had she seen him in so terrible a rage.
She took him gently by the hand You shouldnt smash the jade just because of a disagreement with your cousin, she said.
What do you think she would feel like and what sort of position would it put her in if you really were to break it?
Dai-yu heard these words through her sobs.
They struck a responsive chord in her breast, and she wept all the harder to think that even Aroma seemed to understand her better than Bao-yu did.
So much emotion was too much for her weak stomach.
Suddenly there was a horrible retching noise and up came the tisane of elsholtzia leaves she had taken only a short while before.
Nightingale quickly held out her handkerchief to receive it and, while Snowgoose rubbed and pounded her back, Dai-yu continued to retch up wave upon wave of watery vomit, until the whole handkerchief was soaked with It.
However cross you may be, Miss, you ought to have more regard for your health, said Nightingale.
Youd only just taken that medicine and you were beginning to feel a little bit better for it, and now because of your argument with Master Bao youve gone and brought it all up again.
Suppose you were to be really ill as a consequence.
How do you think Master Bao would feel?
When Bao-yu heard these words they struck a responsive chord in his breast, and he reflected bitterly that even Nightingale seemed to understand him better than Dai-yu But then he looked again at Dai-yu, who was sobbing and panting by turns, and whose red and swollen face was wet with perspiration and tears, and seeing how pitiably frail and ill she looked, his heart misgave him.
I shouldnt have taken her up on that gold and jade business, he thought.
Ive got her into this state and now theres no way in which I can relieve her by sharing what she suffers.
As he thought this, he, too, began to cry.
Now that Bao-yu and Dai-yu were both crying, Aroma instinctively drew towards her master to comfort him.
A pang of pity for him passed through her and she squeezed his hand sympathetically.
It was as cold as ice.
She would have liked to tell him not to cry but hesitated, partly from the consideration that he might be suffering from some deep-concealed hurt which crying would do something to relieve, and partly from the fear that to do so in Dai-yus presence might seem presumptuous.
Torn between a desire to speak and fear of the possible consequences of speaking, she did what girls of her type often do when faced with a difficult decision she avoided the necessity of making one by bursting into tears.
As for Nightingale, who had disposed of the handkerchief of vomited tisane and was now gently fanning her mistress with her fan, seeing the other three all standing there as quiet as mice with the tears streaming down their faces, she was so affected by the sight that she too started crying and was obliged to have recourse to a second handkerchief.
There the four of them stood, then, facing each other all of them crying none of them saying a word.
It was Aroma who broke the silence with a strained and nervous laugh.
You ought not to quarrel with Miss Lin, she said to Bao-yu, if only for the sake of this pretty cord she made you., At these words Dai-yu, ill as she was, darted forward, grabbed the jade from Aromas hand, and snatching up a pair of scissors that were lying nearby, began feverishly cutting at its silken cord with them.
Before Aroma and Nightingale could stop her, she had already cut it into several pieces.
It was a waste of time making it, she sobbed.
He doesnt really care for it.
And theres someone else wholl no doubt make him a better one I What a shame!
said Aroma, retrieving the jade.
Its all my silly fault.
I should have kept my mouth shut.
Go on!
Cut away!
said Bao-yu.
I shant be wearing the wretched thing again anyway, so it doesnt matter.
Preoccupied with the quarrel, the four of them had failed to notice several old women, who had been drawn by the sound of it to investigate.
Apprehensive, when they saw Dai-yu hysterically weeping and vomiting and Bao-yu trying to smash his jade, of the dire consequences to be expected from a scene of such desperate passion, they had hurried off in a body to the front of the mansion to report the matter to Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang, hoping in this way to establish in advance that whatever the consequences might be, they were not responsible for them.
From their precipitate entry and the grave tone of their announcement Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang assumed that some major catastrophe had befallen and hurried with them into the Garden to find out what it was.
Their arrival filled Aroma with alarm.
What did Nightingale want to go troubling Their Ladyships for?
she thought crossly, supposing that the talebearer had been sent to them by Nightingale while Nightingale for her part was angry with Aroma, thinking that the talebearer must have been one of Aromas minions.
Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang entered the room to find a silent Bao-yu and a silent Dai-yu, neither of whom, when questioned, would admit that anything at all was the matter.
They therefore visited their wrath on the beads of the two unfortunate maids, insisting that it was entirely owing to their negligence that matters had got so much Out of hand.
Unable to defend themselves, the girls were obliged to endure a long and abusive dressing-down, after which Grandmother Jia concluded the affair by carrying Bao-yu off to her own apartment.
Next day, the third of the fifth month, was Xue Pans birthday and there was a family party with plays, to which the Jias were all invited.
Bao-yu, who had still not seen Dai-yu since his outburstwhich he now deeply regrettedwas feeling far too dispirited to care about seeing plays, and declined to go on the ground -that he was feeling unwell.
Dai-yu, though somewhat overcome on the day previous to this by the sultry weather, had by no means been seriously ill.
Arguing that if she was not ill, it was impossible that he should be, she felt sure, when she heard of Bao-yus excuse, that it must be a false one.
He usually enjoys drinking and watching plays, she thought.
If hes not going, it must be because he is still angry about yesterday or if it-isnt that, it must be because hes heard that Im not going and doesnt want to go without me.
Oh I I should never have cut that cord!
Now he wont ever wear his jade again - unless I make him another cord to wear it on.
So she, too, regretted the quarrel.
Grandmother Jia knew that Bao-yu and Dai-yu were angry with each other, but she had been assuming that they would see each other at the Xues party and make it up there.
When neither of them turned up at it, she became seriously upset.
Im a miserable old sinner, she grumbled.
It must be my punishment for something I did wrong in a past life to have to live with a pair of such obstinate, addle-headed little geese!
Im sure there isnt a day goes by without their giving me some fresh cause for anxiety.
It must he fate.
Thats what it says in the proverb, after all Tis Fate brings foes and loes tegither.
Ill be glad when Ive drawn my last breath and closed my old eyes for the last time then the two of them can snap and snarl at each other to their hearts content, for I shant be there to see it, and what the eye doesnt see, the heart doesnt grieve.
The Lord knows, its not my wish to drag on this wearisome life any longer!
Amidst these muttered grumblings the old lady began to cry.
-1094 In due course her words were transmitted to Bao-yu and Dai-yu.
It happened that neither of them had ever heard the saying Tis Fate brings foes and loes tegither, and its impact on them, hearing it for the first time, was like that of a Zen perception something to be meditated on with bowed head and savoured with a gush of tears.
Though they had still not made it up since their quarrel, the difference between them had now vanished completely In Naiads House one to the wind made moan, In Green Delights one to the moon complained, to parody the well-known lines.
Or, in homelier verses Though each was in a different place, Their hearts in friendship beat as one.
On the second day after their quarrel Aroma deemed that the time was now ripe for urging a settlement.
Whatever the rights and wrongs of all this may be, she said to Bao-yu, you are certainly the one who is most to blame.
Whenever in the past youve heard about a quarrel between one of the pages and one of the girls, youve always said that the boy was a brute for not understanding the girls feelings betteryet here you are behaving in exactly the same way yourself!
Tomorrow will be the Double Fifth.
Her Old Ladyship will be really angry if the two of you are still at daggers drawn on the day of the festival, and that will make life difficult for all of us.
Why not put your pride in your pocket and go and say you are sorry, so that we can all get back to normal again?
But as to whether or not Bao-yu followed her advice, or, if he did so, what the effect of following it was - those questions will be dealt with in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 30 -614 Bao-chai speaks of a fan and castigates her deriders Charmante scratches a qiang and mystifies a beholder Dai-yu, as we have shown, regretted her quarrel with Bao-yu almost as soon as it was over but since there were no conceivable grounds on which she could run after him and tell him so, she continued, both day and night, in a state of unrelieved depression that made her feel almost as if a part of her was lost.
Nightingale had a shrewd idea how it was with her and resolved at last to tackle her I think the day before yesterday you were too hasty, Miss.
We ought to know what things Master Bao is touchy about, if no one else does.
Look at all the quarrels weve had with him in the past on account of that jade!
Poh!
said Dai-yu scornfully.
You are trying to make Out that it was my fault because you have taken his side against me.
Of course I wasnt too hasty.
Nightingale gave her a quizzical smile.
No?
Then why did you cut that cord up ?
If three parts of the blame was Bao-yus, Im sure at least seven parts of it was yours.
From what Ive seen of it, hes all right with you when you allow him to be its because youre so prickly with him and always trying to put him in the wrong that he gets worked up.
Dai-yu was about to retort when they heard someone at the courtyard gate calling to be let in.
Nightingale turned to listen Thats Bao-yus voice, she said.
I expect he has come to apologize.
I forbid you to let him in, said Dai-yu.
There you go again!
said Nightingale.
Youre going to keep him standing outside in the blazing sun on a day like this.
Surely thats wrong, if nothing else is?
She was moving outside, even as she said this, regardless of her mistress s injunction.
Sure enough, it was Bao-yu.
She unfastened the gate and welcomed him in with a friendly smile.
Master Bao!
I was beginning to think you werent coming to see us any more, I certainly didnt expect to see you here again so soon.
Oh, youve been making a mountain out of a molehill, said Bao-yu, returning her smile.
Why ever shouldnt I come?
Even if I died, my ghost would be round here a hundred times a day.
How is my cousin?
Quite better now?
Physically shes better, said Nightingale, but shes still in very poor spirits.
Ah yesI know shes upset.
This exchange took place as they were crossing the forecourt.
He now entered the room.
Dai-yu was sitting on the bed crying.
She bad not been crying to start with, but the bittersweet pang she experienced when she heard his arrival had started the tears rolling.
Bao-yu went up to the bed and smiled down at her.
How are you, coz?
Quite better now ?
As Dai-yu seemed to be too busy wiping her eyes to make a reply, he sat down close beside her on the edge of the bed I know youre not really angry with me, he said.
Its just that if the others noticed I wasnt coming here, they would think we had been quarrelling and if we waited for them to interfere, we should be allowing other people to come between us.
It would be better to hit me and shout at me now and get it over with, if you still bear any hard feelings, than to go on ignoring me.
Coz dear!
Coz dear!
- He must have repeated those same two words in the same tone of passionate entreaty upwards of twenty times.
Dai-yu had been meaning to ignore him, but what he had just been saying about other people coming between them seemed to prove that he must in some way feel closer to her than the rest, and she was unable to maintain her silence.
You dont have to treat me like a child, she blurted out tearfully.
From now on I shall make no further claims on you.
You can behave exactly as if I had gone away.
Gone away?
said Bao-yu laughingly.
Where would you go to?
Back home.
Id follow you.
As if I were dead then.
If you died, he said, I should become a monk.
Dai-yus face darkened immediately What an utterly idiotic thing to say!
Suppose your own sisters were to die?
Just how many times can one person become a monk?
I think I had better see what the others think about that remark.
Bao-yu had realized at once that she would be offended but the words were already out of his mouth before he could stop them.
He turned very red and hung his head in silence.
It was a good thing that no one else was in the room at that moment to see him.
Dai-yu glared at him for some seconds - evidently too enraged to speak, for she made a sound somewhere between a snort and a sigh, but said nothing - then, seeing him almost purple in the face with suppressed emotion, she clenched her teeth, pointed her finger at him, and, with an indignant Hmn!, stabbed the air quite savagely a few inches away from his forehead You!
But whatever it was she had been going to call him never got said.
She merely gave a sigh and began wiping her eyes again with her handkerchief.
Bao-yu had been in a highly emotional state when he came to see Dai-yu and it had further upset him to have inadvertently offended her so soon after his arrival.
This angry gesture and the unsuccessful struggle, ending in sighs and tears, to say what she wanted to say now affected him so deeply that he, too, began to weep.
In need of a handkerchief but finding that he had come out without one, he wiped his eyes on his sleeve.
Although Dai-yu was crying, the spectacle of Bao-yu using the sleeve of his brand-new lilac-coloured summer gown as a handkerchief had not escaped her, and while continuing to wipe her own eyes with one hand, she leaned over and reached with the other for the square of silk that was draped over the head-rest at the end of the bed.
She lifted it off and threw it at himall without uttering a word - then, once more burying her face in her own handkerchief, resumed her weeping.
Bao-yu picked up the handkerchief she had thrown him and hurriedly wiped his eyes with it.
When he had dried them, he drew up close to her again and took one of her hands in his own, smiling at her gently.
I dont know why you go on crying, he said.
I feel as if all my insides were shattered.
Come!
Lets go and see Grand mother together.
Dai-yu flung off his hand.
Take your hands off me!
Were not children any more.
You really cant go on mauling me about like this all the time.
Dont you understand anything?
Bravo!
The shouted interruption startled them both.
They spun round to look just as Xi-feng, full of smiles, came bustling into the room.
Grandmother has been grumbling away something awful she said.
She insisted that I should come over and see if you were both all right.
Oh, I said, theres no need to go and look, Grannie theyll have made it up by now without any interference from us.
So she told me I was lazy.
Well, here I amand of course its exactly as I said it would be.
I dont know.
I dont understand you two.
What is it you find to argue about?
For every three days that youre friends you must spend at least two days quarrelling.
You really are a couple of babies.
And the older you get, the worse you get.
Look at you now holding hands crying!
And a couple of days ago you were glaring at each other like fighting-cocks.
Come on!
Come with me to see Grandmother.
Lets put the old ladys mind at rest.
As she said this, she seized Dai-yus hand and began marching off with her.
Dai-yu turned back and called for her maids, but there was no response.
What do you want to call them for?
said Xi-feng.
Youve got me to wait on you, havent you?
She continued to walk away, still holding Dai-yu by the hand.
Bao-yu followed a little way behind.
They went out of the Garden and through into Grandmother Jias apartment.
I told you they could be left to themselves to make it up and that there was no need for you to worry, said Xi-feng to Grandmother Jia.
when they were all in the old ladys presence but you wouldnt believe me, would you?
You insisted on my going there to act the peacemaker.
Well, I went there and what did I find?
I found the two of them together apologizing to each other.
It was like the kite and the kestrel holding hands they were positively locked in a clinch!
No need of a peacemaker that I could see.
There was a burst of laughter from all present.
Bao-chai was among these, but Dai-yu slipped past her without speaking and took a seat next to Grandmother Jia.
Bao-yu, rather at a loss for something to say, turned to Bao-chai.
Im afraid I wasnt very well on your brothers birthday so apart from not giving him a present, I couldnt even make him a kotow this year.
Im afraid he may not have realized I was ill and thought that I was merely making excuses.
If you can spare a moment next time you see him, I do hope you will explain to him for me.
Bao-chai looked amused.
That seems a trifle excessive.
I am sure he would have felt uncomfortable about your kotowing to him, even if you had been able to come so Im quite sure he wouldnt have wanted you to come when you werent feeling well.
It would be rather unfriendly, surely, if cousins who see each other all the time were to start worrying about trifles like that?
Bao-yu smiled.
Well, as long as yon understand, thats all right But why arent you watching the players?
I cant stand the heat, said Bao-chai.
I did watch a couple of acts of something, but it was so hot that I couldnt stay any longer.
Unfortunately none of the guests showed any sign of going, so I had to pretend I was ill in order to get away.
Touch!
thought Bao-yu but he hid his embarrassment in a stupid laugh.
No wonder they compare you to Yang Gui-fei, cousin.
You are well-covered like her, and they always say that plump people fear the heat.
The colour flew into Bao-chais face.
An angry retort was on her lips, but she could hardly make it in front of company.
Yet reflection only made her angrier.
Eventually, after a scornful sniff or two, she said I may be like Yang Gui-fei in some respects, but I dont think there is much danger of my cousin becoming a Prime Minister.
It happened that just at that moment a very young maid called Prettikins jokingly accused Bao-chai of having hidden a fan she was looking for.
I know Miss Baos hidden it, she said, Come on, Miss!
Please let me have it, You be careful, said Bao-chai, pointing at the girl angrily and speaking with unwonted stridency.
When did you last see me playing games of this sort with anyone?
If there are other young ladies who are in the habit of romping about with you, you had better ask them.
Prettikins fled.
Bao-yu realized that he had once again given offence by speaking thoughtlessly and as this time it was in front of a lot of people, his embarrassment was correspondingly greater.
He turned aside in confusion and began talking nervously to someone else.
Bao-yus rudeness to Bao-chai had given Dai-yu secret satisfaction.
When Prettikins came in looking for her fan, she had been on the point of adding some facetiousness of her own at Bao-chais expense but Bao-chais brief explosion caused her to drop the prepared witticism and ask instead what play the two acts were from that Bao-chai said she had just been watching.
Bao-chai had observed the smirk on Dai-yus face and knew very well that Bao-yus rudeness must have pleased her.
The smiling answer she gave to Dai-yus question was therefore not without a touch of malice.
The play I saw was Li Kui Abuses Song Jiang and Afterwards Has to Say He Is Sorry.
Bao-yu laughed.
What a mouthful Surely, with all your learning, cousin, you must know the proper name of that play?
Its called The Abject Apology.
The Abject Apology?
said Bao-chai.
Well, no doubt you clever people know all there is to know about abject apology.
Im afraid its something I wouldnt know about.
Her words touched Bao-yu and Dai-yu on a sensitive spot, and by the time she had finished, they were both blushing hotly with embarrassment.
Xi-feng was insufficiently educated to have understood all these nuances, but by studying the speakers expressions she had formed a pretty good idea of what they were talking about.
Rather hot weather to be eating raw ginger, isnt it?
she asked.
No one present could understand what she meant.
No ones been eating raw ginger, they said.
Xi-feng affected great surprise and rubbed her cheek meaningfully with her hand If no ones been eating raw ginger, then why are they looking so hot and bothered?
At this Bao-yu and Dai-yu felt even more uncomfortable.
Bao-chai was about to add something, but seeing the abject look on Bao-yus face, she laughed and held her tongue.
None of the others present had understood what the four of them were talking about and treated these exchanges as a joke.
Shortly after this, when Bao-chai and Xi-feng had gone Out of the room, Dai-yu said to Bao-yu.
You see?
There are people even more dangerous to trifle with than I.
If I werent such a tongue-tied, slow-witted creature, you wouldnt get away with it quite so often, my friend.
Bao-yu was still smarting from Bao-chais testiness.
To be set upon now by Dai-yu as well seemed positively the last straw.
But though he wanted to reply, he knew how easily she would take offence and controlled himself with an effort.
Feeling in very low spirits, he left the room himself now and went off on his own.
It was the hottest part of the day.
Lunch had long been over, and in every apartment mistress and maids alike had succumbed to the lassitude of the hour.
As he sauntered slowly by, hands clasped behind his back, everywhere he went was hushed in the breathless silence of noon.
From the back of Grandmother Jias quartets he passed eastwards through the gallery that ended near the wall of Xi-fengs courtyard.
He went up to the gate, but it was closed, and remembering that it was her invariable custom when the weather was hot to take two whole hours off in the middle of the day for her siesta, he thought he had better not go in.
He continued, instead, through the corner gate that led into his parents courtyard.
On entering his mothers apartment, he found several maids dozing over their embroidery.
Lady Wang herself was lying on a summer-bed in the inner room, apparently fast asleep.
Her maid Golden, who was sitting beside her gently pounding her legs, also seemed half asleep, for her head was nodding and her half-closed eyes were blinking drowsily.
Bao-yu tiptoed up to her and tweaked an ear-ring.
She opened her eyes wide and saw that it was Bao-yu.
He smiled at her and whispered.
So sleepy?
Golden pursed her lips up in a smile, motioned to him with her hand to go away, and then closed her eyes again.
But Bao-yu lingered, fascinated.
Silently craning forward to make sure that Lady Wangs eyes were closed, he took a Fragrant Snow quencher from the embroidered pouch at his waist and popped it between Goldens lips.
Golden nibbled it dreamily without opening her eyes.
Shall I ask Her Ladyship to let me have you, so that we can be together?
he whispered jokingly.
Golden made no reply.
When she wakes up, Ill talk to her about it, he said.
Golden opened her eyes wide and gave him a little push.
Whats the hurry?
she said playfully.
Yours is yours, wherever it be, as they said to the lady when she dropped her gold comb in the well.
Havent you ever heard that saying?Ill tell you something to do, if you want a bit of fun.
Go into the little east courtyard and youll be able to catch Sunset and Huan together.
Who cares about them?
said Bao-yu.
Lets talk about us.
At this point Lady Wang sat bolt upright and dealt Golden a slap in the face.
Shameless little harlot!
she cried, pointing at bet wrath-fully.
Its you and your like who corrupt our innocent young boys.
Bao-yu had slipped silently away as soon as his mother sat up.
Golden, one of whose cheeks was now burning a fiery red, was left without a word to say.
The other maids, hearing that their mistress was awake, came hurrying into the room.
Silver!
said Lady Wang.
Go and fetch your mother.
I want her to take your sister Golden away.
Golden threw herself, weeping, upon her knees No, Your Ladyship, please!
Beat me and revile me as much as you like, but please, for pitys sake, dont send me away.
Ive been with Your Ladyship nigh on ten years now.
How can I ever hold up my head again if you dismiss me?
Lady Wang was not naturally unkind.
On the contrary, she was an exceptionally lenient mistress.
This was, in fact, the first time in her life that she had ever struck a maid.
But the kind of shamelessness of whichin her view - Golden had just been guilty was the one thing she had always most abhorred.
It was the uncontrollable anger of the morally Outraged that had caused her to strike Golden and call her names and though Golden now begged and pleaded, she refused to retract her dismissal.
When Goldens mother, old Mrs Bai, had eventually been fetched, the wretched girl, utterly crushed by her shame and humiliation, was led away.
But of bet no more.
Embarrassed by his mothers awakening, Bao-yu had slipped hurriedly into the Garden.
The burning sun was now in the height of heaven, the contracted shadows were concentrated darkly beneath the trees, and the stillness of noon, filled with the harsh trilling of cicadas, was broken by no human voice but as he approached the bamboo trellises of the rose-garden, a sound like a sup-pressed sob seemed to come from inside the pergola.
Uncertain what it was that he had heard, he stopped to listen.
Undoubtedly there was someone there.
This was the fifth month of the year, when the rambler roses are in fullest bloom.
Peeping through the fragrant panicles with which the pergola was smothered, he saw a girl crouching down on the other side of the trellis, scratching at the ground with one of those long, blunt pins that girls use for fastening their back hair with.
Can this be some silly maid come here to bury flowers like Frowner?
he wondered.
He was reminded of Zhuang-zis story of the beautiful Xi-shis ugly neighbour, whose endeavours to imitate the little frown that made Xi-shi captivating produced an aspect so hideous that people ran from her in terror.
The recollection of it made him smile.
This is imitating the Frowner with a vengeance, he thought, - if that is really what she is doing.
Not merely unoriginal, but downright disgusting!
Dont imitate Miss Lin, he was about to shout but a glimpse of the girls face revealed to him just in time that this was no maid, but one of the twelve little actresses from Pear-tree Court though which of them, since he had seen them only in their make-up on the stage, he was unable to make Out.
He stuck Out his tongue in a grimace and clapped a hand to his mouth.
Good job I didnt speak too soon, he thought.
Ive been in trouble twice already today for doing that, once with Frowner and once with Chai.
It only needs me to go and upset these twelve actresses as well and I shall be well and truly in the cart!
His efforts to identify the girl made him study her more closely.
It was curious that he should have thought her an imitator of Dai-yu, for she had much of Dai-yus ethereal grace in her looks the same delicate face and frail, slender body the same -1536 ... brows like hills in spring, And eyes like autumns limpid pools even the same little frown that had often made him compare Dai-yu with Xi-shi of the legend.
It was now quite impossible for him to tear himself away.
He watched her fascinated.
As he watched, he began to see that what she was doing with the pin was not scratching a hole to bury flowers in, but writing.
He followed the movements of her hand, and each vertical and horizontal stroke, each dot and hook that she made he copied with a finger on the palm of his hand.
Altogether there were eighteen strokes.
He thought for a moment.
The character he had just written in his hand was QIANG.
The name of the roses which covered the pergola contained the same character Qiang-wei.
The sight of the roses has inspired her to write a poem, he thought.
Probably shes just thought of a good couplet and wants to write it down before she forgets it or perhaps she has already composed several lines and wants to work on them a bit.
Lets see what she writes next.
The girl went on writing, and he followed the movements of her hand as before.
It was another QIANG.
Again she wrote, and again he followed, and again it was a QIANG.
It was as though she were under some sort of spell.
As soon as she had finished writing one QIANG she began writing another.
QIANG QIANG QIANG QIANG QIANG QIANG QIANG He must have watched her write several dozen QIANGs in succession.
He seemed to be as much affected by the spell on his side of the pergola as the girl herself was on hers, for his eyeballs continued to follow her pin long after he bad learned to anticipate its movements.
This girl must have something on her mind that she cannot tell anyone about to make her behave in this way, he thought.
One can see from her outward behaviour how much she must be suffering inwardly.
And she looks so frail.
Too frail for suffering.
I wish I could bear some of it for you, my dear!
In the stifling dog-days of summer the transition from clear to overcast is often sudden, and a little cloudlet can sometimes be the harbinger of a heavy shower.
As Bao-yu watched the girl, a sudden gust of cool wind blew by, followed, within moments, by the hissing downpour of rain.
He could see the water running off her head in streams and soaking into her clothes.
Oh, its raining!
With her delicate constitution she ought not to be outside in a downpour like this.
In his anxiety he cried out to her involuntarily Dont write any more.
Look!
Youre getting soaked.
The girl looked up, startled, when she heard the voice.
She could see someone amidst the roses saying Dont write but partly because of Bao-yus almost girlishly beautiful features, and partly because she could in any case only see about half of his face, everything above and below being hidden by flowers and foliage, she took him for a maid so instead of rushing from his presence as she would have done if she had known that it was Bao-yu, she smiled up at him gratefully Thank you for reminding me.
But what about you?
You must be getting wet too, surely ?
Aiyo!her words made him suddenly aware that the whole of his body was icy cold, and when he looked down, he saw that he was soaked.
Oh lord!
He rushed off in the direction of Green Delights but all the time he was worrying about the girl, who had nowhere where she could shelter from the rain.
As this was the day before the Double Fifth festival, lgante and the other little actresses including the one whom Bao-yu had just been watching - had already started their holiday and had gone into the Garden to amuse themselves.
Two of them, Trsorone of the two members of the company who played Principal Boy partsand Topazeone of the companys two soubretteshappened to be in the House of Green Delights playing with Aroma when the rain started and prevented their leaving.
They and the maids amused themselves by blocking up the gutters and letting the water collect in the courtyard.
When it was nicely flooded, they rounded up a number of mallards, sheldrakes, mandarin ducks and other waterfowl, tied their wings together, and having first closed die courtyard gate, set them down in the water to swim about.
Aroma and the girls were all in the outside gallery enjoying this spectacle when Bao-yu arrived at the gate.
Finding it shut, he knocked on it for someone to come and open up for him.
But there was little chance of a knock being heard above the excited laughter of the maids.
He had to shout for some minutes and pound the gate till it shook before anyone heard him inside.
Aroma was not expecting him back so soon.
I wonder who it can be at this time, she said.
Wont someone go and answer it?
Its me!
shouted Bao-yu.
Thats Miss Baos voice, said Musk.
Nonsense!
said Skybright.
What would she be doing visiting us at this time of day?
Let me just take a peep through the crack, said Aroma.
If I think its all right, Ill let them in.
We dont want to turn any-one away in the pouring rain.
Keeping under cover of the gallery, she made her way round to the gate and peered through the chink between the double doors.
The sight of Bao-yu standing there like a bedraggled hen with the water running off him in streamlets was both alarming andshe could not help but feel very funny.
She opened the gate as quickly as she could, then, when she saw him fully, clapped her hands and doubled up with laughter.
Master Bao!
I never thought it would be you.
What did you want to come running back in the pouring rain for?
Bao-yu was by now in a thoroughly evil temper and had fully resolved to give whoever opened the gate a few kicks.
As soon as it was open, therefore, he lashed out with his foot, not bothering to see who it wasfor he assumed that the person answering it would be one of the younger maidsand dealt Aroma a mighty kick in the ribs that caused her to cry out in pain.
Worthless lot!
he shouted.
Because I always treat you decently, you think you can get away with anything.
Im just your laughing-stock.
It was not until he looked down and saw Aroma crying that he realized he had kicked the wrong person.
Aiyo!
Its you!
Where did I kick you?
Up to this moment Aroma had never had so much as a harsh word from Bao-yu, and the combination of shame, anger and pain she now felt on being kicked and shouted at by him in front of so many people was well-nigh insupportable.
Nevertheless she forced herself to bear it, reflecting that to have made an outcry would be like admitting that it was her he had meant to kick, which she knew was almost certainly not the case.
You didnt you missed me, she said.
Come in and get changed.
When Bao-yu had gone indoors and was changing his clothes, he said to her jokingly In all these years this is the first time Ive ever struck anyone in anger.
Too bad that yon should have been the one to get in the way of the blow!
In spite of the pain, which it cost her some effort to master, Aroma was helping him with his changing.
She smiled when he said this.
Im the person you always begin things with, she said.
Whether its big things or little things or pleasant ones or unpleasant ones, its only natural that you should try them out first on me.
Only in this instance I hope that now youve hit me you wont from now on go around hitting other people.
I didnt mean to kick you, you know, said Bao-yu.
Who said you did?
said Aroma.
Its the younger ones who normally see to the gate and theyve grown so insolent nowadays, its enough to put anyone in a rage.
If youd given one of them a few kicks and put the fear of God into them, it would have been a very good thing.
No, it was my own silly fault.
I should have made them open the gate and not gone to open it myself.
While they were speaking, the rain had stopped and Tresor and Topaze had left.
The pain in Aromas side was such that it was giving her a feeling of nausea and she could eat no dinner.
At bedtime, when she took off her clothes, she saw a great black bruise the size of a rice-bowl spreading over the side of her chest.
The extent of it frightened her, but she forbore to cry out, Nevertheless even her dreams that night were full of pain and she several times uttered an Aiyo in the midst of her sleep.
Although it was understood that he had not kicked her deliberately, Bao-yu had felt a little uneasy when he saw how sluggish Aroma seemed in her movements and when, during the night, he heard her groaning in her sleep, he knew that he must have kicked her really hard.
Getting out of bed, he picked up a lamp and tiptoed over to have a look.
Just as he reached the foot of her bed, he heard her cough a couple of times and spit out a mouthful of something.
Aiyo!
She opened her eyes wide and saw Bao-yu.
Startled, she asked him what he was doing there.
-374 Youve been groaning in your sleep, he said.
I must have hurt you badly.
Let me have a look.
My head feels giddy, said Aroma, and Ive got a sweet, sickly taste in my throat.
Have a look on the floor.
Bao-yu shone his lamp on the floor.
Beside the bed, where she had spat, there was a mouthful of bright red blood.
He was horrified.
Oh, help!
Aroma looked too, and felt the grip of fear on her heart.
The outcome will he told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 31 A torn fan is the price of silver laughter And a lost kylin is the clue to a happy marriage A cold feat came over Aroma when she saw the fresh blood on the floor.
She had often heard people say that if you spat blood when you were young, you would die early, or at the very least be an invalid all your life and remembering this now, she felt all her bright, ambitious hopes for the future turn into dust and ashes.
Tears of misery ran down her cheeks.
The sight of them made Bao-yu, too, distressed.
what is it?
he asked her.
Its nothing.
She forced herself to smile.
Im all right.
Bao-yu was all for calling one of the maids and getting her to heat some rice wine, so that Aroma could be given hot wine and Hainan kids-blood pills but Aroma, smiling through her tears, caught at his hand to restrain him.
Its all right for you to make a fuss, she said but if you go involving the others, they are sure to accuse me of putting on airs.
And besides, it will do neither of us any good to draw attention to ourselvesespecially when so far no one seems to have noticed anything.
The sensible thing would be for you to send one of the boys round tomorrow to Dr Wangs and get me some medicine to take.
I shall probably be all right again after a few doses, without a single soul knowing any-thing about it.
Surely thats best, isnt it?
Bao-yu knew that she was right and abandoned his intention of rousing the others.
Instead he poured her a cup of tea from a pot on the table and gave it to her to rinse her mouth with.
Aroma was uneasy about being waited on by her master but fearing that if she refused his services he would insist on disturbing everybody, she lay back and allowed him to fuss over her.
As soon as it was daylight, Bao-yu threw on his clothes and, without even waiting to wash or comb, went out of the Garden to his study in the front part of the mansion, whither he summoned the doctor Wang Ji-ren for detailed questioning.
When this worthy had elicited the information that the haemorrhage inquired about had been caused by a blow, he seemed less disposed to take a serious view of the case, merely naming some pills and giving perfunctory instructions for taking them internally and for applying them in solution as a poultice.
Bao-yu made a note of these instructions and went back into the Garden to carry them Out.
But that is no part of our story.
It was now the festival of the Double Fifth.
Sprays of calamus and artemisia crowned the doorways and everyone wore tiger amulets fastened on their clothing at the back.
At noon Lady Wang gave a little party at which Aunt Xue and Bao-chai were the guests.
Bao-yu, finding Bao-chai somewhat glacial in her manner and evidently unwilling to talk to him, knew that it must be because of his rudeness to her of the day before.
Lady Wang, observing Bao-yus dejected appearance, attributed it to embarrassment about yesterdays episode with Golden and ignored him even more pointedly than Bao-chai.
Dai-yu, seeing how morose Bao-yu looked assumed that it was because Bao-chai was offended with him and, feeling resentful that he should care, at once became as morose as he was.
Xi-feng, having been told all about Bao-yu and Golden the night before by Lady Wang, could scarcely be her usual laugh mg and joking self when she knew of her aunts displeasure and, taking her cue from the latter, was if anything even more glacial than the others.
And Ying-chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun, seeing everyone else so uncomfortable, soon began to feel just as uncomfortable themselves.
The result was that after sitting for only a very short time, the party broke up.
Dai-yu had a natural aversion to gatherings, which she rationalized by saying that since the inevitable consequence of getting together was parting, and since parting made people feel lonely and feeling lonely made them unhappy, ergo it was better for them not to get together in the first place.
In the same way she argued that since the flowers, which give us so much pleasure when they open, only cause us a lot of extra sadness when they die, it would be better if they didnt come out at all.
Bao-yu was just the opposite.
He always wanted the party to go on for ever and flowers to be in perpetual bloom and when at last the party did end and the flowers did wither well, it was infinitely sad and distressing, but it couldnt be helped.
And so today, while everyone else left the party with feelings of gloom, Dai-yu alone was completely unaffected.
Bao-yu, on the other hand, returned to his room in a mood of black despondency, sighing and muttering as he went.
Unfortunately it was the sharp-tongued Skybright who came forward to help him change his clothes.
With provoking carelessness she dropped a fan while she was doing so and snapped the bone fan-sticks by accidentally treading on it.
Clumsy!
said Bao-yu reproachfully.
You wont be so careless with things when you have a household of your own.
Skybright gave a sardonic sniff.
Youre getting quite a temper lately, Master Bao.
Almost every time we move nowadays we get a nasty look from you.
Yesterday even Aroma caught it.
Today youre finding fault with me, so I suppose I can expect a few kicks too.
Well, kick away.
But I must say, I shouldnt have thought treading on a fan was such a very terrible thing to do.
In the past any number of glass bowls and agate cups have got broken without your turning a hair.
Why this fuss about a fan, then?
If youre not satisfied with my service, you ought to dismiss me and get someone better.
Easy come, easy go.
No need for beating about the bush.
By the time she had finished, Bao-yu was so angry that he was shaking all over.
Youll go soon enough, dont you worry 1 he said.
Aroma had heard all this from the adjoining room and now came hurrying in.
Now whats all this about?
she said, addressing herself to Bao-yu.
Didnt I tell you?
As soon as I turn my back theres trouble.
If you knew that already, said Skybright, its a pity you couldnt have come in a bit sooner and saved me from provoking him.
Of course, we all know that youre the only one who knows how to serve him properly.
None of the rest of us knows how its done.
I suppose its because you serve him so well that he gave you a kick in the ribs yesterday.
Heaven knows what hes got in store for me for having served him so badly!
Angry, and at the same time ashamed, Aroma was about to retort but the sight of Bao-yus face, now white with anger, made her restrain herself.
Be a good girl just go away and play for a bit.
Its we who are in the wrong.
Skybright naturally assumed that we meant Aroma and Bao-yu.
Her jealousy was further inflamed.
What do you mean, we?
she said, You two make me feel ashamed for you, you really do because you neednt think you deceive me.
I know what goes on between you when you think no one is looking.
But when alls said and done, in actual fact, when you come down to it, youre not even a Miss by rights.
By rights youre no better than any of the rest of us.
I dont know where you get this we from.
Aroma blushed and blushed with shame, until her face had become a dusky red colour.
Too late she realized her slip.
By we she had meant no more than you and I not Bao-yu and I as Skybright imagined.
But the pronoun had invited misunderstanding.
It was Bao-yu who retorted, however.
Ill make her a Miss then Ill make her my chamber-wife tomorrow, if thats all thats worrying you.
You can spare your jealousy on that account.
Aroma seized his hand impulsively.
Dont argue with her, shes only a silly girl.
In any case, youve put up with much worse than this in the past why be so touchy today?
Skybright gave a harsh little laugh.
Oh, yes.
Im too stupid to talk to.
Im only a slave.
Are you arguing with me, Miss, or with Master Bao?
said Aroma.
If its me youve got it in for, youd better address your remarks to me elsewhere.
Theres no cause to go quarrelling with me in front of Master Bao.
But if its Master Bao you want to quarrel with, then at least you might do it a bit more quietly and not let everyone else know about it.
When I came in just now, it was for everyones sake, so that we could have a bit of peace and quiet.
I dont know why you had to turn on me and start picking on my shortcomings.
It seems as if you cant make up your mind whether youre angry with me or with Master Bao.
Slipping in a dig here and a dig there.
I dont know what you think youre up to.
Anyway, I shant say any more Ill just leave you here to get on with it.
She walked out.
Theres no need for you to be so angry, Bao-yu said to Skybright.
I can guess what it is thats bothering you.
I shall go and tell Her Ladyship that youre old enough to leave us now and ask her to send you away.
Thats what you really want, isnt it?
I dont want to go away.
Why should I want to go away?
said Skybright with tears in her eyes now more upset than ever, Youre inventing this as a means of getting rid of me, arent you, because Im in your way?
But you wont get away with it.
Look, Ive never had to put up with scenes like this before, said Bao-yu.
What other reason can there be but that you want to leave?
I really think I had better go and see Her Ladyship about this.
He got up and began to go but Aroma came in again and barred his way.
Where are you off to?
she asked him smilingly.
To see Her Ladyship.
Oh, thats silly, said Aroma.
I wonder youre not ashamed to.
Even if Skybright really does want to leave, there will be plenty of time to tell Her Ladyship about it when everyone has cooled down a bit and you are feeling calm and collected.
If you go rushing off in your present state, Her Ladyship will suspect something.
Her Ladyship wont suspect anything, said Bao-yu.
I shall tell her quite openly that Skybright has been agitating to leave.
When have I ever agitated to leave?
said Skybright, weeping now in earnest.
Even if youre angry with me, you ought not to twist things round in order to get the better of me.
But you go and tell her!
I dont care if I have to beat my own brains out, Im not going out of that door.
Now thats really strange, said Bao-yu.
You dont want to go, yet at the same time you wont keep quiet.
Its no good I really cant stand this quarrelling.
I shall really hare to see Her Ladyship about this and get it over with.
This time he seemed quite determined to go.
Seeing that she was unable to hold him back, Aroma went down on her knees.
Emerald, Ripple, Musk and the other maids, aware that a quarrel of more than usual magnitude was going on inside, were waiting together outside in breathless silence.
when word reached them that Aroma was now on her knees interceding for Skybright, they came silently trooping in to kneel down behind her.
Bao-yu raised Aroma to her feet, sighed, sat down on the edge of the bed, and told the other maids to get up.
What do you want me to do?
be asked Aroma.
My heart is destroyed inside me, but none of you knows Or cares.
Tears started from his eyes and rolled down his cheeks unheeded.
Seeing his tears, Aroma too began to cry.
Skybright, who stood crying beside them, was about to say something but just at that moment Dai-yu walked in and she slipped outside.
Dai-yu beamed at the weeping pair Crying on a holiday?
whats all this about?
Have you been quarrelling over the rice-cakes?
Bao-yu and Aroma both burst Out laughing.
Well, if Cousin Bao wont tell me, she went on, 1m sure that you will.
Come!
she said, slapping Aroma familiarly on the shoulder.
Tell sis all about it.
Its obvious that the two of you have been having an argument.
Tell me what its all about and Ill make it up between you.
Oh, Miss!
Aroma gave her a push.
Dont carry on so!
Im only a maid you shouldnt say such things to me.
Only a maid?
said Dai-yu.
I always think of you as my sister-in-law.
Dont you see that youre simply encouraging people to be nasty to her ?
Bao-yu protested.
Even as it is, people already gossip about her.
How can she stand up to them if you come along and lend your weight to what they are saying?
You dont know what I feel, Miss, said Aroma.
If I only knew how to stop breathing, Id gladly die.
Dai-yu smiled.
If you were to die, I dont know about anyone else, but I know that I should die of grief.
I should become a monk, said Bao-yu.
Try to be a bit more serious, said Aroma.
You and Miss Lin are both laughing at me.
Dai-yu held up two fingers and looked at Bao-yu with a quizzical expression.
Thats twice youre going to become a monk.
From now on Im keeping the score.
Bao-yu recognized the allusion to what he had said to her the day before.
Fortunately he was able to pass it off with a laugh.
Shortly after that, Dai-yu left them.
No sooner had Dai-yu gone than someone arrived with an invitation from Xue Pan.
Bao-yu thought that this time he had better go.
It turned out to be only a drinking-party, but Xue Pan refused to release him and kept him there until it was over.
He returned home in the evening more than a little drunk.
As he came lurching into his courtyard, he saw that someone in quest of coolness had taken a bed outside and was lying down on it asleep.
Assuming that it must be Aroma, he sat down on the edge of it and gave her a push.
Is the pain any better?
Cant you leave me alone?
she said, rising up wrathfully.
He looked again and saw that it was not Aroma after all but Skybright.
Taking her by the hand, he drew her down on the bed beside him.
Youre getting so self-willed, he said laughingly.
when you trod on that fan this morning, I only made a harmless little remark, but look how you flew up in the air about it!
And then when Aroma, out of the kindness of her heart, tried to reason with you, look how you pitched into her!
Seriously, now, dont you think it was all a bit uncalled-for?
Im so hot, said Skybright.
Do you have to maul me about like this?
Suppose someone were to see us?
Anyway, its not right for me to be sitting here.
If you know its not right to be sitting here, he said teasingly, what were you doing lying down?
Che-e-e!
Unable at once to reply, she gave a little laugh.
Then she said When you are not here it doesnt matter.
Its your being here that makes it wrong.
Anyway, let me get up now, because I want to have a bath.
Aroma and Musk have had theirs already.
Ill send them out to you.
Ive just had rather a lot to drink and I could do with a bath myself, said Bao-yu.
As you havent had yours yet, bring the water out here and well have a bath together.
Skybright laughed and declined with a vigorous gesture of her hand.
Oh no!
I darent start you off on that caper.
I still remember that time you got Emerald to help you bath.
You must have been two or three hours in there, so that we began to get quite worried.
We didnt like to go in while you were there, but when we did go in to have a look afterwards, we found water all over the floor, pools of water round the legs of the bed, and even the mat on the bed had water splashed all over it.
Heaven only knows what youd been up to.
We laughed about it for days afterwards.
I havent got time to fetch that amount of water.
And in any case, you dont want to go taking baths with me.
As a matter of fact its cooler now, so I dont think I shall have a bath after all.
why dont you let me fetch you a bowl of water so that you can have a nice wash and comb your hair?
Faithful just sent a lot of fruit round and weve got it soaking in iced water in the big glass bowl Ill tell them to bring some out to you, shall I?
All right, said Bao-yu.
If youre not having a bath your-self, Ill just wash my hands and you can get me some of that fruit to eat.
Skybright smiled.
Youve already told me once today how clumsy I am.
I cant even drop a fan without treading on it.
So Im much too clumsy to get your fruit for you.
Suppose I were to break a plate.
That would be terrible!
If you want to break it, by all means break it, said Bao-yu.
These things are there for our use.
what we use them for is a matter of individual taste.
For example, fans are made for fanning with but if you prefer to tear them up because it gives you pleasure, theres no reason why you shouldnt.
What you mustnt do is to use them as objects to vent your anger on.
Its the same with plates and cups.
Plates and cups are made to put food and drink in.
But if you want to smash them on purpose because you like the noise, its perfectly all right to do so.
As long as you dont get into a passion and start taking it Out on things that is the golden rule.
All right then, said Skybright with a mischievous smile.
Give me your fan to tear.
I love the sound of a fan being torn.
Bao-yu held it out to her.
She took it eagerly and chah!
promptly tore it in half.
And again chah!
Chah!
chah!
she tore it several more times.
Bao-yu, an appreciative onlooker, laughed and encouraged her.
Well torn!
Well torn!
Now again - a really loud one!
Just then Musk appeared.
She stared at them indignantly.
Dont do that!
she said.
Its wicked to waste things like that.
But Bao-yu leaped up to her, snatched the fan from her hand, and passed it to Skybright, who at once tore it into several pieces.
The two of them, Bao-yu and Skybright, then burst into uproarious laughter.
What do you think youre doing?
said Musk.
Thats my fan youve just ruined.
Whats an old fan?
said Bao-yu.
Open up the fan box and get yourself another.
If thats your attitude, said Musk, we might as well carry Out the whole boxful and let her tear away to her hearts content.
All right.
Go and get it, said Bao-yu.
And be born a beggar in my next life?
said Musk.
No thank you I She hasnt broken her arm.
Let her go and get it herself.
Skybright stretched back on the bed, smiling complacently.
Im rather tired just now.
I think I shall tear some more tomorrow.
Bao-yu laughed.
The ancients used to say that for one smile of a beautiful woman a thousand taels are well spent.
For a few old fans its cheap at the price!
He called to Aroma, who had just finished changing into clean clothes, to come outside and join them.
Little Melilot came and cleared away the broken bits of fan, and everyone sat for a while and enjoyed the cool.
But our narrative supplies no further details of that evening.
-1344 About noon next day, while Lady Wang, Bao-chai, Dai-yu and the girls were sitting in Grandmother Jias room, someone came in to announce that Miss Shi had arrived.
Shortly afterwards Shi Xiang-yun appeared in the courtyard, attended by a bevy of matrons and maids.
Bao-chai, Dai-yu and the rest hurried out to the foot of the steps to welcome her.
For young girls like the cousins a reunion after a mere months separation is an occasion for touching demonstrations of affection.
After these initial transports, when they were all indoors and the greetings, introductions and salutations had been completed, Grandmother Jia suggested that, as the weather was so hot, Xiang-yun should remove her Outer garments.
Xiang-yun rose to her feet with alacrity and divested herself of one or two layers.
Lady Wang was amused.
Gracious, child!
What a lot you have on!
I dont think Ive ever seen anyone wearing so much.
Its my Aunt Shi who makes me wear it all, said Xiang yun.
You wouldnt catch me wearing this stuff if I didnt have to.
You dont know our Xiang-yun, Aunt, Bao-chai interposed.
Shes really happiest in boys clothes.
That time she was here in the third or fourth month last year, I remember one day she dressed up in one of Bao-yus gowns and put a pair of his boots on and one of his belts round her waist.
At first glance she looked exactly like Cousin Bao.
It was only the ear-rings that gave her away.
When she stood behind that chair over there, Grandmother was completely taken in.
She said, Bao-yu, come over here!
Youll get the dust from that hanging lamp in your eyes if youre not careful.
But Xiang-yun just smiled and didnt move.
It was only when everyone couldnt hold it in any longer and started laughing that Grand-mother realized who it was and joined in the laugh.
She told her that she made a very good4ooking boy.
Thats nothing, said Dai-yu.
What about that time last year when she came to stay for a couple of days with us in the first month and it snowed?
Grandma and Auntie Wang had just got back from somewhereI think it was from visiting the ancestors portraitsand she saw Grandmas new scarlet felt rain-cape lying there and put it on when no one was looking.
Of course, it was much too big and much too long for her, so she hitched it up and tied it round her waist with a sash and went out like that into the back courtyard to help the maids build a snowman.
And then she slipped over in it and got covered all over with mud The others all laughed at the recollection.
Bao-chai asked Xiang-yuns nurse, Mrs Zhou, whether Xiang-yun was still as tomboyish as ever.
Nurse Zhou laughed but said nothing.
I dont mind her being tomboyish, said Ying-chun, but I do wish she wasnt such a chatterbox.
You wouldnt believe Iteven when shes in bed at night it still goes on.
Jabber-jabber, jabber-jabber.
Then she laughs.
Then she talks a bit more.
Then she laughs again.
And you never heard such a lot of rubbish in your life, I dont know where she gets it all from.
Well, perhaps shell have got over that by now, said Lady Wang.
I hear that someone was round the other day to talk about a betrothal.
Now that theres a future mother-in-law to think about, she cant be quite as tomboyish as she used to be.
Are you staying this time, or do you have to go back tonight?
asked Grandmother Jia.
Your Old Ladyship hasnt seen all the clothes shes brought, said Nurse Zhou.
Shell be staying two days here at the very least.
Isnt Bao at home?
said Xiang-yun.
Listen to her!
said Bao-chai.
Cousin Bao is the only one she thinks about.
He and she get on well together because they are both fond of mischief.
You can see she hasnt really changed.
Perhaps now that youre getting older you had better stop using baby-names, said Grandmother Jia, reminded by the talk of betrothal that her babies were rapidly turning into grown-ups.
Just then Bao-yu came in.
Ah!
Hallo, Yun!
Why didnt you come when we sent for you the other day?
Grandmother has just this moment been saying that it is time you all stopped using baby-names, said Lady Wang.
I must say, this isnt a very good beginning.
Our cousin has got something nice to give you, said Dai-yu to Xiang-yun.
Oh?
what is it?
said Xiang-yun.
Dont believe her, said Bao-yu.
Goodness!
Its no time since you were here last, but you seem to have grown taller already.
Xiang-yun laughed.
Hows Aroma?
Shes fine.
Thank you for asking.
Ive brought something for her, said Xiang-yun.
She produced a knotted-up silk handkerchief.
What treasure have you got wrapped up in there?
said Bao-yu.
The best present you could have brought Aroma would have been a couple of those cheap agate rings like the ones you sent us the other day.
What are these, then?
With a triumphant smile she opened her little bundle and revealed four rings, each inset with the veined red agate they had so much admired on a previous occasion.
What a girl!
said Dai-yu.
These are exactly the same as the ones you sent us the other day by messenger.
why didnt you get him to bring these too and save yourself some trouble?
I thought you must have got some wonderful rarity tied up in that handkerchief, seeing that youd gone to all the trouble of bringing it here yourselfand all the time it was only a few more of those!
You really are rather a silly.
Thilly yourthelf!
said Xiang-yun.
The others can decide which of us is the silly one when I have explained my reason.
If I send things for you and the girls, its assumed that they are for you without the messenger even needing to say anything but if I send things for any of the maids, I have to explain very carefully to the messenger which ones I mean.
Now if the messenger is someone intelligent, thats all right but if its someone not so bright who has difficulty in remembering names, theyll probably make such a mess of it that theyll get not only the maids presents mixed up, but yours as well.
Then again, if the messenger is a woman, its not so bad but the other day it was one of the boys - and you know how hopeless they are over girls names.
So you see, I thought it would be simpler if I delivered the maids ones myself.
There!she laid the rings down one after another on the tableOne for Aroma one for Faithful one for Golden and one for Patience.
Can you imagine one of the boys getting those four names right ?
The others laughed.
Clever!
Clever!
they said.
Youre always so eloquent, said Bao-yu.
No one else gets a chance.
If she werent so eloquent, she wouldnt be worthy of the gold kylin, said Dai-yu huffily, rising from her seat and walking off as she spoke.
Fortunately no one heard her but Ban-chai, who made a laughing grimace, and Bao-yu, who immediately regretted having once more spoken out of turn, but who, suddenly catching sight of Bao-chais expression, could not help laughing himself.
Seeing him laugh, Bao-chai at once rose from her seat and hurried off to joke with Dai-yu.
When youve finished your tea and rested a bit, said Grandmother Jia to Xiang-yun, you can go and see your married cousins.
After that, you can amuse yourself in the Garden with the girls.
Its nice and cool there.
Xiang-yun thanked her grandmother.
She wrapped up three of the rings again, and after sitting a little longer, went off, attended by her nannies and maids, to call on Wang Xi-feng.
After chatting a while with her, she went into the Garden and called on Li Wan.
Then, after sitting a short while with Li Wan, she went off in the direction of Green Delights in quest of Aroma.
Before doing so, however, she turned to dismiss her escort.
You neednt stay with me any longer, she said.
You can go off now and visit your relations.
Ill just keep Fishy to wait on me.
The others thanked her and went off to look for various kith and kin, leaving Xiang-yun alone with Kingfisher.
Why arent these water-lilies out yet?
said Kingfisher.
It isnt time for them yet, said Xiang-yun.
Look, theyre going to be double-decker ones, like the ones in our lily-pond at home, said Kingfisher.
Our ones are better, said Xiang-yun.
Theyve got a pomegranate-tree here which has four or five lots of flowers growing one above the other on each branch, said Kingfisher.
Thats a double-double-double-decker.
I wonder what makes them grow like that.
Plants are the same as people, said Xiang-yun.
The healthier their constitution is, the better they grow.
I dont believe that, said Kingfisher with a toss of her head.
If that were so, why dont we see people walking around with one head growing on top of the other?
Xiang-yun was unable to avoid laughing at the girls simplicity.
Ive told you before, you talk too much, she said.
Lets see how can one answer a question like that?
Everything in the world is moulded by the forces of Yin and Yang.
That means that, besides the normal, the abnormal, the peculiar, the freakishin fact all the thousands and thousands of different variations we find in thingsare caused by different combinations of Yin and Yang.
Even if something appears that is so rare that no one has ever seen it before, the principle is still the same.
So according to what you say, said Kingfisher, all the things that have ever existed, from the time the world began right up to the present moment, have just been a lot of Yins and Yangs.
No, stupid!
said Xiang-yun.
The more you say, the sillier you get.
Just a lot of Yins and Yangs indeed!
In any case, strictly speaking Yin and Yang are not two things but one and the same thing.
By the time the Yang has become exhausted, it is Yin and by the time the Yin has become exhausted, it is Yang.
It isnt a case of one of them coming to an end and then the other one growing out of nothing.
Thats too deep for me, said Kingfisher.
What sort of thing is a Yin-yang, Id like to know?
No ones ever seen one.
You just answer that, Miss.
What does a Yin-yang look like?
Yin-yang is a sort of force, said Xiang-yun.
Its the force in things that gives them their distinctive forms.
For example, the sky is Yang and the earth is Yin water is Yin and fire is Yang the sun is Yang and the moon is Yin.
Ah yes!
Now I understand, said Kingfisher happily.
Thats why astrologers call the sun the Yang star and the moon the Yin star.
Holy name!
said Xiang-yun.
She understands.
Thats not so difficult, said Kingfisher.
But what about things like mosquitoes and fleas and midges and plants and flowers and bricks and tiles?
Surely you are not going to say that they are all Yin-yang too?
Certainly they are!
said Xiang-yun.
Take the leaf of a tree, for example.
Thats divided into Yin and Yang.
The side facing upwards towards the sky is Yang the underside, facing towards the ground, is Yin.
Kingfisher nodded.
I see.
Yes.
I can understand that.
But take these fans we are holding.
Surely they dont have Yin and Yang?
Yes they do.
The front of the fan is Yang the back of the fan is Yin.
Kingfisher nodded, satisfied.
She tried to think of some other object to ask about, but being for the moment unable to, she began looking around her for inspiration.
As she did so, her eye chanced to light on the gold kylin fastened in the intricate loopings of her mistresss girdle.
Well, Miss, she said, pointing triumphantly to the kylin, youre not going to say that thats got Yin and Yang?
Certainly.
In the case of birds and beasts the males are Yang and the females are Yin.
Is this a daddy one or a mummy one?
said Kingfisher.
A daddy one or a mummy one!
Silly girl!
All right, then, said Kingfisher.
But why is it that every-thing else has Yin and Yang but we havent?
Get along with you, naughty girl!
What subject wilt you get on to next?
Why?
Why cant you tell me?
said Kingfisher.
Anyway, I know so theres no need for you to be so nasty to me.
Xiang-yun suppressed a giggle.
Youre Yang and Im Yin, said Kingfisher.
Xiang-yun held her handkerchief to her mouth and laughed Well, thats right, isnt it?
said Kingfisher.
What are you laughing at?
Yes, yes, said Xiang-yun.
Thats quite right.
Thats what they always say, said Kingfisher the master is Yang and the servant is Yin.
Even I can understand that principle.
Im sure you can, said Xiang-yun.
Very good.
While they were talking, a glittering golden object at the foot of the rose pergola caught Xiang-yuns eye.
She pointed it out to Kingfisher.
Go and see what it is, Kingfisher bounded over and picked it up.
Ah ha!
she said, examining the object in her hand.
Now we shall be able to see whether its Yin or Yang.
She took hold of the kylin fastened to Xiang-yuns girdle and held it up to look at it more closely.
Xiang-yun wanted to see what it was that she held in her hand, but Kingfisher wouldnt let her.
Its my treasure, she said with a laugh.
I wont let you see it, Miss.
Funny, though.
I wonder where it came from.
Ive never seen anyone here wearing it.
Come on!
Let me look, said Xiang-yun.
There you are, Miss!
Kingfisher opened her hand.
Xiang-yun looked.
It was a beautiful, shining gold kylin, both larger and more ornate than the one she was wearing.
Reaching out and taking it from Kingfisher, she held it on the palm of her hand and contemplated it for some moments in silence.
Whatever reverie the contemplation inspired was broken by the sudden arrival of Bao-yu.
What are you doing, standing out here in the blazing sun?
he asked her.
Why dont you go and see Aroma?
We were on our way, said Xiang-yun, hurriedly concealing the gold kylin.
The three of them entered the courtyard of Green Delights together.
Aroma had gone outside to take the air and was leaning on the verandah railings at the foot of the front door steps.
As soon as she caught sight of Xiang-yun, she hurried down into the courtyard to welcome her, and taking her by the hand, led her into the house, animatedly exchanging news with her as they went.
You should have come sooner, said Bao-yu when they were indoors and Aroma had made Xiang-yun take a seat.
Ive got something nice for you here and Ive been waiting for you to come so that I could give it to you.
He had been hunting through his pockets as he said this.
Not finding what he was searching for, he exclaimed in surprise.
Aiyo!
He turned to Aroma.
Have you put it away somewhere ?
Put what away?
That little kylin I got the other day.
Youve been carrying it around with you everywhere, said Aroma.
Why ask me about it?
Bao-yu clapped his hands together in vexation.
Oh, Ive lost it!
Wherever am I going to look for it?
He got up to begin searching.
Xiang-yun now realized that it must have been Bao-yu who dropped the kylin she had only a few minutes earlier discovered outside.
Since when have you had a kylin?
she asked him.
Oh, several days now, said Bao-yu.
What a shame!
Ill never get another one like that.
And the trouble is, I dont know when I can have lost it.
Oh dear!
How stupid of me!
Its only an ornament youre getting so upset about, said Xiang-yun.
What a good job it wasnt something more serious!
She opened her hand Look!
Is that it?
Bao-yu looked and saw, with extravagant delight, that it was.
The remainder of this episode will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 32 Bao-yu demonstrates confusion of mind by making his declaration to the wrong person And Golden shows an unconquerable spirit by ending her humiliation in death OUR last chapter told of Bao-yus delight at seeing the gold kylin again.
He reached out eagerly and took it from Xiang-yuns hand.
Fancy your finding it!
he said.
How did you come to pick it up?
Its a good job it was only this you lost, she said.
One of these days it will be your seal of officeand then it wont be quite so funny.
Oh, losing ones seal of office is nothing, said Bao-yu.
Losing a thing like this is much more serious.
Aroma meanwhile was pouring tea.
I heard your good news the other day, she said, handing Xiang-yun a cup.
Congratulations!
Xiang-yun bent low over the cup to hide her blushes and made no reply.
Why so bashful, Miss?
said Aroma.
Have you forgotten the things you used to tell me at night all those years ago, when we used to sleep together in the little closet-bed at Her Old Ladyships?
You werent very bashful then.
What makes you so bashful with me now, all of a sudden?
Xiang-yuns face became even redder.
She gave a forced little laugh.
Whos talking?
That was a time when you and I were very close to each other.
Then I had to go back home when my uncles first wife died and you were given Cousin Bao to look after, and I dont know why, but whenever I came back here after that, you seemed somehow changed towards me.
It was now Aromas turn to blush and protest.
When you first came to live here it was Pearl dear this and Pearl dear that all the time.
You were always coaxing me to do things for youdo your hair, wash your face, or I dont know what.
But now thats all changed.
Now youre the young lady, arent you?
You cant act the young lady with me and expect me to stay on the same familiar terms as before.
Holy name!
said Xiang-yun, now genuinely indignant.
Thats tho unfair.
I wish I may die if I ever acted the young lady with you, as you put it.
I come here in this frightful heat, and the very first person I want to see when I get here is you.
Ask Fishy if you dont believe me.
She can tell you.
At home Im always going on about you.
Aroma and Bao-yu both laughed.
Dont take it to heart so, it was only a joke.
You shouldnt be so excitable.
Dont, whatever you do, admit that what you said was wounding, said Xiang-yun.
Say Im excitable and put me in the wrong!
While she said this, she was undoing the knotted silk hand-kerchief and extracting one of the three rings from it.
She handed it to Aroma.
Aroma was greatly touched.
Ive got one like this already, she said.
It was given to me when you sent those ones the other day to the young ladies.
But fancy your bringing this one here specially!
Now I know you havent forgotten me.
Its little things like this that show you what a person really is.
The ring itself isnt worth much, I know.
Its the thought behind it.
Who gave you the one youve already got?
said Xiang-yun.
Miss Bao, said Aroma.
Ah, said Xiang-yun, Miss Bao.
And I was thinking it must have been Miss Lin.
Often when Im at home I think to myself that of all my cousins Bao-chai is the one I like best.
Its a pity we couldnt have been born of the same mother.
With her for an elder sister it wouldnt matter so much being an orphan.
Her eyelids reddened as she said this and she seemed to be on the verge of tears.
Now, now, now!
said Bao-yu.
Dont say things like that.
And why not?
said Xiang-yun.
Oh, I know your trouble.
Youre afraid that Cousin Lin might hear and get angry with me again for praising Cousin Bao.
Thats whats worrying you, isnt it?
Aroma giggled.
Oh Miss Yun!
Youre just as outspoken as you used to be.
Well, Ive said that you lot are difficult to talk to, said Bao-yu, and I was certainly right!
Dont make me sick, said Xiang-yun.
You say what you like to us.
Its with your Cousin Lin that you have to be so careful.
Never mind about that, said Aroma.
Joking apart, now I want to ask you a favour.
What is it?
said Xiang-yun.
Ive got a pair of slipper-tops here that Ive already cut the openwork pattern in, but as I havent been very well this last day or two, I havent been able to sew them on to the backing material.
Do you think youd have time to do them for me ?
Thats rather a strange request, said Xiang-yun.
Quite apart from all the clever maids this household employs you have your own full4ime tailors and embroiderers.
Why ask me to do your sewing?
You could give it to anyone here you liked.
They could hardly refuse you.
You cant be serious, said Aroma.
None of the sewing in this room is allowed to go outside.
Surely you knew that?
Xiang-yun inferred from this that the slippers in question were for Bao-yu.
Oh well, she said, in that case I suppose Id better do them for you.
On one condition, though Ill do them if they are for you to wear, but if they are for anyone else, Im afraid I cant.
Get along with you!
said Aroma.
Ask you to make slippers for me?
I wouldnt have the nerve.
No, Ill be honest with you, theyre not for me.
Never mind who theyre for.
Just tell yourself that Im the one youll be doing the favour.
It isnt that, said Xiang-yun.
In the past Ive done lots of things for you.
Surely you must know what makes me unwilling now?
Im sorry, I dont, said Aroma.
What about the person who got in a temper the other day when that fan-case I made for you was compared with hers and cut it up with a pair of scissors?
I heard all about that, so dont start protesting.
If you expect me to do sewing for you after that, youre just treating me as your drudge.
I didnt know at the time it was you who made it, Bao-yu put in hurriedly.
He really didnt, said Aroma.
I pretended there was someone outside wed just discovered who could do very fine and original needlework.
I told him Id got them to do that fan-case for him as a sample.
He believed what I said and went around showing it to everyone.
Unfortunately while he was doing this he upset you know who and she took a pair of scissors and cut it in pieces.
Afterwards he was very anxious to have some more work done by the same person, so I had to tell him who it really was.
He was very upset when he heard that it was you.
I still think this is a very strange request, said Xiang-yun.
If Miss Lin can cut things up, she can sew them for him, too.
Why not ask her to do them for you?
Oh, she wouldnt want to do them, said Aroma.
And even if she did, Her Old Ladyship wouldnt let her, for fear of her tiring herself.
The doctors say she needs rest and quiet.
I wouldnt want to trouble her with them.
Last year she took practically the whole year embroidering one little purse, and this last six months I dont think shes picked up a needle.
Their conversation was interrupted by a servant with a message Mr Jia of Rich Street is here.
The Master says will Master Bao receive him, please?
Recognizing the Mr Jia of the message as Jia Yu-cun, Bao-yu was more than a little vexed.
While Aroma hurried off for his going-out clothes, he sat pulling his boots on and grumbling.
Hes got Father to talk to, surely thats enough for him?
Why does he always have to see me?
Xiang-yun laughed at his disgruntlement Im sure youre very good at entertaining people, she said.
Thats why Sir Zheng asks you to see him.
That message didnt come from Father, said Bao-yu.
Hell have made it up himself.
When the host is refined, the callers are frequent, said Xiang-yun.
There must be something about you that has impressed him, otherwise he wouldnt want to see you.
I make no claim to being refined, thanks all the same, said Bao-yu.
Im as common as dirt.
And furthermore I have no wish to mix with people of his sort.
Youre incorrigible, said Xiang-yun.
Now that youre older, you ought to be mixing with these officials and administrators as much as you can.
Even if you dont want to take the Civil Service examinations and become an administrator yourself, you can learn a lot from talking to these people about the way the Empire is governed and the people who govern it that will stand you in good stead later on, when you come to manage your own affairs and take your place in society.
You might even pick up one or two decent, respectable friends that way.
Youll certainly never get anywhere if you spend all your time with us girls.
Bao-yu found such talk highly displeasing.
I think perhaps youd better go and sit in someone elses room, he said.
I wouldnt want a decent, respectable young lady like you to get contaminated.
Dont try reasoning with him, Miss, Aroma put in hurriedly.
Last time Miss Bao tried it, he was just as rude to her.
No consideration for her feelings whatever.
He just said Hai!, picked up his heels, and walked out of the room, leaving her still half-way through her sentence.
Poor Miss Bao I She was so embarrassed she turned bright red.
She didnt know what to say.
A good job it was her, though, and not Miss Lin.
If it had been Miss Lin, thered have been weeping and carrying on and I dont know what.
I really admire the way Miss Bao behaved on that occasion.
She just stood there a while collecting herself and then walked quietly out of the room.
Myself, I was quite upset, thinking she must be offended.
But not a bit of it.
Next time she came round, it was just as if nothing had happened.
A real little lady, Miss Baoand generous-hearted, too.
And yet the funny thing is that his lordship seems to have fallen out with her, whereas Miss Lin, who is always getting on her high horse and ignoring him, has him running round and apologizing to her all the time.
Have you ever heard Miss Lin talking that sort of stupid rubbish?
said Bao-yu.
Id long since have fallen out with her if she did.
Aroma and Xiang-yun shook their heads pityingly.
So thats stupid rubbish, is it?
they said, laughing.
Dai-yu tightly surmised that now Xiang-yun had arrived, Bao-yu would lose no time in telling her about his newly acquired kylin.
Now Dai-yu had observed that in the romances which Bao-yu smuggled in to her and of which she was nowadays an avid consumer, it was always some trinket or small object of clothing or jewellery a pair of lovebirds, a male and female phoenix, a jade ring, a gold buckle, a silken handkerchief, an embroidered belt or what notthat brought the heroes and heroines together.
And since the fate and future happiness of those fortunate beings seemed to depend wholly on the instrumentality of such trifling objects, it was natural for her to suppose that Bao-yus acquisition of the gold kylin would become the occasion of a dramatic rupture with her and the beginning of an association with Xiang-yun in which he and Xiang-yun would do together all those delightful things that she had read about in the romances.
It was with such apprehensions that she made her way stealthily towards Green Delights, her intention being to observe how the two of them were behaving and shape her own actions accordingly.
Imagine her surprise when, just as she was about to enter, she heard Xiang-yun lecturing Bao-yu on his social obligations and Bao-yu telling Xiang-yun that Cousin Lin never talked that sort of rubbish and that if she did he would have fallen out with her long ago.
Mingled emotions of happiness, alarm, sorrow and regret assailed her.
Happiness Because after all she thought I wasnt mistaken in my judgement of you.
I always thought of you as a true friend, and I was right.
Alarm Because if you praise me so unreservedly in front of other people, your warmth and affection are sure, sooner or later, to excite suspicion and be misunderstood.
Regret Because if you are my true friend, then I am yours and the two of us are a perfect match.
But in that case why did there have to be all this talk of the gold and the jade?
Alter-natively, if there had to be all this talk of gold and jade, why werent we the two to have them?
Why did there have to be a Bao-chai with her golden locket?
Sorrow Because though there are things of burning importance to be said, without a father or a mother I have no one to say them for me.
And besides, I feel so muzzy lately and I know that my illness is gradually gaining a hold on me.
The doctors say that the weakness and anaemia I suffer from may be the beginnings of a consumption.
So even if I am your true love, I fear I may not be able to wait for you.
And even though you are mine, you can do nothing to alter my fate.
At that point in her reflections she began to weep and feeling in no fit state to be seen, she turned away from the door and began to make her way back again.
Bao-yu had finished his hasty dressing and now came out of the house.
He saw Dai-yu slowly walking on ahead of him and, judging by her appearance from behind, wiping her eyes.
He hurried forward to catch up with her.
Where are you off to, coz?
Are you crying again?
Who has upset you this time?
Dai-yu turned and 8aw that it was Bao-yu.
Im perfectly all right, she said, forcing a smile.
What would I be crying for?
Look at you!
The tears are still wet on your face.
How can you tell such fibs?
Impulsively he stretched out his hand to wipe them.
Dai-yu recoiled several paces Youll get your head chopped off!
she said.
You really must keep your hands to yourself Im sorry.
My feelings got the better of me.
Im afraid I wasnt thinking about my head.
No, I forgot, said Dai-yu.
Losing your head is nothing, is it?
Its losing your kylinthe famous gold kylin-that is really serious!
Her words immediately put Bao-yu in a passion.
He came up to her and held his face close to hers.
Do you say these things to put a curse on me?
or is it merely to make me angry that you say them ?
Remembering their recent quarrel, Dai-yu regretted her careless reintroduction of its theme and hastened to make amends Now dont get excited.
I shouldnt have said that - oh come now, it really isnt that important!
Look at you!
The veins are standing out on your forehead and your face is all covered with sweat.
She moved forward and wiped the perspiration from his brow.
For some moments he stood there motionless, staring at her.
Then he said Dont worry!
Hearing this, Dai-yu herself was silent for some moments.
Why should I worry?
she said eventually.
I dont understand you.
Would you mind telling me what you are talking about?
Bao-yu sighed.
Do you really not understand?
Can I really have been all this time mistaken in my feelings towards you?
If you dont even know your own mind, its small wonder that youre always getting angry on my account.
I really dont understand what you mean about not worrying, said Dai-yu.
Bao-yu sighed again and shook his head.
My dear coz, dont think you can fool me.
If you dont understand what Ive just said, then not only have feelings towards you been all along mistaken, but all that yon have ever felt for me has been wasted, too.
Its because you worry so much that youve made yourself ill.
If only you could take things a bit easier, your illness wouldnt go on getting more and more serious all the time.
Dai-yu was thunderstruck.
He had read her mind - had seen inside her more clearly than if she had plucked out her entrails and held them out for his inspection.
And now there were a thousand things that she wanted to tell him yet though she was dying to speak, she was unable to utter a single syllable and stood there like a simpleton, gazing at him in silence.
Bao-yu, too, had a thousand things to say, but he, too, stood mutely gazing at her, not knowing where to begin.
After the two of them had stared at each other for some considerable time in silence, Dai-yu heaved a deep sigh.
The tears gushed from her eyes and she turned and walked away.
Bao-yu hurried after her and caught at her dress.
Coz dear, stop a moment!
Just let me say one word.
As she wiped her eyes with one hand, Dai-yu pushed him away from her with the other.
Theres nothing to say I already know what you want to tell me.
She said this without turning back her head, and having said it, passed swiftly on her way.
Bao-yu remained where he was standing, gazing after her in silent stupefaction.
Now Bao-yu had left the apartment in such haste that he had forgotten to take his fan with him.
Fearing that he would be very hot without it, Aroma hurried outside to give it to him, but when she noticed him standing some way ahead of her talking to Dai-yu, she halted.
After a little while she saw Dai-yu walk away and Bao-yu continue standing motionless where he was.
She chose this moment to go up and speak to him.
Youve gone out without your fan, she said.
Its a good job I noticed.
Here you are.
I ran out to give it to you.
Bao-yu, still in a muse, saw Aroma there talking to him, yet without clearly perceiving who it was.
With the same glazed look in his eyes, he began to speak.
Dearest coz!
Ive never before dared to tell you what I felt for you.
Now at last Im going to pluck -up courage and tell you, and after that I don-t care what becomes of me.
Because of you I, too, have made myself illonly I havent dared tell anyone about it and have had to bear it all in silence.
And the day that your illness is cured, I do believe that mine, too, will get better.
Night and day, coz, seeping and dreaming, you are never out of my mind.
Aroma -listened to this declaration aghast.
Holy saints preserve us!
she exclaimed.
Hell be the death of me.
She gave him a shake.
What are you talking about?
Are you bewitched?
Youd better hurry.
Bao-yu seemed suddenly to waken from his trance and recognized the person he had been speaking to as Aroma.
His face turned a deep red with embarrassment and he snatched the fan from her and fled.
After he had gone, Aroma began thinking about the words he had just said and realized that they must have been intended for Dai-yu.
She reflected with some alarm that if things between them were as his words seemed to indicate, there was every likelihood of an ugly scandal developing, and wondered how she could arrange matters to prevent it.
Preoccupied with these reflections, she stood as motionless and unseeing 3 as her master had done a few moments before.
Bao-chai found her in this state on her way back from the house.
What are you brooding on, out in the burning sun ?
she asked her, laughing.
Aroma laughed back.
There were two little sparrows here- having a fight.
They were so funny, I had to stand and watch them.
Where was Cousin Bao rushing off to just now, all dressed up for going out?
said Bao-chai.
I was going to call out and ask him, but he is getting so crotchety lately that I thought I had better not.
The Master sent for him, said Aroma.
Oh dear!
said Bao-chai.
I wonder why he should send for him in heat like this?
I hope he hasnt thought of something to be angry about and called him over to be punished.
No, it isnt that, said Aroma.
I think its to receive a visitor.
It must be a very tiresome visitor, said Bao-chai, to go around bothering people on a boiling day like this instead of staying at home and trying to keep cool.
You can say that again!
said Aroma.
Whats young Xiang-yun been doing at your place?
said Bao-chai, changing the subject.
We were having a chat, said Aroma, and after that she had a look at some slipper-tops that Ive got ready pasted and have asked her to sew for me.
Youre an intelligent young woman, said Bao-chai, having first looked to right and left of her to make sure that no one else was about, I should have thought youd have sense enough to leave her a few moments in peace.
Ive been watching our Yun lately, and from what Ive observed of her and various stray remarks Ive heard, I get the impression that back at home she can barely call her soul her own.
I know for a fact that they are too mean to pay for professional seamstresses and that nearly all the sewing has to be done by the women of the household, and Im pretty sure thats why, whenever shes found herself alone with me on these last few visits, shes told me how tired she gets at home.
When I press her for details, her eyes fill with tears and she answers evasively, as though shed like to tell me but darent.
It must be very hard for her, losing both her parents when she was so young.
It quite wrings my heart to see her so exploited.
Aroma smote her hands together as understanding dawned.
Yes, I see.
I see now why she was so slow with those ten butterfly bows I asked her to sew for me last month.
It was ages before she sent them, and even then there was a message to say that shed only been able to do them roughly.
She told me Id better use them on something else.
If you want nice, even ones, she said, youll have to wait until next time I come to stay with you.
Now I can see why.
She didnt like to refuse when I asked her, but I suppose she had to sit up till midnight doing them, poor thing.
Oh, how stupid of me!
Id never have asked her if Id realized.
Last time she was here, she told me that its quite normal for her to sit up sewing until midnight, said Bao-chai and if her aunt or the other women catch her doing the slightest bit of work for anyone else, they are angry with her.
Its all the fault of that pig-headed young master of mine, said Aroma.
He refuses to let any of his sewing be done by the seamstresses outside.
Every bit of work, large or small, has to be done in his room and I just cant manage it all on my own.
Bao-chai laughed.
Why do you take any notice of him?
Why not simply give it to the seamstresses without telling him?
Hes not so easy to fool, said Aroma.
He can tell the difference.
Im afraid theres nothing for it.
I shall just have to work through it all gradually on my own Now just a minute!
said Bao-chai.
Well think of a way round this.
Suppose I were to do some of it for you?
Would you really?
said Aroma.
Id be so grateful if you would.
Ill come over with some this evening then.
She had barely finished saying this when an old woman came rushing up to them in a state of great agitation.
Isnt it dreadful?
Miss Golden has drowned herself in the well.
Which Golden?
said Aroma, startled.
Which Golden?
said the old woman.
There arent two Goldens that I know of.
Golden from Her Ladyships room, of course, that was dismissed the day before yesterday.
Shed been crying and carrying on at home ever since, but nobody paid much attention to her.
Then suddenly, when they went to look for her, she wasnt there, and just now someone going to-fetch-water from the well by the south-east corner found body in it and rushed inside for help, and when they fished it out, they found that it was Golden.
They did all they could to revive her, but it was too late.
She was dead.
How strange!
said Bao-chai Aroma shook her head wonderingly and a teat or two stole down her cheek.
She and Golden had been like sisters to each other.
Bao-chai hurried off to Lady Wangs to offer her sympathy.
Aroma went back to Green Delights.
When Bao-chai arrived at Lady Wangs apartment she found the whole place hushed and still and Lady Wang sitting in the inner room on her own, crying.
Deeming it an unsuitable moment to raise the subject of her visit, Bao-chai sat down beside her in silence.
Where have you just come from?
Lady Wang asked her.
The Garden.
The Garden, Lady Wang echoed.
Did you by any chance see your cousin Bao-yu there?
I saw him going out just now wearing his outdoor clothes, but I dont know where he was going to.
Lady Wang nodded and gave a sigh.
I dont know if youve heard.
Something very strange has happened.
Golden has drowned herself in a well.
That is strange, said Bao-chai.
Why ever did she do that?
The day before yesterday she broke something of mine, said Lady Wang, and in a moment of anger I struck her a couple of times and sent her back to her mothers.
I had only been meaning to leave her there a day or two to punish her.
After that I would have had her back again.
I never dreamed that she would be so angry with me as to drown herself.
Now that she has, I feel that it is all my fault.
Its only natural that a kind person like you should see it in that way, said Bao-chai, but in my opinion Golden would never have drowned herself in anger.
Its much more likely that she was playing about beside the well and slipped in accidentally.
While she was in service her movements were restricted and it would be natural for-her to go running around everywhere during her first day or two outside.
Theres no earthly reason why she should have felt angry enough with you to drown herself.
If she did, all I can say is that she was a stupid person and not worth feeling sorry for!
Lady Wang sighed and shook her head doubtfully.
Well, it may be as you say, but I still feel very uneasy in my mind.
Im sure you have no cause, Aunt, said Bao-chai, but if you feel very much distressed, I suggest that you simply give her family a little extra for the funeral.
In that way you will more than fulfill any moral obligation you may -have towards her as a mistress.
I have just given her mother fifty taels, said Lady Wang.
I wanted to give her two new outfits as well from one of the girls wardrobes, but it just so happens that at the moment none of them apart from your Cousin Lin has got anything new that would do.
Your Cousin Lin has got two sets that we had made for her next birthday, but she is such a sensitive child and has had so much sickness and misfortune in her life that Im afraid she would almost certainly feel superstitious about the clothes made for her birthday being used for dressing a corpse with, so Ive had to ask the tailors to make up a couple in a hurry.
Of course, if it were any other maid, I should have given the mother a few taels and that would have been the end of the matter.
But though Golden was only a servant, she had been with me so long that she had become almost like a daughter to me.
She began to cry again as she said this.
Theres no need to hurry the tailors about this, said Bao-chai.
Ive got two new outfits that I recently finished making for myself.
Why not let her mother have them and save them the trouble?
Golden once or twice wore old dresses of mine in the past, so I know they will fit her.
Thats very kind of you, but arent you superstitious?
said Lady Wang.
Bao-chai laughed.
Dont worry about that, Aunt.
That 5-ort of thing has never bothered me.
At that she rose and went off to fetch them.
Lady Wang hurriedly ordered two of the servants to go after her.
When Bao-chai returned with the clothes, she found Bao-yu sitting beside his mother in tears.
Lady Wang was evidently in the midst of rebuking him about something, but as soon as she caught sight of Bao-chai, she closed her mouth and fell silent.
From the scene before her eyes and the word or two she had overheard, Bao-chai was able to form a pretty good idea of what had been happening.
She handed the clothes over to Lady Wang and Lady Wang summoned Goldens mother to come and fetch them.
What happened after that will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 33 -1307 An envious younger brother puts in a malicious word or two And a scapegrace elder brother receives a terrible chastisement OUR story last told how Goldens mother was summoned to take away the clothing that Bao-chai had brought for Goldens laying-out.
When she arrived, Lady Wang called her inside, and after making her an additional present of some jewellery, advised her to procure the services 6f some Buddhist monks to recite a s tra for the salvation of the dead girls soul.
Goldens mother kotowed her thanks and departed with the clothes and jewellery.
The news that Goldens disgrace had driven her to take her own life had reached Bao-yu as he was returning from his interview with Jia Yu-cun, and he was already in a state of shock when he went in to see his mother, only to be subjected by her to a string of accusations and reproaches, to which he was unable to reply.
He availed himself of the opportunity presented by Bao-chais arrival to slip quietly out again, and wandered along, scarcely knowing where he was going, still in a state of shock, hands clasped behind him, head down low, and sighing as he went.
Without realizing it he was drifting towards the main reception hall, and was in fact just emerging from behind the screen-wall that masked the gateway leading from the inner to the outer part of the mansion, when he walked head-on into someone coming from the opposite direction.
Stand where you are!
said this person in a harsh voice.
Bao-yu looked up with a start and saw that it was his father.
He gave an involuntary gasp of fear and, dropping his hands to his sides, hastily assumed a more deferential posture.
Now, said Jia Zheng, will you kindly explain the meaning of these sighs and of this moping, hang-dog appearance?
You took your time coming when Yu-cun called for you just now, and I gather that when you did eventually vouchsafe your presence, he found you dull and listless and without a lively word to say for yourself.
And look at you nowsullenness and secret depravity written all over your face!
What are these sighings and groanings supposed to indicate?
What have you got to he discontented or displeased about?
Come, sit!
What is the meaning of this?
Bao-yu was normally ready enough with his tongue, but on this occasion grief for Golden so occupied his mind at that moment he would very willingly have changed places with her that though he heard the words addressed to him by his father, he failed to take in their meaning and merely stared back at him stupidly.
Seeing him too hypnotized by fearor so it appearedto answer with his usual promptness, Jia Zheng, who had not been angry to start with, was now well on the way to becoming so but the irate comment he was about to make was checked when a servant from the outer gate announced that a representative of His Highness the Prince of Zhong-shun had arrived.
Jia Zheng was puzzled.
The Prince of Zhong-shun?
he thought.
I have never had any dealings with the Prince of Zhong-shun.
I wonder why he should suddenly send someone to see me ...?
He told the man to invite the princes messenger to sit-in the hall, while he himself hurried inside and changed into court dress.
On entering the hall to receive his visitor, he found that it was the Prince of Zhong-shuns chamberlain who had come to see him.
After an exchange of hows and verbal salutations, the two men sat down and tea was served.
The chamberlain cut short the customary civilities by coming straight to the point.
It would have been temerity on my part to have intruded on the leisure of an illustrious scholar in the privacy of his home, but in fact it is not for the purpose of paying a social call that I am here, but on orders from His Highness.
His Highness has a small request to make of you.
If you will be so good as to oblige hint, not only will His Highness be extremely grateful himself, but I and my colleagues will also be very much beholden to you., Jia Zheng was totally at a loss to imagine what the purpose of the mans visit might be nevertheless he rose to his feet out of respect for the prince and smiled politely.
You have orders from His Highness for me?
I shall be happy to perform them if you will have the goodness to instruct me.
I dont think any performing will be necessary, said the chamberlain drily.
All we want from you is a few words.
A young actor called Bijoua female impersonatorhas gone missing from the palace.
He hasnt been back now for four or live days and though we have looked everywhere we can think of, we cant make out where he can have got to.
However, in the course of the very extensive inquiries we have made both inside and outside the city, eight out of ten of the people we have spoken to say that he has recently been very thick with the young gentleman who was born with the jade in his mouth.
Well, obviously we couldnt come inside here and search as we would have done if this had been anyone elses house, so we had to go back and report the matter to His Highness and His Highness says that though he could view the loss of a hundred ordinary actors with equanimity, this Bijou is so skilled in anticipating his wishes and so essential to his peace of mind that it would be utterly impossible for him to dispense with his services.
I have therefore come here to request you to ask your son if he will -be good enough to let Bijou come back again.
By doing so he will not only earn the undying gratitude of the Prince, but will also save me and my colleagues a great deal of tiring and disagreeable searching.
The chamberlain concluded with a sweeping bow.
Surprised and angered by what he had heard, Jia Zheng immediately sent for Bao-yu, who presently came hurrying in, ignorant of what the reason for his summons might be.
Miserable scum I said Jia Zheng.
It is not enough, apparently, that you should neglect your studies when you are at home.
It seems that you must needs go perpetrating enormities outside.
This Bijou I have been hearing about is under the patronage of His Royal Highness the Prince of Zhong-shun.
How could you have the unspeakable effrontery to commit an act of enticement on his personinvolving me, incidentally, in the consequences of your wrong-doing?
The question made Bao-yu start.
I honestly know nothing about this, he said.
I dont even know who or what Bijou is, let alone what you mean by enticement Jia Zheng was about to exclaim, but the chamberlain forestalled him.
There is really no point in concealment, young gentleman, he said coldly.
Even if you are not hiding him here, we are sure that you know where he is.
In either case you had much better say straight out and save us a lot of trouble.
Id be greatly obliged if you would.
I really dont know, said Bao-yu.
You must have been misinformed.
The chamberlain gave a sardonic laugh.
I have, of course, got evidence for what I am saying and Im afraid you are doing yourself little good by forcing me to mention it in front of your father.
You say you dont know who Bijou is.
Very well.
Then will you kindly explain how his red cummerbund came to find its way around your waist?
Bao-yu stared at him open-mouthed, too stunned to reply.
If he knows even a private thing like that, he thought, theres little likelihood of my being able to hoodwink him about anything else.
Id better get rid of him as quickly as possible, before he can say any more.
Since you have managed to find Out so much about him, he said, finding his tongue at last, Im surprised that so important a thing as buying a house should have escaped you.
From what Ive heard, he recently acquired a little villa and an acre or so of land at Fort Redwood, seven miles east of the walls.
I suppose he could be there.
The chamberlain smiled.
If you say so, then no doubt that is where we shall find him.
I shall go and look there immediately.
If I do find him there, you will hear no more from me if not, I shall be back again for further instructions.
So saying, he hurriedly took his leave.
Jia Zheng, his eyes glaring and his mouth contorted with rage, went after the chamberlain to see him out.
He turned briefly towards Bao-yu as he was leaving the hall.
You stay where you are.
I shall deal with you when I get back.
As he was on his way in again after seeing the chamberlain off the premises, Jia Huan with two or three pages at his heels came stampeding across the courtyard.
Hit that boy!
Jia Zheng shouted, outraged.
But Jia Huan, reduced to a quivering jelly of fear by the sight of his father had already jolted to a halt and was standing with bowed head in front of him.
And what is the meaning of this?
said Jia Zheng.
What has become of the people who are supposed to look after you?
Why do they allow you to gallop around in this extraordinary fashion?
His voice rose to a shout Where are the people responsible for taking this boy to school?
Jia Huan saw in his fathers anger an opportunity of exercising his malice.
I didnt mean to run, Father, but just as I was going by the well back there I saw the body of a maid who had drowned herselfall swollen up with water, and her head all swollen.
It was horrible.
I just couldnt help myself.
Jia Zheng heard him with incredulous horror.
What are you saying?
Who has drowned herself?
Such a thing has never before happened in our family.
Our family has always been lenient and considerate in its treatment of inferiors.
It is one of our traditions.
I suppose it is because I have been too neglectful of household matters during these last few years.
Those in charge have felt encouraged to abuse their authority, until finally an appalling thing like this can happen an innocent young life cut off by violence.
What a terrible disgrace to our ancestors if this should get about!
He turned and shouted a command.
Fetch Jia Lian and Lai Da!
Sir!
chorused the pages, and were on the point of doing so when Jia Huan impulsively stepped forward, threw himself on his knees and clung to his fathers skirts.
Dont be angry with me, Father, but apart from the servants in Lady Wangs room, no one else knows anything about this.
I heard my mother say He broke off and glanced around behind him.
Jia Zheng understood and signaled with his eyes to the pages, who obediently withdrew some distance back to either side of the courtyard.
Jia Huan continued in a voice lowered almost to a whisper.
My mother told me that the day before yesterday, in Lady Wangs room, my brother Bao-yu tried to rape one of Her Ladyships maids called Golden, and when she wouldnt let him, he gave her a beating and Golden was so upset that she threw herself in the well and was drowned, Jia Zheng, whose face had now turned to a ghastly gold-leaf colour, interrupted him with a dreadful cry.
Fetch Bao-yu !
He began to stride -towards -his study, shouting to all and sundry as he went.
If anyone tries to stop me this time, I shall make over my house and property and my post at the Ministry and everything else I have to him and Bao-yu.
I absolutely refuse to be responsible for the boy any longer.
I shall cut off my few remaining hairs those that worry and wretchedness have left me and look for some clean and decent spot to end my days in.
Perhaps in that way I shall escape the charge of having disgraced my ancestors by rearing this unnatural monster as my son.
When they saw the state he was in, the literary gentlemen and senior menservants who were waiting for him in the study, guessed that Bao-yu must be the cause of it and, looking at each other with various grimaces, biting their thumbs or sticking their tongues out, hastily retreated from the room.
Jia-Zheng entered it alone and sat down, stiffly upright, in a chair.
He was breathing heavily and his face was bathed in tears.
Presently, when he had regained his breath, he barked out a rapid series of commands Bring Bao-yu here.
Get a heavy bamboo.
Get some rope to tie him with.
Close the courtyard gates.
If anyone tries to take word through inside, kill him!
Sir!
Sir!Sir!
the terrified pages chorused in unison at each of his commands, and some of them went off to look for Bao-yu.
Jia Zhengs ominous Stay where you are as he went out with the chamberlain had warned Bao-yu that something dire was imminentthough just how much more dire as a result of Jia Huans malicious intervention he could not have foreseen and as he stood where his father had left him, he twisted and turned himself about, anxiously looking for some passer-by who could take a message through to the womenfolk inside.
But no one came.
Even the omnipresent Tealeaf was on this occasion nowhere to be seen.
Then suddenly, in answer to his prayers, an old woman appeareda darling, precious treasure of an old woman or so she seemed at that momentand he dashed forward and clung to her beseechingly.
Quickly!
he said.
Go and tell them that Sir Zheng is going to beat me.
Quickly!
Quickly!
Go-and tell.
GO AND TELL.
Partly because agitation had made him incoherent and partly because, as ill luck would have it, the old woman was deaf, almost everything he said had escaped her except for the Go and tell, which she misheard as in the well.
She smiled at him reassuringly.
Let her jump in the well then, young master.
Dont you worry your pretty head about it!
Realizing that he had deafness, too, to contend with, he now became quite frantic.
GO AND TELL MY PAGES.
Her wages?
the old woman asked in some surprise.
Bless you, of course they paid her wages!
Her Ladyship gave a whole lot of money towards the funeral as well.
And clothes.
Paid her wages, indeed!
Bao-yu stamped his feet in a frenzy of impatience.
He was still wondering despairingly how to make her understand when Jia Zhengs pages arrived and forced him to go with them to the study.
Jia Zheng turned a pair of wild and bloodshot eyes on him as he entered.
Forgetting the riotous and dissipated conduct abroad leading to the unseemly bestowal of impudicities on a theatrical performer and the neglect of proper pursuits and studies at home culminating in the attempted violation of a parents maidservant and all the other high-sounding charges he had been preparing to hurl against him, he shouted two brief orders to the pages.
Gag his mouth.
Beat him to death.
The pages were too frightened not to comply.
Two held Bao-yu face downwards on a bench while a third lifted up the flattened bamboo sweep and began to strike him with it across the hams.
After about a dozen blows Jia Zheng, not satisfied that his executioner was hitting hard enough, kicked him impatiently aside, wrested the bamboo from his grasp, and, gritting his teeth, brought it down with the utmost savagery on the places that had already been beaten.
At this point the literary gentlemen, sensing that Bao-yu was in serious danger of life and limb, came in again to remonstrate but Jia Zheng refused to hear them.
Ask him what he has done and then tell me if you think I should spare him, he said.
It is the encouragement of people like you that has corrupted him and now, when things have come to this pass, you intercede for him.
I suppose you would like me to wait until he commits parricide, or worse.
Would you still intercede for him then?
They could see from this reply that he was beside himself.
Wasting no further time on words, they quickly withdrew and looked for someone to take a message through inside.
Lady Wang did not stop to tell Grandmother Jia when she received it.
She snatched up an outer garment, pulled it about her, and, supported by a single maid, rushed off, not caring what menfolk might see her, to the outer study, bursting into it with such suddenness that the literary gentlemen and other males present were unable to avoid her.
Her entry provoked Jia Zheng to fresh transports of fury.
Faster and harder fell the bamboo on the prostrate form of Bao-yu, which by now appeared to be unconscious, for when the boys holding it down relaxed their hold and fled from -their Mistresss presence, it had long since ceased even to twitch.
Even so Jia Zheng would have continued beating it had not Lady Wang clasped the bamboo to her bosom and prevented him.
Enough I said Jia Zheng.
Today you are determined, all of you, to drive me insane.
No doubt Bao-yu deserved to be beaten, said Lady Wang tearfully, but it is bad for you to get over excited.
Besides, you ought to have some consideration for Lady Jia.
She is not at all well in this frightful heat.
It may not seem to you of much consequence to kill Bao-yu, but think what the effect would be on her.
Dont try that sort of talk with me!
said Jia Zheng bitterly.
Merely by fathering a monster like this I have proved myself an unfilial son yet whenever in the past I have tried to discipline him, the rest of you have all conspired against me to protect him.
Now that I have the opportunity at last, I may as well finish off what I have begun and put him down, like the vermin he is, before he can do any more damage.
So saying, he took up a rope and would have put his threat into execution, had not Lady Wang held her arms around him to prevent it.
Of course you should discipline your son, she said, weeping, but you have a wife too, Sir Zheng, dont forget.
I am nearly fifty now and this wretched boy is the only son I have.
If you insist on making an example of him, I dare not do much to dissuade you.
But to kill him outright that is deliberately to make me childless.
Better strangle me first, if you are going to strangle him.
Let the two of us die together.
At least I shall have some support then in the world to come, if all support in this world is to be denied me!
With these words she threw herself upon Bao-yus body and, lifting up her voice, began weeping with noisy abandon.
Jia Zheng, who had heard her with a sigh, sank into a chair and himself broke down in a fit of weeping.
Presently Lady Wang began to examine the body she was clasping.
Bao-yus face was ashen, his breathing was scarcely perceptible, and the trousers of thin green silk which clothed the lower part of his body were so soaked with blood that their colour was no longer recognizable.
Feverishly she unfastened his waistband and drew them back.
Everywhere, from the upper part of his buttocks down to his calves, was either raw and bloody or purplish black with bruises.
Not an inch of sound flesh was to be seen.
The sight made her cry out involuntarily.
Oh my son!
My unfortunate son!
Once more she broke down into uncontrollable weeping.
Her own words reminded her of the son she had already lost, and now, with added bitterness, she began to call out his name.
Oh, Zhu!
Zhu!
If only you had lived, I shouldnt have minded losing a hundred other sons!
By this time news of Lady Wangs demarche had circulated to the other members of the inner mansion and Li Wan, Xi-feng, Ying-chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun had come to join her.
The invocation of her dead husbands name, painful to all of them, was altogether too much for Li Wan, who broke into loud sobs on hearing it.
Jia Zheng himself was deeply affected, and tears as round as pumpkins rolled down both his cheeks.
It was beginning to look as if they might all go on weeping there indefinitely, since no one would make a move but just then there was a cry of Her Old Ladyship!
from one of the maids, interrupted by a quavering voice outside the window.
Kill me first!
You may as well kill both of us while you are about it!
As much distressed by his mothers words as he was alarmed by her arrival, Jia Zheng hurried out to meet her, She was leaning on the shoulder of a little maid, her old head swaying from side to side with the effort of running, and panting as she ran.
Jia Zheng bowed down before her and his face assumed the semblance of a smile.
Surely, Mother, in such hot weather as this there is no need for you to come here ?
If you have any instructions, you should call for me and let me come to you.
Grandmother Jia had stopped when- she heard this voice -and now stood panting for some moments while she regained her breath.
When she spoke, her voice had an unnatural shrillness in it.
Oh!
Are you speaking to me?
Yes, as a matter of fact I have got instructions, as you put it but as unfortunately Ive never had a good son who cares for me, theres no one I can give them to.
Wounded in his most sensitive spot, Jia Zheng fell on his knees before her The voice in which he replied to her was broken with tears.
How can I bear it, Mother, if you speak to me like that?
What I did to the boy I did for the honour of the family.
Grandmother Jia spat contemptuously.
A single harsh word from me and you start whining that you cant bear it.
How do you think Bao-yu could bear your cruel rod?
And you say youve been punishing him for the honour of the family, but you just tell me this did your own father ever punish yon in such a way?
I think not.
She was weeping now herself.
Dont upset yourself, Mother, said Jia Zheng, with the same forced smile.
I acted too hastily.
From now on Ill never beat him again, if thats what you wish.
Hoity-toity, keep your temper!
said Grandmother Jia.
Hes your son.
If you want to beat him, thats up to you.
If we women are in your way, well leave you alone to get on with it.
She turned to her attendants.
Call my carriage.
Your Mistress and I and Bao-you are going back to Nanking.
We shall be leaving immediately.
The -servants made a show of compliance.
No need for you to cry, she said, turning to Lady Wang.
You love Bao-yu now that hes young, but when hes grown up and become an important official, hell like enough forget that youre his mother.
Much better force yourself not to love him now and save yourself some anguish later on.
Jia Zheng threw himself forward on his face.
Dont say that, Mother!
Dont reject your own son!
On the contrary, said Grandmother Jia, it is you who have rejected me .
But dont worry.
When I have gone back to Nanking, there will be no one here to stop you.
You can beat away to your hearts content.
She turned to the servants.
Come on, hurry up with that packing!
And get the carriage and horses ready so that we can be on our way.
Jia Zhengs kotows were by now describing the whole quarter circle from perpendicular to ground.
But the old lady walked on inside, ignoring him.
From the sight that met her eyes she could tell that this had been no ordinary beating.
It filled her with anguish for the sufferer and fresh anger for the man who had inflicted it, and for a long time she clung to the inert form and wept, only gradually calming down under the combined coaxing of Lady Wang, Xi-feng and Li Wan.
At this point several of the maids and women servants came forward and attempted to raise Bao-yu to his feet.
Idiots!
said Xi-feng.
Havent you got eyes in your heads?
Cant you see that hes in no fit state to walk?
Go and get that wicker summer-bed from inside and carry him in on that.
The servants rushed out and presently reappeared carrying a long, narrow couch of woven rattan between them, on to which they lifted Bao-yu.
Then, with Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang and the rest of the womenfolk leading the way, they carried him to Grandmother Jias apartment and set him down inside it.
Jia Zheng, conscious that his mothers wrath against him had not abated and unwilling to leave things where they stood, had followed the little procession inside.
His eyes travelled from Bao-yu, who, he now saw, really had been beaten very badly, to Lady Wang.
She was sobbing bitterly, interspersing her sobs with cries of My child!
and My son!.
Presently she broke off and began railing at the object of her sorrow Why couldnt you have died instead of Zhu?
Zhu wouldnt have made his father angry the way you do and I should have been spared this constant anxiety.
What is to become of me if you go away and leave me, too?
Then, with a cry of Poor, worthless boy!, she fell once more to weeping.
When Jia Zheng heard this, his own heart was softened and he began to wish that he had not beaten the boy quite so savagely.
He tried to find words of comfort for his old mother, but she answered him tearfully.
A father ought to punish his son if hes done wrong, but not like that!Why dont you go now?
Wont you be content until youve seen the boy die under your own eyes?
Jia Zheng, with flustered deference, withdrew.
By now Aunt Xue, Bao-chai, Caltrop, Aroma and Shi Xiang-yun were there too.
Aroma was deeply distressed, but could not show the extent of her feelings in the presence of so many others.
Indeed, Bao-yu was so ringed around with people fanning him or forcing water through his lips that there was nothing she could have done for him if she had tried.
Feeling somewhat superfluous, she left the apartment and went out to the inner gate, where she asked the pages to look for Tealeaf, so that she could find out what had happened.
Why did the Master suddenly beat him like that?
she asked Tealeaf when he arrived.
He hadnt been doing anything.
And why couldnt you have warned us in time?
Tealeaf was indignant.
I couldnt help it, I wasnt there.
He was half-way through eating him before I even got to hear about it.
I did my best to find out the reason, though.
It seems that there were two things the Master was upset about one was to do with Bijou and the ether was to do with Golden.
How did the Master get to know about them?
said Aroma.
Well, the Bijou business he probably knew about indirectly through Mr Xue, said Tealeaf.
Mr Xue had been feeling very jealous, and it looks as though he may have put someone else up to telling the Master about it out of spite.
And Golden he probably heard about from Master Huan leastways, thats what the Masters own people told me.
The two reasons Tealeaf had given corresponded well enough with Aromas own observations, and she was more than half inclined to believe them.
Fairly confident, therefore, that she now knew the cause of -what had happened, she returned once more to the apartment.
The ministrations of those surrounding Bao-yu had by now restored him to fall consciousness, and Grandmother Jia was instructing the servants to carry him back to his own room.
There was an answering cry and something of a scramble as many willing hands lifted up the cane bed.
Then, preceded as before by Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang and the rest, they carried him through into the Garden and back to Green Delights, where they finally got him on to his own bed.
After a good deal more bustle they gradually all drifted away and Aroma at last had Bao-yu alone to herself.
But in order to know what happened then, you must refer to the following chapter.
CHAPTER 34 A wordless message meets with silent understanding And a groundless imputation leads to undeserved rebukes WHEN she saw that Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang and the rest had all gone, Aroma went and sat down at Bao-yus bedside and asked him, with tears in her eyes, the reason why he had been beaten so severely.
Bao-yu sighed.
Oh, the usual things.
Need you ask?
I wish youd take a look down below, though, and tell me if anythings broken.
Its hurting so dreadfully down there.
Very gently Aroma inserted her fingers into the top of his trousers and began to draw them off.
She had barely started when he gritted his teeth and let out a cry, and she had to stop immediately.
This happened three or four times before she finally succeeded in getting them off.
The sight revealed made her grit her own teeth.
Mother of mine!
she gasped, he must have hit you savagely.
If only youd listened to me a bit in the past, it would never have come to this.
Why, you might have been crippled for life.
It doesnt bear thinking of.
Just then Bad-chais arrival was announced by one of the maids.
Since putting his trousers on again was out of the question, Aroma snatched up a lightweight coverlet and hurriedly threw it over him.
Bao-chai came in carrying a large tablet of some sort of solid medicine which she instructed Aroma to pound up in wine and apply to Bao-yus injuries in the evening.
This is a decongestant, she said, handing it to her.
It will take away the inflammation by dispersing the bad blood in his bruises.
After that, he should heal quite quickly.
She turned to Bao-yu.
Are you feeling any better now?
Bao-yu thanked her.
Yes, he said, he was feeling a little better, and invited her to sit down beside him.
Bao-chai was relieved to see him with his eyes open and talking again.
She shook her head sadly.
If you had listened to what one said, this would never have happened.
Everyone is so upset now.
It isnt only Grand-mother and Lady Wang, you know.
Even She checked herself abruptly, regretting that she had allowed her feelings to run away with her, and lowered her head, blushing.
Bao-yu d sensed hidden depths of feeling in the passionate earnestness of her tone, and when she suddenly faltered and turned red, there was something so touching about the pretty air of confusion with which she dropped her head and played with the ends of her girdle, that his spirits soared and his pain was momentarily forgotten.
What have I undergone but a few whacks of the bamboo?
he thought, yet already they are so sad and concerned about me!
What dear, adorable, sweet, noble girls they are!
Heaven knows how they would grieve for me if I were actually to die!
It would be almost worth dying, just to find Out.
The loss of a lifes ambitions would be a small price to pay, and I should be a peevish, ungrateful ghost if I did not feel proud and happy when such darling creatures were grieving for me.
He was roused from this reverie by the sound of Bao-chais voice asking Aroma what it was that had moved his father to such violent anger against him.
Aromas low reply, in which she merely repeated what Tealeaf had told her, was his first inkling of the part that Jia Huan had played in his misfortune.
Her mention of Xue Pans involvement, however, made him apprehensive that Bao-chai might feel embarrassed, and he hastily interrupted Aroma to prevent her from saying more.
Old Xue would never do a thing like that, he said.
Its silly to make these wild assertions.
Bao-chai knew that it was out of respect for her feelings that he was silencing Aroma, and she wondered at his considerateness.
What delicacy of feeling!
she thought, after so terrible a beating and in spite of all the pain, to be still able to worry about the possibility of someone elses being offended!
If only you could apply some of that thoughtfulness to the more important things of life, my friend, you would make my Uncle so happy and then perhaps these awful things would never happen.
And when alls said and done, this sensibility on my behalf is rather wasted.
Do you really think I know my own brother so little that I am unaware of his unruly nature?
Nothing has ever been allowed to stand in the way of Pans desires.
Look at the terrible trouble he made for you that time over Qin Zhong.
That was a long time ago, and I am sure he has got much worse since then.
Those were her thoughts, but what she said was Theres really no need to look around for someone to blame.
If you ask me, the mere fact that Cousin Bao has been willing to keep such company was in itself quite enough to make Uncle angry.
And though my brother can be very tactless and may well have let something out about Cousin Bao in the course of conversation, Im sure it wouldnt have been deliberate trouble-making on his part.
In the first place, it is, after all, true, what he is supposed to have said Cousin Bao has been going around with that actor.
And in the second place, my brother simply hasnt got it in him to be discreet.
You have lived all your life with sensitive, considerate people like Cousin Bao, my dear Aroma.
You have never had to deal with a crude, forthright person like my brother someone who says whatever comes into his head with complete disregard for the consequences.
When Bao-yu cut short her remarks about Xue Pan, Aroma had realized at once that she was being tactless and inwardly prayed that Bao-chai had not taken exception to them.
To her, therefore, these words of Bao-chais were a source of tongue-tied embarrassment.
Bao-yu, on the other hand, could see in them only the refusal of a frank and generous nature to admit deviousness in others and a sensibility capable of matching and responding to his own.
As a consequence his spirits soared yet higher.
He was about to say something, but Bao-chai rose to her feet and anticipated him.
Ill come and see you again tomorrow.
You must rest now and give yourself a chance to get well.
Ive given Aroma something to make a lotion with.
Get her to put it on for you in the evening.
I can guarantee that it will hasten your recovery.
She was moving towards the door as she said this.
When she was outside, Aroma hurried after her to see her off and to thank her for her trouble.
As soon as hes better, she said, Master Bao will come over and thank you himself, Miss.
Its nothing at all, said Bao-chai, turning back to her with a smile.
Do tell him to rest properly, though, and -not to brood.
And if theres anything at all he wants, just quietly come round to my place for it.
Dont go bothering Lady Jia or Lady Wang or any of the others, in case my uncle gets to hear of it.
It probably wouldnt matter at the time, but it might do later on, next time there is any trouble.
With that she left, and Aroma turned back into the courtyard, her heart full of gratitude for Bao-chais kindness.
Reentering Bao-yus room, she found him lying back quietly, plunged in thought.
From the look of it, he was already half asleep.
Tiptoeing out again, she went off to wash her hair.
But it was difficult for Bao-yu to lie quietly for very long.
The pain in his buttocks was like the stabbing and pricking of knives and needles and there was a burning sensation in them as if he were being grilled over a fire, so that the slightest movement made him cry out.
Already it was growing late.
Aroma appeared to have gone away, but two or three maids were still in attendance.
As there was nothing that they could do for him, he told them that they might go off and prepare themselves for the night, provided that they remained within call.
The maids accordingly withdrew, leaving him on his own.
He had dozed off.
The shadowy form of Jiang Yu-han had come in to tell him of his capture by the Prince of Zhong-shuns men, followed, shortly after, by Golden, who gave him a tearful account of how she had drowned herself.
In his half dream, half-awake state he was having the greatest difficulty in attending to what they were saying, when suddenly he felt someone pushing him and became dimly aware of a sound of weeping in his ear.
He gave a start.
Fully awake now, he opened his eyes.
It was Lin Dai-yu.
Suspecting this, too, to be a dream, he raised his head to look.
A pair of eyes swollen like peaches met his own, and a face that was glistening with tears.
It was Dai-yu all right, no doubt about that.
He would have looked longer, but the strain of raising himself was causing such excruciating pain in his nether parts, that he fell back again with a groan.
The groan was followed by a sigh.
Now what have you come for?
he said.
The suns not long set and the ground must still be very hot underfoot.
You could still get a heat-stroke at this time of day, and that would he a fine how-do-you-do.
Actually, in spite of the beating, I dont feel very much pain.
This fuss I make is put on to fool the others.
Im hoping theyll spread the word around outside how badly Ive been hurt, so that Father gets to hear of it.
Its all shamming, really.
You mustnt be taken in by it.
Dai-yus sobbing had by this time ceased to be audible but somehow her strangled, silent weeping was infinitely more pathetic than the most clamorous grief.
At that moment volumes would have been inadequate to contain the things she wanted to say to him yet all she could get out, after struggling for some time with her choking sobs, was I suppose youll change now.
Bao-yu gave a long sigh.
Dont worry, I shant change.
People like that are worth dying for.
I wouldnt change if he killed me.
The words were scarcely out of his mouth when they heard someone outside in the courtyard saying Mrs Lian has come.
Dai-yu had no wish to see Xi-feng, and rose to her feet hurriedly.
Bao-yu seized hold of her hand.
Now thats funny.
Why should you start being afraid of her all of a sudden?
She stamped with impatience.
Look at the state my eyes are in I she said.
I dont want them all making fun of me again.
At that Bao-yu released her hand and she bounded round to the back of the bed, slipping into the rear courtyard just as Xi-feng was entering the room from the front.
A bit better now?
said Xi-feng.
Is there anything you feel like eating yet?
If there is, tell them to come round to my place and get it.
As soon as Xi-feng had gone, Bao-yu was visited by Aunt Xue, and shortly after that by someone whom his grand-mother had sent to see how he was getting on.
At lighting-up time, after taking a few mouthfuls of soup, he settled down into a fitful sleep.
Just then a new group of visitors arrived, consisting of Zhou Ruis wife, Wu Xin-dengs wife, Zheng Hao-shis wife, and those other members of the mansions female staff who had had most to do with Bao-yu in the past and who, having heard of his beating, were anxious to see how he was.
Aroma came out smiling on to the verandah to welcome them.
Youre just too late to see him, ladies, she told them in a low voice.
Hes just this minute dropped off.
She ushered them into the Outer room, invited them to be seated, and served them with tea.
After sitting there very quietly for several minutes, they got up to take their leave, requesting Aroma as they did so that she would inform Bao-yu when he waked that they had been round to ask about him.
Aroma promised to do so and showed them out.
Just as she was about to go in again, an old woman arrived from Lady Wangs to say that Her Ladyship would like to see one of Master Baos people.
After reflecting for a moment, Aroma turned to the house and called softly to Skybright, Musk and Ripple inside.
Her Ladyship wants to see someone, so Im going over.
Stay indoors and keep an eye on things while Im away.
I shant be long.
Then she followed the old woman out of the Garden and round to Lady Wangs apartment in the central courtyard.
She found Lady Wang sitting on a cane summer-bed and fanning herself with a palm leaf fan.
She appeared not entirely pleased when she saw that it was Aroma.
You could have sent one of the others, she said.
There was no need for you to come and leave him unattended.
Aroma smiled reassuringly.
Master Bao has just settled down for the night, Madam.
If he should want anything, the others are nowadays quite capable of looking after him on their own.
Your Ladyship has no need to worry.
I thought I had better come myself and not send one of the others, in case Your Ladyship had something important to tell us.
I was afraid that if I sent one of the others, they might not understand what you wanted.
I have nothing in particular to tell you, said Lady Wang.
I merely wanted to ask about my son.
How is the pain now?
Much better since I put on some of the lotion that Miss Bao brought for him, said Aroma.
It was so bad before that he couldnt lie still, but now hes sleeping quite soundly, so you can tell it must be better than it was.
Has he had anything to eat yet?
said Lady Wang.
He had a few sips of some soup Her Old Ladyship sent, said Aroma, but thats all he would take.
He kept complaining that he felt dry.
He wanted me to give him plum bitters to drink, but of course thats an astringent, and I thought to myself that as hed just had a beating and not been allowed to cry out during it, a lot of hot blood and hot poison must have been driven inwards and still be collected round his heart, and if he were to drink some of that stuff, it might stir them up and bring on a serious illness, so I talked him out of it.
After a lot of persuading, I got him to take some rose syrup instead, that I mixed up in water for him but after only half a cup of it he said it tasted sickly and he couldnt get it down.
Oh dear, I wish youd told me sooner, said Lady Wang.
We were sent some bottles of flavouring the other day that I could have let you have.
As a matter of fact I was going to send him some of them, but then I thought that if I did they would probably only get wasted, so I didnt.
If he cant manage the rose syrup, I can easily give you a few of them to take back with you.
You need only mix a teaspoonful of essence in a cupful of water.
The flavours are quite delicious.
She called Suncloud to her.
Fetch me a few of those bottles of flavouring essence that were sent us the other day.
Two will be enough, said Aroma, otherwise it will only get wasted.
If we run Out, I can always come back for more later.
Suncloud was gone for a considerable time.
Eventually she returned with two little glass bottles, each about three inches high, which she handed to Aroma.
They had screw on silver tops and yellow labels.
One of-them was labelled Essence of Cassia Flower and the other one Essence of Roses.
What tiny little bottles!
said Aroma.
They cant hold very much.
I suppose the stuff inside them must be very precious.
It was made specially for the Emperor, said Lady Wang.
Thats what the yellow labels mean.
Havent you seen labels like that before?
Mind you look after them and dont let the stuff in them get wasted.
Aroma promised -to be careful and began to go.
Just a minute!
said Lady Wang.
Ive thought of some-thing else that I wanted to ask you.
Aroma returned.
Lady Wang first glanced about her to make sure that no one else was in the room, then she said I think I heard someone say that Bao-yus beating today was because of something that Huan had said to Sir Zheng.
I suppose you dont happen to have heard anything about that?
No.
I havent heard anything about that, said Aroma.
What I heard was that it was because Master Bao had been going around with one of Prince Somebody or others players and the Master was told about it by someone who called.
Lady Wang nodded her head mysteriously.
Yes, that was one of the reasons.
But -there was another reason as well.
I really know nothing about any other reason, Your Ladyship, said Aroma.
She dropped her head and hesitated a moment before going on.
I wonder if I might be rather bold and say something very outspoken to Your Ladyship?
Really and truly She faltered.
Please go on.
I will if Your Ladyship will promise not to he angry with me.
Thats all right, said Lady Wang.
Just tell me what you have to say.
Well, really and truly, said Aroma, Master Bao needed punishing.
If the Master didnt keep an eye on him, theres no knowing what he mightnt get up to.
My child, said Lady Wang with a warmth rarely seen in her, those are exactly my own sentiments.
How clever of you to have understood!
Of course, I know perfectly well that Bao-yu is in need of discipline and anyone who saw how strict I used to be with Mr Zhu would realize that I am capable of exercising it.
But I have my reasons.
A woman of fifty cannot expect to bear any more children and Bao-yu is now the only son I have.
He is not a very strong boy and his Grannie dotes on him.
I darent risk being strict.
I darent risk losing another son.
I darent risk angering Her Old Ladyship and upsetting the whole household.
I do once in a while have it out with him but though I have argued and pleaded and wept, it doesnt do any good.
He seems all right at the time, but hell be just the same again a short while afterwards and I always know that I have failed to reach him.
Jam afraid he has to suffer before he can learn but suppose its too much for him?
suppose he doesnt get over this beating?
What will become of me?
She began to cry.
Seeing her mistress so distressed, Aroma herself was affected and began to cry too.
I can understand Your Ladyship being so upset, she said, when hes your own son.
Even we servants that have been with him for a few years get worried about him.
The most that we can ever hope for is to do our duty and get by without too much trouble but even that wont be possible if he goes on the way he has been doing.
Im always telling him to change his ways.
Every day every hour I tell him.
But its no use he wont listen.
Of course, if these people will make so much fuss of him, you can hardly blame him for going round with them though it does make our job more difficult.
But now that Your Ladyship has spoken like this, it puts me in mind of something thats been worrying me which I should like to have asked Your Ladyships advice about, only I was afraid you might take it amiss, and then not only should I have spoken to no purpose, but I should leave myself without even a grave to lie in...
It was evident to Lady Wang that what she was struggling to get out was a matter of some consequence.
What is it you want to tell me, my child?
she said kindly.
Ive heard a lot of people praising you recently, and I confess that I assumed it must be because you took special pains in serving Bao-yu or in making yourself agreeable to other peoplelittle things of that sort.
But I see that I was wrong.
These are not at all little things that you have been talking about.
What you have said so far makes very good sense and entirely accords with my own opinion of the matter.
So if you have anything to tell me, I should like to hear it.
But I must ask you not to discuss it with anyone else.
All I really wanted to ask, said Aroma, was if Your Ladyship could advise me how later on we can somehow or other contrive to get Master Bao moved back outside the Garden, Lady Wang looked startled and clutched Aromas hand in some alarm.
I hope Bao-yu hasnt been doing something dreadful with one of the girls?
Oh no, Your Ladyship, please dont suspect that!
said Aroma hurriedly.
That wasnt my meaning at all.
Its just thatif youll allow me to say soMaster Bao and the young ladies are beginning to grow up now, and though they are all cousins, there is the difference of sex between them, which makes it very awkward sometimes when they are all living together, especially in the case of Miss Lin and Miss Bao, who arent even of the same clan.
One cant help feeling uneasy.
Even to outsiders it looks like a very strange sort of family.
They say where nothing happens, imagination is busiest, and Im sure lots of unaccountable misfortunes begin when some innocent little thing we did unthinkingly gets misconstrued in someone elses imagination and reported as something terrible.
We just have to be on our guard against that sort of thing happening especially when Master Bao has such a peculiar character, as Your Ladyship knows, and spends all his time with girls.
He only has to make the tiniest slip in an unguarded moment, and whether he really did anything or not, with so many people about and some of them no better than they should be there is sure to be scandal.
For you know what some of these people are like, Your Ladyship.
If they feel well-disposed towards you, theyll make you out to be a saint but if theyre not, then Heaven help you!
If Master Bao lives to be spoken well of we can count ourselves lucky but the way things are, it only needs someone to breathe a word of scandal and - I say nothing of what will happen to us servantsits of no consequence if were all chopped up for mincemeatbut whats more important, Master Baos reputation will be destroyed for life and all the care and worry Your Ladyship and Sir Zheng have had on his account will have been wasted.
I know Your Ladyship is very busy and cant be expected to think of everything, and I probably shouldnt have thought of this myself, but once I had thought of it, it seemed to me that it would be wrong of me not to tell Your Ladyship, and its been preying on my mind ever since.
The only reason I havent mentioned it before is because I was afraid Your Ladyship might be angry with me.
What Aroma had lust been saying about misconstructions and scandals so exactly fitted what had in fact happened in the case of Golden that for a moment Lady Wang was quite taken aback.
But on reflection she felt nothing but love and gratitude for this humble servant-girl who had shown so much solicitude on her behalf.
It is very perceptive of you, my dear, to have thought it all out so carefully, she said.
I have, of course, thought about this matter myself but other things have put it from my mind, and what you have just said has reminded me.
It is most thoughtful of you.
You are a very, very good girlWell, you may go now.
I think I now know what to do.
There is just one thing before you go, though.
Now that you have spoken to me like this, I am going to place Bao-yu entirely in your hands.
Be very careful with him, wont you?
Remember that anything you do for him you will be doing also for me.
You will find that I am not ungrateful.
Aroma stood for a moment with bowed head, weighing the import of these words.
Then she said I will do what Your Ladyship has asked me to the utmost of my ability She left the apartment slowly and made her way back to Green Delights, pondering -as she went.
When she arrived, Bao-yu had just woken up, so she told him about the flavourings.
He was pleased and made her mix some for him straight away.
It was quite delicious.
He kept thinking about Dai-yu and wanted to send someone over to see her, but he was afraid that Aroma would disapprove, so, as a means of getting her Out of the way?, he sent her over to Bao-chais place to borrow a book.
As soon as she had gone, he summoned Skybright.
I want you to go to Miss Lins for me, he said.
just see what shes doing, and if she asks about me, tell her Im all right.
I cant go rushing in there bald-headed without a reason, said Skybright.
Youd better give me some kind of a message, just to give me an excuse for going there.
I have none to give, said Bao-yu.
Well, give me something to take, then, said Skybright, or think of something I can ask her for.
Otherwise it will look so silly.
Bao-yu thought for a bit and then, reaching out and picking up two of his old handkerchiefs, he tossed them towards her with a smile.
All right.
Tell her I said you were to give her these.
Thats an odd sort of present!
said Skybright.
Whats she going to do with a pair of your old handkerchiefs?
Most likely shell think youre making-fun of her and get upset again.
No she wont, said Bao-yu.
Shell understand.
Skybright-deemed it pointless to argue, so she picked up the handkerchiefs and went off to the Naiads House.
Little Delicate, who was hanging some towels out to dry on the verandah railings, saw her enter the courtyard and attempted to wave her away.
Shes gone to bed.
Skybright ignored her and went on inside.
The lamps had not been lit and the room was in almost total darkness.
The voice of Dai-yu, lying awake in bed, spoke to her out of the shadows.
Who is it?
Skybright.
What do you want?
Master Bao has sent me with some handkerchiefs, Miss?
Dai-yu seemed to hesitate.
She -found the gift puzzling and was wondering what it could mean.
I suppose they must be very good ones, she said.
Probably someone gave them to him.
Tell him to keep them and give them to some body else.
I have no use for them just now myself.
Skybright laughed.
Theyre not new ones, Miss.
Theyre two of his did, everyday ones.
This was even more puzzling.
Dai-yu thought very hard for some moments.
Then suddenly, in a flash, she understood.
Put them down.
You may go now.
Skybright did as she was bid and withdrew.
All the way back to Green Delights she tried to make sense of what had happened, but it continued to mystify her.
Meanwhile the message that eluded Skybright had thrown Dai-yu into a turmoil of conflicting emotions.
I feel so happy, she thought, that in the midst of his own affliction he has been able to grasp the cause of all my trouble.
And yet at the same time I am sad, she thought because how do I know that my trouble will end in the way I want it to?
Actually, I feel rather amused, she thought.
Fancy his sending a pair of old handkerchiefs like that!
Suppose I hadnt understood what he was getting at?
But I feel alarmed that he should be sending presents to me in secret.
Oh, and I feel so ashamed when I think how I am forever crying and quarrelling, she thought, and all the time he has understood!
And her thoughts carried her this way and that, until the ferment of excitement within her cried out to be expressed.
Careless of what the maids might think, she called for a lamp, sat herself down at her desk, ground some ink, softened her brush, and proceeded to compose the following quatrains, using the handkerchiefs them-selves to write on 1 -907 Seeing my idle teats, you ask me why These foolish drops fall from my teeming eye Then know, your gift, being by the merfolk made, In mermans currency must be repaid.
2 -907 Jewelled drops by day in secret sorrow shed Or, in the night-time, in my wakeful bed, Lest sleeve or pillow they should spot or stain, Shall on these gifts shower down their salty rain.
3 -907 Yet silk preserves but ill the Naiads tears Each salty trace of them fast disappears.
Only the speckled bamboo stems that grow Outside the window still her tear marks show.
She had only half-filled the second handkerchief and was preparing to write another quatrain, when she became aware that her whole body was burning hot all over and her cheeks were afire.
Going over to the dressing table, she removed the brocade cover from the mirror and peered into it.
Hmn!
Brighter than the peach-flowers hue, she murmured complacently to the flushed face that stared out at her from the glass, and, little imagining that what she had been witnessing was the first symptom of a serious illness, went back to bed, her mind full of handkerchiefs.
From Dai-yu and her handkerchiefs let us return to Aroma, who, it will be remembered, bad been sent off to Bao-chais for a book.
When she got there, she found that Bao-chai was not in the Garden, having gone round to her mothers place outside.
Not liking to return empty-handed, she waited for Bao-chai to return.
It was already the beginning of the first watch when she did so.
Knowing her brother as she did, Bao-chai had already, even before hearing anything to that effect, suspected that he was in some way responsible for Bao-yus misfortune.
What Aroma had earlier on told her had therefore been no more than confirmation of an already existing suspicion.
Yet Aroma had only been echoing what Tealeaf had told her and what Tealeaf had told her was pure guesswork without a shred of evidence to support it.
Thus what started in everyones mind as a suspicion, repetition very soon compounded into a certainty.
Yet the ironical fact was that he who by his past behaviour had so richly merited the reputation which had caused them to suspect him was totally innocent on the one Occasion when everyone was most unshakeably convinced of his guilt.
The object of this misunderstanding had on this particular evening returned home having had a good deal to drink outside.
He greeted his mother and then, observing that his sister, too, was sitting there, addressed a few desultory remarks to her.
Suddenly he seemed to remember something.
I hear young Bao-yus been in trouble, he said.
What was it about?
This was too much for Aunt Xue, who had been seething inwardly and now broke out in a fury.
Shameless villain!
How can you have the face to ask such a question?
You know very well it was all your doing?
Xue Pan stared at her in astonishment.
What do you mean, all my doing?
Dont act the injured innocent with me!
said his mother.
Everyone knows it was you who told.
Oh, and I suppose if everyone said Id killed somebody, youd believe that too!
Even your sister knows it was you.
I suppose youre not going to call her a liar?
Bao-chai hurriedly intervened.
Dont shout so, both of you!
If youd be a bit more -calm and collected, you might have some chance of getting at the truth.
She turned to Xue Pan Anyway, whether it was you or wasnt you, the damage is done now.
There doesnt seem much point in raking it over or making an issue of it.
My advice to you is to keep out of mischief from now on and stop interfering in other peoples affairs.
When you spend day after day fooling around outside, sooner or later something is bound to happen and you are such a thoughtless creature, that when it does, people naturally suspect that you are the one to blame, even if you arent.
I know I do!
Xue Pan, for all his faults, was a forthright, outspoken sort of fellow, unused to such ostrich-like avoidance of the issue.
Bao-chais strictures about fooling around and his mothers insistence that he had brought about Bao-yus beating by means of a deliberate indiscretion had exasperated him beyond endurance.
He jumped about excitedly, protesting with the most solemn and desperate oaths that he was innocent.
Id like to find the comedian whos been making up these stories about me, he shouted, turning in anger upon the domestics.
Ill smash his rotten face in if I do.
Of course, I know what this is all about you all want to show how concerned you are for poor, darling Bao-yu, so youve decided to do it at my expense.
What is he, anyway?
a Deva King?
Every time his dad gives him a few whacks on the bum, the whole household is in a state of uproar about it for days on end.
I remember that time Uncle Zheng beat him for doing something he shouldnt have and old Lady Jia decided that Cousin Zhen was at the bottom of it.
She had the poor so-and-so hauled up in front of her and there was hell to pay.
Now, this time, you want to drag me into it.
All right then I dont care.
A life for a life.
Ill go in there and kill the little blighter then you can all do what you like to me.
In the midst of this bawling he had picked up a door bar and was evidently going off to execute his threat but his distraught mother clung to him and prevented him from going.
You stupid creature!
she said.
Who do you think youre going to hit with that?
If youre going to hit anyone, youd better begin with me!
Xue Pans exasperation had now reached such a pitch that his eyes stood out in his head like a pair of copper bells.
This is rich!
he shouted.
You wont let me go and finish him off, yet you wont stop provoking me by making up all these lies.
Every day that fellow stays alive means one more day of nagging and lies for me to put up with.
Wed much better die, the pair of us, and make an end of it!
Have a little self-control!
said Bao-chai, joining in her mothers efforts to restrain him.
Cant you see how upset poor Mamma is?
You ought to be trying to calm her, not making things worse with this uproar.
Oh yes !
you can say that now, said Xue Pan, but it was you who started all this by telling her about me, wasnt it?
Its all very well to blame me for telling Mamma, said Bao-chai.
Why dont you blame yourself for being so careless, you great blabber-mouth ?
Me careless ?
said Xue Pan.
What about the way Bao-yu stirs up trouble for himself then?
Let me just give you an example.
Let me tell you what happened between him and Bijou the other day.
Id met Bijou ten times, near enough, and never had so much as a kind word out of him, yet Bao-yu, that didnt even know him by sight, meets him for the first time the other day, and before you know where you are, hes given him his sash!
I hope youre not going to say that that got about because of me ?
His mother and sister were indignant.
Thats a fine example, isnt it?
Its precisely because of that that he was beaten.
Now we know it must have been you who told.
This is enough to drive a fellow mad!
said Xue Pan, Its not so much the lies you keep telling about me.
What really gets my goat is the almighty fuss you make about this fellow Bao-yu.
Almighty fuss?
said Bao-chai.
Youve just been waving a door-bar at us, and you say that we have been making a fuss ?
Xue Pan could see that Bao-chai had reason on her side and that she was much harder to argue with than his mother.
He was therefore eager to find something that would stop her mouth, so that he could say what he wanted to without contradiction.
This, coupled with the fact that be was by now far too angry to weigh the seriousness of what he was saying, was responsible for the unpardonable innuendo that followed.
All right, sis, he said, you dont need to quarrel with me.
I know what your trouble is.
Mamma told me long ago that Mr Right would be someone with a jade to match your locket, so naturally, now youve seen -that blasted thing that Bao-yu wears round his neck, you do all you can to stick up for him.
Anger at first made Bao-chai speechless then, clinging to Aunt Xue, she burst into tears.
Mamma, listen to what Pan is saying to me!
Realizing, when he saw his sisters tears, that he had gone too far, Xue Pan retired sulkily to his own room and went to bed Bao-chai was left bursting with injury and outrage which she dared not express for fear of further upsetting her mother.
She was obliged to bid the latter a tearful goodnight and go back to her own room in the Garden, where she spent the rest of the night weeping.
She was up early next morning.
Too dispirited to make a proper toilet, she stopped only to tidy herself a little before setting off for her mothers.
On the way she met, of all people, Dai-yu, standing on her own beneath a flowering tree.
Where are you going?
said Dai-yu.
To my mothers.
She answered without stopping.
Dai-yu noticed how dispirited she looked and saw that her eyes were swollen as if she had been weeping.
Dont make yourself ill, coz, she called out, almost gleefully, to the retreating back.
Even a cistern full of tears wont heal the smart of a beating!
The nature of Bao-chais reply will be revealed in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 35 Sulky Silver tastes some lotus-leaf soup And Golden Oriole knots a flower-patterned fringe BAO-CHAI heard Dai-yus sarcasm-quite clearly, but her mind was too taken up with her own family affairs to pay much attention, and she continued on her way without looking back.
As Dai-yu gazed towards the House of Green Delights, which was at some distance from the flowering tree in whose shade she was standing, she presently observed Li Wan, Ying-chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun, attended by numerous maids, going into the gate of its courtyard.
Then, as she continued to watch, she saw them one by one come out again and go their separate ways.
it struck her that Xi-feng had not been with them, and she wondered why.
Its not like her not to visit him, she thought.
Even if shes otherwise engaged, youd expect her to find some means of getting over and doing her little turn, if only to keep in with Grandma and Auntie Wang.
There must be some very pressing reason to keep her away.
She lowered her head to reflect.
Raising it again and looking once more in the direction of Green Delights, she observed a colourful throng of females just about to enter, and when she looked a little harder, she could make out Wang Xi-feng with Grandmother Jia leaning on her arm.
Lady Wang and Lady Xing walked behind them, followed by Aunt Zhou and a large bevy of maids and women servants.
As the last of these disappeared inside the gate, Dai-yu nodded wistfully, thinking how good it must be to have a family, and soon her face was once more wet with tears.
Presently she saw Aunt Xue and Bao-chai arrive.
Not long after she had watched them enter the gate, Nightingale suddenly walked up behind her.
Come and have your medicine, Miss, she said.
its cool enough to drink now.
Whats the matter with you?
said Dai-yu.
Always fussing!
What does it matter to you whether I take my medicine or not?
Nightingale laughed good-humouredly.
Your coughs only just beginning to get better, and already you want to stop taking your medicine!
it may be the fifth month and the weather may be hot, but all the same, you still need to be careful, Come on, youve been standing quite long enough in this early morning damp.
You ought to come in now and rest a bit.
Now that Nightingales words had recalled her attention to herself, Dai-yu became aware that her legs were in fact rather tired.
For a moment or two she appeared rather bewildered, then, taking Nightingales arm, she slowly made her way back to the Naiads House.
As they entered the courtyard, the chequered shadows of the bamboos and the dew-pearled moss reminded her of two lines she had read in The Western Chamber A place remote, where footsteps seldom pass, And dew still glistens on the untrodden grass.
Its all very well, she thought, as she reflected oh the heroine of that play, Ying-ying may have been unfortunate, but at least she had a widowed mother and a little brother.
I have no one.
She was about to shed tears once more but just then her parrot, which had been perched aloft under the verandah eaves, seeing that his mistress had returned, flew down with a sudden squawk that made her jump.
Wicked Polly!
she said.
Youve shaken dust all over my head!
The parrot flew on to its perch.
Snowgoose!
it called.
Raise the blind!
Miss Lin is back!
Dai-yu stooped in front of it and tapped its perch.
Did they remember your food and water, Polly ?
The parrot heaved a long sigh, uncannily like the ones that Dai-yu was wont to utter, and recited, in its parroty voice -1547 Let others laugh flower-burial to see Another year who will be burying me?
Dai-yu and Nightingale both burst out laughing.
Its what youre always reciting yourself, Miss, said Nightingale.
Fancy Polly being able to remember it!, Dai-yu made her take the perch down and hang it up outside the round moon-window of her study.
Going indoors she sat down by the moon-window to take her medicine.
Light reflected from the bamboos outside passed through the gauze of the window to make a green gloom within, lending a cold, aquarian look to the floor and the -surfaces of the furniture.
To keep her spirits up in these somewhat cheerless surroundings she spoke teasingly to the parrot hanging on the other side of the gauze until he jumped and squawked on his perch, after which she taught him a few snatches of her favourite poems.
At this point our narrative leaves her and returns to Bao-chai.
When Bao-chai arrived at her mothers apartment that morning, she found her mother still doing her hair.
Aunt Xue greeted her daughter with a smile of surprise.
Youre very early this morning, my dear.
I wanted to know how you were, Mamma.
Did he come in again and give any more trouble after I had left you last night?
She sat down beside her mother and, in spite of herself, began to cry.
Aunt Xue, seeing her daughters tears, could not forbear shedding a few herself, though she did her best to comfort her.
There, there, my child!
Dont be upset!
Ill deal with that wicked brother of yours, you see if I dont.
I dont want anything to happen to my girlie, do I?
If anything were to happen to her, I should have no one to turn to.
Xue Pan, who had overheard, came running into the room at this point.
Clasping his hands together, he pumped them up and down, at the same time making sweeping bows to right and left of him, in token of his contrition.
Forgive me, sis, he said.
Id had too much to drink last night.
I met a friend on my way home.
It was already quite late when I bumped into him, and I still hadnt sobered up properly when I got back here.
I dont know myself what it was I said, but I know I must have talked a lot of silly nonsense.
Im not surprised you were angry with me.
The clumsiness of his apology rapidly turned Bao-chais weeping into laughter.
Lifting her face up from the handkerchief in which it had been buried, she made a little grimace of derision.
Theres no need for you to put on this act, she said I understand what your real motive is perfectly well.
You dont like having us womenfolk around you and you are looking for a means of getting rid of us, so that you can have the place here to yourself.
Xue Pan laughed deprecatingly.
I dont know where you got that idea from, sis, he said.
Its very unlike you to make a snide remark like that.
Snide remark?
said Aunt Xue indignantly.
If thats a snide remark, I dont know what sort of remarks you were making to your sister last night.
I think you must have taken leave of your senses!
Now Mamma, dont be angry, said Xue Pan, and dont you be upset, sis.
Suppose I were to tell you that from now on Im going to give up drinking with the others altogether, eh?
What would you say to that?
Id say that you had come to your senses at last, said Bao-chai.
And Id say that the Heavenly Dragon had laid an egg, said Aunt Xue, if you really had the will-power to do it.
All right then, said Xue Pan.
If you ever hear that Ive been drinking with those others again, sis, you can spit at me and you can call me a beast and aand a worthless louse!
Dammit, its too bad that the two of you should be worried all the time because of me!
Its bad enough that I should make you angry, Mamma but to have poor little sis, too, worrying her heart outoh, I really am a louse!
I ought to be extra good to you, Mamma, now that Fathers dead, and extra kind to sis but instead I make my own dear Mother angry and little sis upset.
Im not a beast, Im worse than a beast I, And the great booby began to cry.
At this Aunt Xue, who had not been crying when he started, was herself becoming upset, and Bao-chai was obliged to intervene with a brisk cheerfulness that she was very far from feeling.
Havent you caused enough trouble already without making Mamma cry again?
Who says Ive been making Mamma cry?
said Xue Pan, restraining his tears and grinning back at her.
All right then, all right.
Lets drop the whole subject and say no more about it.
Well have Caltrop in and get her to pour you a nice cup of tea.
I don t want any tea, thank you, said Bao-chai.
As soon as Mamma has washed, I shall be going back into the Garden with her.
Let me look at that-locket of yours, said Xue Pan.
I-think it needs dipping again.
Whatever for?
said Bao-chai.
The gildings as bright as new.
Isnt it time you had a few more clothes?
said Xue Pan.
Let me know what colours and what sort of patterns you want.
I wouldnt know what to do with them, said Bao-chai.
I havent yet worn all the things Ive got.
Shortly after this exchange Aunt Xue re-emerged from changing her clothes and, taking Bao-chai by the hand, went through into the Garden with her, leaving Xue Pan to go off on his own.
Once in the Garden, Aunt Xue and Bao-chai made their way straight to Green Delights.
From the large number of maids and older women they found when they got there waiting outside on the verandah or in the ante-room inside, they knew that Grandmother Jia and the other ladies must have arrived there before them.
They exchanged greetings with the latter on entering, after which they went over to the couch on which Bao-yu lay, to inquire if he was feeling any better.
Seeing Aunt Xue, he attempted to raise himself a little.
Thank you, he said, I am a little better.
But what a lot of trouble I am causing!
I feel ashamed that you should have come over just to see me.
Aunt Xue made him lie down again.
If theres anything you want, she said, do please let me know.
I certainly shall, he said, if I can think of anything.
Is there anything you fancy to eat?
said Lady Wang.
We can order it for you when we go back presently.
I cant think of anything, said Bao-yu, unless I did quite like that soup we had once with the little lotus-leaves and lotus-pods in it.
Xi-feng, who was standing by listening, gave a crow of laughter.
Listen to that, now!
What low tastes the boy has!
What-ever makes you want to eat that leathery old stuff ?
Have it made, have it made!
said Grandmother Jia vehemently.
Let the boy have it by all means.
Dont be in such a hurry, Grannie!
said Xi-feng laughing.
Im trying to think whos got the moulds that they need for making the little shapes with.
She turned and ordered one of the old women in attendance to go and ask the chief cook but though the old woman was a long time gone, she came back empty-handed.
Cook says the four moulds for the soup-shapes were handed in some time ago on your instructions.
Xi-feng thought for a bit.
Yes, I remember now I did get them back from her.
But I cant remember who I gave them to.
I should think the likeliest place for them to be is the tea-room.
She sent someone to the tea-room stewardess but she hadnt got them either.
In the end they turned out to be with the plate stewardess, who looked after the gold and silver.
Aunt Xue was the first to examine them when they arrived.
There were four moulds fitted into a single box.
They were made of silver, a foot or so long and about an inch wide.
Along the face of each mould were rows of very finely cut dies, each about the size of a bean, thirty or forty on each mould.
On one of the moulds the dies were in the shape of chrysanthemums, on another of plum-flowers, on the third of lotus pods and leaves, and on the remaining one of caltrops.
Aunt Xue turned to Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang with amusement.
You people really do think of everything!
All these patterns for a bowl of soup!
If you hadnt told me, I should never have guessed what these things were for.
Xi-feng answered her before either of the older ladies could reply.
You wouldnt know about these anyway, Aunt.
Its something they thought up last year for Her Graces visit.
They cut shapes with these things out of some special doughIm not sure exactly what its made ofand put them in a clear soup.
Theres supposed to be a suggestion of autumn lotuses in the flavour, but it doesnt taste very much really.
Its certainly not the sort of thing youd want to eat very often.
In fact, I think the only time we ever had it was when they made some for the visit.
Im surprised he can still remember.
She handed the moulds to an attendant woman-servant.
Tell the kitchen to take as many chickens and other ingredients as theyll need to make ten bowlfuls with.
Say its wanted immediately.
Why so much?
said Lady Wang.
I have my reason, said Xi-feng.
This isnt the sort of thing one eats every day, and now that Cousin Bao has mentioned it, it seems silly to make it just for him and not let you and Grandma and Auntie Xue taste it as well.
So while we are about it, we might just as well do enough of it for everyone.
She smiled mischievously.
I might even have a taste of it myself.
Grandmother Jia laughed.
Little monkey!
We spoil you!
Spending public money on private entertainment, thats what this is!
The others all laughed.
Xi-feng, quite unconcerned, joined in.
Thats no problem, she said.
Im sure I can-afford a little treat like this.
She turned to the waiting woman Tell the kitchen to use plenty of everything and charge it all up to my account.
The woman murmured a reply and went off to see about the order.
Bao-chai had been following these exchanges with amusement.
Cousin Feng may be very artful, she said, but I dont believe that in all the years Ive been here I have ever seen her get the better of Lady Jia.
Im an old woman, my dear, said Grandmother Jia.
What use would I have for artfulness at my time of life?
Mind you, when I was the age that Feng is now, I could have taught her a thing or two.
Still, though she may not be as sharp as I was then, she doesnt do so badly!
A deal better than your Aunt Wang here, thats certain.
She cant talk to save her life, poor soul, no more than a woman of wood!
She could never get round me the way your Cousin Feng does.
Fengie has the gift of a good tongue, my dear.
Thats why your old grannie is so fond of her.
Bao-yu laughed.
From what you say, Grandma, it sounds as if the good talkers are the only ones you can be fond of.
Oh no, said Grandmother Jia.
the silent ones have their merits, just as the good talkers have theirs.
Good talkers can be very tiresome at times and then I prefer the silent ones.
Thats all right then, said Bao-yu.
I was going to say my sister-in-law certainly isnt much of talker, yet Im sure you are as fond of her as you are of Feng.
If being a good talker were the only thing -that mattered, I should have thought that Cousin Feng and Cousin Lin would be the only two in the family you would really care about.
Well now, if were going to start comparing, said Grandmother Jia, I hope your Aunt Xue wont think I am only saying this because she is here, but really and truly I do think that of all the girls in this family her Bao-chai is the one that I like the best.
Aunt Xue laughingly demurred.
You mustnt say that.
Im sure you cant really mean it.
No, no, Im sure she does, Lady Wang hurriedly inter-posed.
Ive often heard Mother speak well of Bao-chai when you werent around.
Bao-yus contribution to the conversation had been made with the intention of encouraging Grandmother Jia to say something nice about Dai-yu.
It came to him as a surprise when she started praising Bao-chai instead.
He looked at Bao-chai and grinned but she turned quickly away and began talking to Aroma.
Just-then a servant came to say that lunch over at the mansion was ready, and Grandmother Jia rose to go.
Having first exhorted Bao-yu to hurry up and get better and then admonished his maids, she began to move out of the room not without a polite attempt to make Aunt Xue go out ahead of her leaning on Xi-fengs arm.
Is that soup ready yet?
she inquired when they were out of the room.
Then, turning to Aunt Xue, she asked her if there was anything she particularly fancied for her lunch.
Mind you let me know if there is, she said.
I have the power to make Fengie treat us to it.
Aunt Xue laughed.
You shouldnt tease the poor girl!
Shes always getting nice things for you.
But youre not much of an eater at the best of times.
Dont you believe it, Aunt!
said Xi-feng.
Grannie knows how to tuck in.
Shed have eaten me by now if she werent afraid that shed find me a bit too vinegary.
This set them all off laughing.
Even Bao-yu, in the inner room, had to join in, though it hurt him to do so.
Aroma, standing beside him, was helpless with mirth.
Mrs Lian really is a caution!
Bao-yu took her hand and drew her down beside him.
Come!
he said.
You must be tired.
Youve been on your feet for hours.
Hey, youve forgotten!
said Aroma.
While Miss Baos still in the courtyard, you ought to ask her if shell let Oriole come over to do that knotting for you.
Yes, said Bao-yu.
Im glad you reminded me.
He raised his head and shouted towards the window.
Cousin Bao!
If you can spare her, after youve had your lunch, would you mind sending Oriole here to do some knotting for me Yes, certainly, said Bao-chai, turning back to reply.
Ill send her over presently.
Grandmother Jia and the others had Stopped to listen.
Not having heard properly, the old lady asked what it was, Bao-chai explained.
Oh do, my dear!
said Grandmother Jia.
Do let him have her to do the knotting I If you need someone in her place, I have plenty of free hands in my apartment.
Just pick which ever of my maids you like to wait on you.
Aunt Xue and Bao-chai were amused.
Let her go to him by all means, said Aunt Xue, but there certainly wont be any need of a stand-in.
She has little enough to do but get up to mischief as it is.
They had been walking on as they talked and presently came upon Xiang-yun, Patience and Caltrop picking balsams beside an artificial mountain of rock.
Seeing Grandmother Jia and the rest coming, they left off their flower gathering and came forward to join them.
Soon the little party emerged from the Garden.
Fearing that Grandmother Jia might be fatigued, Lady Wang proposed that she should stop on the way back and sit down for a while in her apartment.
The old ladys feet were indeed beginning to trouble her and she nodded in consent.
Lady Wang sent a maid on ahead to prepare for her arrival.
Aunt Zhao was prudently avoiding Lady Wang for the time being by feigning sick, so of the two concubines it was only Aunt Zhou who came out with the old women-servants and maids of the apartment to welcome Grandmother Jia, holding up the door blind for her to enter and arranging the pillows and back-rest for her on the kang.
Moving up to it on Xi-fengs arm, the old lady installed herself on the right-hand side at the back with Aunt Xue in the guests position beside her.
Bao-chai and Xiang-yun sat nearer the edge of the kang on either side.
Lady Wang served Grandmother Jia with tea, holding the cup ceremoniously in both her hands, and Li Wan in like manner offered tea to Aunt Xue.
Let the younger women wait on us, said Grandmother Jia to Lady Wang.
You sit down over there so that we can talk to you.
Lady Wang obediently took a seat on a stool-chair beside the kang.
She instructed Xi-feng to be her deputy.
You can tell them to serve Grandmothers lunch in here, she said to Xi-feng.
You had better get them to add a dish or two., Having said that she would, Xi-feng went outside and instructed a servant to take word round to Grandmother Jias apartment.
The old women there passed on the message in their turn, and soon a reinforcement of maids were hurrying on their way to Lady Wangs.
Lady Wang next gave instructions that the rest of the girls should be invited but after a long wait only Tan-chun and Xi-chun turned up.
Ying-chun was unwell and did not feel like eating.
Dai-yu abstained so frequentlyeating perhaps no more than five meals in every tenthat her absence on this occasion was scarcely noticed.
Soon lunch arrived and the servants brought up a low table and set it down on the kang.
Xi-feng stood on the floor below, a bundle of ivory chopsticks wrapped up in a tea-towel in her hand.
Now, Grannie and Auntie, she said, I hope you are going to do as youre told and not stand on ceremony!
Grandmother Jia looked at Aunt Xue and smiled.
Shall we do as she says and stay put?
Yes, certainly, said Aunt Xue, smiling back, whereupon Xi-feng proceeded to lay for them where they sat two pairs of chopsticks on the far side for Grandmother Jia and Aunt Xue, one pair at either end for Bao-chai and Xiang-yun.
Lady Wang and Li Wan stood on the floor below and supervised the serving of the dishes, while Xi-feng called for a set of clean things for one more person and went, chopsticks in hand, from dish to dish, making a selection from them for Bao-yu.
A few minutes later the lotus-leaf soup arrived and was presented to Grandmother Jia for her inspection.
Lady Wang, glancing quickly round her, noticed Silver standing near at hand and ordered her to carry a bowl of it to Bao-yu together with the other things that Xi-feng had just put out for him but Xi-feng objected that there was too much for one person to carry.
Just then Oriole and Providence chanced to enter, and Bao-chai, knowing that they had already had their lunch, suggested that Oriole should help with the carrying.
Master Bao has been asking if you could go over there to do some knotting for him, she told Oriole, You might as well go with her and do it -now.
Yes, Miss, said Oriole, and went off with Silver, carrying her share of the bowls.
Theyre terribly hot, she said, when they were alone together.
How are we going to carry them so far?
Dont worry!
said Silver, I know just the answer.
She made one of the old women fetch a covered lacquer carrying-box.
The bowls of soup, rice and so forth fitted into it easily.
She told the old woman to follow them.
She and Oriole then sauntered along empty-handed in the direction of Green Delights, while the old woman trotted along behind them carrying everything.
When they reached the gate of the courtyard, Silver took the box from her and the two girls went on into the house alone.
They found Aroma, Musk and Ripple in the inner room, enjoying a joke with Bao-yu.
The three of them got up, still laughing, when they saw Silver and Oriole enter, and Aroma, supposing that they had come from their respective apartments, remarked, as she relieved Silver of the box, on the coincidence of their arriving simultaneously.
Having handed over the box, Silver plumped herself down on a stool-chair but Oriole was less bold and even when Aroma offered her a foot-stool to sit on, she still refused to be seated.
Bao-yu was naturally very pleased to see Oriole but the sight of Silver, reminding him, with a pang of mingled shame and sorrow, of her sister Golden, impelled him to ignore Oriole and concentrate his attention on the other girl.
Aroma noticed this neglect and was afraid that Oriole might be offended.
Partly for this reason and partly because Oriole looked so uncomfortable standing up, but was evidently determined not to sit down in Bao-yus presence, she took her by the hand and drew her into the adjoining room for a cup of tea and a chat.
Meanwhile in the inner room Musk and Ripple had laid Out the bowls and chopsticks and were waiting in readiness to serve Bao-yu his lunch but Bao-yu was still occupied with Silver and seemed in no hurry to begin.
How is your mother?
he asked her.
The girl sat silent, with a sullen, angry look on her face.
When, with a muttered all right, she did at last answer him, she averted her eyes and would not look at him.
Bao-yu was very much put out, but did his best to be pleasant.
Who told you to bring this for me?
Her Ladyship and Mrs Lian.
Who do you think?
Bao-yu could see the misery in her face and knew that it was because of Golden that she looked like that.
He wished he could humble himself before her, but the presence of the other maids inhibited him.
He had to think of some way of getting rid of them.
Having succeeded at last in doing so, he began, as soon as they were out of the room, to exercise all his charm upon Silver.
At first she tried to ignore the questions with which he plied her but he was so patient and persistent, meeting her unyielding stiffness with such warmth and gentleness, that in the end her heart misgave her and a faintly pleased expression began to steal over her face.
Bao-yu judged the time ripe to entreat her smilingly for his lunch.
Fetch me that soup will you, theres a dear.
Id like to try it now.
I cant feed other people, said Silver.
I never could.
Youll have to wait till the others come back.
Im not asking you to feed me, said Bao-yu.
Im just asking you to get it for me because I cant walk.
Once youve done that you can go back and tell them youve finished your errand and get on with your own lunch.
I dont want to keep you from your food youre probably starving.
However, if you dont even feel up to passing me a bowl of soup, Ill just have to put up with the pain and get it myself - He tried to rise from his bed, but the effort cost him a cry of pain.
Unable to hold out any longer when she saw the state he was in, Silver jumped to her feet.
All right.
Lie down, lie down!
she said.
Past sin, present suffering.
Youve got your retribution without having to wait for it, so you neednt expect me to feel sorry for you!
She broke into a sudden peal of laughter and fetched him the soup.
Silver dear, said Bao-yu, if you still feel angry with me, get it over with now.
Try to look pleasanter when you are with Their Ladyships.
You mustnt look angry all the time when you are with them, or youll be getting yourself into trouble.
Go on, get on with your soup I said Silver.
Keep the sugary stuff for other people.
I know all about it!
Bao-yu drank a couple of mouthfuls of the soup at her insistence, but artfully pretended not to like it.
It doesnt taste nice.
Doesnt taste nice ?
said Silver with an expression of extreme disgust.
Holy Name!
if that doesnt taste nice, Id like to know what does!
Its got no flavour, said Bao-yu.
Taste it yourself, if you dont believe me.
Silver to prove him wrong indignantly raised the spoon to her lips and tasted.
Bao-yu laughed.
Ah, now itll taste all right!
Silver realized that he had deliberately tricked her into drinking from the same bowl.
You wouldnt drink it a moment ago, she said, so now you shant have any even if you say you want it.
And though Bao-yu laughingly begged and pleaded, she refused to let him have it back and called in the other maids to give him the rest of his meal no sooner had they come in, however, than it was announced that two old nannies from Mr Fus had arrived to call on Master Bao.
Bao-yu knew that the Mr Fu referred to must be one Fu Shi, an Assistant Sub-Prefect who had started life as one of Jia Zhengs protgs and made his way up in the world largely by trading on Jia Zhengs reputation.
Jia Zheng thought highly of him, regarding him as the brightest of the various young fellows he had patronized, and Fu Shi for his part was assiduous in sending message and compliments to the mansion in order to keep up the connection.
Now if there were two sorts of people Bao-yu could not at any rice abide they were stupid old women and pushing young men.
It may therefore seem strange that these two old nannies sent by the egregious Fu Shi should have been accorded instant admission to his sickroom.
The reason was that Bao-yu had heard that Fu Shi had a younger sister called Fu Qiu-fang, who, though a virgin-pearl, still chambered from mens sight, was commonly said to be both beautiful and talented.
Bao-yu had not actually seen her hut he had formed a picture of her in his imagination and worshipped her from afar.
And since to have refused entry to the two old women would have been in his eyes tantamount to offering Qiu-fang an affront, he at once gave orders for them to be admitted.
Qiu-fang was, as a matter of fact, a girl of passable good looks and more than average intelligence.
Her brother had entertained hopes of trading on these assets in order to ally himself matrimonially with some powerful or aristocratic familyan ambition which -had hitherto led him to look frowningly on lesser offers, with theresult that, at -the relatively great age of twenty-two, Qiu-fang remained unbetrothed.
For the fact of the matter was that the powerful and aristocratic families with whom he sought alliance looked on Fu -Shi as an impoverished pen-pusher deficient in both breeding and refinement and showed not the slightest inclination to want his sister as a daughter-in-law However, Fu Shi went on cultivating his intimacy with the Jia family and was still not without hopes of realizing his ambition in that direction.
It so happened that the two old nannies sent to see Bao-yu on this occasion were exceptionally ignorant old women.
Hearing that they were to be admitted, they came into the room, delivered themselves of the sentence or two it took to inquire after his health, and thereafter lapsed into a stupid silence.
With the arrival of strangers, Silver had been obliged to drop the bantering tone she had begun to adopt with Bao-yu and stood, holding the soup-bowl in both her hands, listening in silence.
It was left to Bao-yu to make what conversation he could with the women as he continued to eat his lunch.
While so engaged, he reached out a hand for the soup, and Silver reciprocated mechanically but as both of them had their eyes on the visitors, their uncoordinated movements resulted in a brief collision.
The bowl was upset and hot soup spilled over Bao-yus hand.
Silver, startled, though herself unhurt, gave a nervous laugh.
Now look what youve done!
The other maids rushed forward to retrieve the bowl.
Bao-yu, insensitive to his own pain, inquired anxiously after Silver.
Where did you scald yourself?
Does it hurt?
Silver and the rest all laughed.
Youre the one whos been scalded, said Silver.
Why ask me?
Only then did Bao-yu become conscious that his own hand had been burned.
The maids hurriedly mopped up.
Not wishing to continue his meal after this, he washed his hands, drank some tea, and spoke a little longer with the old women, who then took their leave and were seen through the Garden as far as the bridge by Skybright and some of the other maids.
When they found themselves alone, the two old women began discussing the visit with each other as they went along.
Well, Ive heard people say that this Bao-yu is like a bad fruit good to look at but rotten inside, said one of them, and I must say Im not surprised.
He certainly does seem a bit simple.
Fancy scalding his own hand and then asking someone else where it hurt!
He must be a simpleton!
Heh!
heh!
heh!
He really and truly is a bit simple, said the other one.
A number of them told me about it when I came here last.
Once when he was out in the pouring rain and himself as wet as a drowned chicken, he says to someone, Its raining, he says, run inside and get out of the rain.
What a laugh!
Heh!
hehl hehl And he often cries or laughs when no one else is by.
They say that when he sees a swallow he talks to the swallow, and when he sees a fish in the river he talks to the fish, and when he sees the stars or the moon, he sighs and groans and mutters away to himself like a crazy thing.
And hes as soft as a baby.
Even the little maids can do what they like with him.
If hes in the mood for saving, hell make a fuss over a piece of thread but other times they an smash things worth a fortune and he wont mind a bit.
Still talking, they passed out of the gate of the Garden, at which point our narrative leaves them.
Back at Green Delights, Aroma, seeing that the others had now gone, led Oriole into Bao-yus room to ask what it was that he wanted done.
Bao-yu gave Oriole a smile.
Im sorry, I was busy talking just now, he said.
Im afraid I neglected you.
The reason Ive dragged you here is because I want you to do some knotting for me.
Whats it for?
said Oriole.
Never mind that, said Bao-yu airily.
Do me some of every kind.
Oriole clapped her hands and laughed.
Goodness me!
That would take me about ten year!
My dear young lady, said Bao-yu pleasantly, you have all the time in the world at your disposal.
Im sure you could manage in less time than that.
Not in one sitting, at all events, said Aroma.
Better choose two or three of the main types and let her do one of each.
If youre talking about types, said Oriole, there are really only three fan tassels, rosary-nets and net-and-tassel fringes for sashes.
All right, said Bao-yu, a sash-fringe.
What colours the sash?
said Oriole.
Crimson.
Black or navy- blue would go well with crimson, said Oriole.
With anything lighter the crimson would be too overpowering.
What goes with viridian?
said Bao-yu.
Peach pink .
Mm.
That sounds very colourful, certainly.
What about something colourful but a bit more on the quiet side?
What about leek- green and green ish- yellow ?
said Oriole.
Thats a very tasteful combination.
All right, you make me those three then one black, one peach- pink and one leek- green .
What pattern do you want for the netting?
said Oriole.
What patterns are there?
said Bao-yu.
Theres stick-pattern, ladder-pattern, diamond, double diamond, linked rings, flower-pattern, willow-leaf... What was the pattern of that netting you did the other day for Tan-chun?
Ah, that was a flower-pattern with filled-in centres.
Id like it in that pattern.
Aroma had meanwhile left them to fetch the silks.
As she came back with them, an old woman called through the window to say that her lunch was ready.
Off with you then, said Bao-yu, and come back as soon as you have finished.
How can I possibly leave with a guest here in the room said Aroma.
Dont be ridiculous!
said Oriole.
You go and have your lunch.
Aroma smiled at that and tripped off, leaving the two of them alone together, except for two very junior maids who were to remain at hand in case they were wanted.
Bao-yu lay and watched Oriole knotting, chatting to her in a desultory way as he watched.
How old are you?
he asked her.
Oriole replied without raising her head from her work.
Fourteen.
Whats your surname?
Huang.
Huang?
That means yellow .
It goes well with your name.
They say yellow oriole, dont they?
yellow oriole, golden oriole, My name was Golden Oriole originally, said Oriole, but Miss Bao found it too much of a mouthful, so she called me just Oriole for short, and now everyone else does.
Miss Bao must be very fond of you, said Bao-yu.
I expect later on when she gets married shell want to take you with her.
Oriole pulled a face and laughed.
Ive often said to Aroma, Bao-yu went on, whoever gets you and your mistress will be a lucky man.
Shes a good person, is our Miss Bao, said Oriole, much more than you realize.
There are things about her you dont find in many people in this worldmore important things than good looksthough shes good-looking too, of course.
Orioles mellifluous, lilting voice and the simple, artless way in which she talked and laughed had powerfully affected Bao-yu.
it increased his pleasure to hear her speaking in this way now about her mistress.
What things?
he asked her eagerly.
Tell me about them.
If I do, said Oriole, you mustnt let her know that I to you.
Of course not.
They were interrupted at this point by a voice from the outer room.
Youre very quiet in there!
As the two of them simultaneously turned to look, it was Bao-chai herself who stepped into the room.
Bao-yu at once invited her to take a seat.
When she had done so, she inquired what Oriole was making and leaned forward to inspect it.
The first of the three sash-ends was already half completed.
What do you want to make a thing like that for?
she asked.
Why dont you make him a necklet to wear with his jade?
Bao-yu clapped his hands delightedly.
He had intended to ask Oriole to do this for him in the first place, but had forgotten.
Clever coz!
What a good thing you mentioned it!
Id quite forgotten.
But what would be the right colour for it?
Lets see, said Bao-chai.
The brighter colours definitely wouldnt do.
Crimson would clash.
Yellow wouldnt be a sufficient contrast.
Black would be too heavy.
Ill tell you what.
If you were to take a gold thread and a very fine black bugle-thread and twist them together that would look nice.
Bao-yu was delighted with the suggestion, and shouted several times for Aroma to fetch the gold thread.
She came in while he was still shouting for her, carrying two plates of food and looking puzzled.
I cant understand it, -she said.
Someones just brought me these from Her Ladyship.
Oh, I expect they had more than they wanted there, so shes sent you this to share with the others, said Bao-yu.
No, said Aroma.
They said it was for me personally but Im not to go over and kotow for it.
I dont know what to make of it.
Bao-chai laughed.
If its for you to eat, I should go ahead and eat it!
Never mind the whys and wherefores!
But it never happened before, said Aroma.
I feel so embarrassed.
Bao-chais lips puckered up mockingly.
Embarrassed?
Before very long youre going to have much more than this to feel embarrassed about!
Aroma sensed something behind this remark.
She knew Bao-chai too well to suppose that any such remark of hers would be made triflingly.
Remembering what Lady Wang had seemed to hint at in her interview of the previous day, she dropped the subject.
Ill have these now then, she said, holding the dishes out for Bao-yu to inspect, and as soon as Ive washed, I shall bring you your gold thread.
With that she hurried out again.
When she returned later, after having lunched and washed her hands, bringing the gold thread for Orioles knotting, Bao-chai was no longer there, since she had been called away by Xue Pans messenger.
Bao-yu once more lay back and watched Oriole knotting but soon they were interrupted once more, this time by a couple of maids from Lady Xings.
They brought two sorts of fruit and a message for him from their mistress.
Her Ladyship says are you able to walk?
She says if you are, shed like -you to come over some time and amuse yourself.
She says tell him Im thinking of him.
Tell her, Bao-yu replied politely, that as soon as I can walk, I shall certainly be round to pay my respects.
Tell her that the pain is a little better than it was and that she is not to worry.
Asking the two girls to be seated, he called Ripple to him and asked her to take half of the fruit they had brought and offer it to Dai-yu but just as she was about to go, Dai 1 u could be heard talking in the courtyard.
He told Ripple to hurry outside and invite her in.
For further details, please -consult the following chapter.
CHAPTER 36 Bao-chai visits Green Delights and hears strange words from a sleeper Bao-yu visits Pear-tree Court and learns hard facts from a performer WHEN Grandmother Jia got back to her own apartment after lunching with Lady Wang, she was naturally very pleased to have seen Bao-yu making such rapid progress but her pleasure soon gave way to worry when she began wondering what would happen when he was well enough for Jia Zheng to start asking for him again.
To guard against that contingency she had Jia Zhengs Head Boy brought before her to receive instructions direct from her own mouth.
In future, she told him, whenever the Master is entertaining guests or seeing anybody and asks for Bao-yu, you are to say, straight away, without needing to see me about it, first of all that Master Bao was very seriously injured by his beating and will need several months complete rest before he can walk properly and secondly that he has just made an offering to his star-guardian because of an unlucky conjunction in his horoscope and isnt allowed to see outsiders or go outside the inner gate until the beginning of the eighth month.
She called Nannie Li and Aroma to her as soon as the Head Boy had gone and instructed them to tell Bao-yu this, so that no worries should retard the progress of his recovery.
Bao-yu had always hated meeting or making conversation with senior males of the scholar-official class and detested all occasions which involved dressing up, such as visits of congratulation and condolence and the various other formal exchanges to which members of that class devote so great a part of their time.
His grandmothers dispensation was therefore particularly gratifying to him, and he used it as an excuse for cutting himself off from all contact with visiting relations and friends.
He even pleased himself about whether or not he made the customary morning and evening duty-calls on the senior members of the household.
Each day was spent playing or resting in the Garden, and during the whole of the day, except for the brief period in the early morning when he went outside to visit his mother and grandmother, he was the willing captive of his maids and did for them whatever little services it pleased them to command.
In such enjoyable indolence several weeks slipped agreeably by.
From time to time, as opportunity presented itself, someone like Bao-chai would attempt to remonstrate with him but her remonstrances would be indignantly rejected.
Why should a pure, sweet girl like you want to go imitating that ghastly crew of thievish, place-hunting career worms, he would say, bothering her head about fame and reputation and all that sort of rubbish?
All these notions you are parroting were dreamed up by meddlesome old men in days gone by for the express purpose of leading astray the whiskered idiots who came after them.
I really think its too bad that I should have to live in an age when the minds of nice, sensible girls are contaminated by such idiocies.
Its a tank abuse of the intellectual gifts that you were born with!
Hearing him talk so wildly, the remonstrators concluded that he was slightly mad, and eventually gave up trying to be serious with him.
The exception was Dai-yu, who, ever since they were little children together, had never once spoken to him about the need to get on in the world or make a name for oneself.
This was one of the reasons why he so much respected her.
But to return to our narrative.
-347 Some time after Goldens death, Xi-feng began receiving presents and courtesy calls from various senior members of the domestic staff.
Though she could not for the moment guess what lay behind these flattering attentions, her suspicions were aroused, and one day, in the course of which she had once more received presents from these people, she laughingly questioned Patience on the subject when they were alone together in the evening.
Im surprised you havent guessed that!
said Patience a little scornfully.
I think, if you were to look into it, youd find that all of these people had daughters working for Her Ladyship.
There are four senior maids on Her Ladyships establishment who each get one tael a month, the rest only get a few hundred cash each and now that Goldens dead, one of the tael-a-month places is vacant.
I expect these people are trying to get it for their own daughters.
Of course!
said Xi-feng, much amused.
Of course!
Im sure you are right.
Well, I do think it rather greedy of them.
They earn quite good money as it is, they dont have any really hard work to do, and theyve got daughters to bring them in a little extra income.
I think for them to want to get this plum for themselves as well is really a bit too much.
I wouldnt have thought they could afford to keep sending me presents like this.
Still, thats their concern!
If they want to go on giving me presents, I shall go on taking them.
But I shall still do what I was going to do anyway.
It wont make any difference to me.
In pursuance of this policy she kept the servants waiting for a decision and watched the presents accumulate then, when no more seemed to be forthcoming, she availed herself of the first opportunity to raise the matter with Lady Wang.
This occurred one day about noon when Aunt Xue, Bao-chai and Dai-yu were in Lady Wangs apartment sharing a water-melon with her.
Xi-feng tackled Lady Wang while they sat eating the melon.
Youve been short of a maid, Aunt, since Silvers sister died, said Xi-feng.
Have you anyone in mind to replace her with?
You might let us know if you have, so that we know what to do with next months allowance.
Lady Wang thought for a bit.
Do I have to have four maids or five maids or whatever it is?
she asked.
It seems to me that if the maids Ive got are adequate, I might as well do without the other one.
Xi-feng smiled.
In principle, of course, you are right, Aunt but we have got fixed rules about these things, and when some people at the bottom of the scale are making a great fuss about keeping their number up, it wouldnt do to have you cutting yours down.
In any case, the saving would only be one tael a month it would hardly be worth making.
Lady Wang again reflected for some moments.
Very well, she said at last, you can go on paying the allowance as before, but you neednt find me another maid.
Silver shall have it.
Her sister gave me a lot of service before she was so unfortunate, poor child.
I dont think it would be excessive to give Silver a double allowance, for her sisters sake.
After promising to see that this was done, Xi-feng turned smilingly to Silver and congratulated her.
Silver hurried forward and kotowed in gratitude to Lady Wang.
That reminds me, said Lady Wang what allowance do Aunt Zhao and Aunt Zhou get each month?
The fixed amount is two taels each a month, said Xi-feng, but Aunt Zhao gets an additional two taels for Huan, so she really gets four taels.
Then on top of that they each get two strings of cash a month for their maids.
Do they get the full amount every month?
said Lady Wang.
Xi-feng was somewhat taken aback.
Of course.
Why not?
she replied, a trifle sharply.
Its just that I thought I heard someone the other day complaining that they were a string of cash short, said Lady Wang.
I wonder how that could have happened?
Xi-feng smiled disarmingly.
The allowance for Aunt Zhaos and Aunt Zhous maids used to be one string each a month, but last year Accounts reduced it by a half to five hundred cash.
Aunt Zhao and Aunt Zhou are allowed two maids each, so that means they now get one string a month less than they used to.
This is something completely outside my control.
Id be only too happy to pay them more if I could, but the cut was made by Accounts, and all I can do is to hand out what I am given.
Its not my decision.
In fact, Ive raised the matter once or twice with them and told them they ought to go back to the original payment, but all theyll say is that thats whats been decided and nothing can be done about it.
Actually, now that I do the paying, people do at least get their allowances on time.
In the old days, when Accounts made the payments direct, we were always having trouble.
Never a month went by without some one getting into debt because they hadnt been paid on time.
Another silence followed in which Lady Wang was evidently thinking.
How many of Lady Jias maids get one tael a month?
she asked eventually.
Sevenwell, eight really, if you count Aroma.
Yes, I see, said Lady Wang.
Bao-yu wouldnt have any tael-a-month maids of his own, of course.
Aroma still counts as one of Lady Jias maids.
Oh yes.
Aroma is still Grandmas maid, said Xi-feng.
Grandma lets Bao-yu employ her, but her pay still comes out of Grandmas allowance.
It would be quite out of the question to cut her pay simply because shes working for Bao-yu.
If you wanted to do that, youd first have to find another maid for Grandma.
And even then, of course, if you wanted her to be paid as a member of Bao-yus establishment, to make it fair youd really need to give Huan another maid, too.
Incidentally, the fact that Bao-yus senior maids like Skybright and Musk get a string of cash a month and the juniors like Melilot five hundred is due to Grandmas own personal instructions so I dont think anyone is really in a position to make a fuss about that.
Aunt Xue laughed.
Listening to Feng is like listening to a load of walnuts being emptied out of a cart - all those facts and figures!
And everything accounted foreverything just and fair!
I trust none of the facts and figures were wrong, Aunt, said Xi-feng.
No, no, nothing wrong with the facts and figures, said Aunt Xue pleasantly.
Its just that you would save yourself some energy by taking them a little more slowly.
Xi-feng seemed about to laugh, but checked herself to hear what her other aunt had to say.
Lady Wang, however, deliberated for some little while longer before making her pronouncement.
Find someone to wait on Lady Jia in place of Aroma, she said eventually, and stop paying Aroma out of Lady Jias allowance.
Instead you can pay her two taels and a string of cash a month out of my personal allowance of twenty taels.
And in future, whatever arrangements are made about Aunt Zhaos and Aunt Zhous allowances, I want you to pay Aroma at exactly the same rate only whatever it is, its all to come out of my personal allowance.
I dont want Accounts getting mixed up in this.
Having promised to carry out these instructions, Xi-feng turned to Aunt Xue and nudged her playfully.
There you are I What did I tell you?
Its turned out exactly as I said.
And so it should, said Aunt Xue warmly.
It should have been done long ago.
Shes a lovely girland it isnt only her looks Im referring to, either.
She has such a generous, open way of doing things, and she is so polite and friendly to talk to.
Theres a strong little will there, thoughplenty of determination underneath it all.
Oh, I think shes a real treasure.
She is a dear, good child, said Lady Wang.
I dont think the rest of you realize just how good she is.
Ten times better than my Bao-yu, thats quite certain.
If Bao-yu can keep her with him always, hell he a very lucky boy.
If you think that, Aunt, said Xi-feng, why not have her plucked and painted and make her his chamber-wife openly?
No, it wouldnt do, said Lady Wang.
First of all he is too young secondly Sir Zheng would never agree to it and in the third place, even if we allow a certain amount of freedom between them, as long as he still thinks of her as his maid, there is some chance that he will listen to what she says, but once we make her his chamber-wife, she will feel less free to tell him what she thinks of him when he is being silly.
No, I think for the moment at any rate we should leave it a little vague.
We can make a more definite arrangement in two or three years time.
After pausing long enough to ascertain that Lady Wang had nothing more to say, Xi-feng turned and went.
A group of stewards wives were waiting for her under the eaves in the narrow alley-way at the back to report to her on various household matters.
They smiled at her as she emerged, and one of them chaffed her about the length of her visit.
Youve been a long time today, Madam.
What can you have been talking about to keep you so long?
I hope you havent overheated yourself with so much talking!
Xi-feng stood in the doorway in a very unladylike attitude, one foot on the threshold, rolling her sleeves back and smiling at no one in particular.
Theres a nice little draught out here.
I think Ill stand here for a bit and cool off.
She turned to the women.
Did you say Ive been a long time?
Its hardly surprising.
Today Her Ladyship has been asking about just about everything thats happened here during the past two hundred years.
Her voice lost its jocular tone and became suddenly harsher.
From now on if I ever feel like doing something really spiteful, I shall do it.
Let her complain to Her Ladyship if she has a mind to, I dont care.
Stupid woman I Stupid, chicken-witted, evil-tongued, snivelling, misbegotten bitch!
She ought to wake up.
One of these days theyll make a dean sweep and take the whole lot away then shell have something to shout about!
Complain about me, would she, because her maids allowance has been cut?
Who the Holy Name does she think she is?
Shes only a bit of bought goods herself.
Whats the likes of her doing with maids to wait on her any way?
Leaving the stewardesses to make what they would of this explosion, she strode off to look for someone suitable to take a message in to Grandmother Jia.
At which point we leave her.
After Aunt Xue and the two girls had finished their watermelon, they sat talking for a few minutes longer with Lady Wang before leaving, Aunt Xue to return to her own apartment, Bao-chai and Dai-yu to go back into the Garden.
Bao-chai invited Dai-yu to accompany her to the Lotus Pavilion to pay a call on Xi-chun, but Dai-yu said she was going to have a bath, and presently parted company with Bao-chai, leaving her to continue on her way there alone.
Bao-chais route took her past the House of Green Delights, and as she drew near it, she thought she would call in to chat for a while with Bao-yu and help him to dispel the sleepiness of the early afternoon.
The courtyard was silent as she entered it.
Not a birds cheep was to be heard.
Even the storks were asleep, hunched up in the shadow of the plantains.
Keeping to the relative coolness of the covered walk, she made her way round to the house.
In the outer room maids were lying about in all directions asleep.
Slipping behind the tall mirror and through the elaborately carved partition, she passed into the inner room where Bao-yu lay inside his protective summer cabinet of net.
He, too, was fast asleep.
Aroma sat at his bedside sewing, a white horse-hair fly-whisk with a handle of white rhinoceros-horn at her side.
Bao-chai entered the cabinet and laughed softly at Aroma.
Arent you being rather over-cautious ?
she whispered.
Whats the fly-whisk for?
Surely no flies or mosquitoes can get in here?
Aroma looked up, startled, hurriedly put down her sewing, and rose to her feet.
Oh, its Miss Bao I I wasnt expecting you, she whispered.
You gave me quite a shock no, we dont get any flies or mosquitoes in here, but theres a little tiny insect that finds its way through the holes in the netting.
Theyre so small, you dont notice them but when youre asleep they can give you a nasty bite - a bit like an ant-bite.
Thats not surprising, said Bao-chai.
Youve got water behind you here, you see youve also got a lot of sweet-smelling flowers outside and indoors is perfumed as well.
This kind of insect breeds in the insides of flowers and is attracted towards anything fragrant.
Thats why you get them inside the house.
While she was speaking, her eye fell on the sewing that Aroma had just put down.
It was a pinafore of the kind children wear, with bib and apron in one.
It was of white satin lined with red silk, and the pattern Aroma was embroidering on it was one of mandarin ducks disporting themselves in a background of lotuses.
The ducks were in rainbow colours, and the lotuses had red flowers and green leaves.
Goodness, how beautiful I she exclaimed.
Whos it for?
It must be someone very special, to deserve work as fine as this.
Aroma turned her head and shot her lips out in the direction of the figure sleeping on the bed.
Him?
Hes too big to wear that sort of thing, surely?
He wouldnt wear them to start with.
Thats why I try to make them so nicelyso that when he sees them he cant resist putting them on.
I try to get him to wear them in this hot weather, so that if he uncovers himself in his sleep, theres no risk of his getting chilled.
If you think theres a1ot of work in this one, you ought to see the one hes wearing!
I wonder you can have the patience, said Bao-chai.
Ive done such a lot of work on it today, said Aroma, my neck is quite stiff from bending over.
She smiled at Bao-chai entreatingly Do us a favour, Miss sit here a bit in my place, will you, while I go off and stretch my legs?
Ill be back directly.
Saying this, she slipped quietly out, not waiting for a reply.
So intent was Bao-chai on the embroidery that she sank down almost without realizing what she was doing into the place that Aroma had just vacated.
It really was a most beautiful piece of work in fact, she found it irresistible, and taking up the needle, began sewing it where Aroma had left off.
Meanwhile Dai-yu, on her way back to have a bath, had run into Xiang-yun and agreed to the latters proposal that they should together call on Aroma to congratulate her on her promotion.
They arrived in the courtyard of Green Delights to find everything plunged in silence.
Xiang-yun went round to the side to see if Aroma was in any of the maids rooms.
Dai-yu went up to the main building and peeped through the gauze window into Bao-yus bedroom.
She saw Bao-yu, clothed in little else but a thin, rose-coloured shirt, sprawled out asleep on the bed and Bao-chai sitting beside him sewing, with a fly-whisk in readiness at her side.
For some moments she goggled incredulously at this touching domestic scene, then, fearful of disturbing it, she tore herself away to stifle her mounting giggles.
When she had somewhat subdued them, she beckoned to Xiang-yun to come over and look.
Wondering what extraordinary spectacle could have put her in such a state, Xiang-yun hurried over for a peep.
She, too, found the scene inside a comical one and would have burst out laughing but in her case it was the consideration that Bao-chai had always been so kind to her that caused her to control her mirth.
And knowing how merciless Dai-yu could be with her witticisms, she took her by the hand and dragged her away, explaining as she did so that she had just remembered that Aroma had said something about going at noon to wash some clothes in the lake.
Im sure thats where she will be, she said to Dai-yu.
Lets go and look for her there.
Dai-yu was not in the least deceived, and showed as much by her sardonic laugh.
But she followed her nonetheless.
Bao-chai meanwhile continued her sewing undisturbed.
She had just completed her second, or maybe it was her third petal, when Bao-yu, who appeared to be dreaming, cried out angrily in his sleep.
Why should I believe what those old monks and Taoists say?
I dont believe in the marriage of gold and jade.
I believe in the marriage of stone and flower.
The words astounded her.
She had still not recovered from the shock of hearing them when Aroma returned.
What, isnt he awake yet?
Bao-chai shook her head.
I just now ran into Miss Lin and Miss Shi, said Aroma.
I suppose they didnt come in here, did they?
Not that I know of, said Bao-chai.
She glanced up at Aroma with a sly smile Did they tell you anything?
Aroma coloured.
Oh, a lot of nonsense - as usual I They were only joking, though.
They werent joking, said Bao-chai, - not this time.
I was going to tell you myself, but you went rushing off before I had a chance to.
Just at that moment a maid arrived from Xi-feng summoning Aroma to go and see her.
There you are I said Bao-chai.
Thatll be what she wants to see you about.
Aroma had to arouse two of the sleeping maids to take her place in the inner room then she and Bao-chai left Green Delights together.
They parted company outside, and Aroma went off to Xi-fengs place on her own.
When she got there she was, as Bao-chai had predicted, formally acquainted with the new arrangements concerning her pay and status that had just been made for her by Lady Wang.
She was told that she should go over to Lady Wangs to kotow her thanks, but that there was no need for her to see Grandmother Jia.
She found this interview with Xi-feng acutely embarrassing.
By the time she got back from Lady Wangs, Bao-yu was already awake.
She answered him evasively when he asked her where she had been and waited for the silence and darkness of the night to tell him of her unofficial promotion to his bed.
Bao-yu was delighted.
I hope therell be no more talk of leaving me now!
he said, smiling broadly at her.
Do you remember the time when you got back from visiting your family and tried to frighten me with all that talk about your brother wanting to buy you out of service and how there was no future for you here and no point in your staying permanently, and all those other heartless, unkind things you said?
Id like to see anyone trying to take you away from me now!
Huh!
Aroma sniffed scornfully.
Thats not at all the way it is.
I belong to Her Ladyship now.
Now if I want to leave you, I dont have to talk to you about it at all.
All I have to do is have a word with Her Ladyship, and off I go!
Bao-yu laughed.
Suppose I were at fault and you told Her Ladyship and asked her to let you go dont you think youd feel just a tiny bit uncomfortable afterwards when it got about that you had left me because I wasnt good enough for you?
Why ever should I?
said Aroma.
Of course, I wouldnt go if it meant marrying a thief or a murderer.
Theres always another way out.
I could always take my own life.
We all have to die some time or other its just a question of when.
All youve got to do is stop breathing, thats all.
After that you hear nothing, see nothing - its all over!
Stop it, now!
Stop it!
said Bao-yu, covering her mouth with his hand.
You dont have to say things like that.
All too familiar with the peculiarities of this master who condemned flattering auspicious talk as false and hollow, but was upset and morose if you told him the truth, Aroma regretted her blunder in having too openly spoken her mind.
Smilingly she turned the conversation on to topics which experience taught her were agreeable to him the beauties of Nature, the beauties of girls, girls.
But somehow from there the conversation imperceptibly found its way round to the subject of girls dying.
Suddenly realizing this, Aromait was she who was talking at the time broke off in alarm.
Bao-yu, who up to that point had been listening to her enthralled, laughed at her sudden silence.
We all have to die, as you said yourself just now.
The problem is how to die well.
Those whiskered idiots who take quite literally the old saw that a scholar dies protesting and a soldier dies fighting and get themselves killed off on the assumption that those are the only two ways in which a man of spirit can die gloriously, would do better to die in their beds.
For when you come to think of it, the only real occasion for protesting is when ones ruler is misguided, and the only real occasion for fighting is when ones country is at war.
If the scholar is so greedy for martyrdom that he throws away his life at the earliest opportunity, what is to become of the poor misguided ruler in the absence of good advisers?
And if the soldier so hankers for a heros death that he gets himself killed off in the first encounter, what is to become of his country without soldiers to fight its battles?
But surely, Aroma interrupted, those famous men in the olden days laid their lives down because they had to?
Nonsense!
said Bao-yu.
The soldiers among them lacked generalship as a consequence, they had nothing but their physical courage to rely on.
They threw their lives away out of sheer incompetence.
Do you call that dying because they had to?
And the scholars were even worse.
On the strength of having read a couple of books and got up a text or two by heart, they began to cry stinking fish as soon as they found the smallest thing at Court not as they thought it should be, in the hope of winning themselves an imperishable reputation for honesty then, if the Court didnt immediately change its policy, they would work themselves into a passion and promptly get themselves killed.
You wont, surely, say that they died because they had to?
What you have to remember is that Emperors hold their power from Heaven, and its unthinkable that Heaven should lay the huge responsibility of empire on any but the worthiest shoulders.
So you can see that all those death-with-honour characters you have so high an opinion of were thinking only of their own personal fame and glory.
They werent really thinking of their loyal duty to their sovereign at all.
Now my idea of a glorious death would be to die now, while you are all around me then your tears could combine to make a great river that my corpse could float away on, far, far away to some remote place that no bird has ever flown to, and gently decompose there until thewind had picked my bones clean, and after that never, never to be reborn again as a human beingthat would be a really good death.
Im sleepy, said Aroma, unwilling to reply, for she had observed that his mad fit was on him again.
And Bao-yu at once closed his eyes -and fell fast asleep.
By next morning the subject appeared to have been quite forgotten.
A day arrived when Bao-yu seemed to have exhausted the Gardens possibilities, and its charms were beginning to weary him.
The Return of the Soul was very much on his mind at this time.
He had read it through twice without in any way abating his appetite for more.
Having recently been told that the best singer among the twelve little actresses of Pear Tree Court was the soubrette called Charmante, he resolved, for a change of scene, to go over there and look her up, so that he could ask her to sing him some of the arias from it.
The only girls he recognized when he arrived there were Tresor and Topaze, who greeted him with smiles and invited him to be seated.
When he asked where Charmante was, the girls all answered him in chorus In her room.
Bao-yu at once went to the room indicated.
Charmante was in there on her own.
She was lying stretched out on her bed, but made no attempt to get up when she saw him enter.
Nothing daunted, he sat himself down beside her and, in the familiar way he habitually adopted with girls, smilingly requested her to sing the section from the Return that begins with the words In these quiet courts the floating gossamer...
But Charmante did not respond in the expected manner.
She rose up quickly and drew away from him when he sat down beside her and in answer to his request to sing, she informed him, with a cold, unsmiling expression, that she was not invoice.
I strained my voice the other day at a command performance for Her Grace, she said.
I am still resting it.
She was sitting opposite him as she said this, so that he had a full view of her face.
He remembered now, as he studied it, where he had seen that face before.
She was the girl he had seen scratching QIANS on the ground that day under the rose pergola.
And now here she was behaving as if his very presence was distasteful to her.
Never in his life before had he experienced such instant rejection.
Reduced to mumbling incoherence by his embarrassment, he coloured, andsince there was obviously no point in stayingleft the room.
Surprised to see him come out again so soon, the others asked him the reason.
Trsor laughed when he told her what had happened.
Wait until Mr Qiang gets back, she said.
If he asks her to, shell sing for you.
Bao-yu did not know quite what to make of this.
Qiang?
he said.
Where is he, anyway?
He went out only a few minutes ago, said Trsor.
I expect Charmante said she wanted something and hes gone out to try and get it for her.
Bao-yu seemed to find this of enormous interest and decided to stay a little longer and see what happened.
Sure enough, Jia Qiang presently returned from his expedition.
He was carrying a bird-cage with a bird inside.
The cage had a miniature stage fastened to the top of it.
Jia Qiang was on his way inside to look for Charmante, obviously feeling very pleased with himself, when he caught sight of Bao-yu and halted.
Whats that bird youve got there?
Bao-yu asked him.
Its a whitecap, said Jia Qiang, smiling proudly.
It can hold a flag in its beak and do a little turn on the stage.
How much did you pay for it?
One tael and sixteen pennyweights of silver.
He invited Bao-yu to be seated while he went into Charm-antes room to show off his purchase but Bao-yu, whose desire to hear Charmante sing was now quite forgotten in his eagerness to find out exactly how things lay between her and Jia Qiang, joined the girls as they clustered round the door-way to watch.
Look!
Look what Ive brought for you, said Jia Qiang, full of smiles.
What is it?
Charmante had been lying down again, but sat up when he entered.
Ive got a little bird to keep you company, to stop you getting so depressed.
You watch!
Ill make him perform for you.
He took a few grains from his pocket and coaxed the bird out on to the stage, where it picked up a diminutive mask and flag and hopped and pirouetted about like an actor playing the warriors part in a play.
The girls all laughed delightedly and said it was sweet.
All except Charmante.
She merely gave a scornful huh!
or two and lay back on the bed again in disgust.
Jia Qiang smiledalmost beseechingly.
How do you like it?
You and your family!
said Charmante bitterly.
It isnt enough to take decent girls from their homes and shut them up in this prison to learn beastly opera all day.
Now you have to bring a bird along to do it as well.
I suppose its to keep me reminded of my misery.
And you have the audacity to ask me do I like it?!
Her words appeared to make Jia Qiang quite frantic, for he uttered a string of the most violent and passionate oaths in reply.
Im a stupid fool and I should have known better, he said.
I spent all that money on the thing because I thought it might cheer you up.
It never occurred to me that you might take it like this.
Well, let the thing go then!
Its an act of merit to free living creatures, so at least youll get some good from it.
Either it will help you in the next life or free you from sickness in this one.
With that he released the bird, which promptly flew away, and stamped on the cage until it was smashed to pieces.
Maybe birds arent as important as human beings, said Charmante, but they have mothers and fathers just the same.
Cant you see how cruel it is to take them away from their nests and make them perform for peoples amusement?
I coughed up two mouthfuls of blood today.
Her Ladyship sent someone to look for you.
She wanted you to get me a doctor so that we could find out what to do, but instead of a doctor you bring this thing back with you, to make a mock of me.
Its just my luck to fall ill when Ive got no one to care for me or take any notice.
She began to cry.
But I asked the doctor about you yesterday evening and he said it wasnt serious, Jia Qiang protested.
He said you were to take a couple of doses of that medicine and hed come and look at you again in two days time.
Id no idea that youd been spitting blood.
Well, Id better go and get him straight away.
He began to go, but Charmante called him back.
Stay where you are!
Dont go rushing off in this burning heat.
Youre Only going to fetch him because youre in a temper, anyway.
I wouldnt see him now if he came I Hearing her say this, Jia Qiang halted.
Bao-yu had been watching this scene with open-mouthed fascination.
At last he understood the real meaning of all those QIANGS.
There was obviously no place for him here, so he slipped away.
Jia Qiang was so absorbed in his concern for Charmante that he did not even notice him go and it was left to the little actresses to see him out.
It was a reflective, self-critical Bao-yu who made his way back to Green Delights, so bemused that he scarcely noticed where he was going.
When he arrived, Dai-yu and Aroma were sitting in conversation together.
He looked at Aroma and sighed heavily.
What I told you the other night was wrong, he said.
Im not surprised that Father tells me I have a small capacity but a great self-conceit.
I mean, that stuff about all of you making a river of tears for me when I die I realize now that its not possible.
I realize now that we each have our own allotted share of tears and must be content with what weve got.
Aroma was surprised to hear him bring this up again.
She had assumed that what he said that night was in jest and must long since have been forgotten.
She laughed.
You know, sometimes I think you really are a bit touched!
Bao-yu was silent.
From the curious way in which he was behaving Dai-yu could see that something had got into him, but judged it not her business to inquire what.
To change the subject she asked him about something of a more practical nature.
When I was with your Mother just now she told me that it is Mrs Xues birthday tomorrow.
She told me to ask you whether you intend going or not.
When youve decided, shed like you to send someone round and let her know.
Well, I didnt go last time, when it was Uncle Shes birthday, said Bao-yu.
It will be a bit awkward if I go this time and run into someone from Uncle Shes.
I think Id better stop going to birthdays altogether.
In any case, its terribly hot, and I should have to dress up for it.
And I dont think Auntie would really mind if I didnt go.
Thats no way to talk!
said Aroma.
Theres no comparison whatever between Sir She and your Aunt Xue.
Youre no distance away from her, for a start.
And she is your Mothers sister.
Im sure if you didnt go shed wonder what was the matter.
If youre afraid of the heat, why dont you go first thing in the morning, when its still cool?
All you need do is make your kotow and drink a cup of tea, and then you can come back again.
Surely that would be more civil?
Of course you must go I said Dai-yu, before he had time to reply.
Surely you owe a visit to the person who saved you from the mosquitoes?
What mosquitoes ?
said Bao-yu, mystified.
What are you talking about?
Aroma proceeded to tell him how Bao-chai had sat at his bedside with a fly-whisk beside her while he slept.
How frightful!
Bao-yu was most upset.
However did I come to be asleep when she was there?
And Id got hardly anything on.
How disgusting of me!
After that there was no further question, of course.
He would definitely be going over for his Aunt Xues birthday on the morrow.
While the three of them were talking, Xiang-yun came in wearing her going-out clothes and looking very dressed-up.
Her uncle the Marquiss people had arrived to fetch her, and she had come to say good-bye.
Bao-yu and Dai-yu both rose and invited her to be seated, but she could not stay, so the two of them accompanied her through to the front.
Xiang-yun was struggling to hold back her tears, for she dared not show her distress openly in front of her uncles people.
The arrival a few moments later of her dear Bao-chai, who had hurried over specially to see her off, made going back seem even more unbearable.
Fortunately Bao-chai, always more perceptive than the others, realized that things would become even more difficult for Xiang-yun if the servants who had come to collect her were to tell her aunt when they got back that she had made a fuss, so she did all she could to hasten her departure.
The two girls and Bao-yu saw Xiang-yun as far as the inner gate.
Bao-yu would have gone further, but Xiang-yun restrained him.
Nevertheless, when she had gone a little way towards her carriage, she changed her mind and, turning back, called him to her so that she could whisper a parting request in his ear.
Remind Her Old Ladyship of me from time to time, will you, in case she forgets?
Then perhaps shell send someone to invite me over again.
Bao-yu gave vigorous assurances that he would do this for her, then, when they had seen her get into her carriage, they all turned and went in again.
As to what followed, that must be looked for in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 37 A happy inspiration prompts Tan-chun to found the Crab-flower Club And an ingenious arrangement enables Bao-chai to settle the chrysanthemum poem titles THIS year Jia Zheng was appointed Commissioner for Education in one of the provinces, with instructions to leave for his tour of duty on the twentieth of the eighth month.
When the day for his departure arrived, he took leave of his ancestors in the family shrine, kotowed to his mother, and was seen on his way as far as the hostelry of the Tearful Parting the first post-halt on his journey by Bao-yu and other junior male members of the clan.
Jia Zhengs doings after his departure are not recorded in this history we merely observe that the departure left Bao-yu free to play and idle in the Garden to his hearts content witout the least fear of restraint or reprisal.
-1840 The days in idleness passed by To swell the tale of wasted years On the day of which we write Bao-yu was feeling very bored.
He had returned from perfunctory morning calls on his mother and grandmother and had just finished changing back into his everyday clothes, when Tan-chuns maid Ebony arrived carrying a carefully-folded letter from her mistress.
Im glad youve come, said Bao-yu, as she handed him the letter.
Id been meaning to see your mistress this morning, but I forgot.
How is she?
Is she any better?
Shes quite better, thank you, said Ebony.
Shes stopped taking her medicine today.
It was only a slight chill that she was suffering from.
Bao-yu unfolded the elegant patterned notepaper and glanced at the contents Dear Brother, Some nights ago, when the moon came out in a sky freshly clear after the rain, the garden seemed veritably awash with moonlight, and sleep in the face of so rare a spectacle was unthinkable.
Thrice the clepsydra had been turned, and still I lingered beneath the tall paulownias, reluctant to go in.
But in the end the treacherous night air betrayed me, and by morning I was lamentably indisposed.
How kind of you to have visited me in my sickroom!
and how exquisitely thoughtful to have sent your maid-servant shortly afterwards with solicitous inquiries and with those delicious lychees and the calligraphy by Yan Zhen-qing!
While I have been lying here quietly on my own, I have been thinking how in the olden days even men whose lives were spent amidst the burly-burly of public affairs would keep some quiet retreat for themselves with its tiny corner of mountain and trickle of running water and how they would seek, by whatever arts and blandishments they knew of, to assemble there a little group of kindred spirits to share in their enjoyment of it and how, on the basis of such leisure-time associations, rhymers guilds and poetry clubs were then founded, so that the fleeting inspirations of an idle hour might often be perpetuated in imperishable masterpieces of verse.
Now although I am no poet myself, I am privileged to live midst rocks and streams and in the company of such gifted practitioners of the poetic art.
as Xue and Lin and it seems to me a great pity that the romantic courts and pavilions of our Garden should not echo with the jocund carousal of assembled bards, and its flowering groves and blossoming banksides not become places of wine and song.
Why should the founding of poetry clubs be the sole prerogative of the whiskered male, and female versificators allowed a voice in the tunable concert of the muses only when some enlightened patriarch sees fit to invite them?
Will you come, then, and rhyme with us?
The pathway to my door is swept to receive you and your arrival is eagerly awaited by Your affectionate Sister, Tan-chun When Bao-yu had finished reading, he clapped his hands delightedly.
Dear Tan-chun!
Bless her poetic soul!
I must go and discuss this with her straight away.
He strode off immediately, with Ebony following at his heels.
But he had got no further than Drenched Blossoms Pavilion when he saw one of the old nannies on duty at the back gate of the Garden hurrying from the opposite direction with a note in her hand.
She came up to him when she saw who he was and handed him the note.
From Mr Yun, sir.
Hes waiting at the back gate.
He sends his compliments and says would I please give you this.
Bao-yu opened it and read.
Dear Father, I have the Honour to present my Humble Duty and hope this finds you as it leaves me in the Best of health, ever since you did me the great Kindness to recognize me as your Son I have been looking for some means of showing my appreciation of your great kindness but so far no opportunity has presented itself, to date.
However, thanks to your esteemed Advice I have got to know several Nurserymen also a number of famous gardens and now through this contacts I have come across a very rare Variety of autumn crab flower Pure White only very little to be had, but using every means possible I have got two pots of it I hope you will think of me as a real Son and not refuse to keep them for your enjoyment.
However, owing to the present Hot Weather I did not like to call in Person as the Young Ladies are outside in the Garden a lot owing to the heat, and not wishing to give Inconvenience I remain, -4800 Honoured Father, Your Dutifully and Affected Son, Jia Yun Bao-yu laughed when he had finished reading it.
Is he alone ?
he asked the old woman, or is there someone with him?
Hes got a couple of young chaps with him carrying potted plants.
I see.
Well go back and thank him for me.
Tell him its very kind of him and I very much appreciate it.
And have the pots taken to my room.
When he had given these instructions, he continued with Ebony on his way to Autumn Studio.
He arrived to find that Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Ying-chun and Xi-chun had all got there before him.
They laughed excitedly when they saw him enter.
Here comes another one!
I hadnt realized that I was so popular!
said Tan-chun.
I wrote to you all more or less on the spur of the moment.
It was no more than a tentative suggestion.
I had no idea it would meet with this instant response from everybody.
Its a pity you didnt think of it earlier, said Bao-yu.
We ought to have started a club long ago.
Well I dont think its a pity, said Dai-yu.
Do, by all means, have a poetry club if youre all so keen to, only count me out of it, please.
I dont feel up to it.
Ying-chun laughed.
If youre not, then what about the rest of us?
This is no time for false modesty, said Bao-yu.
Here is a serious proposition and one which we are obviously all enthusiastic about.
What we need are some ideas that we can all discuss.
Come on, Chai!
Lets hear what you have got to say first, then perhaps we can hear from Cousin Lin.
Whats the hurry ?
said Bao-chai.
Were not even all here yet.
Just as she was saying that, Li Wan arrived.
She smiled at them all as she entered.
My!
What a poetic lot we are!
If you are going to have a poetry club, may I propose myself for president?
The idea of having one did in fact occur to me earlier in the year, but I thought that as I cant write poetry myself, a proposal coming from me might seem a bit presumptuous, and I did nothing about it.
Now that my poetical sister-in-law has had the same idea, I should like to do what I can to help her get it Started.
If we are definitely going to have a poetry club, said Dai-yu, then as members of the club we are all equals and fellow-poets.
We cant go on calling ourselves cousin and sister-in-law all the time I quite agree, said Li Wan.
We ought to choose pennames to sign our poems with, then we can use them for addressing each other by as well.
I shall call myself Farmer Sweet-rice.
I dont suppose anyone else will want that title.
I shall call myself Autumn Studio, said Tan-chun.
Thats pretty unoriginal!
said Bao-yu.
Cant you do any better than that?
Youve got all those paulownias and plantain-trees around your place cant you make a name out of them?
All right, said Tan-chun.
Im very fond of my plantains.
I shall call myself Under the Plantains.
Thats very original, said the others admiringly.
But Dai-yu laughed.
Come on, everybody!
she said.
Pop her in the stew-pot!
Well have a nice piece of venison with our wine.
As no one could understand this recondite joke, Dai-yu undertook to explain it for them.
Under the plantains is where the woodcutter in the old Taoist parable hid the deer he had killed so the allusion means a deer.
In calling herself by that pen-name, Cousin Tan is therefore offering herself to her fellow-members as venison for them to feast on in their carousals.
Oh, all right, Miss Clever said Tan-chun.
Plantain Lover, then.
You wait!
Ill be even with you yet.
Ive got just the name for her, she told the others.
When the Emperor Shun died, his two queens are supposed to have gone along the banks of the river Xiang looking for him.
According to the legend, the two queens turned into river goddesses and their tears became the spots you find on the bamboos that grow along the banks of the river.
Thats why theres a kind of bamboo called Naiads Tears.
Well now, Cousin Dai lives in the Naiads House, and she cries so much that I shouldnt be at all surprised if one of these days the bamboos in her courtyard all turned out to have spots on them so I think the best pen-name for her would be River Queen.
The others, applauding, agreed that this was exactly the tight name for Dai-yu.
Dai-yu herself hung her head and said nothing.
Ive thought of one for Bao-chai, said Li Wan.
Not regal, like Dai-yus, but aristocratic, at any rate.
What do you all think of Lady All-spice?
I think the title becomes her very well, said Tan-chun.
What about me?
said Bao-yu.
Isnt anyone going to think of a name for me?
Oh, you!
said Bao-chai.
The obvious.
one for you is Busybodybecause you are always so busy doing nothing.
Why not stick to your old pen-name, Lord of the Flowers ?
said Li Wan.
Do you have to embarrass me by reminding me of my youthful indiscretions ?
said Bao-yu.
No, let me choose your name, said Bao-chai, Actually Ive already thought of one.
It sounds a bit common, perhaps, but I think it suits you.
You are a very lucky person, living in such luxurious and beautiful surroundings and you enjoy an exceptional amount of leisurein fact, I cant think of anyone who combines quite so much luck with quite so much leisureso I suggest Lucky Lounger as the most suitable pen-name for you.
Bao-yu laughed good-humouredly.
You are flattering me!
I think youd better all call me by whatever name each of you fancies.
No, that wont do, said Dai-yu.
As you live in the House of Green Delights, why dont we simply call you Green Boy?
Yes, said the others.
Good.
Now, what names are we going to have for Cousin Ying and Cousin Xi?
said Li Wan.
Neither of us is much good at poetry, said Ying-chun.
There doesnt seem much point in having any.
No, I think you ought to have pen-names, said Tan-chun.
As Ying-chun lives on Amaryllis Eyot, she could be Amaryllis Islander, and as Xi-chun lives by the Lotus Pavilion, she could be Lotus Dweller, said Bao-chai.
That would seem to be the simplest solution.
Yes, said Li Wan.
Those names will do very nicely.
Now, Im the eldest here, so Im going to propose some conditions that Id like you all to agree to.
I dont think youll have much difficulty in doing so when youve heard what they are.
The first one is that as three out of the seven of us founding this clubthats to say Cousin Ying, Cousin Xi and myselfare no good at writing poetry, I propose that the rest of you should let us off versifying and allow us to act as your officers instead.
Cousin Ying?
Cousin Xi?
said Tan-chun.
Whats the good of inventing all these new names if youre not going to use them?
I think that from now on there ought to be a penalty for not using them.
First things first, said Li Wan.
Lets get the club properly founded, and we can talk about penalties later on.
I suggest that the club should hold its meetings at my place, because Ive got the most room.
I cant write poetry myself, but if you dont object to having so illiterate a person as your host, Im sure that as time goes by I shall grow more poetical and refined under your influence.
My next condition is that you should make me your president.
And as I shant be able to manage all the official business on my own, I should like to be allowed to co-opt two vice-presidents.
I therefore nominate Amaryllis Islander and Lotus Dweller as my assistants, one to set the themes and rhymes in our competitions and the other to act as invigilator and copyist.
And lastly, although we three officers dont have to do any versifying, we should not be precluded from trying our hand at it if we want to.
So if there is ever a fairly simple subject with easy rhymes and we feel like joining in, we should be allowed to do so.
The rest of you, of course, have no option.
Well, those are my conditions.
If you agree to them, Ill be glad to help you found the club.
If not, I dont think there would really be much point in my tagging along.
The proposed arrangement was highly agreeable to Ying-chun and Xi-chun, neither of whom had much enthusiasm for writing poetryleast of all in competition with experts like Bao-chai and Dai-yuand they assented readily.
The rest, when they saw how willingly Ying-chun and Xi-chun acquiesced, felt that they could scarcely object themselves and added their assent though Tan-chun did remark, somewhat ruefully, that it seemed a little hard, when she was the one who had thought of the idea in the first place, that she should now have these other three sitting in judgement over her.
Right, said Bao-yu.
Thats all settled.
Lets all move over to Sweet-rice Village, then.
Youre always in such a hurry!
said Li Wan.
Todays meeting is just a preliminary discussion.
Now you will have to wait for me to issue an invitation.
Before we do anything else, said Bao-chai, we had better decide how often we are going to meet.
Not too often, I hope, said Tan-chun, otherwise it will no longer be a pleasure.
I suggest not more than two or three times a month.
Twice a month will be quite enough, said Bao-chai.
Once weve decided which two days to meet on, we should under-take always to turn up on those two days, wet or fine.
At the same time, we should be allowed to arrange additional meetings outside the fixed dates as and when the fancy takes any of us to do so.
If we leave it that much flexible, it will be more enjoyable.
The others agreed that this was a good proposal and should be adopted.
The poetry club was originally my idea, said Tan-chun.
I hope you will at least allow me the pleasure of being your hostess at its first meeting.
All right, said Li Wan.
Well have a meeting tomorrow and you shall entertain us, Why wait until tomorrow?
said Tan-chun.
Theres no time like the present.
You choose a title for us, Amaryllis Islander can set the rhymes, and Lotus Dweller can supervise us while we compose our poems.
If you ask me, said Ying-chun, I think that rather than always have the same two people to choose the titles and set the rhymes, it would be better to draw lots.
As I was on my way here just now, said Li Wan, I saw them carrying in two pots of white crab-blossom.
It was so pretty.
Couldnt you have white crab-blossom for your subject?
We havent all seen it yet, said Ying-chun.
How are they going to write poems about it if they havent seen it?
We all know what white crab-blossom looks like, said Bao-chai.
I dont see why we necessarily have to look at it in order to be able to write a poem about it.
The ancients used a poetic theme as a vehicle for whatever feelings they happened to want to express at that particular moment.
If theyd waited until theyd seen the objects they were supposed to be writing about, the poems would never have got written!
Very well, then, Ill set your rhymes, said Ying-chun.
She took a book of verse off the shelf, opened it at random, and held it up for the others to see.
There you are an octet in Regulated Verse.
Thats the form.
She closed the book again and turned to a little maid who was leaning in the doorway looking on.
Give us a word, she said.
Any word.
Door, said the girl.
That means the first line must end with door, said Ying-chun.
She turned again to the girl Another one.
Pot, said the girl.
Right, pot, said Ying-chun, and going over to a little nest of drawers in which rhyme-cards were kept, she pulled out one of them and asked the maid to select two cards from it at random.
These turned out to be the cards for not and spot,.
Now, she said to the girl, pick any card out of any drawer.
Just one.
The girl pulled out another drawer and picked out the card for day.
All right, said Ying-chun.
That means that your first line must end in door, your second in pot, your fourth in not, your sixth in spot ,and the rhyming couplet in the seventh and eighth lines must end in day Tan-chuns maid Scribe laid out four identical sets of brushes and paper for the competitors, who all, except Dai-yu, now began, with quiet concentration, to consider what they were going to write.
Dai-yu wandered around outside, playing with the bark of the paulownia trees, admiring the signs of autumn in the garden, occasionally joking with the maids, and in general not giving the slightest indication that she was engaged in the throes of composition.
Ying-chun told one of the maids to light a stick of Sweet Dreamsa kind of incense which is only about three inches long and has a very thick wick so that it burns down fairly rapidly - and told the competitors that they had to complete their poems by the time the incense had burned itself out, otherwise they would be penalized.
Tan-chun soon had a poem ready.
Taking up a brush, she wrote it out and, after going over it and making a few corrections, handed it in to Ying-chun.
Then she turned to Bao-chai.
How are you doing, Lady All-spice?
Have you thought of a poem yet?
Wellyes, Ive thought of something, said Bao-chai, but Im not very happy about it.
Bao-yu, meanwhile, was pacing up and down, hands clasped behind his back, in the loggia outside.
Hearing this exchange, he paused to address Dai-yu.
Do you hear that?
he said.
The other two have nearly finished.
Kindly mind your own business, would you?
said Dai-yu.
Bao-yu glanced inside and saw that Bao-chai was busy writing her poem down.
Lord I he said.
Theres only an inch left.
He turned to Dai-yu again The incense has nearly burned out.
What are you still squatting over there on the damp grass for?
Dai-yu ignored him.
Oh well, said Bao-yu.
I havent got time to worry about you.
Ill have to start writing my own now, whether its any good or not.
He went in then, and sat down at the table to write.
Im going to start reading the poems now, said Li Wan.
Anyone who hasnt handed in by the time Ive finished reading will have to pay a fine.
Farmer Sweet-rice may not be much good at writing poetry, said Bao-yu, but she is jolly good at reading it.
Shes a very fair critic.
Im sure we shall all be willing to accept her judgement.
The others nodded in agreement.
Li Wan picked up Tan-chuns draft and the others crowded round to read it with her A wintry sunset gilds the vine-wreathed door Where stands, mossed by old rains, the flower-pot.
Its snowy blooms, as snow impermanent, Are pure as pure white jade that alters not.
-1094 O fragrant frailty, that so fears the wind!
Most radiant whiteness!
Pull moon without spot!
White flower-sprite, shake your silken wings!
Away!
And join with me to hymn the dying day!
All complimented Tan-chun on her poem when they had finished reading it.
Then they looked at Bao-chais Guard the sweet scent behind closed courtyard door, And with prompt waterings dew the mossy pot!
The carmine hue their summer sisters wore These snowy autumn blossoms envy not Pot beauty in plain whiteness best appears, And only in white jade is found no spot.
Chaste, lovely flowers!
Silent, they seem to pray To autumns White God at the close of day.
-1014 Li Wan smiled.
That has the All-spice touch all right!
Next they looked at Bao-yus poem.
White Autumns sister stands beside the door Like summer snow her blossoms till the pot A Yang-fei rising naked from the bath, With a cool, chaste allure that she had not.
The dawn wind could not dry those pearly tears With which nights rain each flowerets eye did spot.
Pensive and grave, her blossoms gently sway, While a sad flute laments the dying day 5 .
When they had finished reading, Bao-yu said he liked Tan-chuns poem best of the three, but Li Wan insisted that Bao-chais was superior.
It had more character she said.
She was about to press Dai-yu for her contribution when Dai-yu sauntered in of her own volition.
Oh!
have you all finished?
She picked up a brush and proceeded, writing rapidly and without a pause, to set down the poem that was already completed in her mind.
She wrote on the first sheet of paper that came to hand and, having finished, threw it nonchalantly across the table for the others to inspect.
-720 Beside the half-raised blind, the half-closed door, Crushed ice for earth and white jade for the pot, They had got no further than the first couplet, when Bao-yu broke out into praises.
Clever!
How do you get these ideas?
-720 Three parts of whiteness from the pear-tree stolen, -384 One part from plum for scent which pear has not All of them were impressed by this second couplet.
This is good.
Original.
Its quite different from the other three.
-720 Moon-maidens stitched them with white silken thread, And virgins tears the new-made flowers did spot, Which now, like bashful maids that no word say, Lean languid on the breeze at close of day.
Yes, this is the best, they said.
This is the best of the four.
For elegance and originally, yes, said Li Wan but for character and depth I prefer Lady All-spices.
I think thats a fair judgement, said Tan-chun.
I think River Queens has to take second place.
At all events, said Li Wan, Green Boys is bottom.
Do you accept that judgement, Green Boy?
Oh yes, said Bao-yu.
Its a perfectly fair one.
Mine is just not a good poem.
Buthe smiled hopefullyI think we ought to reconsider the placing of All-spices and River Queens contributions.
You agreed to abide by my decisions, said Li Wan.
I dont think the rest of you have any say in the matter.
If anyone questions a decision of mine in future, he will have to pay a penalty.
Bao-yu was obliged to let the matter drop.
I propose that our two meetings should be on the second and sixteenth of each month, said Li Wan.
On those occasions I shall be responsible for choosing the subjects and the rhymes.
If any of you ever feels like having an extra meeting in between those dates, theres nothing to stop you.
In fact, theres nothing to stop you having a meeting every day, if you feel like it.
But thats entirely up to you.
On the second and sixteenth you must all come round to my place, and the meetings on those two days are my responsibility.
We really ought to have a name for the club, said Bao-yu.
We dont want anything banal, said Tan-chun on the other hand we dont want anything too weird and wonderful.
As we started off with a poem about white crab-blossom, why dont we simply call ourselves The Crab-flower Club?
That might have seemed a somewhat banal title other things being equal, but in our case it wouldnt be because it would commemorate our founding meeting.
Tan-chuns proposal was followed by general discussion.
After partaking of the liquid and other refreshment which she provided, the party then broke up, some returning to their own apartments in the Garden, some going on to Grandmother Jias or Lady Wangs apartments outside.
Our record leaves them at this point and does not specify.
Aroma had been present when Bao-yu received Tan-chuns letter and had seen him rush off excitedly with Ebony as soon as he had finished reading it, but without having any idea what the cause of his excitement might be.
Shortly after he left, two of the old women from the back gate arrived carrying pots of white-flowering autumn crab.
Aroma asked them who the flowers were from, and when the old women had explained, showed them where she wanted them put, after which she took them into the servants quartets and made them sit down while she went off to Bao-yus room to fetch some money.
She weighed out twelve penny-weights of silver and made it into a little parcel, then, taking out an additional three hundred copper cash, hurried back to the old women.
The silver is to pay the beaters with, she told them as she handed them the money.
The cash is for you to buy your-selves a drink with.
The old women stood up, beaming all over their faces.
How kind, how very kind, they said, they couldnt possibly take it.
But as Aroma insisted, they allowed themselves to be persuaded.
Are there any boys on duty outside the gate?
Aroma asked them.
Oh yes, there are always four there, said the old women, to do any errands you young ladies in the Garden happen to want done outside.
If theres anything you want done, Miss, just let us know and well get them to do it for you.
It isnt for me, said Aroma smiling.
I wouldnt presume.
Its Master Bao.
He wants someone to go to the Marquis of Zhong-jings place to deliver some things to Miss Shi.
I thought that now youre here I might as well ask you if you wouldnt mind when you get back telling the boys on the gate to go out and order a cab for me.
Only if they do, will you come to me for the fare, please.
Dont go bothering them in the front about it.
The old women departed, promising to do as she asked, while Aroma went back into the main apartment for a saucer to put some of the things on that she was planning to send to Xiang-yun.
But when she looked on the dresser she found that the saucer shelf was completely empty.
She glanced back to where Skybright, Ripple and Musk sat sewing together.
What happened to that white onyx saucer that used to be here ?
she asked ?hem.
The girls looked at each other blankly, trying to remember.
After some moments, Skybrights face broke into a smile.
I remember.
I took it to Miss Tans with those lychees on.
Its still there.
Whatever did you take that one for, when there are so many other things you could have used ?
Well, yes, thats what I said.
But the dark brown lychees and the white-and-browny onyx did go very well together.
Even Miss Tan said how pretty they looked.
She made me leave the dish there, where she could look at it.
Thats why I didnt bring it back with me.
By the way, that pair of identical vases that used to be on the very top of the dresser isnt back yet, either.
Youll laugh if I tell you about them, said Ripple.
You know how Master Bao never does anything by halves.
Well, the other day he had a sudden rush of dutiful feelings come over him.
Hed just picked a couple of sprays of cassia and was going to put them in a vase, when suddenly he said, Oh!
these are the first cassia flowers Ive picked this year.
I mustnt keep them for my own enjoyment.
So what does he do but fetch down those two vases, put the water in them and arrange the flowers in them himself, and go along with them someone else carrying them, of course to Her Old Ladyship and Her Ladyship to give them each a vase.
Anyway, the beauty of it was that some of the effects of this rubbed off on the person carrying the vaseswhich it so happens was me.
When Her Old Ladyship saw the flowers, she was so delighted you just cant imagine.
Oh, look!
she said.
What a good boy he is to me!
He cant even see a flower without thinking of his old grannie!And people grumble at me for being too fond of him!
Well, as I expect you know, Her Old Ladyship normally doesnt seem to have much use for meI dont know what it is, but theres something about me she doesnt seem to likebut on this occasion she gave me a hundred cash.
And she called me a poor little thing.
Poor little thing!
she said.
She looks so sickly!
I can tell you, I never expected a piece of luck like that I I mean, a hundred cash is nothing, but the honour!
- in front of all those people!
Then when we got to Her Ladyships, Her Ladyship was with Mrs Lian and Mrs Zhao going through her chests and looking out some of the things she used to wear when she was a girl to give to someoneI dont know who it was.
Anyway, when she saw us, she left off to admire the flowers.
So of course Mrs Lian has to make the most of it by putting in her pennyworth going on about how dutiful Master Bao is and how thoughtful and how this that and the other I cant remember a half of what she said, there was a whole cartload of it - but whatever it was it gave Her Ladyship a lot of face, hearing him praised like that in front of everybody, and You Know Who not being able to say a word against him, so of course she was very pleased.
And what do you think?
She gave me two dresses!
Admittedly, we get new dresses every year, so in itself being given two dresses may not seem so wonderful.
But the honour I Pooh!
said Skybright.
Silly girl!
You dont know much!
Those would be two dresses that she thought werent good enough to give to the other person.
I cant see much honour in that!
I dont care, said Ripple.
It was still very kind of Her Ladyship, for all that.
If it had been me, I shouldnt have wanted them, said Skybright.
What?
take someone elses old left-overs?
All of us here are only maids none of us is supposed to be any higher than the rest, you know.
Why should she give someone else the best and give me the left-overs?
No, Im sorry.
I should have had to refuse, even if it meant offending her.
I couldnt take a thing like that lying down!
Which of us was it that she gave those other dresses to?
said Ripple, curious.
Ive been home ill these last few days.
I must have been away when it happened.
Be a sport, Skyeytell us who it was!
Why, if I tell you, will you give those dresses back again?
Of course not, silly!
Id just like to know, said Ripple.
I dont care if it was Master Baos little puppy-dog she gave them to, I still think Her Ladyship meant to do me a kindness, and as far as Im concerned, thats all that matters.
The other maids laughed.
Youd better watch what you say!
Thats just who she did give them to Master Baos little dog, Flower.
Wicked girls!
said Flowers Aroma, laughing in spite of herself, taking my name in vain!
Whenever youve got a few moments to spare you are making fun of me.
Theres not one of you that will come to a good end!
Oh, it was you, said Ripple.
Im go sorry, I didnt realize.
Oh, I do apologize.
All right, thats enough fooling for now, said Aroma.
The question is, which of you is going to get that saucer?
Better get the vases back too, while were about it, said Musk.
The one in Her Old Ladyships room should be safe enough, but I wouldnt be too sure about the one at Her Ladyships.
There are so many people in and out of that place especially You Know Who and her lot.
If they see anything from our room in there, theyre sure to find some way of breaking it accidentally-on-purpose, if they get half a chance.
Her Ladyship wont stop them.
She never notices.
We ought to get that one back, at least, as soon as we can.
Youre right, said Skybright, laying down her sewing.
Ill go and get it now.
No, Ill go for that, said Ripple.
You go and get your saucer.
Im going for the vase, said Skybright.
Why should you have all the windfalls?
You others have all had a go.
Now its my turn.
You do exaggerate, said Musk.
Its only Ripple whos had the luck.
And it was only because of the coincidence that Her Ladyship happened to be going through her dresses when she arrived.
Do you suppose shell be going through them again if you go there now ?
Maybe not, said Skybright, with a tinge of malice.
On the other hand maybe shell notice how conscientious I am and pay me two taels a month out of her allowance.
You seeshe paused to add this on her way out of the room I know what goes on in here.
Theres no need for the play-acting.
She ran off with a mocking laugh.
Ripple went, too, and fetched the onyx saucer from Tan-chuns room, after which Aroma made ready the things that were to go to Xiang-yun, and called in old Mamma Song One of the nannies attached to Green Delightsto give her instructions for their delivery.
Get yourself smartened up and change into your best things, she said.
I want you to go out presently and take some things for me to Miss Shis.
You can give them to me now, Missand any message that you want me to deliver, said Mamma Song then I can go off straight away, as soon as Ive got myself ready.
Aroma fetched two little boxes of lacquer and bamboo basketwork and taking the tops off them, put foxnuts and caltrops in one and a saucerful of chestnut fudge made of chestnut puree steam-cooked with cassia-flavored sugar in the other.
These are all our own things or made from our own things freshly gathered in the Garden that Master Bao is sending Miss Shi a taste of, she said.
Tell her the onyx saucer the fudge is on is the one she was admiring last time she was here and she is to keep it.
This silk bag has got the sewing in that she asked me to do for her.
Tell her the needleworks a bit on the rough side, but Im sure shell understand.
And say Master Bao sends his regards.
And of course I present my compliments.
I think thats all.
Isnt there any message from Master Bao ?
said Mamma Song.
Perhaps youd better ask him, Miss, just in case.
We dont want him saying afterwards that weve forgotten something.
Didnt he go round just now to Miss Tans place?
Aroma asked Ripple.
Yes, said Ripple.
Theyre all round there.
They were having a discussion about setting up a poetry club, whatever that might be, and they were writing poems, some of them.
She turned to Mamma Song.
I shouldnt think hed have anything to say.
I should just push on, if I were you.
Mamma Song took up the boxes and went off to get herself ready.
When you are ready, go out by the back gate, said Aroma as she was leaving.
Youll find some of the boys there and a cab waiting for you.
Mamma Song then left.
The details of her expedition are unrecorded.
Some time after this Bao-yu got back.
The first thing he did on arrival was to go and look at the autumn crab-flowers.
When he had finished admiring them, he went into the house and told Aroma all about the poetry club, after which Aroma told him how she had sent Mamma Song to Shi Xiang-yuns with a present of things from the Garden.
Bao-yu smote his palms together in vexation.
Oh, we forgot about her!
I knew there was something we ought to have done and hadnt, but I couldnt think what it was.
Im glad youve reminded me.
We must invite her over at once, of course.
The poetry club will be nothing without her in it.
I dont think Id be in such a hurry to, if I were you, said Aroma.
Its only an amusement, this poetry thing, and Miss Shi doesnt have the time for amusement that the rest of you do.
It isnt as if she were her own mistress, you know.
Even if you tell her about this and she wants to come, it doesnt follow that theyll let her.
Suppose they dont.
Shell only fret about it and then all youll have done will be to have made her feel miserable for nothing.
Thats no problem, said Bao-yu.
I shall ask Her Old Ladyship to have her fetched.
Just then Mamma Song got back, mission completed, bearing Xiang-yuns thanks to Aroma for the things.
She asked me what Master Bao was doing, said the nannie, so I told her that he and the young ladies were starting a poetry club or some such.
She was very upset.
Oh!
she said, are they writing poetry?
I wish theyd have told me about it!
Bao-yu waited to hear no more.
Dashing round to his grandmothers, he insisted that she should send instantly to have Xiang-yun fetched.
Its too late now, said Grandmother Jia.
Well send for her first thing tomorrow.
Bao-yu had to be content with that, and went back to his room much downcast.
He was round at Grandmother Jias first thing next morning again, pestering but it was not until the early afternoon that Xiang-yun eventually arrived and his equanimity was restored.
As soon as they were all together, Bao-yu began to tell Xiang-yun how the club had come to be founded and what they had done at its first meeting.
He was about to show her the poems that they had written, but Li Wan prevented him.
Dont let her see them yet, she said.
Just tell her the rhymes.
As she missed our first meeting, her penalty shall be to make up another poem now, using the same rhymes that we did.
If its all right, we shall invite her to join the club straight away.
If not, she must first entertain us all at our next meeting as a further penalty.
I like that!
said Xiang-yun, laughing.
You should be the ones to pay a penalty, for having forgotten to invite me.
Well, show me the rhymes, then.
Im not much good at this sort of thing, but I dont mind making a fool of myself.
As long as youll let me join your club, I dont mind what I have to do sweep the floor and light the incense for you, if you like!
Delighted to see her so enthusiastic, and still reproaching themselves for having forgotten about her at their inaugural meeting, the rest of them made haste to give her the rhyme-words so that she could begin.
Xiang-yun was much too excited for careful composition.
Having, even while they were all talking, concocted a number of verses in her head, she took up a brush and proceeded to write them down, without a single pause for correction, on the first piece of paper that came to hand.
There you are!
she said, handing it to the others.
Ive written two poems using the rhymes you gave me.
I dont know whether theyre any good or not, but at least I have done what was told!
We thought our four had just about scraped the barrel, they told her.
We couldnt have written one more poem on the subject, let alone two I Whatever can you have found to say in them?
I bet they just repeat what we said in ours.
But when they looked at the poems, this is what they read.
1 -720 Of late a goddess came down to my door And planted seeds of white jade in a pot, From which a wondrous white Frost Maiden grew, Who, loving cold, all other things loves not.
Last night a cloud passed by, whose autumn shower Her cold, unweeping eyes with tears did spot Since when, the poet here takes up his stay, To praise her loveliness by night and day.
2 -720 Where flower-fringed steps approach the ivied door, At the walls foot or in a graceful pot What flowers do more sad autumn-thoughts inspire Than these, whose pureness others rival not?
Wax teats their petals seem, by wind congealed, Or filtered moonlight, flecked with many a spot.
Weep they because the shadows stole away Their goddess-queen, who now makes dark night day?
The reading of these poems was punctuated at the end of each line with expressions of admiration and surprise, and when they had got to the end, all of them agreed that these two poems had made the exercise a worth-while one and fully justified their naming the new society The Crab-flower Club.
You must let me provide the refreshments tomorrow as my penalty, said Xiang-yun.
I hope you will all consent to be my guests.
Splendid!
they said and proceeded to show her the poems they had written the day before, and to discuss them with her.
That evening Bao-chai, who had invited xiang-yun to spend the night with her at Allspice Court, sat with her guest under the lamplight while the latter discussed themes for the morrows meeting and plans for the projected entertainment.
As it became increasingly apparent that her ideas on the subject were quite impracticable, Bao-chai presently interrupted the flow.
The club has only just been founded and this will be its first entertainment, she said.
Although its all only a game, you are setting a precedent, so you need to think about it rather carefully.
If the entertainment is to be equally enjoyable for everyone, you dont want it to be too much of a burden on you but on the other hand you dont want the others to feel that they are being given short commons.
Now, you are not your own mistress, and the few strings of cash they give you a month at home are not even enough or your own needs.
And if your Aunt got to hear that you were spending money on a frivolous thing like this, she would have still more to grumble about than usual.
In any case, even if you spent all youd got, it still wouldnt be enough to provide an entertainment for several people.
So what are you going to do?
You obviously cant send home for money.
Are you going to ask them here for some?
Xiang-yun, brought back to the realities of her situation, was very much dashed.
While she hesitated, Bao-chai went on.
Actually Ive thought of a way out of this.
An assistant in one of our pawnshops comes from a place where they have very good crabs.
Now nearly everyone here from Lady Jia and Aunt Wang downwards is fond of crabs and only the other day Aunt Wang was saying that we ought to have a crab and cassia-viewing party for Lady Jia.
Its only because she has been otherwise occupied that she hasnt done anything about it.
Why not issue a general invitation, making no mention of the poetry clubwe can write all the poems we want to after the rest of them have goneand I shall ask my brother to let us have a few baskets of the biggest, fattest-looking crabs and tell him to get us a few jars of good wine and side-dishes for four or five tables from the shop?
That should save a lot of trouble for you and make more of an occasion of it for everybody else.
Xiang-yun felt deeply grateful to Bao-chai and praised her warmly for her thoughtfulness.
Bao-chai smiled deprecatingly.
Now you mustnt go imagining things and feel that you are being treated like a poor relation!
Its only because I am so fond of you that I have ventured to make this proposal.
If you promise you wont take it amiss, I can get them to arrange it for us straight away.
My dearest girl!
said Xiang-yun.
Of course I shant take it amiss!
How can you suggest such a thing?
If you do so again, I shall begin to think that you arent really fond of me at all!
I may be a silly goose, but there are some things I understand!
Do you think that if I didnt look on you as my own true sister I should ever have told you last time I was here about all those tiresome things I have to put up with at home?
Reassured, Bao-chai called in an old woman to take a message outside to her brother.
Tell Mr Pan to get us a few baskets of crabs like the ones we had the other day.
Its for after lunch tomorrow.
Were having a cassia-viewing party in the Garden for Their Lady-ships.
Tell him please not to forget, because Ive already invited all the guests.
The old woman went off to deliver her message.
In due course she reported back againbut these are details omitted from our story.
Bao-chai resumed her conversation with Xiang-yun.
About the theme for tomorrows poems, she said.
We dont want anything too outlandish.
If you look at the works of the great poets, you find that they didnt go in for the weird and wonderful titles and daring rhymes that people nowadays are so fond of.
Outlandish themes and daring rhymes do not produce good poetry.
They merely show up the poverty of the writers ideas.
Certainly one wants to avoid clichs but one can easily go too far in the pursuit of novelty.
The important thing is to have fresh ideas.
If one has fresh ideas, one does not need to worry about clichs the words take care of themselves.
But what am I saying all this for?
Spinning and sewing is the proper occupation for girls like us.
Any time we have left over from that should be spent in reading a few pages of some improving booknot on this sort of thing!
Yes said Xiang-yun, without much conviction but presently smiled as a new idea occurred to her.
Ive just thought of something.
Yesterdays theme was White Crab-blossom.
The flower Id like to write about is the chrysanthemum.
Couldnt we have Chrysanthemums as our theme for tomorrow?
It is certainly a very seasonable one, said Bao-chai.
The trouble is that so many people have written about it before.
Yes, said Xiang-yun, I suppose it is rather a hackneyed one.
Bao-chai thought for a bit.
Unless of course you somehow involved the poet in the theme, she said.
You could do that by making up verb-object or concrete-abstract tides in which chrysanthemums was the concrete noun or the object of the verb as the case might be.
Then your poem would be both a celebration of chrysanthemums and at the same time a description of some action or situation.
Such a treatment of the subject has been tried in the past, but it is a much less hackneyed one.
The combining of narrative and lyrical elements in a single treatment makes for freshness and greater freedom.
It sounds a splendid idea, said Xiang-yun.
But what sort of verbs or abstract nouns had you in mind?
Can you give me an example?
Bao-chai thought for a bit.
What about The Dream of the Chrysanthemums ?
Yes, thats a good one, said xiang-yun.
Ive thought of one too.
Couldnt we have The Shadow of the Chrysanthemums?
Ye-e-es, said Bao-chai, doubtfully.
The trouble is, its been used before.
Still, if we had a lot of tides we could probably slip it in.
Ive thought of another.
Well, come on then!
said Xiang-yun.
What about Questioning the Chrysanthemums?
Xiang-yun slapped the table appreciatively.
Thats a lovely one!
Presently she added Ive thought of another.
What do you think of Seeking the Chrysanthemums?
That should be interesting, said Bao-chai.
Lets start making a list.
Well write down up to ten titles and then see what we think of them.
The two of them busied themselves for some minutes grinding ink and softening a brush.
xiang-yun then proceeded to write down the titles at Ban-chais dictation.
Soon they had ten.
Xiang-yun read them over.
Ten doesnt make a set, she said.
We need two more to make a round dozen, then we shall have just the right number for a little album.
Ban-chai supplied two more without too much difficulty.
If were thinking in terms of a sequence of poems, she said, we may as well, while were about it, arrange these titles in some sort of order.
Thats it!
said xiang-yun.
Then they will be all ready for making our Chrysanthemum Album with afterwards.
Remembering the Chrysanthemums should come first, said Bao-chai.
Now, lets see.
When you remember them, you realize you havent got any, so you go and look for some.
So Seeking the Chrysanthemums will be the second title.
Well, having found some, you will want to plant them so Planting the Chrysanthemums will be the third title.
After youve planted them and the flowers have come out, youll want to stand and look at them so the fourth title will be Admiring the Chrysanthemums.
You wont be able to have enough of them by just standing and admiring them, so youll naturally want to pick some and arrange them in a vase so that you can enjoy them indoors.
That means Arranging the Chrysanthemums for Number Five.
But however much you enjoy them, you will feel that they somehow lack their full lustre without words to grace them, and so you will want to celebrate them in verse.
That means Celebrating the Chrysanthemums will be the sixth title.
Well now, lets suppose youve just finished writing some verses about them.
Youve got the ink ready-made and the brush is still in your hand and you feel like paying the chrysanthemums a further tribute.
What should you do but paint them?
Thats Number Seven.
Painting the Chrysanthemums.
Now in spite of these silent tributes, you still dont know the secret of the chrysanthemums mysterious charm and you cant resist asking them.
Which brings us to Number Eight Questioning the Chrysanthemums And if the chrysanthemums could really reply, it would be so delightful that you would want to have them near you all the time - and how better than by Wearing the Chrysanthemums?
Thats Number Nine.
That brings us to the end of the verb-object titles which involve the poet himself as the understood subject of the action.
But there remain other kinds of treatment, in which we consider the flowers by themselves without postulating the presence of the poet.
So we have The Shadow of the Chrysanthemums and The Dream of the Chrysanthemums as Numbers Ten and Eleven.
And of course The Death of the Chrysanthemums at the end of the album to round off on a suitable note of melancholy.
There you are I All three months of autumn condensed into a single sequence of a dozen poems!
Xiang-yun recopied the twelve titles in the order that Bao-chai had indicated, then, after running her eye rapidly over them, she asked Bao-chai what rhyme-scheme they should set.
I have always disliked set rhymes, said Bao-chai.
If you have a good poem in the making, why shackle it with the constraints of an arbitrary rhyme-scheme?
Let us leave set rhymes to vulgar pedants all we need do is give out the titles and let the others choose their own rhyme-schemes for themselves.
After all, the object of the exercise is to give people enjoymentthe enjoyment gained by producing an occasional felicitous line.
We arent out to make things difficult for them.
I entirely agree, said Xiang-yun.
And I am sure that in this way we shall get better poems.
Theres just one thing, though we have twelve titles now but only five people writing poems.
Presumably we arent going to ask each of them to produce a poem for every one of the titles ?
Oh no, that would be much too difficult, said Bao-chai.
Make a fair copy of the list of titles, merely indicating that the poems are to be octets in Regulated Verse, put it up on the wall where everyone can see it, and then simply let them choose whichever titles they like.
If anyone has the energy to do them all, they are welcome to try.
If they cant manage more than one, let them do just one.
Skill and speed are what we shall be looking for.
As soon as all of the twelve tides have been covered, we shall call a halt, and anyone who goes on writing after that will be made to pay a penalty.
Xiang-yun did not see that this last stipulation was necessary, but otherwise agreed with her, and the two girls, having satisfied themselves that their plans for the morrow were now complete, put out the light and composed themselves for sleep.
As to the outcome of their plans that will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 38 River Queen triumphs in her treatment of chrysanthemum themes And Lady Allspice is satirical on the subject of crabs THE last chapter concluded with Ban-chai and Xiang-yun retiring for the night after their plans for the morrow had been completed.
This one begins next morning, when Xiang-yun invited Grandmother Jia and the rest to a cassia-viewing party in the Garden.
Touched by her enthusiasm, the grown-ups readily agreed to go.
She is so excited, bless her!
said Grandmother Jia.
We ought to let her do this, even though she is our guest.
And having promised, she was as good as her word, and arrived in the Garden at noon, bringing Lady Wang, Wang Xi-feng and Aunt Xue with her and a number of attendant maids.
Now where is it going to be?
she asked them.
Wherever you like, Mother, said Lady Wang dutifully.
I think theyve already prepared for us in the Lotus Pavilion, said Xi-feng.
The blossom on the two cassia-trees is particularly line there this year, and there is that lovely clear, emerald water.
When you sit in the little centre pavilion, you have water all round you, which gives you a wonderful feeling of spaciousness.
And looking at water is so restful for the eyes.
Very well, said Grandmother Jia, and began to lead the way to the Lotus Pavilion.
The pavilion was built in the middle of the Gardens little river at one of the places where it broadened into a wide, deep pool.
It had windows all round it and could be approached either circuitously from one side by way of one of the two many-angled covered piers leading to its left and right-hand verandahs, or more directly from the other by means of a bamboo bridge leading to the centre of the verandah at the back.
It was towards this bamboo bridge that the party was now making its way.
As Grandmother Jia stepped on to it, Xi-feng hurried forward to support her.
You can put your feet down as hard as you like, Grannie, she said.
Bamboo bridges always creak like this when you go over them.
They are meant to.
The Lotus Pavilion was in reality not one pavilion but two, for the main pavilion properly so called gave on to a smaller pavilion, referred to simply as the water pavilion or the centre pavilion, which was in the very middle of the little lake.
When they were all inside the main pavilion, they noticed that two bamboo tables had been set out on the verandah.
On one of them were ranged winecups, chopsticks and all things needful for serving wine, and on the other were teacups, teapots, tea-whisks, saucers, and various other tea4hings.
Beside the tea-table two or three maids were busy fanning a little tripod stove on which water for tea-making was being boiled, while at the other end of the verandah maids were fanning a stove on which water for warming the wine-kettles was being heated.
Grandmother Jia was particularly impressed by the arrangements for tea-making and remarked with pleasure how clean everything lookedincluding the spot that had been chosen for the party.
Cousin Bao-chai helped me get it ready, said Xiang-yun.
Well, Ive always said she was a thoughtful child, said Grandmother Jia.
A lot of thought has certainly gone into these preparations.
As she was speaking, her eye fell on a pair of boards that hung from two of the pillars.
The couplet inscribed on them was in mother-o-pearl inlay on a black lacquer background.
She asked Xiang-yun to read it out to her.
This is what it said Lotus reflections shatter at the dip of a lazy oar-blade Lotus fragrances float up from the swirl round a bamboo bridge-pile After hearing the couplet, Grandmother Jia glanced up at the horizontal board which bore the name of the pavilion and was in characters large enough for her to read herself.
She turned to Aunt Xue, who was standing beside her.
When I was a girl, there was a pavilion like this one in our garden at home.
It was calledlet me seeAbove the Clouds because of the sky reflected in the water below, you see.
When I was about the same age as these young people are now, I used to go with the others every day there to play.
One day I slipped and fell down into the water.
I nearly drowned.
They had a terrible job getting me out.
And even then I caught my head on one of the wooden pegs on the way up.
Ive still got a place big enough to put the tip of a linger in where it hit me.
Its on the side here, just where the hair begins.
Of course, at the time everyone thought it was Al up with me.
They were sure that after being all that time in the water Id catch my death of cold.
But I got over it.
If you hadnt, said Xi-feng before anyone else could speak, what would have happened to all the good fortune youve enjoyed, Grannie?
Its obvious you were meant to have it, otherwise why would you have been given that dent in your head?
The guardian spirits must have put it there to store your good fortune in.
Old Longevity has got a dent in his head, too only his has got so much good fortune packed into it that it bulges out a bit.
This comical allusion to the God of Longevitys enormous cranium set all of them laughing including, of course, the old lady herself.
Naughty monkey!
she said.
Make fun of me, would you?
Id like to tear that wicked mouth of yours!
Its because I wanted to make you laugh, Grannie.
Laughter makes the humours circulate.
Were going to be eating crabs shortly, and I was afraid that the cold of the crab-meat might settle on your heart.
If I can make you laugh and stir your humours up, youll be able to eat as much crab as you like without taking any harm from it.
In that case I shall have to keep you with me all the time, so that I am always laughing, said Grandmother Jia.
Ill have to stop you going home at night.
Its because you indulge her so much that she is so cheeky, Mother, said Lady Wang.
By saying things like that to her you will make her even worse.
But I like her cheekiness I said Grandmother Jia.
After all, theres no harm in it.
She knows whats what underneath it all, of course she does.
I think its nice that the young people should feel free to joke and laugh a bit when we are all on our own together.
We dont want them behaving like a lot of stuffed dummies, surely?
While she was saying this, they all passed into the smaller pavilion, where tea was served, after which Xi-feng came bustling in with winecups and chopsticks and began to lay.
Grandmother Jia sat with Aunt Xue, Bao-chai, Dai-yu and Bao-yu at a centre table, and Xiang-yun, Lady Wang, Ying-chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun at a table on the east side of the room.
A little table was laid for Xi4eng and Li Wan on the west side of the doorway, but this was only for forms sake, since both of them remained on their feet in order to wait on the other two tables.
We shant want all the crabs at once, said Xi-feng to the servants bringing them in.
Ten will be enough to start with.
The others can go back into the steamer.
She called for some water, and after washing her hands, stood at the centre table facing Grandmother Jia and began shelling the crabs.
She offered the first meat, as a courtesy, to Aunt Xue.
No thank you, said Aunt Xue.
I dont need anyone to do it for me.
I like doing it myself and getting crabby fingers.
I think they taste better when you eat them with your fingers.
Xi-feng gave the crab-meat she had prepared to Grandmother Jia.
The second lot she offered to Bao-yu.
Then she called for some really hot wine.
She also sent a little maid to fetch mung-bean flour scented with chrysanthemum leaves and cassia for cleaning the lingers with and removing the smell of crab.
Xiang-yun sat with the others at her own table for a while, but as soon as she had finished her first crab, got up to look after her guests.
She also went outside and gave orders for a plate of crabs to be taken to Aunt Zhao and another to Aunt Zhou.
At once Xi-feng came bearing down on her.
Youre not used to this.
You get on with your eating and leave this to me!
Ill have mine when the rest of you have finished.
But Xiang-yun, refusing to be put off, ordered a long table to be laid on the verandah at the far side of the Lotus Pavilion and invited the maids Faithful, Amber, Sunset, Suncloud and Patience to come and sit at it.
Faithful glanced laughingly in Xi-feng direction.
I cant very well sit down and eat while Mrs Lian is waiting on everybody.
Thats all right, said Xi-feng.
You all go and sit down.
Ill take care of everything.
At that Xiang-yun, too, went back to her seat.
Li Wan and Xi-feng now made a brief pretence of joining in the party, but Xi-feng was soon on her feet again ministering to the rest.
After a few minutes she went out on to the verandah, where Faithful and the other maids were regaling themselves with great gusto.
They rose to their feet when they saw her come.
What have you come Out here for, Mrs Lian?
said Faithful.
Cant you leave us alone to enjoy ourselves for a bit?
Well, arent you disagreeable!
said Xi-feng.
Here am I doing all the work for you, but instead of thanks I get grumbled at!
I was hoping you would offer me a drink.
Faithful, laughing, quickly filled a winecup and held it to Xi-feng lips.
Tilting her head back, Xi-feng drained it at a gulp.
Amber and Sunset followed suit, and two more cupfuls went down in the same way.
Meanwhile Patience had been scooping out some yolkthe delicious golden crab-spawnwhich she now offered to her mistress.
Xi-feng told her to put lots of ginger and vinegar on it, then, having quickly disposed of it, You can all sit down now and get on with your party, she said.
Im going.
What a nerve!
said Faithful.
Scrounging off us like that!
Youd better be careful what you say to me, my girl, said Xi-feng with a smile.
I suppose you realize that Mr Lian has taken a fancy to you and is going to ask Her Old Ladyship if he can have you for his Number Two?
Faithful tutted and shook her head.
It was easy to see that she was blushing.
Huh I she said.
Fancy a lady saying a thing like that!
Im going to wipe my smelly fingers on your face, Mrs Lian, if its the last thing I do.
No, no!
Please!
Forgive me!
said Xi-feng, as Faithful stood up to carry Out her threat.
Even if she does, said Amber, laughing, I wouldnt be too sure that Patience will.
Look at her, all of you!
She hasnt eaten two crabs yet, but shes already finished a saucerful of vinegar!
Patience, who had in her hand a crab richly endowed with yolk that she had just finished shelling, held it up when she heard this jibe and advanced on Amber, intending to smear her face with it.
You nasty, spiteful little creature!
she said, both laughing and indignant.
Ill But Amber dodged aside, and Patience, losing her balance, plastered the crab smack on to her mistresss cheek.
xi-feng, at that moment still preoccupied with Faithful, was taken completely by surprise.
Her startled Aiyo!
was too much for the maids, who collapsed in uncontrollable laughter.
Xi-feng presently joined in, though cursing Patience as she did so.
Stupid cow!
Are you too drunk to see straight?
All over my face!
Patience hurriedly wiped it off and fetched water for her to wash with.
Holy Name!
said Faithful.
That was a judgement, if ever there was one!
Hearing the laughter outside, Grandmother Jia eagerly asked to know its cause.
What is it?
What have you seen thats so funny?
Tell us, so that we can share the joke.
Faithful shouted back, amidst laughter.
Mrs Lian came over here and stole some of our crab.
Patience didnt like it, so she smeared crab-yolk all over her mistresss face, and now the two of them are having a fight.
Hoots of laughter from Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang.
Poor Mrs Lian!
said Grandmother Jia.
You ought to feel sorry for her.
Couldnt you spare her a few-of the legs or some of the underneath bits?
There was renewed laughter from the maids.
Faithful shouted back again.
She can have all the crabs-legs on this table, and very welcome to them!
Xi-feng, taking all in good part, finished washing her face and went back to help Grandmother Jia and the others at the centre table with their crabs.
Dai-yu dared not eat very much because of her delicate health, and after consuming a little of the claw-meat, excused herself from the table.
Soon Grandmother Jia, too, had finished eating, and everyone washed their hands and broke off for a while to amuse themselves, some going off to admire the flowers, some to drop things in the water and watch the fish rise.
Its rather windy for you here, Mother, said Lady Wang, especially after youve just been eating crab.
Perhaps you ought to go back to your own room now and test.
If you have enjoyed it, we could come again tomorrow.
Yes, perhaps you are right, said Grandmother Jia.
I hadnt been going to leave, because I could see how much they were all enjoying themselves and was afraid of spoiling the fun.
But perhaps you and I ought to be getting along now.
As she rose to leave, she turned to address Xiang-yun.
Dont let your Cousin Bao-yu eat too much I No, Grandma.
She turned once more as she was leaving, this time including Bao-chai in her admonition.
And dont you two eat too much, either.
Crab is very good to eat, but it isnt very good for you.
If you eat too much of it, it will give you stomach-ache.
Yes, Grandma.
The two girls saw her out of the Garden.
When they were back again, they gave orders for the tables to be cleared and a new set of places to be laid but Bao-yu objected.
No, dont lay again, he said.
We want to get on with the poetry.
Put the big round table in the middle with all the food and drink on it so that we can help ourselves when we feel like it and sit where we like.
That will be much nicer than having set places.
Bao-chai agreed but Xiang-yun reminded them that there were others besides themselves to be considered, and having first ordered a separate table to be laid and some good hot crabs to be selected, she invited Aroma, Nightingale, Chess, Scribe, Picture, Oriole and Ebony to come and sit at it.
After that she had a couple of carpets spread out on the ground beneath the cassia-trees at the foot of the rockery and made the old nannies and junior maids sit down on them and eat and drink to their hearts content, insisting that they need only get up to wait on them if they were specially called for.
Then she took the list of poem-titles and pinned it to the inside wall of the pavilion.
Very original!
the others commented when they had finished reading the titles, but went on to express the fear that they might find them difficult to write on.
Xiang-yun explained what they had decided about rhymes viz.
that there should be no set rhyme-scheme and everyone should be free to choose their own.
Now thats what I call sensible I said Bao-yu.
I cant stand set rhymes.
Dai-yu had a barrel-shaped porcelain tabouret moved up to the verandahs edge, and having selected a fishing-rod for herself, sat leaning on the railing, fishing.
Bao-chai sat for some time silently contemplating a spray of cassia she had picked, then, leaning over the railings and idly plucking off the flowerets, dropped them one by one into the water and watched the fish swim up from below and nibble at them with plopping noises as they floated on the surface.
Xiang-yun for the most part sat quietly musing, occasionally getting up to look after Aroma and the other maids at the table outside, or to make sure that the people sitting on the carpets were getting enough to eat and drink.
Tan-chun stood with Li Wan and Xi-chun in the shade of a weeping willow, watching the water-fowl.
Ying-chun sat apart from the rest beneath a flowering tree, stringing jasmine blossoms into a flower-chain with a needle and thread.
Bao-yu watched Dai-yu fishing for a bit, then went over and leaned on the railings and talked with Bao-chai for a bit, and finally, after watching Aroma and the other maids eating and drinking at their table, ended up by drinking with them him-self while Aroma shelled a crab for him.
Presently Dai-yu put down her fishing-rod, went over to the central table, took up a silver self-service wine-kettle whose surface was carved with a nielloed plum-flower pattern, and, having selected a little shallow, rose-quartz winecup, was just about to pour herself a drink, when a maid observed her and came hurrying up to do it for her.
No, let me pour it myself, said Dai-yu.
That is half the fun.
You get on with your party.
So saying, she proceeded to half-fill the tiny receptacle with liquor from the silver kettle.
But it proved to be yellow rice-wine, whereas what she wanted was spirits.
I only ate a small amount of crab, she said, but it has given me a slight heart-burn.
What I really need is some very hot samshoo.
We have some, said Bao-yu, and quickly ordered a kettle of special mimosa-flavoured samshoo to be heated for her.
Dai-yu took only a sip of it before putting the winecup down again.
Presently Bao-chai strolled up and helped herself to the samshoo.
She, too, put her cup down after taking only a tiny mouthful of it.
Then she moistened a brush with ink, and going over to the list of titles, put a tick over the first one, Remembering the Chrysanthemums, and wrote the word Allspice underneath it.
Please leave Number Two for me, Chai, said Bao-yu anxiously.
Ive already thought of four lines for it.
Bao-chai laughed.
Ive had a hard enough job thinking of lines for this first one.
Youve nothing to worry about as far as Im concerned.
Dai-yu, without saying a word, quietly relieved Bao-chai of the brush, ticked first Questioning the Chrysanthemums and then the eleventh title, The Dream of the Chrysanthemums, and wrote River underneath each of them.
After her, Bao-yu took up the brush and ticked Seeking the Chrysanthemums,.
He signed himself Green .
Tan-chun now drifted over and looked at the list.
Oh, hasnt anyone chosen Wearing the Chrysanthemums yet?
she said.
Let me do that one.
She turned, smilingly, to Bao-yu and pointed a warning finger at him.
Weve just made a new rule, by the way.
No naked ladies this time, please.
You have been warned!
Xiang-yun strolled up while she was saying this and ticked Numbers Four and Five Admiring the Chrysanthemums and Arranging the Chrysanthemumsin rapid succession.
She signed herself Xiang underneath them.
You ought to have a pen-name like the test of us, said Tan-chun.
There are various pavilions and studios at home, of course, said Xiang-yun, but I dont live in any of them.
It would be rather pointless to call myself after a building like the rest of you.
What about that water pavilion Above the Clouds that Lady Jia was telling us about?
said Bao-chai.
You could call that yours.
Even if it doesnt exist any more, you can pretend that it would have been yours.
You should call yourself Cloud Maiden.
Yes, yes, said the others and before Xiang-yun herself could do anything, Bao-yu had crossed out the Xiang and substituted the word Cloud beneath it.
In less time than it would take to eat a meal, poems had been completed for each of the twelve titles.
The young poets then wrote out their poems and handed them in to Ying-chun, who copied them out, each with the full pen-name of its author, on to the finest Snow Wave notepaper.
Li Wan then read them all through, the others overlooking her.
Remembering the Chrysanthemums by Lady Allspice -560 The autumn wind that through the knotgrass blows Blurs the sad gazers eye with unshed tears -560 But autumns guest, who last year graced this plot, Only, as yet, in dreams of night appears.
The wild geese from the North are now returning The dhobis thump at evening fills my ears.
-560 Those golden flowers for which you see me pine Ill meet once more at this years Double Nine.
Seeking the Chrysanthemum by Green Boy -560 The crisp day bids us go on an excursion Resistant to the wineshop doors temptation Some garden, where, before the frosts, was planted The glory of autumn, being our destination Which after weary walk having found, well sing An autumn song with unsubdued elation.
And you, gold flowers, if all the poet told You understood, would not refuse his gold!
Planting the Chrysanthemums by Green Boy Brought from their nursery and, with loving hands, -560 Planted along the fence and by the door A shower last night their wilting leaves revived, Opening the morning-buds all silver-hoar.
Sweet flowers!
a thousand autumn songs Ill sing To praise your beauty, and libations pour, And water you, and ridge with earth around.
No dust on my wet well-path shall be found!
Admiring the Chrysanthemums by Cloud Maiden Transplanted treasures, dear to me as gold Both the pale clumps and those of darker hue!
-934 Rare-headed by your wintry bed I sit And, musing, hug my knees and sing to you.
-1344 None more than you the villain world disdains None understands your proud heart as I do.
-1344 The precious hours of autumn Ill not waste, -934 But bide with you and savour their full taste.
Arranging the Chrysanthemums by Cloud Maiden -1344 What greater pleasure than the lute to strum Or sip wine by your delicate display?
To hold the gardens fragrance in one vase, -934 And see all autumn in a single spray?
-1344 On frosty nights Ill dream you back again, Brave in your garden bed at close of day.
Since with your shy disdain I sympathize, -934 Tis you, not summers gaudy blooms I prize.
Celebrating the Chrysanthemums by River Queen Down garden walks, in search of inspiration, -934 A restless demon drives me all the time -1344 Then brush blooms into praises, and the mouth Grows scud-sweet, hymning those scents sublime.
Yet easier twere a world of grief to tell Than to lock autumns secret in one rhyme.
That miracle old Tao did once attain Since when a thousand bards have tried in vain Painting the Chrysanthemums by Lady Allspice The brush that praised them, eager for more tasks, Would paint them now for paintings no great cost When cunning black-ink blots the flowers leaves make, And white the petals, silvered oer with frost.
Fresh scents of autumn from the paper rise, And shapes unmoving by the wind are tossed.
No need at Double Ninth live flowers to pluck -774 These living seem, upon a fine screen stuck!
Questioning the Chrysanthemums by River Queen Since none else autumns mystery can explain, I come with murmured questions to your gate -774 Who, world-disdainer, shares your hiding-place?
Of all the flowers why do yours bloom so late?
The garden silent lies in frosty dew The geese return the cricket mourns his fate.
Let not speech from your silent world be banned Converse with me, since me you understand!
Wearing the Chrysanthemums by Plantain Lover -774 Just to admire and not for our adornment Were these reared and arranged with so much care -774 Yet young Sir Fop, with whom flowers are a passion, And drunk old Tao both dote on flowers to wear.
Ones head-cloth reeks of autumns acrid perfume Chill dew of autumn pearls the others hair The vulgar crowd, which nothing understands, Stops in the street and, jeering, claps its hands.
-2112 The Shadow of the Chrysanthemums -2112 by Cloud Maiden -934 The autumn moonlight through the garden steals, Filtered in patches variously bright.
Flowers by the house as silhouettes appear -1344 Flowers by the fence are flecked with coins of light.
In the flowers wintry scent their souls reside, Not in those frost-forms, than a dream more slight.
Even the gross vandal, squinting through drunken eyes, -934 Can, by their scents, the crushed flowers recognize.
The Dream of the Chrysanthemums by River Queen Light-headed in my autumn bed I lie And seem to chase the moon across the sky.
Well, if immortal, Ill go seek old Tao, Not imitate Zhuangs flittering butterfly!
Following the wild goose, into sleep I slid From which now, startled by the crickets cry, Midst cold and fog and dying leaves I wake, With no one by to tell of my hearts ache.
The Death of the Chrysanthemums by Plantain Lover -560 The feasting over and the first snow fallen, The flowers frost-stricken lie or sideways lean, Their perfume lingering, but their gold hue dimmed And few poor, tattered leaves bereft of green.
Now under moonlit bench the cricket shrills, And weary goose-files in the cold sky are seen.
-560 Yet of your passing let me not complain Next autumn equinox well meet again!
Each poem was praised in turn, and the reading of the whole twelve concluded amidst cries of mutual admiration.
Now just a moment!
said Li Wan, interrupting their encomiums.
Let me first try to give you an impartial judgement.
I think there were good lines in all of the poems, but comparing one with another, it seems to be that one is bound to place Celebrating the Chrysanthemums first, with Questioning the Chrysanthemums second and The Dream of the Chrysanthemums third.
The titles themselves were original, and - particularly in their treatment of the subject these are three highly original poems.
So I think that today the first place must undoubtedly go to River Queen.
After those first three I would place Wearing the Chrysanthemums, Admiring the Chrysanthemums, Arranging the Chrysanthemums, Painting the Chrysanthemums and Remembering the Chrysanthemums in that order.
Bao-yu clapped his hands delightedly.
Absolutely right!
A very fair judgement!
Im afraid mine arent really all that good, said Dai-yu.
They are a bit too contrived.
Theres nothing wrong with a bit of contrivance, said Li Wan.
One doesnt want the structure of a poem to stand out too ruggedly.
I very much like that couplet of Cloud Maidens, said Dai-yu On frosty nights Ill dream you back again, Brave in your garden bed at close of day.
Its a technique that painters call white-backing.
That marvellous couplet that comes before it To hold the gardens fragrance in a vase, And see all autumn in a single spray already sums up all there is to be said on the subject of flower arrangement.
You feel that shes left herself nothing else to say.
So what does she do?
She goes back to the time before the flowers were arrangedbefore they were picked, even.
That going back in her frosty nights couplet is a very subtle way of throwing the main theme into relief, just as the artists white-backing sharpens the highlights on the other side of the painting.
Li Wan smiled.
That may be so but your own acrid-sweet couplet is more than a match for it.
I think Lady Allspice dealt with her subject most effectively, said Tan-chun.
That couplet of hers -934 But autumns guest, who last year graced this plot, Only as yet in dreams of night appears seems to bring out the idea of remembering so vividly.
Well, your head-cloth reeking of autumns acrid per-fume and chill dew of autumn pearling the hair give a pretty vivid image of wearing chrysanthemums, said Bao-chai with a laugh.
And River Queens who shares your hiding place ?
why do you bloom so late?, said Xiang-yun, smiling mischievously, make so thorough a job of questioning them, that one feels the poor things must have been quite tongue-tied!
For that matter, said Li Wan, entering into the spirit of the thing, your persistent haunting of the chrysanthemums sitting bare-headed by their wintry bed and hugging your knees and singing to themmakes one suspect that if the chrysanthemums really had consciousness, they might, in the end, have grown just a tiny bit tired of your company!
The others all laughed.
I seem to be bottom again, said Bao-yu ruefully.
Though I must say I should have thought that to go on an excursion Some garden where.
.
.
was planted -934 The glory of autumn being our destination and so forth was a perfectly satisfactory exposition of seeking the chrysanthemums and that -934 A shower last night the wilting leaves revived, Opening the morning-buds all silver-hoar dealt with the theme of transplanting chrysanthemums rather successfully.
Heigh-ho!
I suppose its just that I couldnt produce anything quite as good as River Queens acrid-sweet line, or Cloud Maidens bare-headed by your wintry bed, or Plaintain lovers reeking head-cloth or few poor, tattered leaves, or Lady Allspices autumn guest in dreams of night appears.
Well, never mind, he went on, after a moments reflection.
Perhaps tomorrow or the day after, if Ive got the time, Ill try to do all twelve of them again on my own.
Your poems were perfectly all right, said Li Wan consolingly.
Its simply as you yourself have just said that they didnt have anything quite as good as the lines you have mentioned.
Discussion of the poems continued a little longer, after which they called for another lot of hot crabs and sat down at the large round table to eat them.
Eating crab-and admiring the cassia like this is itself a good theme for a poem, said Bao-yu.
Ive already thought of one.
Is anyone else game to have a try ?
He quickly washed his hands and taking up a brush, wrote down the poem he had thought of.
The others then read what he had written How delightful to sit and a crabs claw to chew In the cassia shadewith some ginger-sauce, too -294 Old Grim-chops wants wine, though hes got no inside, And he walks never forwards, but all to one side.
The yolks are so tasty, who cares if were ill!
Though our fingers weve washed, they are crab-scented still.
O crabs, Dong-po said and his words I repeat You have not lived in vain if youre so good to eat!
One could churn out that sort of poem by the dozen, said Dai-yu.
Youve used up all your inspiration, said Bao-yu but instead of admitting that you cant write any more, you make rude remarks about my poem!
Dai-yu made no reply, but tilted her head back, lifted up her eyes, and for some minutes could be observed muttering softly to herself then, picking a brush up, she wrote out the following poem rapidly and without hesitation -560 In arms and in armour they met their sad fate.
How tempting they look now, piled up on a plate!
The white flesh is tasty, the pink flesh as well Both the white in the claws and the pink in the shell And were glad hes an eight- not a four-legged beast When theres plenty of wine to enliven the feast.
So with crab let us honour the Double Ninth Day, While chrysanthemums bloom neath the cassias spray.
Bao-yu had read this and was just beginning to say how good he thought it was when Dai-yu impetuously tore it up and told one of the servants to take away the pieces and burn them.
Its not as good as yours, she said.
It deserves to be burnt, Actually yours is very good better even than the chrysanthemum ones.
You ought to keep it to show people.
Ive thought of one too, said Bao-chai.
It was rather a struggle, so Im afraid it wont be very good but Ill write it down anyway for a laugh.
Then she wrote down her poem, and the others read it.
-560 With winecups in hand, as the autumn day ends, And with watering mouths, we await our small friends.
A straightforward breed you are certainly not, -384 And the goodness inside you has all gone to pot There were cries of admiration at this point.
Thats a very neat bit of invective 1 said Bao-yu.
I can see I shall have to burn my poem now!
They read on.
For your cold humours, ginger to cut out your smell Weve got wine and chrysanthemum petals as well.
As you hiss in your pot, crabs, dye look back with pain On that calm moonlit cove and the fields of fat grain?
-1728 When they had finished reading, all agreed that this was the definitive poem on the subject of eating crabs.
Its the sign of a real talent, they said, to be able to see a deeper, allegorical meaning in a frivolous subjectthough the social satire is a trifle on the harsh side!
Just then Patience arrived back in the Garden.
But what then ensued will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 39 An inventive old county woman tells a story of somewhat questionable veracity And an impressionable young listener insists on getting to the bottom of the matter PATIENCE, you will recall, had just returned to the party.
Whats happened to your mistress?
the others asked her.
Why doesnt she come back and join us?
She hasnt got time, said Patience, laughing.
Shes sent me to ask if youve got any crabs left.
She says she didnt get a proper chance to eat any earlier on, and as she hasnt got time to come here herself, would I ask you, if youve still got any, to let me take a few back for her.
Weve got plenty left, said Xiang-yun, and gave orders for ten of the largest to be put in a box for her to take.
Pick as many as you can with the round navels, said Patience to the old servant who was departing to do Xiang-yuns bidding.
Li Wan tried to make Patience sit down with them, but she refused.
You shall sit down!
said Li Wan, eyeing her skittishly and taking her by the hand, she drew her down beside her and held a cup of wine up to her lips so that she was forced to drink.
Patience gulped down a mouthful of it and then rose again to go.
I wont let you go!
said Li Wan.
The only person you ever take any notice of is that precious Feng of yours you think you dont need to obey me but you shall.
She turned to the old woman, now waiting in readiness with the box of crabs, and told her to go on ahead with them and tell Xi-feng that Patience was being detained.
The old woman went away.
She returned a short while after, still carrying the box, with a message.
Mrs Lian says thank you very much, and she hopes you didnt think her greedy for asking.
Shes put some caltrop-cakes and some chicken-fat rolls in the box, that have just been sent her by the elder Lady Wang.
She thought you and the young ladies might like to try them.
There was a further message for Patience Mrs Lian says she thought she sent you to fetch something for her, not to stay here and amuse yourself.
Anyway, she says, tell her not to drink too much.
Oh, said Patience, laughing, and what will happen to me if I do?
As if in defiance of her mistresss instructions, she fell to eating and drinking with great gusto.
Li Wan meanwhile encircled her waist in an affectionate embrace.
What a pity that so distinguished-looking a young woman should have been born to so humble a fate!
said Li Wan.
Its you who should have been the mistress.
You would have made such a good lady.
No one who didnt know would ever take you for a maid.
Patience, who had continued eating and drinking with Bao-chai and Xiang-yun while Li Wan was saying this, now turned round and looked at her with a giggle.
Stop it, Mrs Zhu!
Youre tickling me!
Aiyo I said Li Wan.
Whats this great hard thing here?
Keys, said Patience.
Keys ?
said Li Wan.
What has your mistress got so precious that you need to carry keys round all the time?
Do you know what I tell people about you?
I tell them Just as you cant imagine a Tripitaka going off to India to fetch the scriptures without his white horse or a Liu Zhi-yuan conquering the Empire without a Spirit of the Melon Fields to give him his armour, so you cant imagine a Wang Xi-feng without a Patience alongside helping her.
You are your mistresss master-key.
What does she need to make you carry these things around with you for?
Patience laughed embarrassedly.
You are making fun of me, Mrs Zhu.
Im afraid youve had too much to drink.
No ,its true, said Bao-chai.
Whenever we start gossiping about personalities, we nearly always end up by agreeing what exceptional people you and the other chief maids are.
And all exceptional in your own different ways, too thats whats so interesting.
Its almost as though Nature had in each case designed the mistress and the maid to suit each other, said Li Wan.
Take Grandmother and Faithful, for example.
Grandmother would be completely lost without Faithful.
Who in the family from Lady Wang downwards would ever dare answer Grandmother back?
Yet Faithful does.
And whats more, Grandmother will listen to her.
And look at all the things that Grandmother has.
No one else could ever remember them the way that Faithful can.
Just think how Grandmother would be plundered and cheated if Faithful werent there to look after them.
And on top of it all, shes a very fair person.
Shell often put in a good word for someone.
And though she has so much influence with Grandmother, she never, never uses it to do anyone else down.
Xi-chun smiled.
Yesterday when Grannie was talking about Faithful she said, Shes better than all you grandchildren!
Faithfuls a good sort, said Patience.
I dont consider myself in her class at all.
Mothers Suncloud is a good, honest soul, said Bao-yu.
She certainly is, said Tan-chun.
Shes got a mind of her own, though.
You know what a Holy Buddha Mother is she doesnt notice a half of what goes on around her.
But Sun-cloud does.
And she is the one who always has to remind Mother about everything.
She even knows about outside matters.
When Father is at home, its Suncloud who has to remind Mother about them when she forgets.
I dont know about Mother and Suncloud, said Li Wan, but what about this young gentleman here?
She pointed to Bao-yu.
Can you imagine the sort of state he would be in if he hadnt got his Aroma to look after him?
And Feng too.
Even though shes a regular Tyrant King, she still needs her Patience in order to be so efficient, just as much as the real Tyrant King needed his two strong arms in order to be able to lift up those hundredweight tripods.
There were four of us when I first came here with Mrs Lian, said Patience, but the others all either died or left.
Im the only one whos stayed with her all along.
Youre lucky then, said Li Wan.
And Feng is lucky, too.
When I first came here to Mr Zhu, I had several maids, too, butI dont know why it was, for Im sure you wouldnt call me a hard mistressthey were always dissatisfied.
So when Mr Zhu died, I took advantage of their being still young to get rid of them all.
If only Id had a dependable girl like you that I could have kept on with me, I shouldnt feel quite so helpless now.
Her eyes began to redden as she said this, and she seemed about to cry.
Oh, come now!
said the others.
Theres no need to upset yourself.
If youre going to be like this, we might just as well break up the party.
They did in fact begin washing their hands then and presently decided to go off in a body to pay their duty calls on Grandmother Jia and Lady Wang.
Meanwhile the old women and maids busied themselves with sweeping out the pavilion and stacking and washing up the cups and dishes.
Aroma left in the company of Patience.
On the way back she asked Patience into Green Delights.
She made her sit down and invited her to take tea, but Patience declined, saying that she would drop in another time, and rose to go.
Aroma had something to ask her, however, and called after her as she was going.
Whats happened to this months allowances ?
she said.
Even Her Old Ladyships and Her Ladyships people havent had theirs yet.
Patience spun round when she heard this and came back again.
Dont ask me about that, please!
she said in a low, agitated voice, after first glancing round to make sure that no one else was present.
Whatever it is, youll only have another day or two to wait, I promise you.
Aroma was amused to see her so agitated.
Why, whats the matter?
Why should you be in such a state about it?
Patience dropped her voice even lower.
Mrs Lian has already put the money for this months allowances out at interest.
Shes waiting for the interest on some of her other loans to pay your allowances with.
Its all right for me to tell you this, but whatever you do, dont let anyone else know about it!
Aroma laughed.
But shes not short of money, shes got plenty.
What does she want to go giving herself all this extra worry for?
Shes certainly not short of money, said Patience.
Just in the few years since she started doing this, the amount she has got out on loan must have grown to several hundred times the original premium.
And she doesnt spend all of her own allowance either.
Whenever shes got nine or ten taels saved up out of it, she invests them too.
Why, just her profits alone after shes deducted the allowances from the interest must be in the region of a thousand taels a year.
You and your mistress are a nice pair, I must say!
said Aroma.
Keeping the rest of us short while you use our money to feather your own nests with!
Thats most unfair!
said Patience indignantly.
Any way, Im sure you cant really be short of money.
Not myself, its true said Aroma.
In any case, I havent got anything to spend it on.
I was thinking more of my young gentleman.
I like to keep some by me in case he ever needs any.
Look, if youre in urgent need of money, Ive got a few taels put by myself that I can let you have, said Patience.
You can have them as an advance on this months allowance, if you like.
I dont really need any at the moment, said Aroma, but may I take you up on your offer if I ever do?
Of course, said Patience, and left without further ceremony.
Outside the courtyard gate a maid from xi-feng was looking for her.
The Mistress wants to see you about something.
What has she got so urgent that she has to keep pestering me like this?
said Patience.
Ive just had Mrs Zhu all over me to make me stay and talk to her.
Its not as if Id run away.
Better ask her yourself, said the girl.
It wasnt my idea to fetch you.
Cheeky devil!
said Patience, and continued on her way.
When she got there, however, it was not Xi-feng she found waiting for her, but the old countrywoman she had admitted on a previous occasion as a suppliant, Grannie Liu, with her little grandson Ban-er.
They were sitting in the side room on the kang with Zhang Cais wife and Zhou Ruis wife on either side of them, while maids were emptying sacks of jujubes, melons and other farm produce on the floor below.
The company rose hurriedly to their feet as Patience entered.
Grannie Liu, who recognized her from her last visit, scrambled down from the kang and greeted her at once as Miss Patience without any of the previous times confusion.
The family all send their regards, Miss.
Theyd have come themselves long since to see you and pay their respects to their Aunt Lian, only theyve been too busy with the farm-work.
Anyways, theyve had a good harvest this year, thanks be, and its been a good year for the fruit and vegetables.
This here that Ive brought is the first pickings.
We didnt like to sell them, because we wanted our first-fruits to go to Mrs Lian and the young ladies.
We thought that mayhap eating the rarities of earth and sea every day of their lives they might sometimes tire of delicate food and fancy a bit of plain country stuff for a change.
Anyway, there you are!
Its a poor gift, but its given with a warm heart!
Its very good of you to have brought it, said Patience, and begged her to be seated, sitting down herself as she did so.
She invited Zhou Ruis wife and Zhang Cais wife to be seated as well, and ordered one of the junior maids to pour tea.
Mesdames Zhou and Zhang chaffed her on her appearance.
Youve got the spring in your face, Miss.
Your eyes are all red.
Patience laughed.
I know.
I dont drink normally, but today Mrs Zhou and the young ladies got hold of me and just forced it down me.
I was made to drink, against my will.
Thats why my face is so red.
Well I dont know, said Zhang Cais wife.
Heres me just dying for a drink, but nobody offers me one.
Next time anyone invites you, Miss, you must take me with you.
The others laughed.
I saw those crabs this morning, said Zhou Ruis wife.
Great big things.
There couldnt have been more than two or three to a catty.
And I should think altogether there must have been seventy or eighty catties in those hampers.
Even so, she said reflectively, there probably wouldnt have been enough for all the staff to have some.
Lots of them didnt, said Patience.
It was only the top ones that got one or two crabs to themselves.
The rest of them only got a taste - some of them not even that.
Good crabs like that are selling at a pennyweight a catty this year, said Grannie Liu.
If one catty is a pennyweight, fifty catties is two taels ten, and another thirty is one and ten ten and two is twelve and twice ten is a tael, thats thirteen, and then theres the wine and the other dishes.
It couldnt have cost less than twenty taels in all.
Bless us and save us thatd keep a farmer and his family for a year I I take it youve already seen Mrs Lian, said Patience.
Yes, said Grannie Lu.
She told us to wait.
She glanced through the open window as she said this and noticed that the day was drawing on towards evening.
Its getting dark earlier these days, she said.
Wed better be on our way.
We dont want to find the city gates shut, or we shall be in a proper pickle.
Just wait while I slip over and find out what the Mistress is up to, said Zhou Ruis wife.
She left the room and was gone for some considerable time.
When she eventually returned, she was full of smiles.
Its Grannies lucky day, she said.
Shes struck lucky with both of them.
How do you mean ?
said Patience.
Well, said Zhou Ruis wife, Mrs Lian was with Her Old Ladyship when I got there, so I went up to her and told her on the side that Grannie wanted to go now to make sure of getting to the gates in time.
Oh she said, she came such a long way with all that stuff.
If its getting late, shed better spend the night here and leave tomorrow morning.
Well, that was one piece of luck but thats nothing to what followed, because Her Old Ladyship had overheard this and asked her who this Grannie Liu was, and when Mrs Lian told her, she said, Oh, Ive been just longing for someone with a bit of age and experience to talk to!
Bring her here!
Introduce her to me!
Now that really was a stroke of luck!
She urged Grannie Liu to leave her place on the kang and go over to the other apartment but the old countrywoman was seized with a sudden attack of shyness.
Look at me!
Dear soul, Im in no fit state to see her now!
Tell her Ive already left!
Go on, you go and see her!
said Patience.
Itll be all right.
Our old lady is always very nice to poor or elderly people Shes not the least bit pretentious or stuck-up like some I could mention.
If youre nervous about meeting high-ups, Mrs Zhou and I will go with you to give you confidence.
She proceeded, with Mrs Zhous assistance, to conduct the old woman to her interview.
When they saw Patience coming out of the courtyard, the pages on duty at the gate stood up, and two of them came running up to her.
Miss!
Miss!
Whats it this time?
said Patience.
Ive been waiting to catch you for hours, Miss, said the first of the boys.
My mas took ill and Ive got to go and fetch the doctor for her.
Will it be all right if I take the night -1536 off?
Youre a nice lot!
said Patience.
Its my belief that youve got it all worked out between you so that one of you gets a holiday every day.
And instead of telling the Mistress proper-1 y, as youre supposed to do, you come round to me with these sad stories and make me take the responsibility.
When Stoppo did this the other day, the Master called for him while he was still away and I got into trouble by speaking jip for him.
The Master accused me of doing favours.
And now you want to do the same thing.
His ma really is ill, Miss, said Zhou Ruis wife.
Im sure it would be in order for you to let him go.
All right, then.
But mind youre back first thing tomorrow, Patience told the boy.
Now you heard that, didnt you?
First thing.
Because Ive got work for you to do.
No lying in bed until you can feel the sun on your backside I And I want you to take a message to Brightie for me on the way.
Tell him the Mistress says that if he hasnt handed in the test of that interest by tomorrow, she wont ask him for it again, because shell know that hes keeping it for himself.
The boy promised to deliver the message and scampered off, delighted to be released.
By the time Patience and her charges arrived at Grandmother Jias apartment, all the young denizens of Prospect Garden had for some time been assembled there in attendance, so that as Grannie Liu entered the room, she was confronted by a bevy of unfamiliar young ladies, all resplendent in ornaments of pearl and kingfisher, like a bed of beautiful flowers, none of which she could give a name to.
In their midst a venerable old lady reclined on a couch.
A young woman, pretty as a picture and dressed in silk and satin from top to toe, sat behind her, gently pounding her legs.
Xi-feng, the only person there she could recognize, was standing to one side of her, evidently in the midst of telling her something amusing.
Deducing that the old lady on the couch must be Grandmother Jia, Grannie Liu hurried up to her and made her an antique curtsey.
Your servant, my lady!
Grandmother Jia inclined herself politely from the couch and asked Zhou Ruis wife to bring up a chair for her to sit on.
Ban-er, bashful as ever, would not attempt a greeting.
Now, old kinswoman, said Grandmother Jia, and what would your age be?
Seventy-five this year, said Grannie Liu.
Grandmother Jia turned round to the others present.
Thats several years older than me.
Fancy still being so fit and lively Heaven only knows what I shall be like at that age!
Grannie Liu laughed.
I was born for a hard life, dye see, just as Your Ladyship was born for a soft one.
We couldnt all be like Your Lady-ship, or thered be no one to do the farming.
Are your eyes and teeth still good?
Grandmother Jia asked her.
All bar a back tooth on the left-hand side thats getting a bit loose this year.
There!
and Im already a useless old woman, said Grand-mother Jia.
Poor eyesight, poor hearing, memory goingI cant even remember the names of old kinsfolk like yourself any longer.
Im scared to meet them when they come visiting, for fear they might laugh at me.
Theres not much I can do nowadays except eatwhat I can get my teeth intoand sleep.
Apart from that, I share a joke or two with these young people when I need a bit of diversion, and thats about all.
Your Ladyship is lucky, said Grannie Liu.
I couldnt have such a life if I wanted it.
Lucky?
No!
said Grandmother Jia.
Im just an old crock!
The others all laughed.
Our Feng has been telling me that youve brought a lot of fruit and vegetables with you, said Grandmother Jia.
Ive asked the servants to bring them over.
Im so looking forward to some nice, fresh farm vegetables.
The stuff we buy outside isnt as tasty as your home-grown stuff, you know.
Thats the countrymans idea of a treat, said Grannie Liu.
He cant afford meat and fish, so when he fancies a little luxury, he likes to eat his food fresh from the ground.
Now that youre one of the family, said Grandmother Jia, I hope you will stay long enough to enjoy your visit.
Dont go hurrying back again.
Stay here a couple of days or so, if you can put up with us.
Weve got a garden too, you know, and we grow a certain amount of fruit in it.
Tomorrow you must try some of our stuff- and you must take some back home with you when you go.
It will seem more like a proper visit to relations if you stay a bit, instead of popping in and popping straight out again.
Xi-feng could see that Grandmother Jia took pleasure in the old womans company and added her own persuasion.
Its probably not as roomy here as your farmyard, but I expect well manage to tuck you in somewhere.
And youll be able to tell our old lady all the village gossip.
Feng!
said Grandmother Jia, laughing in spite of herself.
Dont make fun!
Shes a simple countrywoman.
You cant expect her to stand up to your teasing in the way that we can.
She gave orders for Ban-er to be given some sweetmeats.
He was unwilling to eat in front of so many people, however, so she told them to give him some money instead, and to get some of the younger pages to take him outside to play.
After Grannie Liu had taken tea, she regaled Grandmother Jia with some anecdotes of village life, thus further endearing herself to her new acquaintance.
She was still holding forth when Xi-feng, who had slipped Out some time previously, sent someone round to invite her back for dinner.
Grand-mother Jia selected some food from her own dishes and sent them to Xi-fengs place for Grannie Liu to try in addition to what Xi-feng was giving her.
Xi-feng could see that Grandmother Jia had taken a fancy to the old woman, so after dinner she sent her back to Grand-mother Jias apartment.
As soon as she arrived, Faithful ordered some of the older domestics to conduct her to a bath.
She herself went off to fetch her a change of clothes.
She selected two fairly modest items from her own wardrobe and sent them to the bathroom with instructions that Grannie Liu should change into them after her bath.
Such goings-on were outside even the old grannies extensive experience, but she took them all in good part, and having submitted to the ordeal of the bath, quickly dressed herself in the proffered clothes and went in to take her place once more beside the couch and resume her role of raconteuse.
In this she was eminently successful, since Bao-yu and the girls, now seated on all sides around her, found her simple country talk much more fascinating than any of the fictions told by the blind ballad-singers who sometimes visited the house.
Indeed, there was more than an element of fiction in what she told them for Grannie Liu, though born and bred in the country, was a shrewd old soul to whom the years had given a pretty good understanding of human weakness, and when she sensed the old ladys pleased excitement and the avid attention of her younger listeners, she did her best not to disappoint them by supplying from her own invention whatever memory and experience were inadequate to provide.
We country-folk working out there on the landyear in, year Out, rain or fine, spring, summer, autumn and winterwe never get any time off, she told them.
If we rest, its only as you might say napping in harness, like the old post-horse in the story.
And many a strange happening do we see, out there on the land.
Take what happened last winter, for instance.
It had been snowing for several days without a stop and the snow was two or three feet thick on the ground, and this particular morning I rose up early, and while I was still indoors, I heard the sound of something stirring outside in the woodpile.
I thought to myself, Thatll be someone stealing the firewood.
So I put my eye to the hole in the shutter, and sure enough there was someone there but it wasnt anyone from the village.
It was probably some traveller, Grandmother Jia interrupted.
He was feeling cold and helped himself to a bit to make a fire with, so that he could get warm.
Ah, but it wasnt a traveller, said Grannie Liu.
That was the strange thing about it.
Now who do you think it was, my old soul?
Twas a young woman, seventeen or eighteen years of age seemingly, pretty as a picture, and with no more on her but a red dress and a white satin skirt, and the hair on her bare head combed as sleek and shining as black lacquer paint At that point her story was interrupted by a confused hubbub of voices outside.
One of them could be heard above the rest saying, It isnt serious.
Theres no point in frightening Her Old Ladyship.
What is it?
the old lady asked in some alarm.
A fire has broken out in the South Court stables, said one of the maids.
It isnt serious, though.
Theyve already got it under control.
Always the most timorous of mortals where fire was concerned, Grandmother Jia struggled to her feet, and supported by the maids, led the others out onto the loggia to see what was happening.
Somewhere beyond the south-east corner of the courtyard the glare of flames was still distinctly visible.
Terrified Out of her wits, she began calling on the names of the Buddha, and hurriedly Sent someone to burn incense before the image of the Fire God.
By now Lady Wang had arrived with the younger women, and added her voice to the others in assuring the old lady that the fire was well under control and urging her to go indoors but Grandmother Jia insisted on staying outside until the last of the flames had been extinguished.
As soon as they were all inside again, Bao-yu began questioning Grannie Liu about her interrupted story.
Why was the girl out in all that snow stealing firewood?
he asked her.
She might have caught her death of cold.
For goodness sake dont ask about that!
said Grand-mother Jia.
It was talking about firewood that started that fire just now.
Think of something else to talk about for good-ness sake!
Though privately far from satisfied, Bao-yu was obliged to let the matter rest while Grannie turned her inventive faculties in another direction.
In a farmstead east of ours there was an old dame of more than ninety who had fasted and prayed to the Buddha every day of her life.
At last the Blessed Guanyin was moved by her prayers and appeared to her one night in a dream.
It was to have been your fate to be cut off without an heir, the Blessed Mother told her, but because of your great piety, I have petitioned the Jade Emperor to give you a grandson.
Now this old dame had an only son, and the son, too, had an only son who in spite of all their care had died when he was only seventeen or eighteen, to their sore and bitter grief.
But after she had this dream a second grandson was born.
Hed be thirteen or fourteen nowa very handsome lad, with skin as white as snow, and that sharp and clever youd hardly credit it.
So you see there are gods and Buddhas watching over us, whatever folk may say!
The circumstances of this tale so perfectly accorded with the idea they had privately formed of their own situation, that both the senior ladies in her audienceLady Wang no less than Grandmother Jiawere quite captivated by it.
But Bao-yu, whose thoughts were still on the beautiful pilferer of firewood, looked glum and preoccupied.
His sister Tan-chun observed this and sought to distract him.
Weve got to make some sort of return for Cousin Shis party, Bao.
Why dont we go back now and discuss when the next poetry meeting is to be?
We can have our party for Cousin Shi at the same time, and Grandma will be able to come and look at the chrysanthemums.
Grandmas already promised to give a return party for Cousin Shi herself, said Bao-yu, and we are all invited.
Wed better wait until thats over before putting on anything of our own.
The longer we delay, the colder the weather will be, said Tan-chun.
It wont be much fun for Grandma if its too cold.
But she loves parties when its raining or snowing, said Bao-yu.
Why dont we wait until the first snowfall and have it then?
Call it a snow-viewing party.
Think how romantic -1536 chanting poems in the falling snow!
It would be more romantic still, said Dai-yu drily, if instead of chanting poems we had a big bundle of firewood and took it in turns to tiptoe through the snow and pull out sticks from it.
Bao-chai and the other girls all laughed, but Bao-yu stared at Dai-yu rather crossly and said nothing.
After the company had dispersed, Bao-yu finally managed to get Grannie Liu into a corner and question her in detail about the mysterious snow maiden.
Grannie Lius inventiveness was once more put to the test.
On the embankment that runs along the north side of our land, she said, there is a little shrine.
The image inside it is not a god or a Buddha, though.
There used at one time to be a gentleman living in our parts She broke off at this point and appeared to be trying to remember a name.
Never mind his name, said Bao-yu.
Dont try to remember it.
Just tell me what happened.
This gentleman had no son, but he had an only daughter calledI think it was Ruo-yu.
She could read books as well as any scholar, this Ruo-yu, and the gentleman loved her more than all the treasure in the world.
But sad to say, she took sick and died when she was only seventeen years old Bao-yu groaned and stamped his foot.
So what happened then?
Because the gentleman loved her so dearly, he had this shrine built for her out in the fields and had a likeness of her made out of wood and clay to put inside it and he arranged for someone to burn incense there and always keep a spark of fire going inside the burner.
But as the years went by, both the gentleman and the people who used to tend the shrine for him all died, and now the shrine is falling into ruin and the statue has come to life and started haunting people.
No, no, Bao-yu interrupted hurriedly, that wouldnt be the statue coming to life.
People like that are never really dead, even after they have died.
Holy Name!
said Grannie Liu.
Fancy that now!
And me thinking all along it was the statue.
Well, whatever it is, every so often it takes on human shape and goes wandering abroad troubling people.
And thats what I saw when I looked out that time and saw someone taking our firewood.
The people in our village are talking of breaking up the image and knocking the shrine down so as to put a stop to the haunting.
Good gracious!
they mustnt do that!
said Bao-yu.
Thats a terrible sin, knocking a temple down!
Now I am glad you told me that, said Grannie Liu gravely.
When I get hack, I shall do my best to stop them.
My grandmother and Lady Wang and in fact just about everyone in this family is terribly keen on good works, said Bao-yu.
Theres nothing they like better than repairing temples and restoring things.
Tomorrow Ill write out an appeal and collect some subscriptions for you.
You can be the funds Treasurer, and when weve got enough money together, you can supervise the restoration, And Ill get them to send you some money every month for incense, How would that be?
Statue or spirit or whatever she is, said Grannie Liu, I shall certainly be grateful to her for the money.
Bao-yu pressed her for the names of the nearest farms and villages and the exact location of the shrine in relation to them as well as the distance to it and the general direction in which it lay.
Answering all these questions with whatever came first into her head, Grannie Liu supplied a set of fictitious directions which Bao-yu, believing them to be genuine, carefully committed to memory and carried back to his room, where he lay awake half the night planning what he would do for the beautiful wood-thief in the days ahead.
He went out of the Garden first thing next morning, and handing Tealeaf a few hundred cash, told him the directions for getting to the shrine as given him by Grannie Liu the night before, and instructed him to follow them, inspect the shrine, and report back on what he saw.
He would await Tea-leafs report before deciding what to do next.
But once Tealeaf had gone he found the waiting very tedious, and as the day wore on and Tealeaf still failed to return, he became as fidgety as a worm on hot earth.
He was obliged to wait until sundown before Tealeaf finally came back.
When he did, however, he was looking extremely pleased with himself.
You managed to find it then?
Bao-yu asked him eagerly.
Yes, said Tealeaf, smiling broadly, but you couldnt have heard the directions right.
I had a terrible job finding it.
The place where it is and the way to it are nothing like you said.
Thats why I took so long.
I was all day looking for it.
In the end I found that there is a ruined temple in that area, but its not where you said its at the east end of the north embankment, on a corner.
Bao-yus face beamed with pleasure.
Grannie Lius a very old woman, he said.
Its quite possible that she misremembered when she gave me those directions.
Anyway, tell me what you saw.
The temple was south-facing, like you said, Tealeaf replied, and it was in a very tumble-down condition.
Id been searching neatly all day by then, so of course when I saw that, I was very relieved and hurried straight inside.
But oh lot!
when I looked at the image, I was so scared I hurried straight out again it was so real!
Bao-yu laughed delightedly.
Of course.
If shes capable of coming to life, youd expect a certain liveliness in the Statue.
She?
said Tealeaf.
This was no she.
It was an ugly great Plague God with a blue face and red hair!
Useless dolt!
said Bao-yu angrily.
You cant even do a simple little errand like this for me.
Thats most unfair, said Tealeaf in a deeply aggrieved tone of voice.
You send me off on a wild-goose chase to look for something youve read about in some book or other or heard about in some old-wives tale, and then when I cant find it because theres probably no such thing any way you start abusing me.
Bao-yu saw that he had hurt his feelings, and hastened to comfort him.
There, there, dont be upset!
Some time when youre not too busy you shall have another look for it.
If the old woman is deceiving us, you naturally wont be able to find it.
But if there really is such a place and you do, then you will have a share in the merit when its restored.
And of course, I shall give you a very big reward.
While he was talking to Tealeaf, one of the pages from the inner gate came up and said that one of the young ladies from Her Old Ladyships room was at the gate asking for Master Bao.
Who it was and what she wanted will be revealed in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 40 Lady Jia holds two feasts in one day in the Prospect Garden And Faithful makes four calls on three dominoes in the Painted Chamber HEARING that he was wanted, Bao-yu hurried to the gate of the inner mansion.
Amber was standing L fl front of the screen-wall waiting for him.
Hurry!
Youre holding everyone up.
Theres something they want to talk to you about, she said.
In fact, when he arrived at his grandmothers room, she and his mother and the girls were already discussing it it being the question of what arrangements they should make for the return party for Shi Xiang-yun.
Ill tell you what to do, said Bao-yu.
Since there wont be any outsiders at this party, instead of having a fixed menu and formally4aid tables, why not get them to do one or two of everyones favourite dishes, put them in those lacquer food-boxes that have different compartments for the different dishes, and serve them on little individual tables with a self-service wine-kettle each, so that everyone can pour their own wine?
Im sure that would be jollier than a formal party.
Grandmother Jia was much taken with this proposal and at once sent orders to the kitchen to do as he had suggested.
Tell them that tomorrow we want them to choose some of the things they know we like and put them in boxes - one box for each of us.
And tell them that we shall want lunch served in the Garden tomorrow as well.
The lamps had by now been lit.
Of the night which followed out record gives no account.
Rising early next morning, they were delighted to observe that it was going to be a beautiful clear, autumn day.
Li Wan was among the earliest up, and at once began to supervise the older women and maids in sweeping up fallen leaves, polishing chairs and tables, and getting ready the sets of teacups, winecups and so forth that would be needed for the party.
Xi-fengs maid Felicity, accompanied by Grannie Lin and little Ban-er, arrived while they were in the midst of this activity.
You are very busy, Mrs Zhu, said Grannie Liu.
Li Wan smiled.
I told you youd never get away I You kept saying yesterday that you had to go, but I knew they wouldnt let you.
It was Her Old Ladyship that kept me, said Grannie Liu.
She said she wanted me to enjoy meself for a day or two before I went back.
Felicity produced several large keys.
Mrs Lian says the little tables already in use may not he enough and wed better open the upstairs storeroom and get some more out, just for today.
She meant to come over her8elf and see to it, but shes with Her Ladyship at the moment and can t get away, so she says would you mind Opening the storeroom for her and getting some of the servants to carry them down?
Li Wan sent Candida to the storeroom with the keys and told one of the old women to go to the inner gate and get Some of the pages on duty there to help with the carrying.
She herself went and stood in the courtyard behind Prospect Hall and watched from below while the Painted Chamber was opened up and the tables were one by one carried down from it.
The team of maids, pages and old nannies worked together with such enthusiasm that soon more than twenty of the little tables had been manhandled.
downstairs into the courtyard.
Gently now, gently!
said Li Wan as they were moving them.
No need to go at it as if all the devils in hell were after you!
Youll chip the edges off them if youre not careful.
She turned to Grannie Liu.
Wouldnt you like to go up and have a look?
The old woman needed no second asking.
Holding Ban-er tightly by the hand, she scrambled up the stairway and looked inside.
The interior was stacked high with folding screens, tables, chairs, lanterns and furniture of every kind.
Much of what she saw she could not identify, but the dull gleam of gold, the rich glow of coloured lacquers, and the artistry and sumptuousness of the objects drew many a pious ejaculation from her before she descended.
The door of the storeroom was then locked and the remaining maids came down.
I wonder how energetic Lady Jia will be feeling today, said Li Wan.
Perhaps while you are about it you had better get out the oars and punt-poles and paddles and some boat-awnings as well, in case she decides to go on the water.
Yesm, said the maids, and proceeded to unlock the storeroom again and carry down the items specified.
Li Wan meanwhile sent one of the pages to tell the boatwomen that they were to pole a couple of punts out from the boathouse and have them by in readiness.
While this activity was still in progress, Grandmother Jia arrived at the head of a troupe of females.
Li Wan hurried forward to greet her.
You are very energetic this morning, Grandmother I didnt expect you in the Garden so soon.
I was hoping that you would still be doing your hair.
Ive picked some chrysanthemums for you to wear and I was just about to send them round to you.
Even as she was saying this, Casta arrived carrying a large dish of peacock- green glaze shaped like a lotus4eaf, in which chrysanthemum-flowers of many different colours were being kept in moisture.
Grandmother Jia chose a dark red one to fasten in the side of her hair.
As she turned her head to do so, she caught sight of Grannie Liu and smiled at her in welcome.
Come over here!
You must have one too!
Before she had finished, Xi-feng had already seized the old woman by the hand and was dragging her over.
Come on, let me dress you up properly!
She began sticking the chrysanthemums into her hair, putting them in at every angle, and continued until all the flowers in the dish had been used up.
The effect was so ludicrous that Grandmother Jia and the rest all burst out laughing.
Grannie Liu, not a whit perturbed, good-humouredly joined in the laughter.
I dont know what my poor old head can have done to deserve so much honour, she said.
You ought to pull them out and throw them in her lace, said the others.
Shes made you look like an old vamp!
I may be getting on now, said Grannie Liu, but I used to be a stylish young woman in my time.
I loved to have a bit of powder for my cheek and a flower to wear in my hair.
Tis no matter now I shall be a stylish old un.
During this exchange they had been moving towards Drenched Blossoms Pavilion.
Maids went on ahead with a rolled-up patterned rug which they spread out on one of the bench-boards that ran along the inner sides of the balustrades.
Seating herself on the rug with her back against the railings, Grandmother Jia invited Grannie Liu to sit down beside her and tell her what she thought of the Garden.
Holy Name!
said Grannie Liu.
You know, we country folk like to get a picture at the New Year that we can stick up on the wall.
Every year just before New Year the farmers come into town to buy one.
Manys the time of an evening when the days work was done weve sat and looked at the picture on our wall and wished we could get inside it and walk around, never imagining that such beautiful places could really be.
Yet now I look at this Garden here, and its ten times better than any picture I ever saw.
If only I could get someone to make a painting of it all, just the way it is, that I could take back to show the others, I do believe I should die content!
Grandmother Jia smilingly pointed a linger in Xi-chun direction.
You see my little great-niece over there?
She can paint.
Shall we get her to do you a painting of it?
Grannie Liu jumped up and going over to xi-chun, took her impulsively by the hand.
Dear Miss!
she said.
To think that one so young and pretty should be so gifted and all!
I do believe you must be one of the holy spirits born in a human shape!
The simple earnestness with which this was uttered made the others all laugh.
After resting a little longer, Grand mother Jia, who intended to show her guest as much of the Garden as possible, got up again and resumed the tour.
The first place they came to was the Naiads House.
The green bamboos engulfed them as they entered the gate and brilliant green moss carpeted the ground beneath.
Through the midst of the bamboos a raised cobbled path wound its way towards the house.
Grannie Liu stepped aside to let Grand-mother Jia and the rest walk on it while she herself walked on the ground below.
Amber held a hand out to draw her up.
Walk on the path, Grannie!
Youll slip on the moss down there.
Dont you mind me, my dear!
said Grannie Liu.
Im used to it.
You keep to the path, though, with the rest.
You dont want to muddy those fancy shoes of yours.
Unfortunately the necessity of looking up to talk to someone who was walking at a higher level had distracted her attention from the ground beneath, and even as she said this, her feet slipped on the treacherous moss, her legs flew out from under her, and she landed on her posterior with a thump.
The girls clapped their hands delightedly.
Grandmother Jia laughed too, though trying her hardest to sound cross.
Little monsters!
she said, Dont just stand there laughing.
Help her up!
But Grannie Liu bad already scrambled up unaided, and was laughing herself.
It serves me right, she said.
I shouldnt have spoken so soon!
Are you sure you havent hurt your back?
Grandmother Jia asked her.
Let one of the maids massage it for you.
God bless my soul!
said Grannie Liu.
Im not that delicate!
I dont suppose a day goes by but what I take a tumble or two.
If I was to have meself massaged every time, it would never Nightingale was already waiting with the bamboo blind raised for them to enter.
Grandmother Jia led her party through the doorway and sat down inside.
Dai-yu waited on her in person offering her tea in a covered cup which she carried on a little tray.
We shant be taking tea, niece, said Lady Wang.
Dont bother to pour for the rest of us.
Hearing this, Dai-yu ordered one of the maids to fetch the chair by the window that she normally sat on herself and bring it up for her aunt to sit on.
Grannie Liu noticed the inkstone and brushes on the table in front of it and all the books on the bookshelves and said that she supposed this must be the young gentlemans study.
Grandmother Jia smiled and pointed to Dai-yu It belongs to her my little grand-daughter.
As though incredulous, Grannie Liu studied Dai-yu attentively for some moments in silence.
It doesnt look at all like a young ladys room, she said finally.
It looks to me like a very high-class young gentlemans study.
Where is Bao-yu, by the way?
said Grandmother Jia.
Hes on the lake in one of the punts, said the maids.
Oh?
Whose idea was it to get the punts Out?
she asked.
It was my idea, said Li Wan hurriedly.
It occurred to me just now when we were getting things out of the storeroom that you might perhaps feel like going on the water today.
Grandmother Jia was about to make some comment when Aunt Xues arrival was announced and she rose up, together with the rest of the company, to welcome her.
Arent you energetic today, Lady Jia!
said Aunt Xue smilingly when all were seated once more.
Here already!
We were just discussing what sort of fine to impose on late arrivals, said Grandmother Jia teasingly.
We didnt have you in mind, of course!
A certain amount of good-humoured banter followed.
In the course of it Grandmother Jia chanced to notice that the gauze in Dai-yus windows was faded, and drew Lady Wangs attention to it.
This kind of gauze looks very well on a window when its new, she said, but after a while it loses its green ness.
Green isnt a suitable colour for the windows here in any case.
There are no peach or apricot trees outside to make a contrast when they are in flower, and there is already enough green in all those bamboos.
I seem to remember that we used to have four or five different shades of window gauze somewhere or other.
-1344 You must look some out tomorrow for her and have this changed.
The other day when I had to open the silk-store, said Xi-feng, I came across a lot of rose-coloured cicada wing gauze in a long wooden chest.
It was a beautiful fresh colour and the material was beautifully soft and light.
I dont think Ive ever seen any quite like it before.
Id like to have taken a couple of lengths of it for facing quilts with.
Im sure it would make lovely quilts.
Pooh I said Grandmother Jia scornfully.
I thought you were supposed to be such an authority on materialsand you cant even name a gauze properly!
Youre not as clever as you thought, my girl!
Youll have to watch your tongue a bit in future.
Aunt Xue put in an extenuating word for her niece, while laughing with the rest at her discomfiture.
However much of an authority she may be, Im sure she would never presume to compete with you, Lady Jia.
If she is wrong about the gauze, you must give her the benefit of your greater experience and put her right.
I am sure the rest of us would like to know too.
As a matter of fact that gauze is a good deal older than any of you here, said Grandmother Jia, so it is not very surprising that Feng mistook it for cicada wing.
There is a certain resemblance, and cicada wing is what anyone would most likely take it to be who hadnt seen it before.
The proper name for it, though, is haze diaphene.
What a pretty name!
said xi-feng.
I must have seen several hundred different gauzes in my time but I must confess Ive never heard that name mentioned before.
Grandmother Jia laughed.
And what great age have you now reached, my dear, to be talking so freely about your vast experience?
Haze diaphene used to come in four colours clear-sky blue , russet green , pine green and old rose.
Hung up as bed-curtains or pasted in windows it looks from a distance like a coloured haze.
Thats why they called it haze diaphene.
The old rose kind is sometimes called afterglow.
You wont find fabric made as fine or as soft as that nowadays, not even among the gauzes made for the Imperial Household.
Never mind about Feng, said Aunt Xue, Ive never heard about this kind of gauze before either.
While they continued to talk about it, Xi-feng sent someone to fetch a piece from the storeroom.
Thats right, thats it!
said Grandmother Jia when it arrived.
When we first had it, we used it only for covering windows with, but later on we began experimenting and found that it made very good quilts and bed-curtains as well.
Get a few lengths of it out tomorrow.
You can use the old rose kind to re-cover these windows with.
Xi-feng promised to see to it.
Meanwhile the others were examining the gauze and admiring its quality.
Grannie Liu was particularly impressed, uttering a whole series of Holy Names as she subjected it to close and careful scrutiny.
I could never hope to get anything as good as this to make a dress with, she said.
It seems a terrible waste to use it on windows.
Actually it isnt much good for clothing, said Grandmother Jia.
What about this, then?
said Xi-feng, pulling out a flap of the quilted crimson gauze dress she was wearing underneath her jacket and holding it up for them to see.
Yes, very fine, said Grandmother Jia, examining it.
Ah, yes, now there you are!
This is a modern Imperial Household gauze but you see its still not as good as that one there.
Well, what do you make of that?
said Xi-feng.
That one there is only an Official Use fabric, yet this one Im wearing, which isnt as good quality, is Imperial H6usehold !
Anyway, have another look tomorrow, said Grandmother Jia.
I think youll find that besides the old rose pieces you saw in that chest, theres a lot of clear-sky blue somewhere as well.
If there is, get it all out give a length of it to our kinswoman here I should like two lengths myself for a set of bed-hangings and any left over can be matched with suitable lining-material and made up into waistcoats for the girls.
Theres no point in keeping it until it gets mildewed.
Xi-feng, having first promised that she would do all these things, told the servant who had brought the sample to take it back to the storeroom.
Were a bit cramped in here, said Grandmother Jia.
Lets move on to somewhere else now.
They say that great families live in great houses, said Grannie Liu, and truly, when I first went into Your Ladyships apartment yesterday and saw those great chests and cupboards and tables and beds, the size of everything fairly took my breath away.
That great wardrobe of yours is higher and wider than one of our rooms back home.
Im not surprised you keep a ladder in the back courtyard.
When I first saw it, I thought to myself, Now what can they need a ladder for?
They dont ripen things on the roofs as we do, so it cant be for that.
And then of course I realized it must be for getting things out of the compartment on top of that ward-robe of yours, for you could never reach it else.
And yet this place here, for all its so much smaller, seems to me more perfect than your big one.
The things here are all so pretty.
I dont know what they are, some of them, but the more I look at them, the less I want to leave!
There are other pretty places besides this, said Xi-feng.
Were taking you to see them all.
As they left the Naiads House, they could make out, at some distance from where they stood, a number of people punting on the lake.
Remarking that since the boats were already out they might just as well use them, Grandmother Jia conducted her little party in the general direction of Amaryllis Eyot and Flowery Harbour.
Before they had reached the waters edge, however, a number of elderly women approached, each bearing one of those large summer food-boxes of the kind they make in Soochow, with tops and bottoms of varicoloured lacquer-work delicately patterned in needle-engraving of gold, and panels of gilded bamboo basket-work in their sides.
Seeing them approach, Xi-feng asked Lady Wang where she wanted lunch to be laid.
Ask Grandmother, said Lady Wang.
Wherever she wants it, of course.
Grandmother Jia, who had been moving on, now turned back to tell them.
Your Cousin Tans would be a nice place to have it.
You go on ahead and lay it there, and the rest of us will follow by boat.
Xi-feng, accompanied by Li Wan, Tan-chun, Faithful and Amber, led the women with the lunch-boxes by a short cut to the Autumn Studio.
They put Out a couple of tables there in the Paulownia Room.
Were often hearing how the gentlemen at their parties outside have a buffoon to provide them with their laughs, said Faithful while they were getting ready.
Today weve got a buffoon of our owna female one.
Li Wan, being a good, simple soul, did not understand what she meant but Xi-feng knew immediately that she was referring to Grannie Liu and gleefully agreeing that they should have some laughs at the old womans expense, at once began plotting something with Faithful.
You two are awful!
Li Wan protested laughingly.
Anyone would think you were a couple of mischievous children.
And what will Lady Jia say?
Dont worry, Mrs Zhu!
said Faithful.
You wont be involved in this one little bit.
I promise to keep you out of it.
Grandmother Jia now arrived with the others, the company sat down informally, and maids went round and served every one with tea.
When they had all finished their tea, Xi-feng came in carrying a bundle of silver-tipped and silver-ornamented ebony chopsticks wrapped in a West Ocean linen napkin, and proceeded to lay the places.
Put that little yellow cedar-wood table next to my place so that Mrs Liu can sit by me, said Grandmother Jia.
As the maids hastened to comply, Xi-feng tipped a wink at Faithful, who took the opportunity presented by this diversion to draw Grannie Lu aside and quietly brief her on the decorums to be observed by anyone eating with the family.
Its part of the rules of this household, she told tile old woman in conclusion.
If you dont do it properly, they will laugh at you.
The places being now all laid, the company sat down to table, with the exception of Aunt Xue, who had eaten already and continued sitting where she was, drinking tea.
Bao-yu, Xiang-yun, Dai-yu and Bao-chai sat at one of the two large tables with Grandmother Jia at their head, and Ying-chun, Tan-chun and Xi-chun sat at the other one, presided over by Lady Wang.
Grannie Liu had a little table of her own next to Grandmother Jia.
Normally when Grandmother Jia took her meals it was the junior maids who stood with spittoons, fly-whisks and napkins in their hands behind the chairs.
Faithful had long since graduated from such menial duties.
On this occasion, however, she borrowed a fly-whisk from one of the younger girls and did some whisking herself.
This was a signal for the other maids, who knew that something was afoot, to melt discreetly away, leaving the stage clear for Faithful.
Fly-whisk in hand, Faithful took up a position on her own and darted a questioning glance at her victim.
All right, Miss, dont worry!
said Grannie Liu, and having settled herself in her place, picked up her chopsticks.
She found them extremely heavy and unwieldy.
They were a pair of old-fashioned, square-handled ivory ones inlaid with gold, which Xi-feng and Faithful had planted on her in furtherance of their plan.
Whats this youve given me?
said Grannie Liu.
A pair of tongs?
These are heavier than one of our iron shovels.
I shall never be able to manage with these.
The others all laughed.
A woman-servant now entered carrying one of the luncheonboxes and stood in the middle of the room holding it while a maid removed the lid.
There were two dishes inside.
Li Wan took out one of them and set it down on Grandmother Jias table.
The second, a bowl of pigeons eggs deliberately chosen for their mirth-provoking possibilities was taken out by Xi-feng and set down in front of Grannie Liu.
Please!
said Grandmother Jia, waving her chopsticks at the food as a polite indication that they should begin.
At once Grannie Liu leaped to her feet and, in ringing tones, recited the following grace My name it is Liu, Im a trencherman true I can eat a whole sow With her little pigs too.
Having concluded, she puffed out both her cheeks and stared in front of her with an expression of great determination.
There was a moment of awestruck silence then, as it dawned on them that they really had heard what they thought they had heard, the whole company, both masters and servants, burst out into roars of laughter.
Shi Xiang-yun, unable to contain herself, spat out a whole mouthful of rice.
Lin Dai-yu, made breathless by laughter, collapsed on the table, uttering weak Aiyos.
Bao-yu rolled over, convulsed, on to his grandmothers bosom.
Grandmother Jia, exclaiming helplessly Oh, my heart!
Oh, my child!, clung tightly to her heaving grandson.
Lady Wang pointed an accusing finger at Xi-feng, but laughter had deprived her of speech.
Aunt Xue exploded a mouthful of tea over Tan-chuns skirt.
Tan-chun planted a bowlful of rice on the person of Ying-chun.
Xi-chun got up from the table and going over to her nurse, took her by the hand and asked her to massage her stomach.
The servants were all doubled up.
Some had to go outside where they could squat down and laugh with abandon.
Those who could control themselves sufficiently helped the casualties to mop up or change their clothes.
Only Xi-feng and Faithful remained straight-faced throughout this outburst, politely urging Grannie Liu to begin.
Manipulating the unwieldy chopsticks with considerable difficulty, the old woman prepared to do so.
Even your hens here are special, she remarked.
Such pretty little eggs they lay!
I must see if I cant get one of these under me belt!
Under the impact of these remarks the companys composure, which it had only just recovered, once more broke down.
Grandmother Jia, abandoning any attempt at self-control, was now actually weeping with laughter.
Amber, who feared a seizure, pounded her energetically on the back.
That wicked devil Feng is behind this, said Grandmother Jia.
Dont believe a thing she tells you!
They cost a silver tael apiece, said Xi-feng, as Grannie Liu continued to praise the diminutive hens eggs.
You should eat them quickly, while theyre still hot, They wont be so nice when theyre cold.
Grannie Liu obediently held out her chopsticks and tried to take hold of one, but the egg eluded her.
After chasing it several times round the inside of the bowl, she did at last succeed in getting a grip on it.
But as she craned forward with open mouth to reach it, it slipped through the chopsticks and rolled on to the floor.
At once she laid down the chopsticks, and would have gone down on hands and knees to pick it up, but before she could do so one of the servants had retrieved it and carried it off for disposal.
Thats a tael of silver gone, Grannie Liu said regretfully, and we didnt even hear the clink!
The others had by now lost all interest in eating, absorbed by the entertaining antics of their guest.
Who got those chopsticks out?
said Grandmother Jia.
Theyre not meant for occasions like this theyre for using at formal banquets.
Whoever it was, I expect it was that wicked Feng who put them up to it.
Take them away at once and get her another pair!
The servants had in point of fact had nothing to do with the chryselephantine chopsticks, which had been smuggled in at the last moment by Faithful and Xi-feng nevertheless, on hearing the order, they obediently came forward and replaced them with a silver and ebony pair like those that had been provided for the rest.
Out goes gold and in comes silver!
said Grannie Liu.
But when alls said and done, our wooden ones at home are handier.
If theres any poison in what you are eating, said Xi-feng, the silver will tell you by changing colour.
If this food is poisoned, said Grannie Liu, then what we eat at home must be pure arsenic.
Anyway, I intend to eat it all, come what may I Delighted to have found someone who, besides being so amusing, had so evident a relish for her food, Grandmother Jia insisted on making all her own portion over to Grannie Liu and ordered one of the older women to go round with a pair of chopsticks and a bowl and make a selection from all the dishes to give to little Ban-er.
Presently, when they had finished eating, Grandmother Jia and the others moved into Tan-chuns bedroom for a chat, while in the Paulownia Room the servants cleared away the remains of the meal and hastily relaid a table for Li Wan and Xi-feng.
Grannie Liu, who had lingered behind, observed them sitting down at opposite sides of it to begin their meal.
She was greatly impressed by this glimpse of the upper-class etiquette which requires young married women to eat on their own when the rest have finished.
What I like best of all here, she said, is your way of doing things.
Im not surprised they say that good breeding is to be found in great houses.
The compliment was sincerely meant, but Xi-feng understood it in a different sense.
I do hope we havent hurt your feelings, she said.
It was only a joke, you know.
The words were scarcely out of her mouth when Faithful came hurrying in.
Please dont be offended, Mrs Liu.
Ive come in to apologize.
Bless you, Im not offended!
said Grannie Liu.
We were only cheering up Her Ladyship, dear old soul.
What should I be offended for ?
I knew when you told me to say those things it was only for a laugh.
If Id felt offended, I should never have said them.
A chastened Faithful turned angrily on the other servants.
Come on!
why arent you pouring Mrs Liu some tea?
Thats all right, said Grannie Liu hurriedly.
Ive had some already.
I drank the tea that the young woman handed to me a while ago.
You get on with your own lunch, Miss.
Dont mind me!
Xi-feng took Faithful by the hand.
Yes, eat now with us.
Itll keep you out of mischief.
Faithful sat down and one of the old women laid another bowl for her and another pair of chopsticks.
When the three young women had finished, Grannie Liu, who had been watching them, remarked on how little they had eaten.
None of you here seems to eat more than a bite or two, she said.
Its a marvel to me youre not famished.
No wonder you all look as if the wind could blow you over!
There is a lot left over today, Faithful commented.
Where are all the others?
she asked the old serving-woman.
Theyre still here in waiting, Miss, said the old woman.
Theyre not off duty yet.
We can give it to them, if you like, before they go.
Theyll never finish all this lot, said Faithful.
Pick out a couple of bowlfuls and take them to Patience in Mrs Lians room.
No need, said Xi-feng.
Shes had her lunch already.
If she cant eat it herself, she can give it to the cat, said Faithful.
The old woman put the contents of two of the dishes into a box and carried it off to give Patience.
Wheres Candida ?
said Faithful.
Shes in there eating with the rest, said Li Wan.
What do you want her for?
Its all right, said Faithful.
Nothing.
Aroma isnt here, said Xi-feng.
Why dont you send her a couple of dishes ?
Faithful gave orders for this to be done.
She inquired of the remaining old women whether the boxes for the drinking party were ready yet.
I think theyll be a while yet, said one of them.
Hurry them up a bit, will you?
said Faithful, and the old woman went off to do her bidding.
The young women, accompanied by Grannie Liu, now went into Tan-chuns room, where Grandmother Jia and the others were chatting and laughing together.
This room, a three-frame apartment which Tan-chun, who loved spaciousness, had left undivided, had in the midst of it a large rosewood table with a Yunnanese marble top piled high with specimen-books of calligraphy and littered with several dozen miscellaneous ink-stones and a small forest of writing-brushes standing in brush-holders and brush-stands of every conceivable shape and size.
On one side of the table was a bucket-sized pincushion flower-vase of Ru ware stuck all over with snow-white pompom chrysanthemums.
On the west wall of the room hung a Landscape in Mist and Rain by Mi Fei, flanked by a pair of scrolls bearing a couplet written by the Tang calligrapher Yan Zhen-qing -576 My heart has discovered true ease amidst the clouds and mists of the mountains My life has gained a fierce freedom from the rocks and torrents of the fells.
-347 Against the wall beneath was a long, high table.
On it, towards the left, stood a large Northern Song porcelain dish heaped with those ornamental citrus fruits they call Buddhas hands, whose brilliant yellow contrasted agreeably with the green ish blue of the glaze.
To the right a white jade chime in the form of a two-headed fish hung in a varnished wooden frame to whose side a tiny hammer was attached.
Ban-er, whom growing familiarity was making bolder, was with difficulty restrained from unfastening the hammer and striking the fish with it.
He then said that he wanted one of the yellow things to eat, and Tan-chun selected a Buddhas hand from the dish and gave it to him.
There you are, she said, but its only to play with.
It isnt good to eat.
On the opposite side of the room was a large four-poster bed whose silk gauze hangings had a pattern of bright green plants and insects in reversible embroidery.
Ban-er ran over to it and began identifying the insects Thats a cricket.
Thats a grasshopper Grannie Liu dealt him a hefty slap Little varmint!
Who said you could go running around putting your dirty hands on everything?
Just because youve been allowed in to have a look, it doesnt mean you have to start getting above yourself.
The blow had been hard enough to make him cry, and it took the combined efforts of the others present to comfort him.
Meanwhile Grandmother Jia had been looking through the gauze-covered windows into the courtyard behind.
Those paulownias by the verandah eaves are still very fine, she remarked.
Its a pity theyve begun losing their leaves.
A little gust of wind blew across the courtyard as she spoke, bearing on.
it a faint strain of music from outside.
That must be a wedding, she said.
I didnt realize we were so near to the street here.
You could never hear the street from here, Mother, said Lady Wang, laughing.
Those are our twelve little actresses rehearsing.
If theyre going to be playing anyway, said Grandmother Jia, we may as well have them to play in here.
It will be entertainment for us and it will make an Outing of sorts for them.
Xi-feng at once ordered the troupe to be summoned, and made hurried arrangements for a long table to be brought in, that the actresses could sit down to perform at, and covered with a red rug.
Much better put them in Xi-chuns water pavilion, said Grandmother Jia.
The music will sound even better coming across the water.
Later on when we take our wine we can sit in the downstairs of the Painted Chamber.
Its nice and open there and close enough to the pavilion for listening to the music from.
Everyone agreed that this would be a good idea.
Grandmother Jia now turned with a smile to Aunt Xue.
I think wed better be on our way now.
These young people dont much like having visitors, you know.
They are terrified of getting their rooms dirty.
We mustnt be tactless and overstay our welcome.
I think wed better take another little turn in the boats now, and then it will be just about time to go and have our drinks.
How unfair!
said Tan-chun laughing.
When I ask you or Mother or Aunt Xue to come here, you never do.
Oh, my little Tan is all right, said Grandmother Jia.
Its those two Yus who are so detestable.
We shall go and brawl in their rooms later on when we are drunk!
The others including the detestable Yus all laughed.
Emerging in a single group from the Autumn Studio, they arrived after a short walk at Duckweed Island, where their specially imported Soochow boatwomen were waiting with two elegantly decorated punts.
Grandmother Jia, Lady Wang, Aunt Xue, Grannie Liu, Faithful and Silver were handed one by one aboard the first one.
They were joined a little later by Li Wan, and finally by Xi-feng, who stood in the bows and said she was going to punt.
Feng!
Grandmother Jia called nervously from inside the cabin.
Its too dangerous to fool about.
It isnt like the open river here, but its still quite deep.
Come in here with us!
Its all right, Grannie!
Dont be nervous!
said Xi-feng, laughing, as she shoved off from the bank.
But the punt, being somewhat overloaded, was hard to manage, so that by the time they were in midstream she was already in difficulties and had to hand the pole over to one of the boatwomen and sit down rather abruptly on her haunches.
When their elders were safely away, Bao-yu and the six girls got into the second punt and were poled along in the wake of the first one.
The maids and older women proceeded in the same direction on foot along the shore.
These raggedy-looking lotus4eaves everywhere are rather ugly, said Bao-yu.
I cant think why they havent been cleared away.
Now when could they have been?
said Bao-chai.
With parties being held here practically every day this autumn, the Garden has never been free long enough.
I cant abide the poems of Li Shang-yin, said Dai-yu, but there is just one line of his that I am rather fond of -720 Leaves but dead lotus-leaves for the rain to play on.
-1344 Trust you not to leave the dead lotus-leaves!
It is a good line, I agree, said Bao-yu.
Well tell them that in future they are not to remove them.
They were drifting into Flowery Harbour now, and the dank chill of its creeper-hung grotto seemed to penetrate their bones.
Dead reeds and dying caltrop-leaves added to the autumnal melancholy of the scene.
A clean, airy-looking building was visible at some distance beyond the bank above.
Isnt that Bao-chais place?
said Grandmother Jia.
On being told that it was, she asked the women to moor the boats there, and having disembarked, ascended from the landing-stage by a flight of cloud-shaped stone steps and proceeded, with the rest of the party, to the gateway of Allspice Court.
A delectable fragrance assailed their nostrils as they entered.
Outside the house the leaves of the mysterious, unnamable creepers had turned an even intenser green in the colder weather, and where before there had been flowers, there now hung trusses of the most beautiful coral-red berries.
Indoors, however, it was stark and bare.
The only decoration in Bao-chais room was a vase of the cheaper kind of Ding ware on the table, with a few chrysanthemums in it.
Apart from the flowers there were only a few books and some tea-things on the table.
The bed-hangings were of black gauze, and the quilts and covers were of the same forbidding plainness as the hangings.
This child is really too self-effacing!
Grandmother Jia muttered, evidently shocked by what she saw.
The tone in which she addressed Bao-chai was a somewhat reproachful one If you havent any things of your own, why ever didnt you as your Aunt Wang for some?
Im afraid I never thought about it before.
Of course.
I realize now.
You must have left all your stuff behind in Nanking.
She at once ordered Faithful to supply Bao-chai with some Ornaments, and then turned, with some asperity, on Xi-feng.
Really, Feng!
I do think it rather stingy of you!
Couldnt y6u have spared your cousin a few knick-knacks?
Lady Wang and Xi-feng both laughed.
She said herself that she didnt want any.
We g ave her some things, but she sent them all back again.
Aunt Xue corroborated this.
She was just the same in Nanking, Lady Jia.
Shes never cared much for that sort of thing.
Grandmother Jia shook her head.
That will never do.
It saves trouble, no doubt, to keep ones room so bare.
But what would any of our relations think if they were to come here and see this?
Besides, it isnt natural for a young girl to be so austere.
If girls are to live so austerely, what sort of a stable ought an old woman like me to live in?
Think of the descriptions of young ladies boudoirs you find in plays and romances such exquisite refinement of luxury!
Im not exactly suggesting that you should emulate them but you shouldnt fall too far short, all the same.
After all, when the things are there for the asking, it seems silly not to use them.
Use them sparingly, by all means, if your tastes are on the austere side but dont dispense with them altogether!
Ive always had rather a flair for decorating interiors.
I dont exercise it much nowadays, because Im too old but I think the girls have inherited a little of it from me.
The thing one always has to be on ones guard against is bad taste -which generally means no more than arranging good things in a bad way.
I dont think any of my girls has bad taste.
Now why dont you let me decorate this room for you?
I promise you it shall look both dignified and austere.
There are still a few things tucked away in my dowry that Bao-yu doesnt know about.
wouldnt let him see them, or theyd have disappeared long ago!.
She called Faithful to her and instructed her what to bring.
I want you to fetch that bonseki and the little screen and the little tripod of smoky agate.
Those three things arranged on the table here will be enough.
Theres also a set of white satin hangings hand-painted in black ink.
Id like you to get them too and put them up in place of these bed-curtains.
Yes, madam, said Faithful.
But these things are all stored in the attic over the east wing and Im not sure which chests theyre in, so it will take me quite a while to find them.
Cant I leave it until tomorrow ?
Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow is immaterial, said Grandmother Jia, as long as it gets done.
After sitting for a while longer in Bao-chais room, they got up and again moved on to the covered area underneath the Painted Chamber.
lgante and the other little actresses came forward to make their curtseys and to inquire what pieces they should play.
Choose a few of the ones you are most familiar with, said Grandmother Jia, and the little actresses went off to the Lotus Pavilion.
No further mention of them is made in this part of our narrative.
Supervised by Xi-feng, the servants had by now completed the seating arrangements for the drinking-party.
Two wooden couches covered with woven grass mats and embroidered cushions had been placed side by side at the head.
Each had a pair of carved lacquer tables in front of it.
On one of each pair there was an incense seta miniature metal vase, a miniature cassolette and a miniature tripod, all for burning different kinds of incense in - on the other was a large lacquer box.
These two couches with a pair of tables each were for Grandmother Jia and Aunt Xue.
Of the places ranged below them only one, Lady Wangs, had a couch and two tables all the rest had one table and a chair.
On the east side, nearest to Grandmother Jia, sat Grannie Liu with Lady Wang below her on the west side Xiang-yun had been laid first, nearest to Aunt Xue, then Bao-chai, then Dai-yu, then Ying-chun, then Tan-chun, then Xi-chun, with Bao-yu in the very last place of all.
A table and chairs had been laid for Li Wan and Xi-feng between the inner and outer mosquito screens which protected those inside the room from the insects of the lake.
The little lacquer tables were of many different shapessome four-lobed like a begonia leaf, some five4obed like plum-flowers, some shaped like multi-petalled sunflowers, some like lotus leaves, some square, some round - and the lacquer boxes were designed to match the shapes of the tables.
Everyone had his own nielloed silver self-service wine kettle and a little polychrome cloisonn winecup.
Well now, said Grandmother Jia when they were all seated, lets have a cup or two to warm up on, and after that I think it would be more fun if we played a drinking game.
I am sure you know lots of good ones, said Aunt Xue, but what about the rest of us?
I am afraid this is just a trick to make us all drunk.
We might just as well drink the extra cups now, since were bound to lose anyway, and forget about the game!
Come, Mrs Xue, youre being excessively modest all of a sudden!
said Grandmother Jia.
But perhaps you think Im too old for this sort of thing?
No, no, no.
And Im not being modest, either, said Aunt Xue, laughing.
I am afraid of not being able to give the answers and making a fool of myself.
Even if we cant give the answers, said Lady Wang, it only means drinking a few more cups of wine.
And if we get drunk, we can go to bed.
No one is going to laugh at us, I hope!
Aunt Xue smiled and nodded.
Very well, I shall do as I am told then.
But I think Lady Jia ought to drink a cup first, as proposer of the game.
Of course, said Grandmother Jia, and drained off a cup forthwith.
Xi-feng stepped forward into their midst to make a proposal If you are going to play a drinking game, may I suggest that you have Faithful as your M. C.?
The others, knowing that when Grandmother Jia played drinking games it was generally Faithful who helped her out, agreed readily to this proposal, whereupon Xi-feng went to fetch Faithful and drew her into their midst.
If Faithful is going to be our M. C., said Lady Wang, we cant possibly have her standing up all the time.
She turned to one of the little maids behind her Put a chair for her over there, will you, where Mrs Zhu and Mrs Lian are sitting.
When the chair had been brought, Faithful, offering polite resistance, allowed herself to be propelled towards it, and having first apologized for the liberty of doing so, sat down.
At once she established her authority by drinking a bumper-cup.
Right, she said.
The rules of drinking are as strict as the rules of war.
Now that youve made me your M. C., any of you who doesnt do exactly as I say, no matter who it is, has to pay a forfeit.
Agreed, agreed, said the others.
Hurry up and tell us what the game is.
Before she could do so, Grannie Liu, waving her hand in protest, got up and began to go.
Tisnt right to make sport of folks like this.
Im going home!
No, no, we cant have that!
said the others, laughing.
Back to the chair with her!
Faithful shouted to the younger maids.
They complied gleefully, seizing the old woman on either side and marching her back to her seat.
Let me off this game!
she pleaded, as they forced her into it but Faithful was adamant.
Another word from you, she said, and youll be made to drink a whole kettleful as a punishment.
Grannie Lius protests then ceased.
What Im going to do, said Faithful, is to call threesomes with the dominoes, starting from Her Old Ladyship, going round in an anti-clockwise direction, and ending up with Mrs Liu.
First I shall make a separate call for each of the three dominoes and after that I shall make a call for the whole threesome, so youll get four calls each.
Every time I call, youve got to answer with something that rhymes and that has some connection with the call.
it can be something from a poem or song or ballad, or it can be a proverb or some well-known expression anything you like as long as there is a connection and it rhymes.
Good!
said the others approvingly.
Thats a good game.
Lets have a call then.
Right, said Faithful.
Here comes the first one.
She laid down a double six.
On my left the bright blue sky.
6 The Lord looks down from heaven on high, said Grand-mother Jia.
Bravo!
said the others The second domino was a five-six.
Five and six together meet, said Faithful.
By Six Bay Bridge the flowers smell sweet.
Leaves six and ace upon the right.
The red sun in the sky so bright, said Grandmother Jia.
Altogether that makes A shock-headed devil with hair like tow, said Faithful.
The devil shouts, Zhong Kui, let me go!, said Grandmother Jia.
Amidst laughter, and applause for the successful completion of her turn, she picked up and drained her winecup.
Here comes the next one, said Faithful, laying down a double five.
On my left all the fives I find.
Plum-blossoms dancing in the wind, said Aunt Xue.
On my right all the fives again, said Faithful.
Plum-blossoms in the tenth months rain, said Aunt Xue.
Between them, two and five make seven.
On Seventh Night the lovers meet in heaven.
Together that gives The Second Prince plays in the Five Holy Hills.
The immortals dwell far off from mortal ills.
Again there was applause, and Aunt Xue drank her wine.
Next threesome coming up, said Faithful.
All the aces, one and one.
Two lamps for earth, the moon and sun, said Xiang-yun.
On my right once more aces all.
And flowers to earth in silence fall, said Xiang-yun.
Between them, ace again with four.
Apricot trees make the suns red-petalled floor, said Xiang-yun.
Together that makes nine ripe cherries.
Winged thieves have stripped the Emperors trees of berries, said Xiang-yun, and drank her wine.
A pair on the left then, three and three, said Faithful.
Swallows in pairs round the old roof-tree, said Bao-chai.
A pair of threes upon the right, said Faithful.
Green duckweed-trails on the water bright.
A three and six between them lie.
Three peaks upon the rim of sky, said Bao-chai.
Together that gives The lone boat tied with an iron chain, said Faithful.
The waves on every hand and the hearts pain, said Bao-chai, and drank what remained in her winecup.
Sky on the left, the good fresh air, said Faithful, putting down a double six.
Bright air and brilliant morn feed my despair, said Dai-yu.
Bao-chai, recognizing the quotation, turned and stared but Dai-yu was too intent on keeping her end up to have noticed.
A four and a six, the Painted Screen, said Faithful.
No Reddie at the window seen, said Dai-yu, desperately dredging up a line this time from The Western Chamber to meet the emergency.
A two and a six, four twos make eight.
In twos walk backwards from the Hall of State, said Dai-yu, on safer ground with a line from Du Fu.
Together makes A basket for the flowers you pick, said Faithful.
A basket of peonies slung from his stick, Dai-yu concluded, and took a sip of her wine.
Four and five, the Flowery Nine, said Faithful.
The flowering peach-tree drenched with rain, said Ying chun.
Forfeit!
Forfeit!
said the others, laughing.
It doesnt rhyme and besides, the words dont fit.
Ying-chun laughed and sipped her wine.
As a matter of fact her failure was intentional.
Eager for more laughs, Xi-feng and Faithful had secretly intimated to the four remaining cousins that they should give the wrong answers on purpose, in order to come the more quickly to Grannie Liu.
Accordingly Tan-chun, Xi-chun and Bao-yu, all deliberately fell down on their first calls as well, leaving only Lady Wang to dispose of, which Faithful accomplished by the simple expedient of supplying the answers for her herself.
It was now Grannie Lius turn.
We often play a game like this ourselves back home when we get together of an evening, said Grannie Liu, only the way we do it, it doesnt sound so pretty as this.
Howsomever.
I dont mind having a try.
Its easy, really, said the others.
Dont worry about what it sounds like.
Just say what comes naturally.
Faithful began to lay.
A pair of fours on the left, the Man.
Grannie Liu was a good long while puzzling over this.
Finally she said.
Is it a farmer?
The others roared with laughter.
Thats all right, said Grandmother Jia reassuringly.
That answer will do very well.
You young people shouldnt laugh at me, said Grannie Liu to the others.
Im a countrywoman born and I cant help my country talk.
Green three, red four, contrasting colours, called Faithful.
The fire burns up the caterpillars, said Grannie Liu.
Why, so it might, said the others.
Stick to your country talk, Grannie, youre doing fine!
Red four on the right and the ace is red, said Faithful.
A turnip and a garlic-head.
More laughter.
That Flower those three together show, said Faithful.
This flower will to a pumpkin grow, said the flower-bedecked ancient, gesturing with her hands to demonstrate the size of the imagined pumpkin.
The following chapter will show how the party progressed.
CHAPTER 41 Jia Bao-yu tastes some superior tea at Green Bower Hermitage And Grannie Liu samples the sleeping accommodation at Green Delights THIS flower will to a pumpkin grow.
As Granule Liu of the flower-studded hair said this, gesturing with her hands to suggest the size of the full-grown pump-kin, a shout of laughter rose from all those present.
She drank the pass cup.
To be truthful, she said, aiming for another laugh, Im but a clumsy body at the best of times, and having drunk so much, Im scared of breaking this pretty cup youve given me.
You should have given me a wooden one then if I dropped it, it wouldnt matter.
The others laughed but xi-feng pretended to take her seriously If you really want a wooden cup to drink out of I can find you one.
But Id better warn you.
The wooden ones arent like these porcelain ones they come in sets of different sizes, and if we get them out for you, youll have to drink out of every one in the set.
Granule Liu calculated.
I was only joking, she thought.
I didnt think theyd really have any.
When Ive dined with the gentry back home, Ive seen many a gold and silver cup in their houses, but never a wooden one.
I expect these will be wooden bowls that the children use.
Its a trick to make me drink a lot.
Well, never mind.
This stuffs not much more than sugared water anyway.
It can do me no harm if I drink a bit extra.
Having so reflected, she made reply Very well.
Lets see them first though.
Go to the inner room of the front apartment, Xi-feng told Felicity, and fetch me that set of ten winecups on the bookcasethe ones carved Out of bamboo root.
But before Felicity could go on her errand, Faithful made a counter-proposal I know that set of yours theyre not very big cups, and in any case, you promised her wooden ones and yours are only made of bamboo.
Much better give her ten boxwood ones and make her drink out of Them.
All right, said Xi-feng.
Better still.
So Faithful sent someone to fetch them.
The sight of these cups when they arrived both alarmed and delighted Grannie Liu.
What alarmed her was their size.
The largest was as big as a small hand-basin and even the smallest one was twice as big as the cup she held in her hand.
What delighted her was the consummate artistry of the carving.
On each of the ten cups, in smaller and smaller replicas, was the same landscape with little trees and human figures in it and even some lines of minute grass character writing and a tiny carved representation of an artists seal.
Ill take the smallest one, she said hurriedly.
Oh no!
said Xi-feng, smiling.
These cups have never been used before, because up to now weve never found anyone with a big enough capacity to drink from them.
Now that youve asked for them and weve been to the trouble of getting them out for you, we must insist on your drinking from every one of them.
I couldnt, said Grannie Lin in a panic.
Please, Mrs Lian, dont make me!
Grandmother Jia, Aunt Xue and Lady Wang all realized that a person of Grannie Lius advanced years could not p05sibly be expected to imbibe so huge a quantity of liquor without the direst consequences, and laughingly pleaded for her.
Come now, a joke is a joke.
You mustnt make her drink too much.
Let her just drink from the largest one.
Holy name!
said Grannie Liu.
Cant I just drink from the smallest one, like I said?
I can take the largest one home with me and drink it up by degrees.
The others laughed.
Faithful, obliged to relent, ordered one of the larger, but not the largest cup to be filled, and Grannie Liu, holding it in both her hands, began to drink.
Drink it slowly, now, Grandmother Jia and Aunt Xue counselled her.
Dont make yourself choke.
Aunt Xue told Xi-feng to offer the old woman something to eat with her bowlful.
What would you like, Grannie ?
said Xi-feng.
Just name it and Ill feed you some.
I dont know the names of any of these dishes, said Grannie Lin.
Anything you like.
They all taste good to me.
Give her some of the dried aubergine, said Grandmother Jia.
Xi-feng collected some between her chopsticks and held it up to Grannie Lius mouth.
There.
I expect at home you eat aubergines every day.
Try some of ours and see what you think of it.
Youre having me on, said Grannie Liu, when she had eaten the proffered mouthful.
No aubergine ever had a flavour like that.
If it did, wed give up growing other crops and grow nothing but aubergines !
It really is aubergine, the others laughingly assured her.
This time were not having you on.
Really ?
said Grannie Liu in some surprise.
Well, I couldnt have had my mind on it properly while I was eating it.
Give me a bit more, Mrs Lian, and this time Ill chew it more carefully.
Xi-feng took up some more from the dish in her chopsticks and popped it into Grannie Lius mouth.
After prolonged, reflective mastication Granule Liu agreed that there was indeed a slight hint of aubergine in the flavour.
But I still say this isnt really like aubergine, she said.
Tell me the recipe, so that I can make it for myself.
Its simple, said Xi-feng.
You pick the aubergines in the fourth or fifth month when theyre just ripe, skin them, remove the pulp and pips and cut into thread-fine strips which you dry in the sun.
Then you take the stock from one whole fat boiling-fowl, put the dried aubergine-strips into a steamer and steam them over the chicken stock until its nearly all boiled away.
Then you take them out and dry them in the sun again.
You do that, steaming and drying, steaming and drying by turns, altogether nine times.
And it has to be dried until its quite brittle.
Then you store in a tightly-sealed jar, and when you want to eat some, you take out about a saucerful and mix it with fried slivers of chicken leg-meat before serving.
Xi-fengs simple recipe caused Grannie Liu to stick her tongue Out and shake her head in wonderment.
Lord Buddha!
she exclaimed.
Thats ten chicken gone into the making of it.
No wonder it tastes so good!
And having laughed a while over the recipe, she applied herself once more to the wine and slowly drank it down.
She continued to toy with the cup after she had finished drinking, as though loth to put it down.
I do believe you havent had enough, said Xi-feng.
Have another cupful.
Gracious goodness, that would be the death of me!
said Grannie Liu.
No, I was just admiring the carving on it.
Beautiful.
How could they do it so fine?
Now that youve finished drinking from it, said Faithful, why not tell us what wood its made of?
Ah now, that question doesnt surprise me, said Grannie Liu.
You young ladies living in the lap of luxury wouldnt know much about wood but people like us that live all our lives with the woods for neighbours, that lie on wood when we re tired and sit on it when were weary and even have to eat it sometimes in years of famine seeing it and hearing it and talking about it every day of our lives, we naturally get to know its different qualities and can tell the genuine from the imitation.
Well now, let me see.
She turned the cup round a good while in her hands and contemplated it with great attention before pronouncing A household like yours wouldnt have anything cheap in it, she said, so anything wooden youve got would be made from a wood thats not very easy to come by.
And this is a heavy wood, so its definitely not willow.
I should say, without much doubt, this is red pine.
The loud laughter which greeted this pronouncement was interrupted by the arrival of an old woman who reported to Grandmother Jia that the young actresses were in the Lotus Pavilion awaiting instructions.
Were they to perform now, or should they go on waiting a little longer?
Bless me!
I had completely forgotten about them, said Grandmother Jia.
Yes, tell them to begin straight away.
The old woman departed, and presently, in the cold, clear air of autumn, the ululation of flutes rising above a drone of pipes and organs came stealing through the trees and across the water, ravishing the hearts and minds of those who heard it.
Bao-yu, the first to be affected, seized his wine-kettle, poured himself a cupful of wine, and drained it in a single gulp.
He then poured himself a second cup but just as he was about to drink it, he noticed that his mother had evidently been affected in the same way, for she was just at that moment giving orders to a servant to fetch her a supply of freshly-heated wine.
At once he crossed over to where she was sitting and held his cup to her mouth for her to drink from.
Soon the newly-heated wine arrived and Bao-yu went back to his seat.
Lady Wang rose from hers and picked up the wine-kettle that had just been brought, intending to pour some for Grandmother Jia.
This was a signal for the others present, including Aunt Xue, to rise from their seats as well but Grandmother Jia hurriedly gave orders for Li Wan and Xi-feng to take over.
Let your Aunt sit down, so that the others can be at their ease, she said to Xi-feng, whereupon Lady Wang relinquished the wine-kettle and went back to her seat.
Were having such fun today, said Grandmother Jia when Xi-feng had poured for her.
All of you must drink!
She raised her cup to Aunt Xue, then, reaching beyond her, to Xiang-yun and Bao-chai.
Come on, you two!
You must have a cup too.
And your Cousin Lin - were not letting her off.
I know she cant drink very much, but today is an exception.
She drained her cup, and xiang-yun, Bao-chai and Dai-yu drank something from theirs.
Grannie Liu, meanwhile, who had seldom before heard such fine music and was more than a little drunk, was showing bet appreciation of it with vigorous movements of hands and feet.
Bao-yu, catching sight of her, slipped from his seat to whisper in Dai-yus ear.
Look at the old grannie!
It reminds me of the passage in the History Classic about the animals dancing to the music of Shun, said Dai-yu.
Only in this case its just one old cow!
The other girls, overhearing this, all laughed.
After a little while the music stopped and Aunt Xue suggested that as everyone appeared to have had about as much to drink as was good for them, perhaps it would be a good idea to break up and walk around for a bit.
At this Grandmother Jia, who was herself beginning to feel like some exercise, rose to her feet.
The others rose too and followed her outside.
Anxious to keep Grannie Liu with her as a source of diversion, Grandmother Jia took her by the hand to walk with her among the trees at the foot of the rockery.
She spent a goodish while circumambulating this area with her, explaining what the various trees, rocks and flowers were called.
Grannie Liu listened very attentively.
Seems that in the city it isnt only the folks that are grander, she remarked.
The creatures too seem to be grander than what they are outside.
Even the birds here are prettier, and they can talk.
What birds?
they asked her, curious.
I know the one on the golden perch on the verandahhim with the green feathers and red beak isa polly parrot, she said defensively, but that old black crow in the cage hes grown a thingummy on his head and learned to talk, as well.
The crow that she was referring to was a mynah.
The others laughed at her mistake.
A little after this some maids came up and invited them to take a snack.
After drinking all that wine, I dont feel hungry, said Grandmother Jia.
Still, bring it here anyway, and those who want to can help themselves.
The maids went off and returned carrying two small tables.
A couple of food-boxes followed.
Each, when its cover was removed, was found to contain two different kinds of delicacy.
In the first box there were two kinds of steamed things marzipan cakes made of ground lotus-root and sugared cassia-flowers, and pine-nut and goose-fat rolls, The second box contained two sorts of fried things, one of them a heap of tiny jiao-zi only about one inch long What have they got inside them?
Grandmother Jia asked.
Crab-meat, said one of the old women who had brought the boxes.
Grandmother Jia frowned.
I shouldnt think anyone would feel like eating that now, she said.
Much too rich.
The other type of fried confection consisted of a wide variety of little pastry-shapes deep-fried in butter.
These, too, met with the old ladys disapproval.
She invited Aunt Xue to choose first.
Aunt Xue selected one of the little cakes of lotus-root marzipan.
Grandmother Jia chose a goose-fat and pine-nut roll, but after merely tasting it, handed the uneaten half to a maid.
Grannie Liu was fascinated by the delicately fashioned pastries.
They had been looped or perforated or criss-crossed in every conceivable shape and the soft dough instantaneously hardened in boiling butter-fat.
The one she had selected was shaped like a peony.
The cleverest girl in our village couldnt make a paper cutout as fine as that, she said, holding it up for the others to see.
It seems almost a shame to eat it.
Id like to wrap up a few of these and take them home with me to use as patterns!
The others laughed.
Ill give you a jarful to take back with you when you go, said Grandmother Jia.
Eat these ones now, while theyre still hot.
The others contented themselves with nibbling only one or two of whichever delicacies in the boxes took their fancy, but Grannie Liu and Ban-er, partly because of the novelty neither of them having eaten such things before, and partly because the little pastry-shapes really were very pretty and, being heaped promiscuously together, tempted you to go on eating them to discover what new shapes were lying underneath, went on munching away until they had tried several of every shape, by which time about half the pile had vanished.
Xi-feng had what was left on the four dishes heaped together onto two of them and put into a single box, and sent it over to the Lotus Pavilion for lgante and the eleven other little actresses to eat.
Just then the nurse appeared carrying Xi-fengs little girl, who at once became the main focus of their attention.
She was clutching a large grapefruit, but as soon as she caught sight of the Buddhas hand that Ban-er was holding, she decided that she wanted that, and let up a wail when the maids who were attempting to coax it from Ban-er could not procure it for her quickly enough.
A resourceful cousin saved the situation by hurriedly taking the grapefruit and inducing Ban-er to make an exchange.
Ban-er had by this time been playing with the Buddhas hand for quite a long while and had more or less exhausted its possibilities moreover at the moment he had his hands full of fried pastry-shapes and the grapefruit not only smelled good but, being round, made an excellent football.
For these three reasons he concluded that it was an altogether more satisfactory fruit than the Buddhas hand and abandoned all interest in the latter.
When everyone had taken tea, Grandmother Jia, with the rest of the party following, conducted Grannie Lin to Green Bower Hermitage, where they were met at the gate by the nun Adamantina.
Inside the courtyard the trees and shrubs had a thriving, well-cared-for look.
Monks and nuns always have the best-kept gardens, said Grandmother Jia, in smiling approval of what she saw.
They have nothing else to do with their time.
They were walking towards the meditation hall on the east side of the courtyard.
As they seemed to hesitate in the outer foyer, Adamantina invited them to go on inside, but Grandmother Jia declined.
No, we wont go inside just now.
Weve all recently taken wine and meat, and as youve got the Bodhisattva in there, it would be sacrilege.
We can sit out here, where we are.
Bring us some of your nice tea.
Well just drink one cup and then go out again.
Adamantina hurried off to make tea.
Having heard a good deal about her, Bao-yu studied her very attentively, when she arrived back presently with the tray.
It was a little cinque-lobed lacquer tea-tray decorated with a gold-infilled engraving of a cloud dragon coiled round the character for longevity.
On it stood a little covered teacup of Cheng Hua enamelled porcelain.
Holding the tray out respectfully in both her hands, she offered the cup to Grandmother Jia.
I dont drink Lu-an tea, said Grandmother Jia.
I know you dont, said Adainantina with a smile.
This is Old Mans Eyebrows.
Grandmother Jia took the tea and inquired what sort of water it had been made with.
Last years rain-water, said Adamantina.
After drinking half Grandmother Jia handed the cup to Grannie Liu.
Try it, she said.
See what you think of it.
Grannie Liu gulped down the remaining half.
Hmn.
All right.
A bit on the weak side, though.
It would be better if it were brewed a little longer.
Grandmother Jia and the rest seemed to derive much amusement from these comments.
The others were now served tea in covered cups of sweet-white eggshell chinaall, that is, except Bao-chai and Dai-yu, whom Adamantina tugged by the sleeve as an indication that they should follow her inside.
Bao-yu stealthily slipped out after them and saw Adamantina usher them into a side-room leading off the foyer.
This was Adamantinas own room.
Inside it Bao-chai seated herself on the couch and Dai-yu sat on Adamantinas meditation mat.
Adamantina busied herself at the stove, fanning the charcoal until the water was boiling vigorously and brewing them a fresh pot of tea.
Bao-yu stepped softly into the room and made his presence known to the two cousins.
So you get the hostesss special brew?
Yes, they said laughing.
And its no good your gate-crashing in here after us, because theres none for you.
Just as Adamantina was about to fetch cups for the girls, an old lay-sister appeared at the door carrying the empties she had been collecting in the foyer.
Dont bring that Cheng Hua cup in here, said Adamantina.
Leave it outside.
Bao-yu understood immediately.
It was because Grannie Liu had drunk from it.
In Adamantinas eyes the cup was now contaminated.
He watched her as she got cups out for the girls.
One of them, a cup with a handle, had -2400 THE PUMPKIN CUP carved in li-shu characters on one side and Wang Kai his Treasure in little autograph characters.
on the back, followed by another column of tiny characters -934 Examined by Su Dong-po in the Inner Treasury Fourth month Yuan-feng era anno 5 0 When she had poured tea into this cup she handed it to Bao-chai.
The other cup was shaped like a miniature begging-bowl and was inscribed with the words THE HORN LINK GOBLET in pearl-drop seal script.
Adamantina filled it and handed it to Dai-yu.
She poured tea for Bao-yu in the green jade mug that she normally drank from herself, Bao-yu commented jokingly on the choice I thought you religious were supposed to treat all earthly creatures alike.
How comes it that the other two get priceless heirlooms to drink out of but I only get a common old thing like this?
I have no wish to boast, said Adamantina, but this common old thing as you call it may well be more valuable than anything you could find in your own household.
In the worlds eyes, yes, said Bao-yu.
But other countries, other ways, you know.
When I enter your domain, I naturally adopt your standards and look on gold, jewels and jade as common, vulgar things.
Adamantina glowed with pleasure.
In place of the jade mug she hunted out a large drinking-bowl for him to drink out of.
It was carved from a gnarled and ancient bamboo root in the likeness of a coiled-up dragon with horns like antlers.
There, thats the only thing Ive got left.
Do you think you can drink so much?
Delightedly he assured her that he could.
Yes, I dare say you could too, said Adamantina.
But Im not sure that Im prepared to waste so much of my best tea on you.
You know what they say One cup for a connoisseur, two for a rustic, and three for a thirsty mule.
What sort of creature does that make you if you drink this bowlful?
Bao-chai, Dai-yu and Bao-yu all three laughed at this.
Adamantina poured the equivalent of about a cupful into the bamboo-root bowl.
Savouring it carefully in little sips, Bao-yu found it of incomparable freshness and lightness and praised it enthusiastically.
You realize, of course, said Adamantina seriously, that it is only because of the other two that you are drinking this.
If you had come here alone, I should not have given you any.
Bao-yu laughed.
I fully realize that, and I dont feel in the least indebted to you.
I shall offer my thanks to them.
Adamantina pondered this statement with unsmiling gravity.
Yes.
I think that would be sensible.
Is this tea made with last years rain-water too?
Dai-yu asked her.
Adamantina looked scornful.
Oh!
can you really not tell the difference?
I am quite disappointed in you.
This is melted snow that I collected from the branches of winter-flowering plum-trees five years ago, when I was living at the Coiled Incense temple on Mt Xuan-mu.
I managed to fill the whole of that demon- green glaze water-jar with it.
For years I couldnt bring myself to start it then this summer I opened it for the first time Today is only the second time I have ever used any.
I am mod surprised that you cannot tell the difference.
When did stored rain-water have such buoyant lightness?
How could one possibly use it for a tea like this?
Dai-yu was too well aware of Adamantinas eccentricity to attempt a reply and since it felt awkward to sit there saying nothing, she signalled to Bao-chai that they should go.
While the three of them were leaving, Bao-yu stopped to have a word with Adamantina.
That cup that the old woman drank out of of course, I realize that you cant possibly use it any more, but it seems a shame to throw it on one side.
Couldnt you give it to the old woman?
Shes very poor, and if she sold it, she could probably live for quite a long while on the proceeds.
What do you think?
Adamantina reflected for some moments and then nodded.
Yes, I suppose so.
Fortunately I have never drunk out of that cup myself.
If I had, I should have smashed it to pieces rather than give it to her.
If you want her to have it, though, you must give it to her yourself.
I will have no part in it.
And you must take it away immediately.
But of course, said Bao-yu.
No one would expect you to speak to her.
That would be an even greater pollution.
Just give the cup to me and I shall see to the rest.
Adamantina ordered the cup to be brought in and handed over to Bao-yu.
As he took it, Bao-yu said After weve gone, shall I get my boys to bring a few buckets of water from the lake and clean the floor for you ?
Adamantina smiled graciously.
That would be very nice.
But tell them to bring the water only as far as the gate.
They can leave it there at the foot of the outer wall.
Tell them not to come inside.
Of course, said Bao 1 u, putting the cup into his sleeve as they went into the foyer.
He found a junior maid of Grandmother Jias there and entrusted it to her.
When Grannie Liu goes, see that she takes this Cup with her, will you?
By the time he had done this, Grandmother Jia was already outside in the courtyard expressing a desire to get back.
Adamantina made no serious effort to detain her, and after seeing her guests out of the Hermitage, went in again and closed the gate after her.
Back at the scene of the party, Grandmother Jia, who was feeling somewhat exhausted, told Lady Wang and the girls to act as hostesses to Aunt Xue while she herself went off to Sweet-rice Village for a rest.
Xi-feng ordered the servants to fetch a little bamboo carrying-chair, which Grandmother Jia got into.
Two old women lifted it up, and then off they all went, Xi-feng and Li Wan one on either side of it and a little cohort of maids and older servants bringing up the rear.
As soon as Grandmother Jia had gone, Aunt Xue excused herself and left, Lady Wang, having dismissed the young actresses and given orders for the left-over food in the lacquer boxes to be distributed among the maids, also availed herself of the opportunity of taking a rest.
Putting her feet up on the couch lately occupied by Grandmother Jia, she first caused the blinds to be let down, then, instructing one of the junior maids to massage her legs, and murmuring something about calling her if anyone came from Her Old Ladyship, she settled her-self down for a nap.
Bao-yu and the girls watched the maids take the food-boxes out onto the rockery.
Some sat there on the rocks for their picnic others spread out over the grass below or sat under the trees or down at the waters edge.
Although so dispersed, they managed to create a considerable hubbub.
After a little while Faithful arrived with instructions to show Grannie Liu some more of the Garden.
The cousins, hoping for more laughs, went along with them.
A short walk took them to the monumental stone arch at the entrance to the Reunion Palace.
Goodness me!
said the old woman.
You even have a temple here!
She fell down on her knees and kotowed, causing her young companions to double up with laughter.
Why do you laugh?
she said.
Do you think I dont know what the words say?
We have quite a few temples where I come from and they all have arches like this.
The writing on the arch is the name of the temple.
All right.
Whats the name of this temple then?
they asked her.
Grannie Liu pointed upwards at the characters inscribed overhead.
Temple of the Jade Emperor.
Thats what it says, doesnt it?
This produced an ecstasy of merriment in the young people.
No doubt they would have gone on teasing her, but just at that moment there was an alarming rumble from her bowels and she clutched the hand of one of the little maidservants standing by and begged her for the favour of a couple of sheets of paper, while with the other hand she began undoing the buttons of her dress.
The others, still laughing, shouted at her to stop No, no!
Not here!
Not here!
They told one of the older women to escort her to a place beyond the north-east corner of the precincts where there was a privy.
Having led Grannie Liu to within sight of it and pointed it out to her, the old servant deemed this an excellent opportunity of taking some time off, and went away, leaving Grannie Liu to make her way back alone.
Now Grannie Liu had drunk quantities of yellow rice-wine, which did not in fact agree with her on top of that she had eaten a lot of rich, fatty food and as the food had made her thirsty, she had concluded by drinking an excessive amount of tea.
The upset stomach which was the inevitable consequence of so much indulgence kept her a wearisome long time in the privy before her business there was completed.
When she at last emerged, the colder air outside drove the wine fumes up into her head, increasing the dizziness, which might be thought normal in a woman of her years who has suddenly got up after squatting for a long time on her heels, to such an extent that she was quite Unable to make out the route that she had come by.
Everywhere she looked there were buildings, rocks and trees.
Unable to decide which of them lay in the right direction, she made for the nearest paved path and, with slow and deliberate steps, followed it to see where it would take her.
It took her in time to the courtyard wall of a house, but she could find no gate in it, and after wandering round a long while looking for one, she came upon a bamboo trellis, which she contemplated with some astonishment.
Hmn.
Bean-sticks.
What are they doing here?
The bean-sticks resolved themselves into a rose-covered pergola.
After walking alongside it for a while, she came to a round moon-gate, which she entered.
Ahead of her was a channel of crystal-clear water, five or six feet wide.
Its banks were reinforced with stone, and a large, flat slab of white stone had been laid across it to make a bridge.
After she had crossed the bridge there was a raised cobbled path which, after a couple of right-angled bends, brought her up to the door of the house.
The first thing she saw on entering it was a young woman smiling at her in welcome.
Grannie Liu smiled back.
Im lost, miss.
The young ladies have left me to find my own way and Ive wandered in here by mistake.
Surprised that the girl did not reply, Grannie Thu stepped forward to take her hand and bang!
hit her head a most painful thump on the wooden wall.
The girl was a painting, as she found on closer inspection.
Strange!
she thought.
How can they paint a picture so that it sticks out like that?
Grannie Liu was ignorant of the foreign mode of light-and-shadow painting and was sorely puzzled to discover, on touching the picture, that it did not in fact stick out but was flat all over.
Turning from it with a sigh and a shake of her head, she moved on to a little doorway in the wooden partition-wall, over which hung a green, flower-patterned portire.
She raised the portiere and went inside.
In the room she now entered everything, from the top of the surrounding walls, delicately incised with shapes of swords, vases, musical instruments, incense-burners and the like, to the lavish furnishing below, in which The weavers glowing art combined With gleam of gold and.
orient pearl, and thence down to the very floor of brilliantly patterned green glazed tiles beneath her feet, was such as to make even more dazzled the eyes of an already intoxicated old woman.
She looked for the way out - but where was it?
To the left of her there was a bookcase, to the right a screen.
She tried behind the screen.
Ah, yes!
There was the door.
But there too, to her intense surprise, approaching her from the opposite direction and causing her a momentary palpitation of the heart, was another old woman, whom she took to be her old gossip from the village.
What?
are you here too?
she asked her, I suppose you were wondering what had become of me these last few days.
Well, it was neighbourly to come and look for me.
Which of the young women brought you in?
She noticed, with much amusement, that her old neighbours head was covered all over with flowers.
Hoo!
Youll catch it!
Picking the flowers from their garden to put in your own hair.
Well I never!
The other merely grinned back at her and said nothing.
Grannie Liu stretched out a hand to give her the touch of shame.
The other old woman stretched her hand out too to stop her.
After a. brief soundless skirmish, Grannie Liu managed to get her finger onto the other ones face.
But no sooner had she done so than she recoiled in horror, for the cheek she touched was as cold and hard as a block of ice.
Suddenly the truth dawned on her Ive heard of rich folks having what they call dressing mirrors in their houses.
Mayhap Im standing in front of one of them and its myself Im looking at.
She stretched out her hand again to feel and closely examined the surface.
Yes, no doubt of it it was a mirror, let into the carved surface of the wooden partition.
She laughed at her own error.
Yes, but how do I get out of here?
she thought, as she continued to finger the mirrors carved surround.
Suddenly there was a loud clunk!
which so frightened the old woman that for some moments she rolled her eyes in terror.
The mirror mirror in fact a kind of door.
It had a West Ocean mechanism by which it could be opened or closed, and Grannie Liu, in feeling around it, had accidentally touched the spring which had made the mirror slide back into the panelling, revealing the doorway underneath.
Pleasantly surprised, she passed through the doorway into a room whose main feature was a rich and elegantly patterned bed.
Now Grannie Liu was seven or eight parts drunk and thoroughly worn out from all her walking.
Seeing a bed in front of her, she sat down on it gratefully, to rest her feet.
But though she intended no more than a few moments rest, as soon as she had sat down, her weariness overcame her.
Her head went down and her feet went up as though she was no longer in possession of them a darkness closed over her eyes, and she sank back on the bed, fast asleep.
Outside in the Garden meanwhile, the cousins were beginning to wonder what had become of her, and Ban-er, missing his grandmother, became panicky and began to cry.
Perhaps shes fallen into the privy, one of the young people suggested cheerfully.
Wed better send someone to have a look.
Two old women were sent to the privy to investigate.
When they reported back hat she was not there, the others were at a loss to think where she could have got to.
It was Aroma who hit on the correct hypothesis.
She must have missed the way back because she was drunk.
If she followed the path in the wrong direction, it will have taken her to our back Courtyard.
Now if she went through the pergola and then on into the house through the back door, shell probably have been seen by one of the maids.
If she didnt go in through the pergola but went on walking in a south-westerly direction, Heaven only knows where shell end up!
I think Id better go and have a look.
She hurried back to Green Delights, intending to ask the junior maids if they had seen her but the place was deserted they had all sneaked off elsewhere to play.
Entering the main building by way of the front door, she made her way through the complicated carved partition.
A thunderous snoring could be heard coming from the bedroom at the back.
She hurried through.
As she entered the bedroom, a heavy stink, compounded of farts and wine-fumes, assailed her nostrils.
Her eyes travelled to the bed, from which the sounds were coming, and saw Grannie Liu, spreadeagled on her back and fast asleep.
As soon as she had overcome her shock, she rushed up to the bed and shook her relentlessly until she woke.
Grannie Liu opened her eyes wide and saw Aroma standing over her.
Oh, miss!
She scrambled hurriedly to her feet.
C Oh, I am sorry!
Anywaypraise be!
I havent dirtied the bed.
She felt it nervously, to make sure.
Aroma, mortally afraid that someone would overhear and Bao-yu get to know of what had happened, gestured to her violently not to speak.
Hurriedly she threw three or four whole handfuls of Hundred Blend aromatic onto the incense burner that stood always smouldering beside the bed and replaced its cover.
At least its a mercy she wasnt sick, she thought to herself.
Speaking to her in an urgent whisper, she nevertheless contrived to smile at her reassuringly Its all right.
Ill look after this.
Just follow me.
Grannie Liu nodded gratefully and followed her to the junior maids quarters outside, where Aroma made her sit down.
If they ask what happened, just say that you passed Out and had a little nap on the rockery.
Grannie Liu willingly agreed, and Aroma gave her some tea.
By the end of the second cup she had sobered up completely and was able to converse.
Which of the young ladies does the bedroom belong to?
she asked Aroma.
Its the most beautiful I ever saw.
I thought I was in paradise.
Aroma gave a wry little smile.
Itsactually its Master Baos bedroom.
Grannie Liu fell silent, horrified by the enormity of her trespass.
Seeing that she had now recovered, Aroma led her out through the front courtyard and back to where the others were waiting.
I found her asleep on the grass, she said when she saw them, so Ive brought her back for you.
The others seemed satisfied with this explanation, for no further mention was made of it.
Shortly after this Grandmother Jia woke up and dinner was laid for her in Sweet-rice Village but she felt too exhausted to eat anything, and getting into the bamboo carrying-chair again, had herself carried back to her own apartment to rest.
When she was back, she told Xi-feng and the rest of the young folk who had escorted her to go and have their dinner, and the cousins went back into the Garden Ensuing events will be dealt with in the following Chapter.
CHAPTER 42 Lady Allspice wins over a suspicious nature with some well-intentioned advice And River Queen enhances her reputation as a wit with some amusing sarcasms The last chapter showed how Grandmother Jia, escorted by all the others, returned from Sweet-rice Village to her own apartment.
As soon as she arrived, she insisted that the young people should go off and have their dinner.
The young people accordingly went back into the Garden, and when they had eaten, the party finally broke up.
Returning from the Garden with little Ban-er, Granule Liu first called on xi4eng to announce her intention of leaving for home early next morning.
Weve only been here two or three days, she said, but in these two or three days weve seen and heard and eaten and drunk more things than we ever dreamed of.
Im truly grateful to you and Her Old Ladyship and the young gentlewomen and the young ladies working in the different apartments for treating an old countrywoman with so much kindness.
I dont know what I can do in return.
All I can think of is to buy some sticks of best incense when I get back so that I can offer some every day to the Lord Buddha and pray him to give you long life.
Leastways it would show my gratitude.
Its a bit early yet for rejoicing, said Xi-feng drily.
Thanks to you, Her Old Ladyship seems to have caught a chill and is at this very moment lying on her back complaining how bad she feels and my little girl has caught a cold, too, and is lying in there with a fever.
Granule Liu murmured sympathetically.
Her Old Ladyships feeling her age, poor soul, she said.
And she isnt used to the exercise.
Ive never seen her more lively than she was today, said Xi-feng.
Generally when she goes into the Garden, shell visit just one or two places, sit there for a little while, and then come back again.
But today, because you were there and she wanted to show you everything, she must have covered the greater part of the Garden.
It was also because of you that I wasnt on hand when Lady Wang gave my little girl that piece of cake.
Im sure it was eating out in the cold that has made her feverish.
I suppose your little lass doesnt go into the Garden very much, said Grannie Liu.
Not like our young ones, off to play in the grave-garths almost as soon as they can walk.
She may have caught a cold from the wind as you say.
On the other hand, children of her age, being pure of body, often have the second sight.
It could have been brought on by seeing a spirit.
If I was you, Id have a look in the Almanac, just in case.
You never know, the child might have been pixified.
Wondering why she had not thought of this herself, xi-feng at once ordered Patience to fetch down the Jade Casket.
Sunshine was summoned to look up the relevant passage and read it out to them.
This, after some preliminary hunting, he proceeded to do EIGHTH MONTH.
TWENTY-FIFTH DAY Sicknesses Occurring on this day have a south-easterly origin.
Possible cause Encounter with spirit of hanged person or flower spirit.
Recommended action Maximum benefit may be obtained by procuring voluntary departure of spirit.
To do this, take forty pieces of coloured paper spirit money and walk forty paces in a south-easterly direction offering one of the pieces at every step.
There you are!
said Xi-feng.
That must be it.
The Garden is just where youd expect to run into a flower spirit.
I wouldnt be a bit surprised if that doesnt account for Her Old Ladyships trouble as well.
She sent someone forthwith to obtain two lots of spirit money and got two of the servants to carry out the exorcism, one on Grandmother Jias behalf and the other on behalf of her little girl.
As soon as it was over, she and Grannie Liu went in to see how Baby was getting on.
They found her sleeping peacefully.
There!
said Xi-feng delightedly.
It takes an old, experienced person like yourself to know these things.
Perhaps you could also tell me why shes such a sickly little girl.
Shes always going down with something or other.
Theres nothing unusual about that, said Granule Liu.
Children of well-to-do folks are brought up so delicate, their bodies cant stand any hardship.
And for another thing, when young folks are cherished too much, it overloads their luck.
It might be better for her if in future you tried not to make quite so much of her.
You may be right, said Xi-feng without much conviction.
Its just occurred to me as we havent named the child yet, I wonder if youd like to name her for us?
For one thing, being named by someone so old will help her to live longer and for anotherI hope you won t mind my saying this, but you country people do have quite a lot of poverty and hardship to contend withbeing named by a poor person like yourself may help to balance her luck.
Granule Liu thought for a bit.
When was she born?
Ah, thats just the trouble, said Xi-feng.
She was born on Qiao-jiethe Seventh of the Seventha very unlucky date.
No matter, said Granule Lin.
Call her Qiao-jie then.
Thats what the doctors mean when they talk about fighting poison with poison and fire with fire.
You call her Qiao-jie like I say, and I guarantee that shell live to a ripe old age.
I prophesy for this child that when shes a big girl and the others are all going off to get married, she may for a time find that things are not going her way but thanks to this name, all her misfortunes will turn into blessings, and what at first looked like bad luck will turn out to be good luck in the end.
Xi-feng was of course delighted with these auspicious words and thanked her warmly.
May it turn out for her as you say!
She summoned Patience.
Were going to be busy tomorrow and may not have the time then.
As youve got nothing to do at the moment, why dont you get the things for Grannie together, so that everything will be ready for her to start first thing tomorrow ?
Please dont go giving me a lot of things, said Grannie Liu.
Ive already put you to so much inconvenience these last few days, I should feel even more uncomfortable carrying a lot of things back with me.
These are only very ordinary things, said Xi-feng.
Nothing special.
Just a few things for you to take back with you and show off to the neighbours.
Just so as to be able to say that youve been to town.
Come over here, Granule, and have a look, said Patience.
Granule Lu followed her into the next room.
A full half of the kang was occupied by her piled-up presents.
Patience picked them up one by one and explained them to her.
This sky- blue material is the gauze you said you wanted.
The pale- blue gauze in a closer weave is a present from the Mistress to line it with.
These are two lengths of wild-silk pongee.
You can use it to make either a dress or a skirt with it would do equally well for either.
In this wrapping here there are two lengths of silk for making up into a New Year outfit.
This is a box of various kinds of cakes and pastries made in the Imperial kitchens.
There are some kinds that youve already eaten and some that you havent.
You want to put them out on plates when youre having someone to tea youll find theyre a bit better than the ones you can buy in the shops.
These two sacks are the ones you brought the vegetables in when you came.
This one has got two bushels of pink Emperor rice in it.
It makes a really delicious congee.
This one has got fruit and nuts and other things from the Garden in it.
And this packet here has got eight taels of silver in it.
Everything up to here is from the Mistress.
Now these two packets here have each got fifty taels of silver in them - a hundred taels in all.
Theyre a present from Her Ladyship, for starting a little business or buying some land with when you get back, so that you can be self-sufficient in future and not have to keep falling back on your friends.
The two jacketshere Patience smiled somewhat embarrassedlythe two jackets and the two skirts and the four head-scarves and the packet of embroidery silks are a present from me.
The clothes have only been worn a very little but they arent new so if you decide to throw them back at me, I shant complain.
Grannie Liu had been exclaiming rapturously as each item was shown to her and must have uttered several dozen Holy Names by the time Patience came to her own gift.
Throw them back at you, Miss?
she said warmly, touched by the maids kindness and humility.
How can you say such a thing?
Fine clothes like these?
I shouldnt know where to buy them if I had the money!
You make me feel ashamed.
I dont like to take them off you yet if I dont, you will think me ungrateful.
Get away with you!
said Patience.
That sort of talk is for strangers, and you are one of us.
If I didnt think of you so, Id never have dared make the offer.
You just take them and stop worrying.
In any case, theres something I want from you in return.
Next New Year, bring us some of your home-dried mixed vegetables pigweed and cowpeas and kidney beans and dried aubergines and dried gourd-shavings.
Everyone here loves them.
You just bring us some of them.
We dont want anything else from you, mind, so dont go wondering what else to bring.
Just bring some of them, and well be quits.
Grannie Liu thanked her warmly and promised to remember the dried vegetables.
Now off to bed with you!
said Patience.
Ill look after this lot for you.
You can leave it here tonight, and tomorrow well send the boys out for a cab and get them to load it for you.
So youve got nothing to worry about.
Overwhelmed by so much kindness, Grannie Liu went back into the other room to take her leave of Xi-feng, and after thanking her many times over, went off to Grandmother Jias apartment to spend the night.
She was up betimes next morning and would like to have said good-bye to Grandmother Jia as soon as she had completed her toilet, and made an early start but the family forestalled her.
Knowing that the old lady was indisposed, they had trooped in first thing to inquire how she was and had already sent outside for a doctor.
The latters arrival at the mansion was shortly after announced by an old woman servant, whereupon the old women in attendance on Grand mother Jia urged her to conceal herself behind the curtains of the summer-bed.
But Grandmother Jia refused to budge.
Im old, too, womanold enough to be his mother, I shouldnt wonder.
What have I got to fear from him at my age?
Im not going behind any curtains.
Let him examine me where I am.
Seeing that she was resolved to stay, the old women brought up a little table and put a small pillow on it for her to rest her arm on.
These preparations completed, they gave orders for the doctor to be admitted.
Dr Wang was shortly to be observed crossing the courtyard below, conducted by Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian and Jia Rong.
Modestly declining to walk up the central ramp, he followed Cousin Zhen up the right-hand side steps onto the terrace, where two old women, one on either side of the doorway, were holding up the door-blind in readiness.
Bao-yu came forward to welcome the doctor as the two old women were conducting him through the outer room, and led him, still accompanied by the other gentlemen, to his grandmother inside.
The old lady was sitting up very stiffly on a couch.
She was wearing a black crepe jacket lined with pearly-haired baby lambs skin.
Four little maids, their hair still done up in childish horns, stood two on either side of her, holding fly whisks and spittoons, and five or six old serving-women were fanned out in a sort of bodyguard behind her.
Vaguely discernible glimpses of brightly-coloured dresses and golden hair-ornaments betrayed the presence of numerous younger women behind the green muslin curtains at the back.
Not daring to raise his head in so much female company, Dr Wang advanced and saluted his patient.
Observing that he was dressed in the uniform of a mandarin of the sixth rank, Grandmother Jia deduced that he must be a Court Physician, and in returning his salutation was careful to address him with the Worshipful to which his appointment entitled him.
And what is the Worshipfuls name?
she asked Cousin Zhen.
Wang.
When I was a young woman, the President of the Imperial College of Physicians was a Wang, said Grandmother Jia.
Wang Jun-xiao.
Famous for his diagnoses.
The doctor bowed.
He was my great-uncle, he said, smiling demurely, but still not daring to raise his head.
Grandmother Jia laughed.
That makes you a friend of the family.
She stretched out an arm and slowly arranged it for him on the pillow.
The old women brought up a large stool which they set down in front of her table and slightly to one side.
Dr Wang knelt on it, squatting on his heel with one haunch so that he was half-sitting on the edge of the stool, and in that polite but uncomfortable posture proceeded at great length to take the old ladys pulses, first in one arm and then in the other.
After that he made another bow and retired, eyes still on the floor, as they had been throughout the consultation.
Thank you, said Grandmother Jia as he was leaving.
See him out, will you, Zhen?
And see that he gets.
some tea.
Murmuring a reply, Cousin Zhen himself withdrew, followed by Jia Lian and Jia Rong, and conducted Dr Wang back to one of the gentlemens rooms in the front part of the mansion.
Theres nothing seriously wrong with Lady Jia, said Dr Wang when they were seated.
She has a slight chill.
There is no need for her to take any medicine.
A light, simple diet for a day or two and see that she keeps warm.
That should be enough.
Ill write Out a prescription that you can have made up if she feels like taking something.
If not, I should just forget about it.
He drank his tea and wrote out the prescription.
Just as he was about to leave, the nurse came hurrying in with Xi-fengs little girl in her arms.
Doctor, have a look at us too, will you?
The doctor went over, took one of the childs hands and supported it on his own left hand while he felt her pulse.
Then he felt her forehead and inspected her tongue.
Im afraid the young lady is not going to be very pleased with my advice, he said with a smile.
A good, cleansing hunger is what she needs.
Let her miss a couple of meals.
No need for a prescription.
I shall send you some pills that you can dissolve in hot ginger-water and give her to drink at bedtime.
That should help do the trick.
With that he took his leave once more and departed.
Cousin Zhen and the other two went back to Grandmother Jias apartment with the prescription and reported what the doctor had said.
Then they laid the prescription on the table and withdrew.
Lady Wang, Li Wan, Xi-feng, Bao-chai and the rest came out from behind the curtain as soon as the doctor had gone.
Lady.
Wang sat with Grandmother Jia for a while before returning to her own apartment.
The coast was now at last clear for Grannie Liu to come forward and take her leave.
You must come again when you have the time, said Grandmother Jia.
She ordered Faithful to see her off.
I cant see you off myself, she said.
Im not feeling too well today.
Grannie Liu, having thanked her and said good-bye, followed Faithful out of the room and into a room at the side of the courtyard.
Faithful pointed to a large bundle on the kang These are dresses given to Her Old Ladyship by various people over the years as birthday or festival presents, but as she refuses to wear any clothes made by outsiders, theyve none of them ever been worn.
Its a shame to keep them, really.
She told me yesterday to pick out a few for you to take back with you, either to give away as presents or to wear yourself about the house.
In this box here youll find those pastries you wanted.
This parcel has got the medicines in you were talking about the other day the Red Flower Poison Dispellers, the Old Gold Anti-Fever Pastilles, the Blood Renewing Elixir Pills and the Easy Birth Pills.
Youll find each kind wrapped up separately inside its own prescription.
These two little silk purses are to wear.
Faithful undid the draw-strings and extracted from each purse a golden Hearts Desire medallion with a device showing an ingot, a writing-brush and a sceptre.
She smiled at Grannie Liu mischievously You give me these and keep the purses.
Grannie Liu, surprised and delighted as she showed by her many pious ejaculations to be receiving these further presents in addition to what Patience had shown her the night before, seemed eager to accede to this request.
Yes, yes, Miss.
You keep them by all means.
Faithful, who had not intended to be taken seriously, replaced the medallions in their.
purses and did them up again.
I was only pulling your leg.
Ive got lots of these things already.
Keep them to give the children at New Year.
While she was speaking, a little maid came in carrying a Cheng Hua enamelled porcelain cup, which she handed to Granule Liu.
Master Bao said I was to give you this.
Well!
said Granule Liu as she took the cup from her.
Now what do you make of that?
Reckon it must be something I did for him in a past life.
Those clothes I gave you to change into the other day when you had your bath were mine, said Faithful.
If you dont mind taking them off me, Ive got some more like them that Id like to make you a present of.
As Grannie Liu made no objection, Faithful got out several more sets of clothing and wrapped them up for her.
Granule Lin wanted to go into the Garden to thank Bao-yu and the girls and say good-bye to them she also wanted to take her leave of Lady Wang but Faithful prevented her.
It isnt necessary.
In any case, they wont be seeing anyone at this hour.
I can thank them for you when I see them later.
Well, good-bye then.
Come again when you can.
She ordered an old servant-woman to fetch two pages from the inner gate to help Grannie Liu out with her things.
The old servant undertook to do this and also went with Grannie Liu to collect the things from Xi-fengs apartment.
When they had got them all together, she fetched the boys from the outside corner gate who carried them out to the street for her and loaded them into a waiting cab.
Granule Liu and Ban-er then got in themselves and Set off without more ado on their journey back home.
At this point they pass also out of our narrative, which turns now to other matters.
-134 After they had eaten their lunch, Bao-chai and the test of the young people called once more on Grandmother Jia, to see how she was progressing.
On their way back, as they reached that point in the Garden where their paths separated, Bao-chai called Dai-yu over to her.
Frowner, come with me.
Theres something I want to talk to you about.
Dai-yu followed her to Allspice Court.
When they were inside her room, Bao-chai sat down.
Well?
she said to Dai-yu.
Arent you going to kneel down?
I am about to interrogate you.
Dai-yu was mystified.
Poor Bao-chai!
she said, laughing.
The girls gone off her head.
Interrogate me about what ?
My dear, well-bred young lady!
said Bao-chai.
My dear, sheltered young innocent!
What were those things I heard you saying yesterday?
Come now, the truth!
Dai-yu, still mystified, continued to laugh.
She was beginning to feel somewhat uneasy, though she would not admit it.
What awful thing am I supposed to have said?
I expect youre making it up, but you may as well tell me.
Still acting the innocent?
said Bao-chai.
What were those things you said yesterday when we were laying that drinking game?
I couldnt think where you could have got them from.
Dai-yu cast her mind back and remembered, blushing, that the day before, when stumped for an answer, she had got through her turn by citing passages from The Return of the Soul and The Western Chamber.
She hugged Bao-chai imploringly.
Dear coz!
I really dont know.
I just said them without thinking.
If you tell me not to, I promise not to say them again.
I really dont know either, said Bao-chai.
I just thought they sounded rather interesting.
I thought perhaps you might be able to tell me what they were.
Dear coz!
Please dont tell anyone about this.
I promise not to repeat such things again.
Moved by the scarlet, shame-filled face and pitifully entreating voice, Bao-chai relented and did not pursue her questioning.
Having first drawn her down into a seat and handed her some tea, she began, very gently, to address her in the following manner What do you take me for?
Im just as bad.
At seven or eight I used to be a real little terror.
Ours was reckoned to be rather a literary family.
My grandfather was a bibliophile, so the house we lived in was full of books.
We were a big family in those days.
All my boy cousins and girl cousins on my fathers side lived with us in the same house.
All of us younger people hated serious books but liked reading poetry and plays.
The boys had got lots and lots of plays The Western Chamber, The Lute-player, A Hundred Yuan Plays just about everything you could think of.
They used to read them behind our backs, and we girls used to read them behind theirs.
Eventually the grown-ups got to know about it and then there were beatings and lectures and burning of booksand that was the end of that.
So, you see, in the case of us girls it would probably be better for us if we never learned to read in the first place.
Even boys, if they gain no understanding from their reading, would do better not to read at all and if that is true of boys, it certainly holds good for girls like you and me.
The little poetry-writing and calligraphy we indulge in is not really our proper business.
Come to that, it isnt a boys proper business either.
A boys proper business is to read books in order to gain an understanding of things, so that when he grows up he can play his part in governing the country.
Not that one hears of that happening much nowadays.
Nowadays their reading seems to make them even worse than they were to start with.
And unfortunately it isnt merely a case of their being led astray by what they read.
The books, too, are spoiled, by the false interpretations they put upon them.
They would do better to leave books alone and take up business or agriculture.
At least they wouldnt do so much damage.
As for girls like you and me spinning and sewing are our proper business.
What do we need to be able to read for?
But since we can read, let us confine ourselves to good, improving books let us avoid like the plague those pernicious works of fiction, which so undermine the character that in the end it is past reclaiming.
This lengthy homily had so chastened Dai-yu that she sat with head bowed low over her teacup and, though her heart consented, could only manage a weak little yes by way of reply.
At that moment Candida came into the room Mrs Zhu says will you please come over to discuss an important matter with her?
Miss Ying and Miss Tan and Miss Xi and Miss Shi and Master Bao are there already, waiting for you.
I wonder what it is this time, said Bao-chai.
We shall soon find out if we go, said Dai-yu.
So off she went, and Bao-chai with her, to Sweet-rice Village.
They found everyone else there, as Candida had said.
Li Wan greeted them with a smile.
Weve only just got our poetry club started, and already someone is trying to wriggle out of it.
Its Xi-chun.
Shes asking for a years leave of absence.
I can guess why that is, said Dai-yu.
Its because of what Grandmother said about painting the Garden.
Shes decided to use that as an excuse.
I dont think you should blame Grandmother, said Tan-chun.
Its what Grannie Liu said that started it.
Grannie Liu, yes, thats right, Dai-yu hurriedly corrected herself.
Whose grannie is she anyway, Id like to know?
Old Mother Locust we ought to call her, not Grannie Liu.
This set them all laughing.
If one wants to hear the demotic at its most forceful, said Bao-chai, one has to listen to Cousin Feng.
Fortunately for us she cant read, so her jokes are somewhat lacking in finesse and the language she uses can never rise above the level at which it is commonly spoken.
The secret of Frowners sarcastic tongue is that she uses the method adopted by Confucius when he edited the Spring and Autumn Annas, that is to say, she extracts the essentials from vulgar speech and polishes and refines them, so that when she uses them to illustrate a point, each word or phrase is given its maximum possible effectiveness.
The mere name Old Mother Locust,, for example, is sufficient to evoke the whole scene of yesterdays party and everything that happened at it.
Whats more, she is able to do this sort of thing almost without thinking.
The others, still laughing, assured Bao-chai that she excelled as a commentator no less than Dai-yu and Xi-feng, in their different ways, as wits.
The reason I asked you all here is because I wanted your advice on how long we ought to give her, said Li Wan.
I said a month, but she says thats much too short.
What do you all think?
Logically a year wouldnt be at all too long, said Dai-yu.
If it took a whole year to build the Garden, she would naturally require about two years in which to paint it.
First shes got to grind her ink, then shes got to soften her brushes, then shes got to fix the paper, then shes got to find her colours, and then -, The others realized that this was a joke at Xi-chuns expense.
Yes?
they said, playing up to her.
What then?
Dai-yu, unable to maintain a straight face, was beginning to giggle.
and then proceed in like manner, by gradual degrees, to paint it.
Prolonged hilarity and clapping of hands.
In like manner, by gradual degrees, said Bao-chai.
I like that.
The telling phrase at the end.
The trouble with all those jokes we were laughing at yesterday is that they were funny enough at the time, but on recollection they seem rather stupid.
Dai-yus jokes on the other hand, though the words at first appear colourless, are richly humorous to remember.
They certainly make me laugh a lot.
You shouldnt flatter her, Cousin Chai, said Xi-chun plaintively.
It encourages her to show off.
Its because you complimented her on her joke about Granule Liu that shes started making fun of me.
Tell me now, said Dai-yu, taking Xi-chuns hand in her own, is it to be a picture of the Garden alone, or are we to be in it as well?
It was originally to have been of the Garden alone, said Xi-chun, but afterwards Grandmother said that that would make it look too much like an architects drawing and told me to put in some people.
She said what we wanted was something like one of those paintings of Scholars Enjoying Themselves in a Landscape.
The trouble is, I dont know how to do buildings in the Elaborate style, and Im no good at human figures but as I was too scared to refuse, Ive got myself into a mess.
Human figures are no problem, said Dai-yu.
Its the insect-painting thats going to give you the trouble.
Now youre talking nonsense, said Li Wan.
What need will there be of insects in a painting of the Garden?
A few animals and birds dotted here and there maybe, but no insects, surely?
If she has no other insects in it, shes got to have Old Mother Locust, said Dai-yu.
Without her the painting would be incomplete.
The others all laughed.
Dai-yu continued, laughing so much herself that she had to clutch her chest with both hands You must hurry up and get on with the painting.
Ive already thought of a title to inscribe on it when its finished.
You must call it With Locust to the Chew.
The others threw back their heads and roared, Their laughter ended abruptly, however, when a loud crash caused them to look anxiously around them to see what had fallen.
It turned out to have been Xiang-yuns chair.
It had been a somewhat rickety one to start with, and in laughing she had thrown herself back against it so violently that the two joints connecting the chairback with the seat had sprung, causing her to sink backwards and sideways, still sitting in the disintegrating chair.
Fortunately she was saved by the rooms wooden partition from falling onto the floor.
The undignified spectacle of her descent provoked fresh shouts of mirth which only gradually subsided when Bao-yu hurried over and helped her to her feet.
As he passed Dai-yu he signalled to her with his eyes.
Understanding that something must be wrong with her appearance, she slipped into Li Wans bedroom and took the cover off the mirror to have a look.
It was the hair above her brows that was coming loose.
She pulled out the drawer in Li Wans dressing-box, took out two little vanity-brushes, primmed her hair at the mirror, then, hurriedly replacing everything, went back into the outer room, where the others were still laughing.
She pointed a finger accusingly at Li Wan.
So this is your idea of supervision in needlework and moral instructioninviting us over here for jokes and horseplay!
Did you hear that, all of you?
said Li Wan.
This is the ringleader who sets everyone else laughing and misbehaving, yet she has the effrontery to blame me for starting it all!
Oh, I could - !
Well, all I can say is that I hope when you marry you have a real Tartar for a mother-in-law and lots of nasty sisters-in-law with tongues as sharp as yours.
It will serve you right!
Dai-yu, blushing, clung to Bao-chais hand.
Lets give her a years leave, shall we?
Let me suggest what I think is a fair compromise and see what the rest of you think of it, said Bao-chai.
Its true that Lotus Dweller can paint, but painting in her case means no more than an occasional sketch in the Impressionistic style.
Now of course, you couldnt paint this Garden in the first place if you didnt have impressions of it but the trouble is that the Garden itself was designed rather like a painting, with every rock, every tree, every building in it carefully and precisely placed in order to produce a particular scenic effect and if you tried to get your impressions of all of these different scenes onto paper exactly as they are, they simply wouldnt make a picture.
The shape of the paper imposes its own perspectives.
You have to make them into a composition.
You have to decide which to bring into the foreground and which to push into the background, which to leave out altogether and which to show only in glimpses.
When youve done that, you can make your rough draft.
And even then, its only when youve studied the draft for a long time and corrected it until youre satisfied that you can go ahead with your transfer.
One of your difficulties is going to be the ruler-work.
With all those buildings youre going to have to do the straight lines with a ruler, and in ruler-work if youre not very careful its easy to make the most terrible mistakes - railings that slant to one side, leaning pillars, windows on the skew or steps drawn Out of line.
Sometimes careless ruling can produce even more grotesque results, like a table squashed into a wall or a flowerpot apparently testing on the side of a curtain.
Any one of these things is enough to make a painting look ridiculous.
Putting in the human figures is going to be another problem.
First of all you have to be very careful that you have got them in the right perspective.
Then again, in painting figures the clothes and the position of the hands and feet are of great importance.
A careless slip of the brush can mean a monstrously swollen hand or a crippled leg.
Compared with these, little mishaps like the colour of the face running into the hair are of minor importance.
In my opinion this painting is going to be very, very difficult.
And since a year is thought to be too long and a month too short, the compromise I suggest is that she should be allowed half a year to do it in, but that Cousin Bao should be appointed to help her.
My reason is not that I think he knows mote about painting than she does and can tell her how to do itI am sure that if he tried, it would only make matters worsebut because whenever there is anything she doesnt know about or has difficulty in putting in, he will be able to take the painting to one or another of his men friends outside who know about these matters and ask for their advice.
Bao-yu was enthusiastic.
Thats a splendid idea.
Zhan Guang can do Elaborate style buildings and Cheng Ri-xing is very good at women.
Ill go and have a word with them now.
Didnt I tell you you ought to be called Busybody?
said Bao-chai.
Just because Ive mentioned the possibility, you dont have to go rushing off straight away.
Wait until weve finished discussing what needs to be done, then you can go and see them.
The question now is, what is she going to do this painting on?
Weve got some.
Snow Wave paper still, said Bao-yu.
It comes in large enough pieces and it holds the ink well.
Oh, youre just hopeless I said Bao-chai.
Snow Wave is a good, ink-receptive paper for doing calligraphy or Impressionist style paintings on, and it will stand up to the wrinkle-and-wipe work in a Southern School landscape but it is quite unsuitable for a painting like this one involving detailed colouring and layer upon layer of graded washes.
Youd merely ruin the picture and waste the paper.
Now Ill tell you what to do.
Before they started on the construction of this Garden, they made a very detailed drawing of the layout.
It was only an artists impression, but the measurements shown on it were all accurate.
Why dont you ask Lady Wang for that drawing and then ask Cousin Feng to give you a piece of heavyweight pongee of the same dimensions?
Cousin Bao can get Uncle Zhengs gentlemen to size it for you, and they can make you a draft by adapting the architects drawing and putting in the human figures.
He could even get them to touch in some of the blue -and- green background for you and indicate where the outlines will need reinforcing with milk gold or milk silver.
Meanwhile you must get hold of a portable stove that you can use for melting and extracting your glue on and for heating the water to wash your brushes with.
Youll also need a long distemperers table, and a blanket to cover it, for resting your painting on.
And I dont suppose your present supply of paint-saucers and brushes is likely to be adequate.
Youd better start from scratch and get yourself a completely new outfit.
I havent got any equipment to speak of, said Xi-chun.
I just use my ordinary writing-brushes when I want to paint.
As for colours red ochre, Canton indigo, gamboge and safflower red are the only four Ive got.
Apart from that, all I have is a couple of colouring brushes.
Why ever didnt you tell me before?
said Bao-chai.
Ive still got lots of these things.
The only thing is, if I give them to you before you actually need them, they will only be lying around doing nothing in your room the same as they now are in mine.
On second thoughts I think Ill hang on to them for the time being.
We can say that I am keeping them for you.
But I can let you have any of them you want as soon as the need arises.
Id rather you used my stuff for painting fans with and that sort of thing, though.
It would be a waste to use it on this great big painting of the Garden.
What Ill do for you now is to make out a list of materials you can ask Lady Jia for.
You may not know about some of these things, so perhaps it would be a good idea if Cousin Bao were to take them down at my dictation.
Bao-yu had brush and ink already prepared.
He had been intending in any case to take notes, in order to have his own record of what she said, and had merely to pick up his brush and wait for her to begin.
Here is the list she dictated large size raft brushes 4 No.2 size raft brushes 4 No.3 size raft brushes 4 large wash layers 4 medium wash layer 4 small wash layers 4 large Southern crabs claws 10 small Southern crabs claws 10 whisker brushes 10 large colouring brushes 20 small colouring brushes 20 face liners 10 willow-slip brushes 20 arrow-shaped cinnabar 4 oz.
Southern red ochre 4 oz.
orpiment 4 oz.
azurite 4 oz.
malachite 4 oz.
brush-stick gamboge 4 oz.
Canton indigo 8 oz.
oyster-shell white 4 boxes safflower red 10 sheets red powder-gold 200 leaves gold foil 200 leaves quality Canton glue 4 oz.
clear alum 4 oz.
That doesnt allow for the alum and glue that will be needed for the sizing, said Bao-chai.
You can leave that to the menfolk.
By the time these colours have been washed and ground and emulsified and graded, you should have enough there to last you a lifetimemessing about and practice-work included.
She continued with her list superfine silk strainers 4 coarse silk strainers 2 strainer-brushes 4 mortars, various sizes 4 coarse howls 20 5-in.
saucers 10 3 in.
porcelain ditto 20 portable stoves 2 casseroles, various sizes 4 new porcelain water-jars 2 new water-buckets 2 1-ft white linen bags 4 light charcoal 20 catties willow-wood charcoal 1 catty 3-drawer chest of drawers 1 gauze, close-woven 1 ell raw ginger 2 oz.
soy sauce 12 catty a cooking-pot and a frying-slice, Dai-yu added hurriedly.
What are they for?
said Bao-chai.
To use with the ginger and soy sauce, said Dai-yu.
Then shell be able to cook the colours and eat them.
The others laughed, including Bao-chai herself.
Frowner!
Frowner!
she said.
What do you know about it?
If you didnt first season the new saucers by rubbing ginger-juice and sauce on the bottom and burning them in, they would crack when you put them on the heat.
The others assured Dai-yu that this was so.
Dai-yu, meanwhile, was reading through the list.
Just look!
she said, laying a hand on Tan-chuns arm and speaking to her in an undertone.
All those water-jars and chests of drawers and things to paint a picture!
I think she must have got confused at this point and started making a list for her trousseau.
This set Tan-chun off into a fit of the giggles.
Pinch her lips, Chai!
she said.
You should hear what shes been saying about you.
I dont need to, said Bao-chai.
One doesnt expect ivory from a dogs mouth!
Bearing down on Dai-yu as she said this, 8he forced her back, laughing and protesting, upon the kang and made as if she would pinch her face.
Oh, please coz, forgive me!
Dai-yu pleaded.
Little Frowner is younger than you and doesnt know any better.
You should teach me how to be good.
If you wont be nice to me, who else can I turn to?
The others, not knowing what lay behind these words, were greatly amused.
Do forgive her!
they said, laughing.
How pitifully she pleads!
Even we are melted.
But Bao-chai knew she was referring to their recent confrontation on the subject of forbidden books, and feeling rather embarrassed to have this dragged up in the midst of a playful tussle, hurriedly released her.
Dai-yu rose to her feet laughing.
Thats my good coz.
If it had been me, I should never have let you off!
Bao-chai pointed her finger at Dai-yu and smiled at her indulgently.
Im not surprised that Lady Jia is so fond of you or that the others find you so amusing.
I cant help being fond of you too, little coz.
Come here and let me do your hair for you.
Dai-yu turned her head obediently while Bao-chai refastened her back hair.
Bao-yu, watching from where he sat, thought how much better it looked for Bao-chais attention, and wished that he had not told Dai-yu earlier to tidy the hair above her brows, for then Bao-chai could have done that for her too.
His agreeable musings on the subject were interrupted by Bao-chais voice Have you finished writing the list?
Perhaps youd better be the one to see Lady Jia about it.
If theyve got those things here already, so much the better.
If not, youll have to get some money to buy them with.
In that case I might be able to advise you on where to go for them.
Bao-yu folded up the list and stowed it away inside his jacket.
They continued to sit a while longer, chatting about this and that.
After dinner they went to call on Grandmother Jia to see how she was.
She had been suffering from nothing more serious than a slight chill aggravated by fatigue, and by the evening, after a days cosseting and two doses of the mild sudorific prescribed by Dr Wang, she was almost better.
If you want to know what the next day held in store, you will have to read the following chapter.
CHAPTER 43 -160 An old womans whim is the occasion of a birthday collection And a young mans remorse finds solace in a simple ceremony Our story recommences in Lady Wangs apartment next day.
On the previous evenings visit she had found Grandmother Jia almost completely recovered after only two doses of the medicine prescribed for her that same morning by the doctor.
Satisfied that it was only a mild chill, contracted during her day in Prospect Garden, and not anything more serious that the old lady had been suffering from, and deeming it unnecessary to make an early call again this morning, Lady Wang summoned Wang Xi-feng to her own apartment to discuss the getting together of some things to send to her husband, Jia Zheng.
A summons from Grandmother Jia arrived nevertheless, and Lady Wang hurried over, taking Xi-feng with her, to see what was the matter.
Are you still feeling better today, Mother?
she asked her when they arrived.
Im quite recovered now, thank you, said Grandmother Jia.
Ive had a sip or two of the pheasant stew you sent me.
It was very tasty I ate some of the meat in it and enjoyed it very much.
You have Feng to thank for that, said Lady Wang with a smile.
See how dutiful she is to you!
It shows that your kindness is not wasted on her.
Grandmother Jia returned the smile and nodded affably.
It was good of her to think of me.
If theres any of the meat still left, Id rather like a few pieces of it fried.
It has a pleasant, salty tang that goes well with the rice-gruel I am taking The stew is very nice, but stew and gruel dont go very well together.
Xi-feng at once sent orders to the main kitchen to have the pheasant-meat prepared.
Well, it wasnt really my diet that I wanted to talk about, said Grandmother Jia.
The reason Ive sent for you is because the second of the ninth month is Fengs birthday.
In previous years, though Ive always meant to do something about it, something or other has always cropped up which has prevented me from celebrating it properly.
As were all of us here together this year and it doesnt look as if there are likely to be any distractions, I propose that we should get together and make a day of it.
I was thinking just the same thing, said Lady Wang.
Since you feel in such good spirits, Mother, why not settle now what we should do?
Well now, this is what I have been thinking, said Grandmother Jia.
In other years, no matter whose birthday its been, weve each of us given our individual presents.
Now thats so dull, and whats more, I think its a rather unsociable way of celebrating a birthday.
Ive thought of a new way which will be much more sociable and also lots of fun.
Whatever it is, Im sure thats what we ought to do, said Lady Wang.
I think we ought to imitate what they do in poorer families, said Grandmother Jia.
Everyone subscribes something towards a common pool, then, when its all been collected, you spend it all on some treat or other, depending on how much you have.
What do you think of the idea?
It sounds a very good one, said Lady Wang.
But how do we go about collecting the subscriptions ?
At this Grandmother Jia became still more animated.
Let Aunt Xue and Lady Xing be invited without delay, she told them.
Let Bao-yu and the girls be sent for.
And You-shi from the other mansion.
And why not Lai Das wife and some of the more respected older members of the female staff?
Infected by her enthusiasm, the maids and older women-servants went scurrying off in all directions to summon or invite.
In less time than it would take to eat a meal, all those invited, young and old, mistress and servant, had been assembled, and the room was packed.
Aunt Xue and Grandmother Jia sat on their own facing the multitude, Lady Xing and Lady Wang on chairs at the opposite side of the room beside the door.
Bao-chai, Dai-yu, Xiang-yun and the Three Springs sat in a row at the back of the kang behind Grandmother Jia and Aunt Xue.
Bao-yu half reclined in his grandmothers lap.
All the rest stood, shoulder to shoulder, on the floor below.
As soon as she saw that they were all assembled, Grandmother Jia gave orders for stools to be brought so that Lai Das mother and various other of the more aged and respected servants present might sit down.
It was customary in the Jia household to treat the older generation of servants those who had served the parents of the present masterswith even greater respect than the younger generation of masters, so that in this instance it was not thought at all surprising that You-shi, Xi-feng and Li Wan should remain standing while old Mrs Lai and three or four other old nannies though not without first apologizing for the liberty seated themselves on the stools.
Grandmother Jia now smilingly announced the proposal that she had already outlined to Lady Wang.
All present, it need hardly be said, were willing to fall in with itsome because they were on good terms with Xi-feng and were genuinely happy to give her pleasure, some because they were afraid of her and welcomed this as an opportunity of getting themselves into her good books, and all because in any case they could afford to do so.
Accordingly, as soon as Grandmother Jia had finished speaking, they all enthusiastically and with one voice agreed.
Grandmother Jia opened the list with her own subscription Ill give twenty taels.
Ill follow Lady Jia, said Aunt Xue.
Twenty taels.
Lady Xing and Lady Wang called next We obviously cant put ourselves on a level with Lady Jia.
Sixteen taels.
You-shi and Li Wan, decreasing their call by a like amount, came next Twelve taels.
We cant have you paying out that sort of money, Grandmother Jia said to Li Wan, a young widow with no mean of her own.
Ill pay yours for you.
Now dont get carried away, Grandma!
said xi-feng.
You ought to do your sums first before you start interfering.
Dont forget youve already got two of the young folk, Bao-yu and Cousin Lin, to pay for besides your own contribution.
Its all very well promising to pay these additional twelve taels for Li Wan in the heat of the moment, but later on youll be wishing you hadnt.
Youll probably end up by saying that it was all because of that wretched Feng that you had to pay out so much money and think of some trick for getting it back from me three or four times over.
I know.
Dont tell me Im imagining this.
This made everyone laugh.
All right, said Grandmother Jia, laughing herself.
Then what do you propose?
Well now, it isnt even my birthday yet, but already Im feeling uncomfortable because so much is being done for me, said Xi-feng.
It seems unluckyso many people being put to so much expense on my account while I dont pay a penny myself.
Pd feel a lot easier if youd let me pay this contribution for Li Wan then, when the day comes, I shall be able to eat and drink as much as I like without any fear of spoiling my luck.
Grandmother Jia hesitated, but consented when Lady Xing and Lady Wang both insisted that this was the best solution.
Ive got another suggestion to make, said xi-feng.
Your own contribution Is twenty taels, Grandma, and on top of that youre going to be paying contributions for Bao-chai and Cousin Lin.
Its true that Aunt Xue will be paying Cousin Chais contribution on top of her twenty taels, but that doesnt seem quite so unfair.
What does seem unfair to me is that Mother and Aunt Wang should be paying only sixteen taels each for themselves, yet paying no extras at all for any of the young people.
I think youre getting the worst of this arrangement, Grannie.
See what a good girl my Feng is to me!
said Grandmother Jia delightedly.
Youre quite right, my dear.
If you hadnt mentioned it, I should have let them get away with itas usual!
All you need do, Grannie, is to make the two young people their responsibility.
Let each pay for one of them.
Thats fair, said Grandmother Jia.
Yes, thats what Ill do.
Lai Das old mother rose up from her stool in mock indignation.
But this is rank mutiny!
It makes me feel really angry on Their Ladyships behalf.
What, side with Her Old Ladyship against your husbands mother and your own fathers sister?
Thats a arrant breach of the laws o consanguinity!
This sally was greeted with a burst of laughter from Grandmother Jia and all the others present.
Old Mrs Lai remained standing until it had subsided and then made her own offer.
If Mrs Zhu and Mrs Lian are each contributing twelve taels, I suppose wed better go a step lower?
Oh no, that wont do at all!
said Grandmother Jia.
You may be a step below them in rank, but youre all wealthy women.
I know youve got lots more money than they have.
You cant give more, of course, but at least you should give as much.
The old women, led by Mrs Lai, willingly agreed.
The girls contribution will be only for forms sake, anyway, said Grandmother Jia in reference to the row of figures sitting silently behind her on the kang.
I should think about the equivalent of a months allowance would be the right amount?
She turned to Faithful.
Come on, now I Were not leaving you out!
Go and get some of the other girls together and decide how much you are going to give.
Faithful slipped out and presently returned with Patience, Aroma, Suncloud and one or two other of the senior maids.
Some said they would give one tael, others two.
Grandmother Jia noticed that Patience was one of them.
Surely youll be doing something for your mistress at home?
she said.
You dont need to contribute to this fund as well.
Yes, maam, I shall be doing something at home, said Patience, but thats private.
This is a public thing, so I shall contribute to this along with the rest.
Grandmother Jia smiled at her graciously and commended her public spirit.
Well, said Xi-feng genially, now just about everyone seems to have been roped in except Aunt Zhou and Aunt Zhao.
Wouldnt it be a politeness to ask them if they would like to contribute as well?
They might take it as a slight if we left them out.
Of course, said Grandmother Jia.
Whatever made me forget about them?
They probably wont be free to come over, though.
One of the maids had better go and ask them.
One of the maids had gone off on this mission almost before she had finished speaking.
She returned, after a long interval, to say that the concubines would contribute two taels each.
Good!
said Grandmother Jia.
Now take a brush and ink, someone, and calculate how much we shall have altogether.
In the interval thus created, You-shi addressed xi-feng in a scornful whisper.
What a mean, grasping young woman you are!
Your aunt and your mother-in-law and all these other people forking out for your birthday, yet you still have to go squeezing more out of two poor, dried-up old gourds like Zhou and Zhao!
Xi-feng laughed silently.
Dont talk nonsense!
she whispered back.
Ill settle accounts with you presently, when we get out of here.
Anyway, what do you mean, poor?
Whenever theyve t any money they only pass it straight on to other people.
We might just as well intercept it before it gets into the hands of their creditors and get a bit of pleasure out of it!
By the time this whispered exchange was over, the calculations had been completed and it was announced that the amounts promised totalled a round sum of one hundred and fifty taels with a few taels left over.
Thats more than we could possibly spend on plays and wine in one day, said Grandmother Jia.
As were not inviting anyone from outside, said You-shi, it wont be a very big party, either.
There should be enough for two or three days.
The big saving, of course, is that now youve got your own troupe of players, you can have first-class entertainment for nothing.
Feng shall have whatever troupe she prefers, said Grandmother Jia.
Thats for her to decide.
Weve heard our own troupe so often, said Xi-feng.
I think we should spend a bit of money and get in a troupe from outside.
Well, I propose to leave all the arrangements for this in the hands of Cousin Zhens wife, said Grandmother Jia, then Feng will have nothing at all to worry about - except how to get the greatest possible enjoyment out of her birthday!
You-shi agreed to be organizer, after which she and the others stayed charting for a few minutes with Grandmother Jia.
Then, realizing that the old ladys stock of energy was exhausted, they gradually dispersed.
After the three younger women had seen Lady Xing and Lady Wang a part of their way home, You-shi accompanied xi-feng to the latters apartment to discuss with her what arrangements she should make for the party.
Dont ask me, said Xi-feng when You-shi questioned her.
You want to study Grandmother and just do whatever seems to please her.
You really are the limit, you know, said You-shi.
Fortunes darling!
I thought just now that I was being called over about something serious, but it turned out to be just for this!
And then, if you please, quite apart from being asked to pay out money, I am to have all the worry of arranging everything for you as well.
What are you going to do in return for all this, to show me your gratitude?
What am I going to do in return?
said Xi-feng.
You must be joking.
I didnt call you over.
If youre afraid of the trouble, youd better go back to Grandmother and tell her to give the job to somebody else.
Just look at her I said You-shi.
Really full of yourself today, arent you?
I should hold it in a bit, if I were you, my dear, or it might start running overt The two of them conversed for some minutes longer before finally separating.
When the first contributions arrived at Ning-guo House next morning, You-shi had only just got up and was about to begin her toilet.
She asked who had brought the money, and on being informed that it was Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, sent the maid back to fetch her in from the servants quarters, where she was waiting.
When she arrived, You-shi asked for a stool to be brought so that the old woman could sit and talk to her while she continued with her toilet.
How many of the contributions have you got in this packet?
You-shi asked her.
These are the ones from us servants, said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife.
As they were al ready, I thought I might as well bring them over straight away.
The contributions from Her Old Ladyship and the other ladies are still to come.
Just then one of the maids came in to announce another arrival The subscriptions from Mrs Xue and Lady .Xing have arrived, maam.
Subscriptions!
said You-shi scornfully.
How eagerly you fasten on the ridiculous word!
It was only a passing fancy of Her Old Ladyships yesterday that we should imitate what they do in poorer households.
She used the word then as a joke but now, I suppose, we shall have every witless maid solemnly talking about subscriptions all the time!
Well, go and get the money and bring it in then.
And see that whoever it is has some tea before they go.
The girl went out and returned with the two packets of money that the messenger had brought, one from Aunt Xue, including a contribution for Bao-chai, and one, including Dai-yus contribution, from Lady Xing.
Who does that leave now?
said You-shi.
That leaves Her Old Ladyship, Her Ladyship, the young ladies and the maids, said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife.
What about Mrs Zhus?
said You-shi.
Mrs Lian will be paying Out the money for all the others, said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife, so youll be able to get Mrs Zhus from her too when you see her about the rest.
You-shi, having completed her toilet, now called for her carriage.
As soon as it was ready, she drove round to the Rong-guo mansion and went straight in to see Xi-feng.
She found her with the money already packeted and on the point of bringing it round to her.
Is it all here?
You-shi asked her.
All there, said Xi-feng gaily.
Hurry up and take it away.
I dont want to he responsible for it if it gets lost.
I dont think I altogether trust you, said You-shi, returning her smile.
I think Id like to check it first in your presence.
She opened up the packet and counted the money contained in it.
The contribution for Li Wan appeared to be missing.
I thought you were up to something, she said.
Why isnt the money for Wan here?
Xi-feng smiled disarmingly.
Isnt what youve already got there enough?
Surely her little bit isnt going to make all that much difference?
Why not wait and see what you need?
If you find you havent got enough, Ill give the money for Wan to you later.
Im not letting you get away with this, said You-shi, playing the Lady Bountiful yesterday in front of all those others and then going back on it now, when the two of us are alone together.
I shall have to go and ask Lady Jia for the money.
Youre a hard woman!
said Xi-feng.
One of these days when I have you at a disadvantage, you mustnt complain if you find me just as much of a stickler.
Threats?
said You-shi.
I think you are the one who should feel afraid.
Do you think if it werent for the things you have done for me in the past I would let you off now?
Here, Patience!She took Patiences contribution from the pile and held it out to her Take this back.
If later on I find that I need it, Ill make it good with my own money.
Patience immediately understood what she was getting at and answered in the same vein.
No, Mrs Zhen, you keep it.
If you find you have any left over, you can give it back to me afterwards.
Take it, said You-shi.
Is your mistress the only one whos allowed to break the rules?
Maynt I do favours too, if I want to?
Patience was obliged to take the money from her.
Seeing your mistress so tight-fisted, said You-shi, I often wonder what shes going to do with all this money she saves.
Take it with her in her coffin?
With that parting shot she went off to see Grandmother Jia.
After greeting the old lady and exchanging a few generalities, she went into Faithfuls room for a more serious discussion of arrangements for the birthday party.
The discussion consisted quite simply in finding out what would give Grandmother Jia most pleasure and deciding that that was what they should do.
When all had been settled between them and You-shi was rising to go, she took out the two taels that Faithful had contributed and handed them back to her.
Here you are.
We shant be needing this.
From Grandmother Jias apartment she went over to have a few words with Lady Wang.
When Lady Wang presently left her to go into her Buddhist chapel, You-shi took advantage of her absence to return Sunclouds contribution then, since xi-feng was safely out of the way, she offered Aunt Zhou and Aunt Zhao their contributions as well.
But the concubines were too scared to take them.
Go on I said You-shi encouragingly.
I know how hard-up you are.
You cant afford to give away money like this.
If Feng finds Out, I shall take full responsibility myself.
They took the money then, voluble in their gratitude.
In a twinkling the second of the ninth was upon them.
The denizens of the Garden had been informed that You-shi was planning an impressive variety of entertainment not only the customary plays, but also juggling, acrobatics, story-telling by blind ballad-singersin short, everything one could possibly think of that might contribute to the success of the occasion and the pleasure of the participants.
Li Wan reminded the cousins that the second of the month was also one of the regular meeting-days of the poetry club.
Xi-chun was, of course, excused.
But why hasnt Bao-yu turned up?
she asked.
I suppose hes so intent on enjoying the film that he has forgotten his former enthusiasm for these more civilized amusements!Go and see what hes doing, she said to one of the maids, and tell him to come here immediately.
The maid was a long time gone.
Miss Aroma says he went out first thing this morning, she reported when she eventually returned.
The others were incredulous.
Thats ridiculous.
How could he possibly have gone out?
The girl must have got the message wrong.
They sent Ebony over to ask again but Ebony only confirmed what the first maid had said.
Yes, lie really has gone out.
It seems that one of his friends has died and hes had to go out to condole.
Thats absolutely absurd, said Tan-chun.
Whatever the reason, he cant possibly have gone out today.
Fetch Aroma here and Ill speak to her myself.
As if anticipating a summons, Aroma herself walked in while she was saying this.
Li Wan tackled her at once.
Theres absolutely no justification for his going out today, whatever the reason, she said.
In the first place its Mrs Lians birthday and Her Old Ladyship was particularly anxious that we should all join in celebrating it this year its monstrous that he should go off on his own like this when everyone else from both houses is here for the celebration.
And in the second place this is the first regular meeting of our poetry club and he hasnt even asked leave to stay away.
Aroma sighed miserably.
Last night he told me that he had some important business to attend to first thing this morning.
He said he had to go to the Prince of Beijings palace, but that he would be back again as soon as possible.
I told him not to go, but he insisted.
When he got up first thing this morning, he asked for a suit of mourning to wear.
It looks as if some important person in the Prince of Beijings household must have died.
If thats really so, said Li Wan, then he ought to have gone.
But then, on the other hand, he ought to have got back by now.
After a brief discussion the cousins decided to proceed without him and to punish him in some way when he returned.
Before they could begin, however, a summons arrived from Grandmother Jia to join her in the mansion.
As soon as they had done so, Aroma reported Bao-yus absence.
The old lady was displeased and sent someone to fetch him back.
Bao-yu, evidently with some secret business on his mind, had spoken the day before to Tealeaf about this excursion, I have to go out first thing tomorrow, he told him.
I want you to be waiting for me outside the back gate with two horses ready saddled.
No one else is to accompany me but you.
Tell Li Gui that I am going to the Prince of Beijings, and that he must stop anyone going out to look for me.
He can tell them that the Prince is detaining me and that I shall come back as soon as I can get away.
Though somewhat mystified by these orders, Tealeaf felt he had no choice but to follow them out, and before dawn next morning was waiting with two horses ready saddled outside the tear gate of the Garden.
As soon as it was light, Bao-yu, dressed in heavy mourning, emerged from the postern, leaped onto one of the waiting horses, and crouching down over the reins, set off at a brisk trot down the streetall without uttering a single word.
Tealeaf leaped onto the second horse, gave it the whip, and did his best to catch up with Bao-yu, at the same time shouting after him to inquire where they were going.
Where does this road lead to?
Bao-yu asked him.
This is the main road to the North Gate, said Tealeaf.
Outside the city its pretty deserted in that direction.
You wont find much to amuse you there.
Good, said Bao-yu.
The more deserted the better.
And by applying the whip he made his horse shoot on ahead, and presently, after a couple of turns, had left the city gate behind him.
Tealeaf, more mystified than ever, followed him as closely as he could.
When they had galloped without stopping for two or three miles, in the course of which the signs of human habitation had gradually grown more and more sparse, Bao-yu finally reined to a halt and turned back to ask Tealeaf if there was anywhere where they could purchase some incense.
I dare say we could find somewhere, said Tealeaf without much conviction.
It depends what kind of incense you want.
Bao-yu reflected for some moments.
Honeybush, sandal and lakawood, he said.
It has to be those three.
I doubt if youll be able to get them, said Tealeaf, smiling at the navet of one who could expect to make such purchases in such a place.
But when he saw that Bao-yu was genuinely distressed, he added Whats it for?
Ive noticed that you often carry powdered incense in that sachet you wear.
Why not see if youve got any in that?
Bao-yu, glad to be reminded, extracted the silk purse that he wore suspended from his neck underneath the front fold of his gown, felt inside it with his fingers, and was delighted to find that there was still a pinch or two of powdered agalloch in the bottom.
Seems a bit lacking in respect to use this though, he thought.
Still, its more respectful to use something Ive carried all the way here myself than it would be to use something Id just bought in a shop.
Having decided that the powdered incense would do, he asked Tealeaf where he could get hold of an incense-burner and some fire.
Now those we cant get, said Tealeaf.
Where could we, Out here in the middle of the wilds?
If you knew you were going to need them, why didnt you tell me beforehand, and we could have brought them with us?
Stupid idiot I said Bao-yu.
Do you honestly think we could have ridden out at this break-neck pace if wed been carrying an incense-burner full of hot coals with us?
Tealeaf, after some moments of reflection, smiled uncertainly I know what we could do, Master, though I dont know what youll think of the idea.
Theres little enough hope of our getting the things youve just asked for round here, and the chances are that even if we could, youd only start thinking of something else you needed that was even harder to get.
Now if we were to go on for about another two thirds of a mile in this direction, we should come to the Temple of the Water Spirit Bao-yu pricked up his ears.
The Temple of the Water Spirit?
Is that near here?
Good.
That will do even better.
Lets go there then.
With a touch of the whip he was away once more, still talking to Tealeaf over his shoulder as he rode ahead.
The nun at the Water Spirit is one of our regular callers.
If I see her when we get there and tell her we want to use one of her burners, shes sure to let us.
Even if this wasnt one of the temples we subscribe to, said Tealeaf, Im sure they wouldnt dare refuse if you asked them.
But why is it that today you are so willing to go to the Temple of the Water Spirit when normally you can scarcely abide to hear it mentioned?
The reason I normally feel that way about it, said Bao-yu, is because I hate the silly, senseless way in which vulgar people offer worship and build temples to gods they know nothing about.
Ignorant old men and women with too much money to spend hear the name of some god or othertheyve no idea who it is, but the mere fact that theyve heard it from the lips of some ballad-singer or story-teller seems to them incontrovertible proof of the gods existenceand go founding temples in which these fictitious deities can he worshipped.
Take this Temple of the Water Spirit.
The reason its called that is because the divinity worshipped in it is supposed to be the goddess of the river Luo.
Now in point of fact no Goddess -1344 of the Luo ever existed.
She was an invention of the poet Cao Zhi.
But that didnt stop a lot of people making an image of her and worshipping it.
The only reason I feel differently about this temple today is because the idea of a water-goddess just happens to fit in with the thing that is at the moment uppermost in my mind so Im glad to make use of it for my own purpose.
By this time they had reached the gate of the temple.
The old nun who kept it, hardly less surprised to hear of Bao-yus arrival than she would have been if she had been told that a dragon had just fallen, alive and kicking, out of the sky, hurried out to greet him, and ordered the old temple-servant who did duty as a porter to take care of the horses.
Bao-yu went on inside.
Instead of bowing down before the image, however, he stood and contemplated it appraisingly.
Though the goddess was only a thing of wood and plaster and paint, the sculptor who made her had succeeded in capturing some of the spirit of Cao Zhis famous description.
To Bao-yus gazing eyes she did indeed appear as the poet portrayed her -640 Fluttering like the wing-beats of a startled swan, Swaying with the lissome curves of a water-dragon... Cao Zhis beautiful images came crowding into his mind -640 Like a lotus flower emerging from the green water, Like the morning sun rising above the mist-bank... And as he gazed and remembered, the tears coursed down his cheeks.
The old nun now appeared with some tea.
While he sipped it, Bao-yu took the opportunity of asking her if he might borrow an incense-burner.
At this she disappeared once more, to reappear, after considerable delay, carrying not only a burner but also a whole portion of incense and a set of garishly printed picture-offerings.
Refusing all but the burner, Bao-yu made Tealeaf carry it outside into the rear courtyard of the temple, where he set about choosing a suitably dean spot on which to make his offering.
Nowhere would do, however, until Tealeaf suggested placing the burner on the stone platform of the well.
To this suggestion Bao-yu assented with a nod, and when Tealeaf had set down the burner and retired to a respectful distance, he took out his pinch of agalloch and dropped it on the burning charcoal then, with tears in his eyes, he knelt down and made, not a kotow, but the sort of half-obeisance one makes to the spirit of a junior or a servant.
Having concluded his little ceremony, Bao-yu got up and ordered Tealeaf to take the burner back into the temple.
But Tealeaf, though saying that he would, did nothing of the kind.
Instead he threw himself on his knees, kotowed several times, and began praying aloud in the direction of the well O spirit, in all the years I have served Master Bao this is the first time he has ever kept anything from me.
But though I dont know who you are, O spirit, and dont like to ask, one thing I do know, and that is that you are sure to be some wondrously beautiful, clever, refined young female.
And since Master Bao isnt able to tell you Out loud what he wants of you, I, Tealeaf, am praying to you on his behalf.
I beseech you, if you still have feelings as you used to when you were on earth, watch over my master from time to time, O spirit.
I know you belong to a different world now, but being as its for a special friend of yours that Im asking this, please do it if you can, spirit, for old times sake.
And please use what influence you can to see that Master Bao is reborn in his next life as a girl, so that he can spend all his time with you and dont let him be reborn as one of those horrible Whiskered Males he is always on about.
At this point he knocked his head several more times on the ground.
Bao-yu, who had been listening, could no longer hold back his laughter.
Observing that Tealeaf had raised himself once more on all fours and appeared to be about to go on, he kicked him and told him to get up.
Stop this nonsense!
If anyone hears you, I shall become a laughing-stock.
Tealeaf scrambled to his feet, picked up the burner and followed Bao-yu inside.
Ive already spoken to the nun about getting you some food, he told Bao-yu as they were going in together.
I told her you hadnt eaten yet.
You ought to get something inside you.
I realize that you came out here because theres a big party and lots of racket at home today and you wanted somewhere peaceful where you could do this.
But I think just staying out here in the quiet all day is showing all the respect you need to this person youve just made the offering to.
You dont need to fast all day as well.
Thats out of the question.
That seems reasonable, said Bao-yu.
As Im missing the patty all the time that Im here, I am in a way abstaining already so I suppose there can be no harm in my taking a bit of vegetarian stuff.
Im glad to hear you say so, said Tealeaf.
Of course, there is another way of looking at it.
Your going off like this is sure to cause others at home to worry.
Now if no one at home was likely to worry, thered be no harm in our not going back until evening.
But since they are going to worry, I really think you ought to be getting back soon.
For one thing it will set Their Ladyships minds at rest, and for another, it will, in the long run, be more respectful to this person youve just made the offering to.
Because if you go home, even if you drink and watch plays, it wont be because you want to, but out of duty to Their Ladyships.
Whereas if you stay out here thinking only about the spirit and not caring how worried you make Their Ladyships, youll in fact be making the spirit herself uneasy to think of all the anxiety thats being caused on her behalf.
Think it over, Master Bao, and see if you dont agree with me.
I can see whats on your mind without much difficulty, said Bao-yu, laughing.
Youre afraid that as you are the only one who came out here with me, you will bear all the blame for this outing when we get back.
Thats the real reason why Im being treated to all this high-minded advice, isnt it?
Well, dont worry!
It was all along my intention to go back to the party when I had made the offering.
I never said anything about staying out here all day.
Ive discharged my vow.
If I hurry home now so that the others arent too worried, it seems to me that my obligations to the dead and the living swill both be met.
Tealeaf expressed his relief.
Still talking, they made their way to the old nuns parlour, or hall of meditation, where they found she had set out a very presentable though, of course, vegetarian repast for them.
After briefly sampling it, the two of them mounted and set off again along the road by which they had come Bao-yu at such a pace that Tealeaf was obliged to call out after him to slacken it.
Go easy on that horse, Master Bad!
He hasnt been ridden very much you need to keep a pretty tight rein on him.
Soon they had entered the city gate, and not long after-wards might have been seen slipping into the back gate of the Garden.
Bao-yu hurried straight to Green Delights, which he found deserted except for a few old nannies left behind as care-takers.
Holy name!
they said, their old faces lighting up with pleasure when they saw who it was.
Youve come at last!
Youve had Miss Aroma nigh out of her mind with worry.
Theyre sitting at table in the front now, Master.
Better hurry up and join them.
Bao-yu quickly took off his mourning clothes and went off to look for something more colourful to change into.
Where is the party?
he asked the old women as soon as he had dressed.
In the new reception room.
He hurried, by the shortest route, towards the faint sounds of fluting and singing that could soon be heard coming from the so-called new reception hall that the old women had referred to.
As he approached the gallery through which he must pass to reach it, he came upon Silver, sitting under the eaves of the covered way and crying.
She left off hurriedly when she saw him coming.
Here comes the phoenix at last!
she said sarcastically.
Hurry up and go inside.
If you stay away much longer, therell be a riot!
Bao-yu smiled at her sympathetically.
Guess where Ive been.
She ignored his question and turned away from him to wipe her eyes.
He hurried on, dejected because of his inability to comfort her.
When he entered the hall were the others were assembled and went up to greet his grandmother and his mother, it really was as if a phoenix had appeared.
Hurriedly he made his birthday kotow to Xi-feng.
What do you mean by going off on your own like that?
Grandmother Jia grumbled.
I never heard of such a thing.
If this happens again, I shall tell your father when he comes back and get him to give you another beating.
Bao-yus pages came in next for her censure.
Why do they listen to him - rushing off like that whenever he tells them to?
They should tell us first.
Where have you been, anyway?
she asked him.
Have you had anything to eat?
Has anything happened to give you a fright?
The Prince of Beijings favourite concubine died yesterday, said Bao-yu.
I went to condole with him.
He was in such a state when I got there that I didnt like to leave immediately.
Thats why Ive been so long.
If you sneak out again without first telling us, said Grandmother Jia, I really shall tell your Pa to beat you.
Though Bao-yu promised to obey, she still wanted to have his pages whipped but the others all begged for a reprieve Dont take it to heart, Grandmother!
Hes already said he wont do it again.
And anyway, hes back now, so we can forget our worries and concentrate on enjoying ourselves Grandmother Jia had in fact been extremely worried and her anxiety had made her vengeful.
Now that Bao-yu was back and she was no longer worried, her vengeful feelings evaporated and the subject of beatings was quickly dropped.
Her concern now was lest Bao-yu should have been unduly distressed by his visit, or have failed to eat enough while he was away, or have been involved in some accident on the way there or back.
While she continued to fuss over him, Aroma took her place at his side to wait upon him, and the rest of the company resumed the play-watching which his arrival had interrupted.
The play being performed on this occasion was The Wooden Hairpin.
Grandmother Jia and the other ladies found it greatly affecting, shedding copious teats in the course of it and sighing or cursing in the appropriate places.
The events that ensued will be told in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 44 Xi-fengs jealousy is the object of an unexpected provocation And Patiences toilet is a source of unexpected delight BAO-YU having now taken his place amongst the girls, they and the rest of the company were once more able to give their undivided attention to the players.
The play being performed on this occasion was, as we noted at the end of the previous chapter, The Wooden Hairpin, and it chanced that they had reached that section of it popularly referred to as The Husbands Offering, in which the hero Wang Shi-peng, believing that his wife has drowned herself, goes with his aged mother to the river Ou-jiang to make offerings to her soul.
At this point Dai-yu, who was able to guess what the real purpose of Bao-yus early-morning excursion had been, turned to Bao-chai and remarked, in a voice loud enough for Bao-yu to overhear, that she thought Wang Shi-peng a very silly sort of fellow He could have made his offering anywhere.
Why was it necessary for him to go rushing off to the riverside to make it?
They say that objects aid recall well, since all the water in the world comes ultimately from a single source, a bowlful of it scooped up anywhere should have sufficed.
His feelings could have been just as effectively relieved by weeping over a bowlful of water as by rushing off to the banks of the river.
Bao-chai made no reply.
Bao-yu, who had certainly heard her, turned away and called for hot wine to drink Xi-fengs health with.
Grandmother Jia was determined that this should be a day like no other and that Xi-feng should derive the greatest possible enjoyment from it.
Not feeling sufficiently energetic to sit with the rest, however, she had retired to the inner room with Aunt Xue, reclining on a couch there in a position from which it was still possible to watch the players.
A small selection from the dishes which had covered the two tables laid for her outside had been set down within easy reach where she could pick at them while conversing with Aunt Xue.
The remainder she had made over to the maids and older women on duty who had not been catered for, bidding them take their banquet outside on to the verandah where they could sit down and enjoy themselves without restraint.
Lady Wang and Lady Xing also sat in this inner room, not on the kang, where Grandmother Jias couch had been placed, but at a high-topped table on the floor below.
The young people sat at a number of tables in the outer room.
From time to time Grandmother Jia would give orders to You-shi to make sure that Xi-feng was enjoying herself.
Make her sit at the head.
Why isnt she sitting at the head?
Its up to you to act as hostess on my behalf, she told You-shi.
The poor child is run off her feet all the rest of the year.
Today I want her to be made a fuss of.
You-shi went off to do her bidding, but shortly afterwards returned, a smile on her face, to announce that Xi-feng was being difficult.
She says shes not used to sitting at the head.
She says it makes her uncomfortable.
And she refuses to drink anything.
If you cant make her, I shall have to come out and deal with her myself, said Grandmother Jia, laughing.
This brought Xi-feng herself running up.
She spoke to Grandmother Jia from behind You-shis shoulder.
Dont believe her, Grannie.
Ive had lots and lots to drink.
Now look here, said Grandmother Jia to You-shi, I want you to march this young woman back to her seat and force her to sit down in it.
Then I want every one of you here to drink with her in turn.
If she still refuses, I really and truly shall come out and deal with her myself.
You-shi hauled Xi-feng out again, cal1ed for larger cups to be brought, and poured her out some wine.
There you are, my darling!
In token of my appreciation of the noble way in which you have served Lady Jia and Lady Wang and me during the past year, please accept this cup of wine that I have poured out for you with my own fair hand!
If you are really serious about wanting to show me your appreciation, said Xi-feng, you ought to offer it to me kneeling down.
Just listen to that!
said You-shi.
Ill tell you something, my girl you just dont realize how lucky you are.
For all you know, things may never be as good as this for you again.
If I were you, Id have a good booze-up while you can.
Come on, two cups!
You-shi was so insistent that in the end Xi-feng had to drink two whole cupfuls from the larger cups.
After that the cousins came up one by one to drink with her, which meant that she had to take at least a sip or two with each of them.
Then old Mrs Lai, observing with what high spirits Grand-mother Jia was watching these antics, determined to join in the fun too, and came over, with the other old nannies, to drink Xi-fengs health along with all the rest.
Because of the seniority of this group, it would have been difficult for Xi-eng to refuse them, so with each of them too she had to take a couple of sips.
But when Faithful and the maids came trooping up, it was more than flesh and blood could bear and she begged to be excused.
Really, my dears, I couldnt.
Let me put it off until tomorrow.
Faithful pretended to take umbrage.
I call that most insulting!
Even Her Ladyship treats me with more consideration.
I used to think that I counted for something round here, but now, after being put in my place in front of all these others, I can see that I did wrong to come.
Well, if you wont drink, Im going!
She turned away and began marching out, but Xi-feng ran after and detained her.
No, please!
Ill drink, She fetched the wine herself, filled a cup to the brim with it and drank it down to the last drop, up-ending it afterwards to show that it was dry.
At that Faithful laughed and went away content.
As soon as she had resumed her seat, Xi-feng knew that she had drunk too much.
Her heart was pounding in her throat and she felt an overwhelming desire to go back home and lie down.
But the leader of the jugglers was bearing down on her.
Give this man his money, she said, turning to You-shi, I have to go home to wash. You-shi nodded, and Xi-feng, choosing a moment when no one was looking, slipped outside and made her way along the outside of the hall under the shadow of the eaves.
Patience, who had seen her go and was concerned about her, hurried after and gave her some support.
As they approached the passage-way which led from Grandmother Jias rear courtyard to the gallery in the midst of the little enclosure surrounded by wails and buildings which had once been the scene of Jia Ruis night-long sufferings, they recognized one of the junior maids from their own apartment standing there, who, as soon as she caught sight of them, turned tail and ran, Xi-feng at once became suspicious and called out after her.
The little maid at first pretended not to hear, but when the shouting behind her continued, could no longer keep up the pretence and had to turn about and face them.
Xi-fengs suspicions were now thoroughly aroused.
Advancing into the gallery and calling the maid back into it, she first made Patience close the partitions, so that they were completely cut off from the outside, then, seating herself on the gallerys stone plinth and ordering the maid to kneel down in front of her, she told Patience in a fierce, loud voice to fetch two pages from the inner gate with a rope and whips to flog to a jelly this abominable creature who had so little regard for the presence of her mistress.
The wretched girl, already half-dead with fright, now wept for terror and knocked her head repeatedly on the ground, entreating Xi-feng for mercy.
Im not a ghost, said Xi-feng.
Youre supposed to stand still and wait when you see me coming.
What do you mean by running away from me like that?
I didnt see you at first, maam, said the little girl tearfully.
I was running because Id just remembered that there was no one at home to look after things.
If theres no one at home, you had no business to go out in the first place, said Xi-feng.
And even if you didnt see me, you must have heard me calling you.
Patience and I shouted to you at the tops of our voices ten or a dozen times, but you only ran the faster.
We werent all that far away from you, either, and you certainly arent deaf.
How dare you lie to me!
She raised her hand and dealt the girl a slap on the cheek that made her reel, quickly followed by a second slap on the other cheek.
An angry red patch swelled up instantly on either side of the girls face.
Dont, madam.
Youll hurt your hand, Patience pleaded.
Hit her for me, then, said Xi-feng, and ask her why she ran away.
If she still wont talk, tear her lips!
At first the maid tried sticking to her story, but when she heard that Xi-feng was going to heat an iron red-hot and burn her mouth with it, she broke down and tearfully confessed that Jia Lian was at home and had stationed her in the passage-way to look out for her mistress and give him warning of her coming hut as Xi-feng had left the party so much earlier than expected, she had been taken unawares.
This seemed to Xi-feng to have the ring of truth about it.
Why did he ask you to look out for me?
she asked.
Surely Im allowed to go back to my own room?
There must have been a reason.
Tell me.
If you do, from now on I shall love you and be your friend.
But if you dont, I shall take a knife and cut your flesh with it!
To reinforce her threat, she plucked a formidable hairpin from her hair and jabbed it violently in the neighbourhood of the girls mouth, causing her to dodge this way and that from it in terror.
Ill tell, madam, Ill tell.
Only please dont let him know that it was me that told you, she wept and implored.
Patience begged Xi-feng not to hurt the girl, at the same time urging the girl to make a clean breast of what she had to say.
The story then came out.
Mr Lian came in a while ago and had a bit of a nap.
When he woke up, he sent someone to see what you were doing.
They brought word back that your birthday party had only just started and you wouldnt be back for ages, so he opened the chest and took out two pieces of silver and two hairpins and two lengths of satin and told me to go and give them in secret to Bao Ers missus and tell her to come over.
So then she came over to our room and Mr Lian made me go and wait in the passage here and look out for you.
And thats really all I know.
Xi-feng was by now shaking all over with anger.
She pulled herself to her feet notwithstanding and strode off swiftly towards the house.
As she approached the gateway of the courtyard, another little maid popped her head out but quickly drew it in again and ran when she saw that it was Xi-feng.
When Xi-feng called to her by name, however, this maid, being more quick-witted than the other one, neither went on retreating nor stood still, but simply turned about and came running up to Xi-feng outside, an obsequious little smile upon her face.
Oh madam, I was just going over to tell you when I saw you coming here yourself.
Tell me what?
said Xi-feng.
The girl then proceeded to relate voluntarily what the other girl had just told under duress.
Xi-feng spat contemptuously.
Youve left it a bit late, havent youwaiting until you see me and then trying to act the innocent ?
She raised her hand and struck the girl a blow that sent her staggering, then, tiptoeing across the courtyard, applied her ear to the window to hear what was going on inside.
The first thing she heard was a laugh and a womans voice.
The best thing that could happen to you, it was saying, would be if that hell-cat wife of yours was to die.
Suppose she did, Jia Lians voice said in answer, and I married another one who turned out to be just as bad ?
If she was to die, said the first voice, you ought to make Patience your Number One.
Im sure shed be better than this one.
Patience wont let me come near her nowadays, said Jia Lian.
She has a lot to put up with, the same as me, that she doesnt dare talk about.
I dont know, I reckon I must have been born under a hen-pecked husbands star!
Xi-feng heard this shaking with fury.
The couples praise of Patience made her at once suspect that Patience had been complaining about her behind her back.
The fumes of wine mounted up inside her, clouding her judgement.
Without pausing to reflect, she turned and struck Patience twice before kicking open the door and striding into the room.
There, without more ado, she proceeded to seize hold of Bao Ers wife and belabour her, breaking off only to block the doorway with her body in case Jia Lian might think of escaping.
Filthy whore I she shouted.
Stealing a husband isnt enough for you, it seems.
You have to murder his wife as well!
She turned to Patience Go on, Patience, your place is over there with themwith that whoremaster of yours and his other whore!
Youre all three in this together.
You hate me just as much as they do under that smarmy outside of yours I This was followed by several blows.
Poor Patience, overwhelmed by so much injustice, had only Bao Ers wife on whom she could vent her feelings.
If you have to do these shameful things, she said, you might at least leave me out of it.
And she began to pummel the woman in her turn.
Now Jia Lian had had a good deal to drink that day, and because of the euphoric state he was in, had taken insufficient precautions against surprise.
Xi-fengs unexpected arrival had therefore left him completely at a loss.
But Patiences outburst was another matter.
The wine he had drunk rekindled his forgotten valour and whereas the anger and shame he felt at seeing Xi-feng beat Bao Ers wife had rendered him speechless, the sight of Patience doing the same thing so roused his valiancy that he shouted at her and gave her a kick.
Little whore!
You want to join in too, do you ?
Patience, whose gentle nature was easily overawed, at once left off, tearfully protesting that it was cruel of them to speak about her in such a way behind her back.
Xi-feng, furious that Patience should be afraid of Jia Lian, rushed over and began striking her again, insisting that she should go on beating Bao Ers wife and take no notice of him.
Finding herself thus attacked on both sides simultaneously by the pair of them, Patience became so desperate that she dashed from the room, vowing that she would find a knife and kill herself, and would undoubtedly have done herself an injury if the maids and nannies from outside had not seized her and gradually talked her out of it.
Xi-fengs reaction when Patience dashed off threatening suicide was to ram her head into Jia Lians chest and shout hysterically.
Youre all in league against me, and now youre trying to frighten me because I overheard you.
I dont care.
Kill me!
Strangle me!
Jia Lian, in a fury, snatched a sword down from the wall and drew it from its scabbard.
Theres no need for any of you to talk about suicide.
Im desperate too.
Ill kill the lot of you and swing for it.
Thatll make a clean end of the business!
Just as the rumpus was at its height, You-shi arrived with a crowd of others.
What on earth is happening?
A moment ago everyone was enjoying themselves, and now here you all are shouting at each other!
With the arrival of this audience Jia Lian pretended to be even drunker than he really was, striking a fiercely threatening attitude and behaving as if he was seriously intending to kill Xi-feng with his sword.
Xi-feng, on the other hand, dropped me shrewishness she had up to then been showing as soon as she saw them come and, breaking quickly away, ran weeping to Grandmother Jia.
The play had already ended when Xi-feng burst in upon the aged matriarch and flung herself trembling upon her bosom.
Save me, Grannie, save me!
Mr Lian is going to kill me!
What?
cried Grandmother Jia, Lady Xing and Lady Wang in startled simultaneity.
When I went home just now to change my clothes, Xi-feng tearfully related, I was surprised to hear Mr Lian indoors talking to somebody.
I was scared to go in straight away, thinking it must be a guest, so I listened for a while outside the window.
Then I found that it wasnt a guest that he was with but Bao Ers wife, and they were saying what a tyrant I was and planning to poison me so that he could marry Patience.
I became very angry then but I didnt want to make a scene with him.
I struck Patience a couple of times.
All I did to him was ask him why he should want to kill me, but he was so much put out by that that be tried to murder me on the spot.
Grandmother Jia, believing this farrago to be true, was naturally appalled.
How dreadful!
Bring the wretch here at once!
But before the words were out of her mouth, Jia Lian him-self came running in, sword in hand, with a crowd pursuing at his heels.
Grandmother Jia had always treated Jia Lian and Xi-feng with indulgence, and on this occasion Jia Lian seemed to think that he could presume on this to riot in her presence with impunity, totally disregarding the fact that his mother and aunt were there as well.
This deliberate flouting of their authority by a licensed favourite greatly incensed the two ladies.
They seized hold of him with angry scoldings, one on either side.
Disgusting creature !
Have you no sense of decency left whatever?
Cant you see that Grandmother is here?
Its because Grandmother spoils her so much that she has become the way she is, said Jia Lian, leering at them through bloodshot eyes.
Lady Xing, having at last succeeded in wresting the sw6rd from his grasp, shouted at him fiercely.
Get out of here at once!
But Jia Lian remained where he was and went on talking and talking in the same leering, disgusting manner, like a little boy who expects his naughtiness to be admired.
Grandmother Jia, in a voice which shook with anger, uttered the only threat that she knew would shift him.
I realize that we count for nothing with you.
Fetch his father, some one, and see if hell go then.
At that Jia Lian finally shambled out.
Sulkily avoiding the conjugal apartment, he took himself off to his study outside.
After he had gone, Lady Xing and Lady Wang turned on Xi-feng and began scolding her but Grandmother Jia did what she could to comfort her by dismissing the incident as unimportant.
Young men of his age are like hungry pussy-cats, my dear.
Theres simply no way of holding them.
This sort of thing has always happened in big families like ourscertainly ever since I can remember.
Its all my fault, anyway.
I shouldnt have made you drink so much wine.
Its all turned to vinegar inside you.
This made everyone laugh.
Dont worry, she went on.
Ill see that he apologizes to you tomorrow.
Just for tonight, though, so as not to put him too much out of countenance, I think you had better stay away from him.
Her voice became harsher when she remembered Patience.
Little wretch!
I always thought she seemed such a nice girl.
To think that underneath it all 8he should have been so wicked!
You-shi laughed.
Theres nothing wrong with Patience.
She just happened to be the person nearest at hand for Feng to work off her spleen on.
When Feng and Lian are angry with one another, they both take it out on Patience.
The poor girl is terribly unjustly treated.
Dont you go taking sides against her as well!
Oh well, thats all right said Grandmother Jia.
I must say, she never struck me as a wily seductress.
In that case, of course, Im sorry for the poor childbearing the brunt of it all when she is the innocent party.
She called Amber to her.
Amber, I want you to take a message to - Patience for me.
Tell herand I want you to make it quite clear that the message comes from me personallythat I know she has been unjustly treated and I shall make her mistress apologize to her tomorrow.
Only tell her not to make a fuss about it today, because it is her mistresss birthday.
-347 Patience was at this time in Prospect Garden, whither she had been carried off at the earliest opportunity by Li Wan and where, as soon as they were indoors, she had collapse in a sobbing heap, resisting all attempts at lifting her.
Bao-chai tried reasoning with her.
Come, Patience, you are an intelligent girl.
Think how well your mistress treats you normally.
Just because shes got a bit drunk today and taken it out on youwhy, it shows how close you are to each other!
You wouldnt want her to take it out on anyone else, would you?
Everyone else is laughing at her for being such a drunken silly.
If you alone insist ontaking it so tragically, it will begin to look as if your reputation for good sense was undeserved.
Just then Amber came in with the message from Grandmother Jia, and Patience, conscious of the aura of prestige it gave her, began gradually to perk up a bit.
She remained in the Garden, however, and made no attempt to return to her mistress.
After she had sat with Patience and rested for a while, Li Wan, together with Bao-chai and the rest of the girls, went back to see Grandmother Jia and Xi-feng, whereupon Bao-yu invited Patience over to Green Delights.
Aroma gave her an enthusiastic welcome.
Id like to have asked you here in the first place, but I saw that Mrs Zhu and the young ladies were taking care of you, so I didnt like to interfere.
Patiences face was smiling as she thanked her, but fell again almost immediately.
I cant understand it, I really cant.
Id done absolutely nothing to deserve such treatment.
Oh, it was a passing -fit of anger, said Aroma.
I dont suppose Mrs Lian knew what she was doing.
Look how well she treats you normally.
I wasnt thinking so much of Mrs Lian, said Patience.
Its what that hateful woman said.
Why should she want to amuse herself at my expense?
And then for that stupid master of mine to go and beat me!
Once more the sense of injustice overcame her and she could not restrain her tears.
Dont be upset, Patience!
said Bao-yu consolingly.
I offer you an apology on their behalf Patience laughed.
It has nothing to do with you.
Were all cousins, said Bao-yu.
What one of us does concerns all the others.
If they have done you an injury, its up to me to apologize.
He turned his attention to her appearance.
What a pity!
Youve made your new dress all damp.
Aromas dresses are in here.
Why dont you change into one of hers, then you can spray some samshoo on this one and iron it?
Youll need to do your hair again as well.
He called to the junior maids to fetch water for washing and heat a flat-iron.
Up to this moment Patience had known only by hearsay of the remarkable understanding shown by Bao-yu in his dealings with girls.
He had deliberately kept away from her in the past, knowing her to be Xi-fengs confidante and he supposed Jia Lians cherished concubine.
It had indeed been a source of frequent regret to him that he had been unable to show her how much he admired her.
Seeing him like this for the first time, Patience reflected on the truth of what she bad heard.
He really has thought of everything, she told herself, as she watched Aroma open up a large chestspecially for her and select two scarcely worn garments from it for her to change into.
Then, since the water had already arrived, she took off her own dress and skirt and quickly washed her face.
Bao-yu, who stood by smiling while she washed, now urged her to put on some make-up.
If you dont, it will look as if you are sulking, he said After all, it is Fengs birthday, and Grandma did specially send someone to cheer you up.
Inwardly acknowledging the reasonableness of this advice, Patience looked round her for some powder, but could not see any, whereupon Bao-yu darted over to the dressing-table and removed the lid from a box of Early Ming blue -and-white porcelain in which reposed the head of a white day my with five compact, stick like buds on either side of the stem.
Pinching off one of these novel powder-containers, he handed it to Patience.
There you are.
This isnt ceruse, its a powder made by crushing the seeds of garden-jalap and mixing them with perfume.
Patience emptied the contents of the tiny phial on to her palm.
All the qualities required by the most expert perfumers were there lightness, whiteness with just the faintest tinge of rosiness, and fragrance.
It spread smoothly and cleanly on the skin, imparting to it a soft bloom -that was quite unlike the harsh and somewhat livid whiteness associated with lead-based powders.
Then the rouge, too, was differentnot in the usual sheets or tissues, but a tiny white-jade box filled with a crimson substance that looked like comfiture of roses.
This is made from safflower, the same as ordinary rouge, Bao-yu explained to her, only the stuff they sell in the shops is impure and its colour is inferior.
This is made by squeezing the juice from the best quality safflower, carefully extracting all the impurities, mixing it with rose water, and then further purifying it by distillation.
Its so concentrated that you need only a dab of it on the end of a hairpin to do your lips with and still have enough left over to dilute with water in the palms of your hands for using on your cheeks.
Following his directions, .Patience found that her complexion had acquired a radiant freshness that she had never seen in it before.
At the same time her whole face seemed to be bathed in the most delectable perfume.
Using a pair of bamboo scissors, Bao-yu now cut the twin blossoms from the stem of an autumn-flowering orchid that was growing in a pot and stuck them in Patiences hair.
At that very moment a maid arrived summoning her back to Li Wans place and she had to leave him in a hurry.
Never before had Bao-yu been able to have Patience actually with him so that he could do things for her.
She was such a superior sort of girl, so handsome, so intelligent, so different from the average run of common, insensitive creatures.
His previous inability to serve her had been a source of deep regret.
Today wasor would have been if -she had livedGoldens birthday, and for this reason be had been feeling miserable since early morning.
The row which bad broken out later in the day between Xi-feng and Jia Lian had proved a godsend.
It had at last given him an opportunity of showing Patience something of what he felt for her.
This was an unlooked-for happiness he might otherwise have waited a lifetime for in vain.
He stretched himself out on his bed in a pleasurable glow of satisfaction.
These pleasant feelings were soon marred by the reflection that a coarse sensualist like Jia Lian who never considered anything but his own pleasure would certainly know nothing about the scientific preparation of cosmetics.
He thought of Patience serving that precious couple, alone in the world without parents or brothers and sisters to defend her, somehow contriving to steer an even course between Jia Lians boorishness on the one hand and Xi-fengs vindictiveness on the other, yet today, in spite of all her efforts, falling a victim to their cruelty.
Truly her lot was an unhappy one -mote unhappy even than Dai-yus!
At this point in his reflections he became so upset that he began to shed tears, not bothering on this occasion to restrain them, because Aroma was not there to disapprove.
Getting up from his bed, he went over to inspect Patiences dress The samshoo that had been sprayed on it was now neatly dry.
He picked up the iron, ironed the dress for her, and neatly folded it.
Then he noticed that she had left her handkerchief behind.
As it was still marked with tear-stains, he washed it out in the water she had used for her face and hung it up to dry.
Feeling a strange sensation in which sadness and happiness commingled, he mused for some minutes in silence before going over to Sweet-rice Village to join the others.
He remained there a long while talking.
The lamps had already been lit when he returned.
As Patience spent that night at Li Wans place and Xi-feng slept with Grandmother Jia, Jia Lian returned to his room in the evening to find it gloomy and deserted.
Not caring to call for anyone, however, he managed for himself as hest he could and spent the night there alone.
On waking next morning he felt nothing but revulsion and remorse when he remembered what had happened.
His mother, Lady Xing, still worrying about the drunken exhibition he had made of himself the day before, came hurrying over first thing to urge him to go with her to see Grandmother Jia.
This, despite the most acute feelings of shame and embarrassment, he now had to do.
Well?
the old lady asked him, when he knelt before her.
I had too much to drink yesterday, Grandmother, and Im afraid I broke in on you and made a scene.
Ive come here now to apologize.
Grandmother Jia snorted.
Disgusting wretch!
If you must go filling yourself with liquor, why cant you lie down quietly and sleep it off like a good, sensible creature?
Fancy knocking your own wife about!
Feng can normally hold her own against anyoneshes a regular little Tyrant King as a rulebut yesterday youd reduced the poor child to a state of terror.
Suppose I hadnt been here to protect her and you really had done her an injury, what would you have had to say for yourself then, I wonder?
Though smarting under the ludicrous injustice of what she had just said, Jia Lian knew that he was in no position to argue, and humbly acknowledged his guilt.
I should have thought that a couple of beauties like Feng and Patience would have been enough for you, she went on.
Why you should need to be forever sniffing after other skirts and bringing all this disgusting rag-tag and bob-tail back to your own room, I just do not understand.
Fancy beating your own wife and your chamber-wife for a creature like that!
And you a gentleman and member of a distinguished family!
You ought to be thoroughly ashamed of yourself.
if you have any consideration for my feelings at all, youll get up off the floor now because you are forgiven as far as I am concernedand youll apologize handsomely to that poor wife of yours and take her back home with you.
Otherwise you can just take yourself off, for I shant accept your kotow!
Jia Lian turned and looked at Xi-feng, standing at his grandmothers side.
She was wearing none of her finery today, her eyes were swollen with weeping, and her face, pinched and yellow without its make-up, was pathetic and somehow more appealing than usual.
I suppose Id better apologize, .he thought.
It will help to patch things up between us and it will please the old lady.
Having so resolved, he looked up at Grandmother Jia with a smile.
If thats what you want, Grandmother, I darent disobey you.
But its going to make her even more willful than before.
Nonsense I said Grandmother Jia, though not ill-humoredly.
I know for a fact that she is a model of wifely behaviour.
I am sure she would be quite incapable of deliberately giving offence.
If she does ever give you any trouble, I shall see to it myself that she submits to your authority.
Jia Lian got to his feet then, and clasping his hands in front of him, made a low bow to his wife.
It was all my fault, Mrs Lian.
Please forgive me.
This was said in so droll a manner that everyone burst out laughing.
Now youre not to be angry any more, Feng, said Grandmother Jia, or I shall be angry with you!
She ordered someone to fetch Patience, and told Jia Lian and Xi-feng that she would now expect them to make it up with her.
When Jia Lian saw Patience, he was even more ready to pocket his pride for her than he had been for Xi-feng.
Theres no wife like a chamber-wife as the saying goes, and before anyone else could say a word, he had bounded up to her and began apologizing.
You were very badly treated yesterday, Patience.
It was all my fault.
It was because of me that Mrs Lian was so beastly to you.
Apart from offering you my own apology, Id like to apologize on her behalf as well.
He clasped his hands again and bowed, once more provoking Grandmother Jia to laughter.
This time Xi-feng laughed, too.
Grandmother Jia told Xi-feng that it was now her turn but before she could do anything, Patience rushed up to her, threw herself at her feet and kotowed.
I made you angry on your birthday, madam.
I shall never forgive myself.
Xi-feng was already feeling remorseful that in her previous days drunkenness she had so far forgotten herself as to humiliate Patience, in spite of all they had always meant to each other, because of a mere chance-heard remark.
Seeing her now so generous and so lacking in resentment, she was both ashamed and deeply touched.
There were tears on her cheeks as she bent down and raised the girl to her feet.
In all the years Ive served you, said Patience, youve never laid so much as a finger on me before.
I bear you no grudge for striking me yesterday, madam.
It was all that wicked womans doing.
I dont blame you in the least for losing your temper.
She, too, was crying while she said this.
See the three of them back to their room now, said Grandmother Jia to her women.
And if you hear another word about this, let me know straight away who said it.
I dont care who it is, I shall take a stick to them myself!
The three of them now kotowed to Grandmother Jia, to Lady Xing and to Lady Wang then the old nannies, bidden once mote to escort them, stepped forward with cries of obedience and conducted them back to their room.
As soon as the three of them were alone together, Xi-feng started on Jia Lian.
Am I really such a hell-cat?
Are you really so terribly henpecked?
When that woman wished me dead, you agreed with her.
Surely I cant be all that bad?
Surely I must have some good days, even if its only one in a thousand?
Youve made it seem as if Im worse even than that worthless whore.
How can I have the face to go on living now?
She began to cry again.
Arent you satisfied yet?
said Jia Lian.
Just think a bit who was most to blame yesterday?
Yet today I was the one who had to kneel down in front of everyone and apologize.
Youve come out of this pretty well.
So what are you yammering at me now for?
Do you want me to kneel down again?
Here?
It doesnt do to be too greedy, you know.
Xi-feng, unable to think of a reply to this, fell silent.
Patience giggled.
There, its all over!
said Jia Lian, laughing himself.
Its no good.
I just cant help myself.
Just then a woman came to the door to report.
Bao Ers wife has hanged herself.
Jia Lian and Xi-feng were both profoundly shocked but the look of fear on Xi-fengs face was of only momentary duration.
Well, she said harshly, what of it?
Why make such a fuss about it?
Shortly after this Lin Zhi-xiaos wife came in and spoke to Xi-feng on the side.
Bao Ers -wife has hanged herself.
Her family are talking about taking it to court.
Xi-feng laughed scornfully.
Good!
I was thinking of doing the same thing myself.
Ive just been trying to talk them out of it, said Lin Zhi-xiaos wife.
I tried frightening them a bit to start with, then I promised them some money if they would drop it.
They seemed to be willing.
Ive got no money to give them, said Xi-feng, and I wouldnt give it to them if I had.
Let them go ahead and sue.
I dont want you to talk them out of it, or to try frightening them out of it either.
Just let them go ahead and sue.
If they lose their case, I shall bring a suit against them for ex morte blackmail!
As she stood there in some perplexity to know what to do, Lin Zhi-xiaos wife noticed that Jia Lian was signaling to her with his eyes.
She understood his meaning and went off to wait for him outside.
Jia Lian followed soon after.
Im just going out to have a looksee whats going on, he said on his way out.
Youre not to give them any money I Xi-feng shouted after him.
Jia Lian went straight off to discuss the matter with Lin Zhi-xiao himself.
As a result of their discussion, someone was sent to haggle -with the family and promise whatever seemed necessary, and the family eventually agreed to keep quiet in return for a payment of two hundred taels towards funeral expenses.
Terrified that they might change their minds, Jia Lian sent someone to talk to the local magistrate and invited the police inspector and two or three of the constables in to help with the funeral.
Seeing the way things were, the family now dared not pursue the matter any further even if they wanted to, and were obliged to digest in silence whatever they might feel of grief or anger.
Jia Lian told Lin Zhi-xiao to account for the two hundred taels by adding a bit here and a bit there on to various items in the Current Expenses account.
He also slipped Bao Er some money of his own and consoled him with a promise that he would pick a good wife for him at the earliest opportunity to replace the one he had just lost.
Flattered by all the attention he was receiving and grateful for the money, Bao Er was only too willing to do as he was told and continued to serve Jia Lian with no less devotion than before.
But that is no part of our story.
Whatever internal uneasiness Xi-feng may have felt about these developments, outwardly she affected complete indifference.
Finding herself alone with Patience when Jia Lian had gone, she smilingly inquired after her injuries.
I was terribly drunk yesterday, she said.
I hope you wont hold it against me, what I did then.
Where did I hit you?
Let me have a look.
You didnt hit me very hard, said Patience.
Just at that moment they were interrupted by an announcement from outside.
Mrs Zhu and the young ladies are here.
If you want to know what they had come for, you will have to read the following chapter.
CHAPTER.45 Sisterly understanding finds expression in words of sisterly frankness And autumnal pluviousness is celebrated in verses of autumnal melancholy As we were saying at the end of the last chapter, Xi-feng had just begun expressing her concern for Patience when Li Wan and the cousins walked in.
She broke off and invited them to be seated, and Patience went round and served them all with tea.
What a crowd!
said Xi-feng.
Anyone would think Id sent out an invitation for something I There are two things we wanted to see you about, said Tan-chun.
One is my affair the other concerns Xi-chun but also includes instructions from Grandmother.
They must be very important things for a turn-out like this, said Xi-feng.
We started a poetry club recently, said Tan-chun, and the very first time we had a regular meeting, somebody didnt turn up.
As the rest of us are too soft to apply the rules ourselves, we want to invite you, as someone we could trust to apply them for us with iron impartiality, to be our Disciplinary Officer.
Thats the first thing.
The second thing concerns this painting of the Garden that Xi-chun has been asked to do.
There are all sorts of things shell need for it that she hasnt got.
We spoke to Grandmother about it and she said that there might still be some things that would do in the downstairs store-room at the back.
She said we ought to have a look, and if there are, we can use them.
Otherwise, anything we havent got ourselves we should send outside for and buy.
I know nothing about poetry, said Xi-feng.
I couldnt compose a poem to save my life.
I could come along to eat and drink with you if you like.
You wouldnt have to compose poems, said Tan-chum Thats not what we want you for.
All you have to do is keep an eye on the rest of us, and if you find anyone slacking or playing truant, decide how they ought to be punished.
Dont try to fool me, said Xi-feng.
Ive already guessed.
Its not iron impartiality youre after, its financial backing.
If youve got a club, youre sure to have some arrangement for taking it in turns to pay the bill, and as youre short of money, youve thought of this as a means of roping me in so that you can get some out of me.
Thats the real reason for your invitation, isnt it?
The others laughed.
Too bad!
Youve guessed.
Youre like the original Crystal Man, Feng, said Li Wan.
A heart of crystal in a body of glass.
You can see through everything!
Fancy!
said Xi-feng, mockingly.
The respected elder sister-in-law!
The one whos put in charge of these young ladies to guide their studies and teach them needlework and good manners!
You encourage them to start a poetry dub, but as soon as the question of money arises and incidentally, how much money is involved?it cant surely be very much, youre not interested it has nothing to do with you!
Now, you have a monthly allowance of ten taels.
Excluding Grandmother and Aunt Wang - and they are, after all, ladies of rank and titlethats twice as much as any of the rest of us gets.
Yet Grandma and Auntie go on about how poor you are poor young widow I no means of her own!, Oh yes, and be-cause youve got a son, you get another ten taels a month on top of that, which actually makes you equal with Grandma and Auntie Wang.
And youve got your land in the Garden, the best plot there.
Its down in the tithe-book for the highest tithing.
And you havent got a big establishment.
I doubt there are ten of you there altogether, counting you and Lan and all the servants, so your outgoings cant come to very much.
And in any case your food and clothing is all found out of common funds.
If one were to add it all up together, I think your real income must be somewhere in the region of four or five hundred taels a year.
Even if you were to spend one or two hundred a year out of that on amusements for the girls like this poetry thing, it wouldnt be for many years.
Another year or two from now and theyll all be getting married.
And its not as if you were saving up for their dowries, either.
Thats hardly likely to be your responsibility.
No, youre frightened of spending that money of yours, thats why youve set these girls on to me.
Im supposed to go along like an innocent and eat and drink myself silly so that next day I can be made to foot the bill.
Thats your little game, isnt it?
Listen to her, all of you!
said Li Wan, laughing.
I make a single, inoffensive remark to her, and in return I get this cart-load of ill-bred abuse!
Really, Feng, what a mercenary creature you are!
Youre just like one of those muddy-legged wretches who stand haggling in the market-place with a little abacus up one sleeve to do their calculations on.
Its a good job you were born a girl and brought up in an educated, upper-class family and that you married into a family of the same sort.
If youd been born a boy and your family had been poor and uneducated people, I dread to think what sort of a calculating monster you would have grown up into!
Everyone in the world has to become the object of your calculations.
Yesterday it was Patiences turn.
Its a wonder you have arms to strike her with, for Im sure it was a dogs stomach you poured all that wine into.
None but a dog would have turned on Patience the way you did.
I tell you, I was so angry, I felt like coming straight over and giving you a piece of my mind.
Then I thought it over for a bit and decided not to.
After all, it was your birthday, and as we know, every dog must have his day.
Also I was afraid that if I made a fuss I might upset Grandmother.
And because I didnt have it out with you yesterday, I was still feeling angry about it when I came here to see you just now.
Yet you have the gall to start on me you who arent worthy to pick up Patiences shoes!
You ought to change places, you two.
Im sure Patience would make the better mistress.
It made the girls laugh to hear Li Wan speaking with such unaccustomed heat.
Oh, now I understand!
said Xi-feng, joining in their laughter.
It wasnt about poetry or painting that you came to see me it was revenge for Patience you were after.
I didnt realize that she had so powerful a protector.
Now that I do, I shall never dare to strike her againnot if all the devils in hell are tugging at my elbow!
Here, Patience!
Miss Patience!
Let me apologize to you in front of Mrs Zhu and the young ladies.
I did evil in my cups.
Please forgive me.
The others laughed.
There you are!
said Li Wan to Patience.
I told you Id stick up for you, didnt I?
Its all very well for you ladies to joke about it, said Patience, but you make me feel very.
uncomfortable.
Youve no cause to feel uncomfortable, said Li Wan.
Ill look after you.
You just get that key and tell your mistress to unlock the store-room and find those things for us.
My dear good Wan, please take these girls back to the Garden, said Xi-feng.
Ive got the rice accounts to go over Ive got to see Lady Xing about something 1 dont know what, but shes just sent over to say that she wants me and Ive got the New Years clothes to see about.
I have to find out what everyone wants and get the orders placed I dont care in the least about these things, said Li Wan airily.
You just settle my business first so that I can go back home and rest and not have these girls pestering me any more.
Give me a little time!
said Xi-feng pleadingly.
Youre so considerate towards me as a rule I dont know why Im so Out of favour with you today.
I suppose it must be because of Patience.
Often in the past youve said to me, Now I know how busy you are, Feng, but your health is important you ought to find means somehow or other of taking a rest.
Thats what you would normally say in a situation like this but today you seem more intent on driving me into an early grave!
Incidentally, you may not think it matters very much if the arrangements for other peoples winter clothing get put off, but what about the clothing for the girls?
Strictly speaking thats your responsibility.
Dont you think Grandmother would feel that you were taking non-interference just a little far if she discovered that the girls were going without winter clothes simply for want of a word from you?
You know, of course, that I would rather get into trouble myself than involve you in trouble...
Listen to her, all of you, said Li Wan.
Marvellous, isnt it?
Id like to get hold of that clever tongue of yours, Feng, and!
Just tell me this one thing, then are you going to keep an eye on our poetry club for us or arent you?
What a question!
said Xi-feng.
If I refused to join your club and spend my money in it, I should be declaring myself in open rebellion against the Prospect Garden Residents Association, and heaven help me then!my life wouldnt be worth living!
I shall be round first thing tomorrow to report for duty, and the first thing I shall do will he to pay down fifty taels to be spent as and when you wish on the clubs entertainment.
I can t write poetryor anything else, for that matterand Im a very common, ignorant sort of person to be joining a poetry club and as for taking on this disciplinary business well, whether I do or whether I dont, I dont suppose therell be much danger of your expelling me once youve seen the colour of my money.
The others laughed.
Ill open the store-room presently, she continued, and Ill get them to put out anything that looks as if it might be of use for you to have a look at.
If you can use it, keep it.
Anything youre still short of after that, Ill tell them to buy for you outside.
I can get the pongee cut for you straight away.
The architects drawing isnt at Lady Wangs, by the way its at Cousin Zhens place.
Im telling you this to save you a wasted journey.
I can get it for you, if you like then I can have it taken with the pongee to Sir Zhengs gentlemen and ask them to do the sizing for you.
Li Wan nodded approvingly.
That would be very kind.
If youll really do all that for us, we shall have nothing more to say.
Come on then, everybody I Lets go home and see what happens.
If she doesnt send the stuff we can come back and deal with her later.
She began to leave the room as she said this, the cousins following in her wake.
I know of only one person who could have stirred all this up, said Xi-feng as they were going, and thats Bao-yu.
The mention of his name stopped Li Wan in her tracks.
She came back into the room.
Id completely forgotten it was Bao-yu that I came about in the first place.
He was the one who failed to turn up at our first meeting.
Were all too soft to know what to do with him.
How do you think we ought to punish him ?
Xi-feng thought for a bit.
The only thing I can suggest is that you should make him go round to each of your apartments in turn and sweep the floors for you.
Yes, yes, said the others, laughing.
The very thing!
They were just about to leave for the second time when Lai Das mother, old Mrs Lai, came in, leaning on the shoulder of a little maid.
Xi-feng and the rest rose to greet her.
They begged her to be seated and offered her their congratulations.
The old woman sat down on the edge of the kang and smiled round at them with pleasure.
The way I see it, since you are our employers, our good fortune is really yours.
If it werent for your family, how would the likes of us ever have come by a piece of good fortune like this in the first place?
Yesterday when you sent young Sunshine round with those presents, my grandson kotowed upwards.
in the doorway to show his gratitude.
When will he be leaving to take up his post?
said Li Wan.
Old Mrs Lai sighed, as though the thought made her melancholy.
Oh, I dont concern myself with their affairs.
I just let them get on with it.
When he came round to me to kotow the other day, I didnt have a good word for him.
I said to him, Young man, dont tell me youre a mandarin now, because its just plain ridiculous.
Thirty years it is since you were born, I said, and all that time, in actual fact, youve been a bondservant.
Yet through the kindness of our Masters you were set apart from the moment you came out of your mothers womb.
Thanks to the Masters and your parents, I said, you were taught to read and write like a gentlemans son and fussed over by a parcel of maids and nannies and wet-nurses as if you was some sort of young phoenix.
I doubt you know how the word bondservant is written.
Youve known nothing but soft living since you were born, I said.
You dont know the bitterness your father and your grandfather had to go through.
You dont appreciate the generations of hardship that went into the making of a fine gentleman like you.
And the money they spent on you, I said nursing you through all the fevers and calamities of youth for you were a sickly, ailing child it would have been enough to have made you anew out of silver Then, when you were twenty, the Master, out of the kindness of his heart, undertook to buy you a place in the Service, so that your future would be assured.
Think how many freeborn members of the clan go hungry, I said, yet be did this fox you, that was born a slave.
Such great fortune should make you fearful.
And now, after ten years of fooling around, youve talked the Masterby what jiggery-pokery I do not know -into getting you selected for a posting.
A district magistrate may not be very high in the scale, I said, but the mandarin who goes to a district to be its magistrate is supposed to be the father and mother of all the people who live there.
So mind you dont go getting above yourself, I said.
Do all in your power to show that you are worthy of the trust.
And always let the Master see how much you appreciate what he has done for you.
Otherwise Heaven will surely cast you off.
Li Wan and Xi-feng both laughed.
You worry too much, Mrs Lai, said Xi-feng.
Hes all right.
Its true we dont see much of him nowadays.
He used to come in once in a while, but these last few years all weve seen of him has been his visiting-card at New Years and birthdays.
He did come in the other day, however, to kotow to Her Old Ladyship and Lady Wang.
We saw him in Hei Old Ladyships courtyard, dressed in his new uniform.
He looked very imposing.
A little bit fatter than he used to be.
You ought to be happy now that hes a mandarin, not making yourself miserable with all this worrying about him.
Even if he doesnt behave himself, I should leave his parents to do the wolrying.
All you have to do now is sit back and enjoy your-self.
If ever youre at a loose end, you can always jump in your chair and have yourself carried round here for a game of cards and a chat with Her Old Ladyship.
Im sure no one here would dream of making you feel uncomfortable.
After all, youve got upstairs and downstairs and halls and reception-rooms back home just the same as we have.
Youre as good as any lady in the land now, you know.
Im sure you will be respected as such.
Mrs Lai hurriedly rose to her feet as Patience came up to pour tea for her.
You shouldnt do that, miss.
You should let one of the younger ones do it.
Taint right you should pour for me.
Sitting down again she continued to hold forth between sips.
You dont know that boy, Mrs Lian.
Hes like all young people you have to be strict with them all the time.
Even then if youre not careful theyll somehow find a way to raise the devil and grieve their parents hearts.
This young chap of ours now those that know him realize its just the mischief coming out, but those who dont are liable to think that hes taking advantage of the fact that hes got more money and influence than other people to throw his weight about and that reflects badly on the Masters reputation as well.
Oh, I get so angry about it sometimes, I dont know what to do with myself.
I have to call his Dad in and give him a good talking-to and then I feels a bit better.
I hope you wont mind my saying thisshe pointed a finger at Bao-yu - but I wouldnt have thought that your father was strict enough with you.
Look at the way Her Old Ladyship was out in front the moment he started when he gave you that beating a while ago.
You should have seen the way your grandfather used to lay into him when he was a lad.
And your father wasnt the scapegrace that you are, either.
Then there was your fathers elder brother, Master She.
Now he was mischievousthough even so, he didnt turn the whole household upsy-downsy the way you seem to.
He was always getting beaten.
Oh, and the way your Cousin Zhens grandfather over at the Ning-guo used to lay into his son!
Oh, he had a fiery temper!
Once it was upwell, youd never have thought it was his son he was beating.
Looked more like he was torturing a bandit.
From what Ive seen and beard, I should imagine that the way your Cousin Zhen at the Ning-guo disciplines his son is in his grandfathers tradition.
Only trouble is, hes a bit too erratic.
Cant control himself, thats his trouble.
I dont blame the young ones for not respecting him.
If youre sensible, young man, youll be glad to hear me say this otherwise, though you may be too polite to say so, I expect youll think Im an interfering old woman.
Just then Lai Das wife came in, followed almost immediately by the wives of Zhou Rui and Zhang Cai.
The latter two had come to report to Xi-feng on various domestic matters.
Xi-feng smilingly inquired of Lai Das wife whether she had come to collect her mother-in-law.
Well, no, madam, not exactly, said Lai Das wife.
I really came to find out whether you and the young ladies will be favouring us with your presence or not.
Oh, how silly of me!
said old Mrs Lai when she heard this.
Here have I been talking a load of stale old sesame and all the time forgetting the one thing I came here to ask you about!
On account of our young chaps posting, all our friends and relations want to get together and celebrate, so we thought wed better have a reception.
Well, the way I saw it, if we only held it for one day, it would mean inviting some people and leaving out others, and that wouldnt seem right.
So I thought about it for a bit, and I thought to myself, well, its thanks to the Masters that this great honour has come our way, so we must do what we can to show our appreciation.
Even if it means spending every penny weve got, we ought to be glad to do it.
So I told the boys father to arrange a reception for three days running.
On the first day well have some tables and a stage in our little bit of garden at the back to entertain Her Old Ladyship and Their Ladyships and your good selves and the young ladies, and some more tables and a stage with another lot of players in the reception room at the front where we can entertain the gentlemen.
The second day will be a reception for relations and friends of the family, and the third day will be for colleagues on the staffs of the two mansions.
I do hope you will honour us with a visit.
It will be the highlight of our celebrations.
Li Wan and Xi-feng asked her when the reception would be, assuring her that they fully intended to come.
Im sure Lady Jia would love to come too, they said, but I wouldnt bank on her being able to.
The date weve chosen is the fourteenth, said Lai Das wife hurriedly, before her mother-in4aw had a chance to get under way again.
We do hope youll come, for Mothers sake.
I cant answer for the others, said Xi-feng amiably, but I shall definitely be coming.
Id better warn you, though I havent got any present to bring, and you mustnt expect me to offer largesseI wouldnt know how to go about it.
You mustnt laugh if I just eat up and go.
Get along with you, madam!
said Lai Das wife, laughing.
If you feel like bringing a largesse, twenty or thirty thousand taels would do very nicely!
Old Mrs Lai laughed.
I been to see Her Old Ladyship already and she says shell come.
Reckon I ought to feel pretty pleased with myself.
After further exhortations to attend the party and various other admonishments, the old woman was at last getting up to go when her eye chanced to fall on Zhou Ruis wife and she seemed to remember something.
Theres something else I wanted to ask you about, Mrs Lian.
Whats all this about Zhous boy being dismissed?
What did he do wrong?
Ah yes, Ive been meaning to speak to your daughter-in-law about it, said Xi-feng, but there were so many other things to think about that they drove it from my mind.
Lai, dear,she turned to Lai Das wifewhen you get back, will you tell your husband that neither of our households will be employing Zhou Ruis son any longer and that he is to send him packing?
Lai Das wife could only agree, but the unhappy mother fell on her knees in supplication.
What did he do?
old Mrs Lai repeated.
Tell me what he did, and Ill be judge for you.
Yesterday on my birthday, said Xi-feng, before the rest of us had even started drinking, he was already drunk, and when my grandmother sent her women round with some presents, instead of going out and being nice to them, he sat where he was swearing at everybody and made no attempt to receive the presents or take them inside.
Eventually the two women came in by themselves and he did at last go with a couple of the pages to take in what they had brought.
But though the pages made no trouble, this young Zhou dropped the box he was carrying and scattered wheat-cakes all over the courtyard.
After the women had gone, I sent Sunshine out to give him a talking-to, but it ended up with him shouting and swearing at Sunshine.
Faced with a young hooligan like that who is so utterly and completely uncontrollable, I dont see that one has any choice but to dismiss him.
Is that all it was?
said Grannie Lai.
And I was thinking it must have been something serious!
Take my advice, Mrs Lian.
If that boys done wrong, beat him and curse him and tell him to mend his ways, but dismiss him?no, that would never do.
Hes not like one of your house-born servants.
The Zhous came with Her Ladyship from her old home when she was married.
If you insist on dismissing him, it will look like an affront to Her Ladyship.
Give him a few whacks to learn him and tell him not to do it again but keep him on, whatever you do.
If you wont do it for his mas sake, do it for Her Ladyships.
Xi-feng turned to Lai Das wife.
Very well then.
Let him be called for tomorrow and given forty strokes with the heavy bamboo.
And tell him hes not to drink any more.
Lai Das wife said she would see that done.
After that Zhou Ruis wife kotowed to Xi-feng in gratitude.
She wanted to kotow to Mrs Lai as well, but the old woman reached forward and prevented her.
The four women then left, and Li Wan and the girls went back into the Garden.
Towards evening Xi-feng sent someone to the store-room, as promised, to hunt out any old painting gear that had been stored there and take it round for Bao-chai and the others to look over.
On doing so the girls found only about half the things they wanted, and made a list of the other half which they gave to Xi-feng to have bought.
But these are matters about which it is not necessary to go into detail.
Suffice it to say that the freshly-sized pongee arrived back from outside in due course together with a rough draft of the projected painting, and that Bao-yu began to spend a part of each.
day at Xi-chuns place helping her.
Tan-chun, Li Wan, Ying-chun and Bao-chai developed the habit of dropping into sit with them while they worked, partly to watch the painting and partly because it made a convenient rendezvous.
Reminded by the first nip in the air that the hours of darkness were gradually lengthening, Bao-chai went round for a long consultation with her mother from which she came away with quantities of extra sewing to occupy herself with in the evenings but since, when making her morning and evening calls on Lady Wang and Grandmother Jia, she would often, if they seemed desirous of her company, spend a considerable while sitting and talking with them, and since she was also in the habit of dropping in from time to time to gossip with one or another of her cousins in the Garden, she had very little leisure for sewing in the daytime and as a consequence was invariably plying her needle under the lamp until eleven or twelve oclock at night.
As for Dai-yu, twice every year, following the spring and autumn equinoxes, she suffered from a recurrence of her old sickness.
This autumn the repeated junketings occasioned by Grandmother Jias enthusiastic excursions into the Garden had drained her of energy.
Recently she had begun coughing again and as this year it seemed to be considerably worse than usual, she had stopped going out altogether and stayed at home nursing herself in her room.
Sometimes when she was feeling depressed she would long for a visit from one of the girls and the distraction of someone to talk to.
But when Bao-chai or one of the others did in fact look in to ask how she was, she would grow fidgety after only a few sentences had been exchanged between them and begin to wish that they would go.
The others realized that it was being ill that made her like this and knowing from past experience how hypersensitive she was, they were never sharp with her, even if she was somewhat remiss as a hostess and often lacking in courtesy.
Once when Bao-chai called in to see her, the nature of her illness became the subject of their conversation.
I suppose the doctors in attendance on this family arent too bad as doctors go, said Bao-chai, but the medicines they prescribe for you dont seem to make you any better.
Dont you think its time they called in someone really first-rate who could cure this sickness once and for all?
Every year all through the spring and summer you have this trouble yet youre not an old lady, and youre not a little girl any longer.
You cant go on in this way indefinitely.
Its no good, said Dai-yu.
This illness will never go away completely.
Look what Im like ordinarily, even when Im not ill. Bao-chai nodded.
Exactly I You know the old saying He that eats shall live?
What you ordinarily eat, when youre not ill, doesnt seem to nourish you or build up your resistance.
Thats one of your troubles.
Dai-yu sighed.
-1094 Life and death are as Heaven decrees and rank and riches are as Heaven bestows them.
These things are not in human power to command.
I seem to be worse this year than I have been in previous years.
She coughed several times while she was saying this.
I was looking the other day it that prescription of yours, said Bao-chai.
I should have said myself that there was too much cinnamon and ginseng in it.
I know they are supposed to build you up but you dont want to go overheating yourself.
If you ask me, I think the first, most important thing to do is to calm your liver and strengthen your stomach a bit.
If you could reduce the inflamed, over-active state of your liver so that it was no longer harming the earthy humour of your spleen, your stomach would begin functioning normally again and then the food you ate could begin to nourish you properly.
First thing every morning you ought to take an ounce of the best quality birds nest and five drams of sugar-candy and heat them up in a silver skillet until they make a sort of syrup.
If you were to take that regularly, it would do you more good than medicine.
Theres nothing like it for building you up if you have low vitality.
Dai-yu sighed again.
Youre such a kind person, she said, but Ive got such a -5947 suspicious nature that in the past I always suspected that your kindness was a cloak for something and rejected it.
It wasnt until the other day, when you told me off for reading forbidden books and offered me all that good advice, that I ever felt really grateful to you.
I realized then that I had all along been wrong about you right from the very start.
I suddenly realized Im fifteen this year and have no brothers or sisters ever since my m6ther died there has been no oneliterally no one - who has ever spoken to me in that sort of way.
Im not surprised Cousin Yun speaks so highly of you.
I used to hate it when I heard her praise your kindness, but since experiencing it myself, I know what she means.
If it had been you whod said those things in the drinking game, I should have been quite merciless.
I should never have kept quiet about it at the time and gently remonstrated about it later, when we were alone together, as you did I knew from that that I had been wrong about you, and that you must really care for me.
If my eyes hadnt been opened for me then, I should never be talking to you like this today.
Now about this birds nest syrup you want me to take.
I know birds nest is fairly easy to come by, but this illness of mine is something I suffer from every year because of my weak constitution.
Theres nothing particularly serious about it, its just something that I always get.
Yet already everyones put to a huge amount of inconvenience because of it, fetching doctors, brewing medicines, buying ginseng for me and Saigon cinnamon.
If I now come up with some fancy new idea like asking to have birds nest syrup made for me every day, then even though Grandmother and Aunt Wang and Cousin Feng may not say anything, the old nannies and maids on the staff are sure to resent the extra work.
Cousin Bao and Cousin Feng are Grandmas favourites, yet you should see the looks these people give them sometimes and you should hear the things they say about them behind their backs!
So you can imagine what they must be like about me.
Im not even a proper member of the family Im just a refugee, with no family of my own, living here as a hanger-on.
That in itself is enough to make them resent me.
Its difficult enough for?
me as it is, without deliberately thinking up new ways to make them hate me.
Im just as much an outsider as you are, said Bao-chai.
Theres no comparison between us said Dai-yu.
Youve got your mother and your brother for a start.
Youve got property and businesses.
Youve still got land and a home of your own back in Nanking.
Its true that as marriage-relations they allow you to live here free of charge, but you provide everything for yourselves apart from the accommodation.
You dont cost them a penny.
And anytime you feel like it, you can just get up and go.
Ive got nothing at all of my own, absolutely nothing.
Yet everything they give mefood.
clothing, pocket-money, even the flowers and trees in my garden -are the same as they give their own gifts.
Can you wonder that the servants are so resentful ?
Your being here only means one more dowry for them to find, said Bao-chai.
Surely so small an extra expense as that is hardly going to bother them?
Dai-yu coloured.
Ive been telling you my troubles because I thought you really cared, but you turn them into a joke.
Perhaps, said Bao-chai, smiling.
But its true, all the same.
However, dont you worry as long as Im here, I promise to do my best to make it easier for you.
If you will promise always to let me know when anything is bothering you, I will promise to deal with it if it is in my power to do so.
I have a brother, its true but you know as well as I do what hes like.
Its really only in having a mother that I can count myself a bit luckier than you.
In other respects we have enough in common to think of ourselves as fellow-sufferers.
If you can see thisas with your intelligence I am sure you mustyou have no cause to go echoing Si-ma Nius complaint All men have brothers, only I have none.
Now, you have suggested that the less trouble the better ought to be your motto here, and I take your point.
I shall have a word with Mother next time I see her about this.
Ill be surprised if we havent got some birds nest of our own at home.
If we have, I shall tell them to send you a few ounces, so that you can get your own maids to prepare it for you every morning.
That way will be handier for you and will also avoid the risk of any alarms and excursions with the staff.
Dai-yu smiled at her gratefully.
It may be only a little thing, but it is very kind indeed of you to have thought of it.
Nonsense!
said Bao-chai.
Its not worth speaking of.
Im only afraid that by spending so much time with other people I may have been neglecting you rather.
Well, Id better be going now.
Im afraid Im tiring you.
Come again this evening and talk to me for a bit, said Dai-yu.
Bao-chai promised to do so and departed.
And at this point she departs for a little while from our narrative.
Left alone, Dai-yu ate a few mouthfuls of congee and then lay down on her bed.
Towards sundown a change of weather came, bringing the whisper and rustle of rain.
It was the pulsing, steady rain of autumn, so constant that you sometimes wonder if it has stopped.
The afternoon slid imperceptibly into a somber evening, blackened by lowering rain clouds and made yet more melancholy for Dai-yu by the persistent drip of the rain on her bamboos.
Reflecting that Bao-chai would now be unable to come, she picked up a book at random to read beneath the lamp.
It was a volume of The Lyric Miscellany consisting largely of songs of sorrow and separation The Autumn Bride, The Grief of Parting and suchlike.
Moved by what she read, she was inevitably drawn to give outlet to her feelings in composition and had soon completed a song of separation of her own.
As she had modelled it on Zhang Ruo-xus famous poem Spring River A Night of Flowers and Moonlight, she decided to call it Autumn Window A Night of Wind and Rain.
This is how it went Autumn Window A Night of Wind and Rain -534 The autumn flowers are dead, the leaves are sere Lamp-light comes soon, the nights grow long again.
Outside my window autumns signs appear More dismal in the wind and rustling rain.
-534 The rustling rain came in such swift downpour It startled me from autumn-dream-filled sleep.
Now, in a muse, unable to sleep more, I watch the candle at my bedside weep.
-534 The candle weeps down to its socket low, -427 And my heart weeps and desolation feels.
-534 Yet the same wind in other courts must blow The sound of rain through other windows steals.
-534 The winds chill strikes through quilt and counterpane, The rain drums like a mad clock in my ears, All night, in whispering, monotone refrain, Companion to my own swift-coursing tears.
-534 The courtyard now with mist begins to fill, The bamboos drip persists without a pause.
When will the wind cease and the rain be still, That with its weeping soaks my windows gauze?
Having read it over to herself out loud, she laid down the writing-brush and was about to go back to bed and settle down for the night when one of her maids announced the arrival of Master Bao.
Almost simultaneously with this announcement, Bao-yu himself burst in wearing a rain-cape and an enormous rain-hat of woven bamboo.
Dai-ya laughed at the spectacle he presented.
The Old Fisherman!
Where have you just sprung from?
How are you today?
Bao-yu asked her anxiously.
Have you had your medicine?
How much have you managed to eat today?
He was divesting himself of the rain-clothes while he asked these questions.
When he had disposed of them, he picked up the lamp from the table and, shielding it with one hand to throw the light on her scrutinized her face.
He appeared to be satisfied with what he saw.
Youve got a better culour today.
Now that he had taken off the rain-clothes, Dai-yu could see what he was wearing underneath.
He had on a somewhat worn-looking tunic of red silk damask tied with a green sash at the waist, and trousers of sprigged green silk.
The ends of his trousers were stuffed into socks extravagantly patterned with a design of flowers picked out in gold, and there were flowers and butterflies embroidered on his satin slippers.
The top part of you seems to have been pretty well protected against the rain, said Dai-yu, but what about the bottom part?
Still, you appear to have kept your feet dry.
This is a complete outfit Ive been wearing, said Bao-yu.
There is a pair of pear-wood patterns that go with it as well, but I left them outside on your verandah.
Dai-yu looked again at the cape and rain-hat.
Both were exquisitely madequite unlike those that are sold in the market.
What sort of straw is this cape made of?
she asked him.
Its so fine.
I can see now why you didnt look like a hedgehog in it as people usually do in these things.
The whole outfit was given to me by the Prince of Beijing said Bao-yu.
Its exactly like the one he wears himself at home when it rains.
If you like it, Ill get-you one the same.
Theres nothing so very special about it really.
The hats rather fun.
The centre part is detachable.
If you want to wear it in winter when its snowing, you undo this little bamboo fastener and the whole top comes out, leaving you with just the brim.
So when it snows, it can be worn by a woman just as-well as by a man.
Ill get you a hat like this to wear in winter when it snows.
I dont want one, thank you, said Dai-yu laughing.
If I were to wear one of those, I should look like one of those old fisherwomen you see in plays and paintings.
Immediately after saying this she realized that she had virtually been offering herself as a fishwife to Bao-yus old fisherman and wished the -remark unsaid.
She blushed with embarrassment and leaned forwards, racked with coughing, over the table.
But Bao-yu appeared not to have noticed.
What drew his attention was the poem be had just spotted which lay on the table beside her.
He picked it up and read it.
A murmur of praise which escaped involuntarily from his lips at once brought Dai-yu to her feet.
She snatched the paper from him and burned it over the lamp.
But Bao-yu only laughed.
Too late!
Ive already memorized it.
I want to, go to bed now, said Dai-yu.
Please go now.
Come again tomorrow.
Hearing her speak of bed, Bao-yu felt inside his tunic and pulled out a gold watch about the size of a walnut which he proceeded to inspect.
The hand was pointing exactly midway between the sign of the Dog and the sign of the Pig nine oclock at night.
Yes, he said, stuffing the watch hurriedly back into his tunic.
Time for bed.
Ive tired you long enough.
He put on his cape and his rain hat and went out, but was back again almost immediately.
Is there anything you fancy to eat?
Let me know if there is, and Ill tell Grandmother first thing tomorrow.
It will be safer to tell me than trying to explain what you want to the old women.
-427 Dai-yu smiled.
Ill-think about it during the night and let you know first thing tomorrow.
Listen its raining harder.
Youd better go quickly.
Have you got anyone with you?
Yes, one of the did women standing outside on the verandah called into her.
Were waiting with our umbrellas up and weve got the lantern ready.
Lantern?
said Dai-yu.
In this weather?
The rain makes no difference, said Bao-yu.
Its a horn lantern.
Theyre not affected by rain.
Dai-yu reached out and took down a lamp with a balloon shaped glass shade from the top of her bookcase.
She ordered one of the maids to light a little candle in it and offered it to Bao-yu.
Take this.
Its brighter than a horn one, and its specially made for going out in the rain with.
Ive got one like that myself, said Bao-yu, hut I didnt bring it because I was afraid they might trip over and break it.
Which is worse, said Dai-yu, a broken lamp or a broken leg?
Youre not used to wearing patterns, so its important to see where youre going.
The others can carry the horn lantern in front of you, and you can carry this glass lamp, which is handier and brighter and specially made for going out in the rain with, yourself.
There.
You can send it back to me tomorrow.
And if you should break it well, it wont be the end of the world.
What has made you of all people so parsimonious about things all of a sudden ?
Youre as bad as the Persian with his pearl!
Thus persuaded, Bao-yu took the lamp from her and set off, two old nannies with umbrellas and a horn lantern in front of him and two little maids with umbrellas bringing up the rear.
He made one of the little maids hold the glass lamp Dai-yu had given him and leaned on her shoulder until they were back home.
The departure of Bao-yu and his party was immediately followed by the arrival of two old women from Allspice Court, also carrying lanterns and umbrellas, with a large packet of birds nest and another packet containing little frosty star-shapes of dazzling white imported sugar.
Youll find these a hit better than the stuff you can buy in the shops, they told Dai-yu.
Our young lady says this is to be getting on with and when youve finished it shell send you some more.
Thats very kind, said Dai-yu.
Wont you sit outside with the girls and let them give you some tea?
We wont, miss, thank you all the same, they said.
Weve got other things to do.
Ah yes, youre busy, said Dai-yu, smiling.
I should have remembered.
Now that its getting colder and the nights are longer, I expect you will have started your card-school again.
Nothing like a little gambling to pass the long night hours I The women laughed good-humouredly.
I wont deceive you, miss, said one of them, evidently the chief organizer.
Ive got a really nice little school going this year.
There are always a few of us on night-duty, you see, and we dont like to risk falling asleep and missing our watch, so we find our little card-school the best answer.
It keeps us awake and, as you say, miss, it helps to pass the time.
Tonight its my turn to be banker.
The Garden gate has been closed now, so its time we got started.
Dai-yu laughed.
Well, all I can say is that its very nice of you to have taken time off when you could have been winning money, to go out in the rain and bring me these things.
She turned to one of her maids Give them a few hundred cash so that they can buy some wine to warm themselves up with after the rain.
The women thanked her delightedly, and having kotowed, hurried outside to collect the money, after which they put up their umbrellas again and departed.
Nightingale first put away the birds nest and sugar and then, having moved the lamp over to the bedside and let-down the blinds, helped Dai-yu into bed.
As she lay there alone, Dai-yus thoughts turned to Bao-chai, at first with gratitude, because of her kindness, but afterwards a trifle enviously, because Bao-chai had a mother and brother and she had none.
Then she began thinking about Bao-yu and herself how they had been such good friends to start with, but how later on suspicion and misunderstanding had grown up between them.
Then she listened to the insistent rustle of the rain on the bamboos and plantains outside her window.
The coldness penetrated the curtains of her bed.
Almost without noticing it she had begun to cry.
It was nearly three in the morning before she was properly asleep.
We leave her now, to continue our story in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 46 An awkward person is given an awkward mission And a faithful maid vows faithfulness unto death IT was not, we observed in the last chapter, until nearly three oclock in the morning that Dai-yu finally dropped off to sleep.
We leave her at this point in our narrative and return to Xi-feng, who, it will be remembered, had been summoned on business of an unspecified nature by Lady Xing.
When the others had left, Xi-feng hurriedly changed into her going out apparel, got into her carriage, and drove round to the establishment next door.
The air of mystery surrounding this summons persisted after her arrival.
Lady Xing dismissed the others who had been present and addressed her daughter-in-law conspiratorially.
The reason I have sent for you is that Sir She has entrusted me with a matter of some delicacy which I hardly know how to go about and I thought I had better discuss it first with you.
He has taken a fancy to Lady Jias maid Faithful and wants her for his concubine and he has given me the job of asking Lady Jia for her.
As I see it, there is nothing very unusual in such a request, but I am rather afraid that Lady Jia may refuse and wondered if you had any bright ideas on how one ought to go about this business.
Xi-feng put on what she hoped was a disarming smile.
I dont think its worth trying.
I think it would be merely asking for trouble.
Without Faithful, Grandma would be completely lost shed never consent to give her up.
In any case, shes often remarked, in private conversation about Father, that she cant understand why at his age he continues to surround himself with young girlswasting their young lives she calls it.
She says its not good for his health, and that he ought to save up his energies for his job and not fritter them away on drinking all day with his fancy women.
You wouldnt derive much pleasure from hearing this sort of thing said to your face, Mother, and I am very sure that Father wouldnt.
Yet if you insist on approaching Grandma about this, Im afraid that thats what will happen.
It will be like poking a straw up a tigers nostril.
I hope you wont be offended, but Im afraid I darent approach her about this.
I should only be demonstrating my own powerlessness to help and making a lot of unpleasantness for myself into the bargain.
Father is inclined to be a bit ga-ga at times nowadays.
Its up to you to talk him out of it, Mother.
This sort of thing is all very well in a younger man, but in someone of Fathers years, with children and grandchildren of his own, it is really too shaming I Lady Xing sniffed.
Lots of men in well-to-do families like ours have troops of concubines.
Why should it be so shameful only in our case?
Anyway, I dont know what makes you think hed listen to me, even if I did try to talk him out of it.
And even if Lady Jia is so attached to Faithful, she may not find it all that easy to refuse when the person asking is an eldest son with a grey beard who has held a position in the Government.
Incidentally, I only asked you over here for your opinion.
I dont see why you should have to start reading me a lecture.
There was never any question of asking you to approach Lady Jia for me I shall naturally undertake that task myself.
And as for complaining that I havent tried talking Father out of this obviously you have no conception of what his temper can be like.
I did try to dissuade him, but he started hollering at me almost before the words were out of my mouth.
Xi-feng knew that her mother-in-law was a weak and silly woman, always willing, for the sake of a quiet life, to fall in with her husbands wishes.
Apart from pleasing her husband, her principal aim in life was to see how much she could squeeze out of the domestic economy and diver?
into her personal savings.
Decisions both great and small she left to him but all household monies passed through her hands, and she saw to it that they suffered a considerable diminution in the process.
The reason she gave for this pillage was Jia Shes extravagance.
I have to economize, she would say, to make up for what Sir She wastes.
Among the children and servants of the household there was not one whom she trusted or whose advice she would listen to.
From the tone of what she had just heard, Xi-feng knew that her mother-in-laws obstinate streak had been aroused and that it would now be quite useless to reason with her.
She therefore smiled even more disarmingly and promptly changed her tack.
Of course.
You are right, Mother.
I havent had enough experience to be able to judge these matters.
But now I come to think of it, its only natural that a mother should give what she treasures to her own son.
Who else would Grandma give her favourite maidor any other precious thingto if not to Father?
One shouldnt believe everything that people say about other people behind their backs.
No, I can see that now.
I have been too credulous.
One has only to think how you and Father are with Lian.
Many a time when Lian has done something he shouldnt have done, you and Father have spoken as if you could hardly wait to lay your hands on him, but when he eventually turned up, you have forgiven everything and ended up by giving him some treasured possession.
Ive no doubt that in this case it will turn out in exactly the same sort of way with Grandma and Father.
As a matter of fact, Grandma is in rather a good mood today, so if you are going to ask her, it would probably be best to do so straight away.
Let me go over first to keep her sweet for you.
Ill find some excuse for leaving and taking the others with me when you arrive.
That will give you a good opportunity for raising this matter.
If she says yes, that will, of course, be splendid.
But even if she doesnt, no great harm will have been done, because no one else will know about it.
Hearing what she wanted to hear, Lady Xings good humour returned and she proceeded to tell Xi-feng what she had already decided to do.
Actually my idea is not to mention this to Lady Jia at first.
I think I shall begin by having a quiet word with Faithful herself.
Though she may be bashful, as long as she doesnt say anything against it when Ive explained it all to her, I shall know that as far as she is concerned it is all right.
If I talk to Lady Jia then, though she may be unwilling to part with her, she wont be able to get over the fact that Faithful herself is willing to leave.
Theres no holding someone who has a mind to go, as they say.
I think there should be no difficulty.
Trust you for sound planning, Mother!
said Xi-feng.
That way sounds fool-proof.
After all, every one of these girls is ambitiousthey all want to improve their position and get on in the worldand its unthinkable that she should throw away this chance of becoming almost a mistress in order to remain a maid and end up marrying one of the grooms.
Exactly!
said Lady Xing.
Thats exactly what I thought.
Any of these senior maids would give her ears for a chance like this.
Anyway, you go over nowonly dont breathe a word of this to anyone else!and Ill follow later on, when Ive had my dinner.
Xi-feng reflected.
Faithfuls no fool, she thought.
Whatever Mother says, its far from certain that shell accept.
Suppose I do go first and Mother follows later.
If Faithful says yes, all well and good but if she doesnt, Mother has such a suspicious nature that shes sure to think its because Ive blabbed and been encouraging the girl to play hard to get.
It will be humiliating for her to discover that my prediction was right, and that will make her angry and then shell take it out on me which wont be very amusing.
It would be better if we went over together then, whether Faithful accepts or not, no suspicion can possibly fall on me.
Just now as I was on the point of coming over, she said, bringing these reflections to a rapid conclusion, two crates of quails arrived from my aunts.
I told the servants to fry them, intending to send them over later for your dinner.
Then, on my way in through your gate, I met some of the boys from here with your carriage.
They said it had something wrong with it and they were taking it outside to be mended.
Why not make use of my carriage instead?
We can go over together in it now, and you can dine at my place afterwards on the quails.
Finding this proposal acceptable, Lady Xing called in her maids to help her change then, supported by her ever-solicitous daughter-in-law, she got into the latters carriage and drove with her to the establishment next door.
On their way Xi-feng pointed out that if they arrived at Grandmother Jias place together, the old lady might notice her outdoor clothes and ask her where she had been.
It would be better if you went in there alone, while I slip back to my own place to change, she said.
Ill join you later, as soon as Ive got into my everyday clothes.
Lady Xing thought that this sounded reasonable and went in on her own to see Grandmother Jia.
After chatting with her for a few minutes about nothing in particular, she left on the pretext of visiting Lady Wang.
This meant that she went out through the rear of the apartment, so that her way took her past Faithfuls room and she was able to look in casually in passing to see if she was there.
Faithful was sitting in her room sewing, but stood up as Lady Xing entered.
Whats that youre embroidering?
Lady Xing asked her.
Let me look.
She took the embroidery from her hand and inspected it.
You are getting very good, she said, laying it down again, and proceeded to scrutinize the girl carefully, from head to foot.
Faithful had on an almost new lilac-coloured dress of silk damask over which she wore a dag-edged sleeveless black satin jacket.
Her skirt was a pale eau de Nil.
Lady Xing observed the slender waist and elegantly sloping shoulders, the oval face, the lustrous, raven-black hair, the slightly aquiline nose, the cheeks slightly spotted with a few tiny moles.
Faithful grew embarrassed and apprehensive beneath this scrutiny.
What brings Your Ladyship here at this hour?
she asked.
You dont often come over in the afternoon.
Lady Xing made a sign to the maids who had accompanied her to leave the room, then, seating herself in Faithfuls place, she took the maid by the hand and smiled at her graciously.
Ive come to wish you joy, my dear.
Hearing this, Faithful was able to guess, more or less, what her visitor had come about.
She coloured and hung her head in silence while Lady Xing continued.
You see, Sir She has no one nowadays he feels he can really rely on.
He was thinking of buying someone but you know, you can never trust those girls you get from the dealers.
You dont know how clean they are, and often you dont find out what the snags are until it is too late.
They seem all right when you buy them, but two or three days later you find them getting up to the most frightful antics.
Well, then he thought hed pick someone from among our house-born servants, but he lust couldnt seem to find anyone good enough.
Either they werent good-looking enough, or their looks were all right hut their characters wouldnt do, or whatever it was there was always something wrong with them.
Anywayto cut a long story shortafter half a years careful study, he has finally decided that you are the cream of the cream.
In looks, in character, in behaviour he finds you perfect gentle, reliablein fact, all the things he is looking for in a girl.
So hes decided to ask Lady Jia if he can have you for his concubine.
Of course , you would get much better treatment than a newly bought girl from outside could expect.
In your case we should put your hair back straight away and treat you as a proper chamber-wife.
You would be Auntie to the children and Mrs to the maids.
In fact, you would have practically the status of a mistress.
Now I know you are an ambitious young woman.
You know what they say True gold will find its price.
In your case its proved by the fact that Sir She has taken this fancy to you.
Here is a chance of doing all those things you ever set your heart on doing.
And if you have any enemies, you will be in a position now to make them look very silly.
Nowcome along with me and tell Her Old Ladyship all about it., She took Faithfuls hand and made as if to go, but Faithful reddened and snatched her hand away.
Lady Xing assumed that she did so from bashfulness.
Come, she said, theres no need to be bashful.
You dont have to say anything yourself if you dont want to.
just come with me and let me do the talking.
But Faithful still hung her head and did not move.
Surely, said Lady Xing, when it became evident that Faithful was determined not to accompany her, surely you cant mean to refuse this offer?
I must say, youll be a very silly girl if you do.
What, throw away the chance of becoming a lady in order to go on being a maid?
if you do, then in two or three years time when they marry you off, it will only be to one of the boys, you know.
Youll still be a slave just the same.
Whereas if you come to live with uswell, you know my nature Im not a difficult person to get on with and Sir She always treats his girls very nicely.
And after youve been with him for a year or two, if you can bear him a child, youll be on the same level as me everyone in the household will have to jump to it when you give them orders.
If you throw away an opportunity like this, youll certainly live to regret it.
Faithful continued to hang her head and say nothing.
Youre such a lively person as a rule, said Lady Xing.
Whats got hold of your tongue?
is there any particular thing about this arrangement that doesnt suit you?
Please let me know if there is, and I promise that it shall be altered.
But Faithful still said nothing.
Oh, I know what it is, said Lady Xing.
I expect youve got parents and dont like to say anything until youve heard from them.
Why yes, very right and proper.
I shall get in touch with your parents and no doubt you will be hearing from them in due course.
Then anything you want to say, you will be able to say to them.
With that she left, and went round to Xi-fengs apartment.
Xi-feng had long since changed back into her ordinary clothes.
As no one else was about, she had taken the opportunity of telling Patience about her interview with Lady Xing.
Patience was amused, but shook her head doubtfully at Lady Xings optimism.
If you ask me, I think its very uncertain.
From the way shes always spoken in the past when weve been alone together, I should think shell-refuse.
Anyway, well just have to wait and see.
Lady Xing is sure to come here afterwards to talk about what happened, said Xi-feng.
If Faithful has accepted, it will be all right but if Faithful hasnt accepted, shes not going to be in a very good mood, and it would embarrass her to have you here while she was telling me about it.
Youd better order them to prepare some of those quails and a few other dishes to go with them so that I can offer her dinner when she arrives but after youve done that, youd better take yourself off for a bit and dont come hack until you think shes gone.
Patience gave Xi-fengs instructions to the cook and then went off to enjoy herself in the Garden.
When Lady Xing left, Faithful felt sure that she would go straight to Xi-fengs for consultation and that soon after that someone else would arrive and put the same question to her again.
it seemed to her that the best way of avoiding this would be to decamp.
She sought out Amber in order to give some cover to her exit.
If Her Old Ladyship should ask for me, tell her that Im not feeling well and couldnt eat any lunch today.
Say Ive gone to walk in the Garden for a bit and shall be back again shortly.
Amber agreed to do this and Faithful went off to wander about in the Garden.
While she -was doing so, she came by coincidence upon Patience doing exactly the same thing.
Seeing no one else but the two of them around, Patience felt no compunction in revealing her newly acquired knowledge.
Look whos here!, she called out teasingly.
Mrs Faithful!
Faithful blushed bright red.
I suppose youre in the plot against me too.
Well, never mind.
Ill be having it out with your mistress presently.
Patience could see that Faithful was really angry, and regretted her foolish jibe.
Taking her by the hand, she led her to some rocks beneath a stand of maple trees where they could sit down together, and proceeded to tell her all that Xi-feng had a few minutes earlier told her.
Thank you, said Faithful when she had finished.
You and I at least are still friends.
When I think of our set how many were we?Aroma, Amber, Candida, Nightingale, Suncloud, Silver, Musk, Ebony, Kingfishershe left to go with Miss ShiCharmer and Goldenthey both diedSnow pink that was dismissedyou and methere must have been a dozen of us altogether when we were young we always told each other everything and shared everything together but now that we are older, the others all seem to go their different ways and just arent interested.
Not me, though I havent changed.
Im just the same as I always was.
I dont have any secrets from any of you.
Now listen Im telling you this now for you to rememberonly dont go passing it on to your Mrs Lian.
Its not just a question of not wanting to be his concubine.
I wouldnt go to Sir She, not if Lady Xing had died and he sent matchmakers and witnesses and asked me to be his proper wife!
Patience was about to answer when there was a laugh from behind the rocks on which they were sitting and a voice called out.
Whats this shameless boasting I hear?
Its enough to set ones teeth on edge!
Startled, the two of them rose to their feet and went to look behind the rockery to find out who it was.
Aroma emerged, laughing, as they did so.
Whats all this about?
Tell me about it too., The three of them sat down on the rocks together and Patience retold all that she had just told Faithful.
Well!
said Aroma when Patience had finished.
I suppose its not for someone in my place to say so, but what a nasty old man!
Unless theyre downright misshapen, just about no one is safe from him.
I can tell you a way out of this if you want to refuse, said Patience.
What?
said Faithful.
Have a word with Her Old Ladyship and get her to tell him that shes already given you to Mr Lian.
Thatll cool his ardour.
You too now?
said Faithful angrily.
Youre a nice lot, I must say!
It was your mistress who suggested that the other day.
I thought we hadnt heard the last of that.
If you dont want either of them, said Aroma, then if you ask me I think your best plan would be to get her to tell him that shes promised you to Master Bao.
That would put him off rig ht away!
Both embarrassed and-exasperated by these taunts, Faithful rounded on her tormentors with some heat.
Youre rotten, both of you, and I hope you both come to bad ends!
I thought you were decent sorts who might try to comfort me in my trouble.
But even if you dont care, you might at least refrain from treating it as a joke.
I suppose you think you dont have to worry about me because your own futures are assured and each of you will end up as chamber wife to the person of your choice.
Well, as I see it, things in this world dont always -turn out the way you want them to.
I wouldnt be quite so cock-a-hoop if I were you.
You might be in for some nasty shocks yourselves.
The others saw that they had really rattled her and laughingly did their best to calm her down.
Now, now, Faithful, dont take it so much to heart.
We three have been like sisters ever since we were little girls.
We were only teasing you a bit because theres no one else around.
Tell us what plan youve decided on, so that we shant be so worried about you Plan?
said Faithful.
Ive got no plan.
I just shant go to him and thatll be the end of it.
Patience shook her head.
I very much doubt if it will.
You know what Sir Shes temper is like.
Its true that he cant touch you as long as youre with Her Old Ladyship but youre not going to be with her all your life, are you?
Youll have to leave in the end, and if you fall into his clutches then, youll be in real trouble.
Faithful smiled grimly.
As long as Her Old Ladyship lives, I shall stay with Her Old Ladyship.
And when alls said and done, even when the old dear goes to her rest, there are still the years of mourning.
There would be no question of his taking a concubine with his mother just dead.
And by the time the period of mourning is overwell, anything might have happened.
Ill just have to wait and see.
If I get really desperate, I can -always shave my hair off and become a nun or failing that, theres always suicide.
I dont mind going through life without a man.
Glad to keep myself clean?
The other two tittered protestingly.
The things you say, Faithful!
Have you no shame?
Theres not much room left for shame when things have come to this pass, said Faithful.
Anyway, if you dont believe me, just wait and see.
Lady Xing said just now that she was going to see my parents about this.
I wonder if she will.
Shell have to go all the way to Nanking if she does!
Your parents are looking after the house in Nanking and cant be fetched, said Patience, but they can be got in touch with eventually.
And in any case, your elder brother and his wife are here.
Its a pity youre a house-born servant and not on your own here like me and Aroma.
It makes no odds, said Faithful.
You can take an ox to the water, but you cant make him drink.
Just because I refuse him, hes not going to kill my parents!
While she was talking, her sister-in-law appeared some distance from where they were sitting, walking in their direction.
There you are!
said Aroma.
Theyve evidently found that they cant get in touch with your parents, so theyve already had a word with your sister-in-law.
That cow!
said Faithful.
Shes a regular camel-dealer, that one.
Shed just jump at a thing like this!
The cow was already upon them, smiling all over her face.
Ah, here you are, miss!
Ive looked for you everywhere.
Come with me.
Ive got something to tell you.
Patience and Aroma fussed round her, inviting her to sit with them on the rock.
No, you young ladies sit down said the woman.
Ive got to have a word with our Faithful.
Is it really very urgent?
they asked her innocently.
Weve been playing I spy.
Cant it wait until weve finished guessing?
What is it?
said Faithful.
Why not just tell me?
Come with me, said her sister-in-law.
Ill tell you over there.
Its good news, anyway.
Oh, is it by any chance the thing Lady Xing was talking about?
said Faithful.
There!
said her sister-in-law.
You knew about it all the time!
What were you having me on for?
Now come on, hurry, and Ill tell you all the details.
Its a wonderful, wonderful piece of news!
Faithful stood up and spat hard and deliberately in her sister-in-laws face.
Why dont you take your bloody trap out of here?
she shouted, pointing at her angrily.
Wonderful news indeed!
I suppose youve been studying the way families of maids whove become concubines can throw their weight about, so you just cant wait to push me into that fire.
If I find favour, then of course youll be the great lady and be able -to put on airs and throw your weight about too.
If I dont, if Im a failureoh, youll just draw your tortoise-head back into your tortoise-shell and leave me to get on with it.
Whether I live or die, it will be all the same to you.
She began crying hysterically and had to be restrained and comforted by Patience and Aroma.
Huh!
said her sister-in-law in an unsuccessful attempt to retrieve her ruffled dignity.
Whether youre willing or not, you might at least be civil.
Anyway, I dont see why you need drag other people into it.
One doesnt discuss short legs in front of a dwarf, they say.
I make no comment on the nasty things you said about me, but what about these young ladies?
Theyve done nothing to provoke you.
This talk about concubines is not very nice for them.
Oh no!
said the two young ladies in question.
She wasnt referring to us when she said -that.
Its you who are dragging in other people.
What makes you think that either of us has been chosen as a concubine?
By whom?
Even if we had been, neither of us has any family in this household to throw their weight about, so she can say what she likes on the subject theres no occasion for us to get worked up about it.
Its because I made her look silly, said Faithful.
Shes trying to cover up by setting you two against me.
Fortunately you are too intelligent to be taken in.
I lost my temper just now and Im afraid I didnt choose my words very carefully.
She evidently thought she could take advantage of that.
Faithfuls sister-in-law was by now finding her situation so disagreeable that she removed herself from it by walking away in a huff.
Faithful herself was still extremely angry and for some time continued to hurl invectives at her retreating back but Patience and Aroma reasoned with her, and gradually she began to calm down.
Why were you hiding there just now?
Patience asked Aroma when Faithfuls composure had been restored.
Its funny that we didnt see you.
Id been over to Miss Xi-chuns to see Master Bao, said Aroma, but I got there a moment too late.
They said he had just that minute left for home.
I couldnt understand why in that case I hadnt run into him on the way, so I thought perhaps he might have gone to Miss Lins but just as I was going there to look for him, I met one of Miss Lins people who said that he wasnt with her, so I began wondering if he might have gone out of the Garden altogether.
Then just at that moment you came along from the direction I was looking in, so I slipped behind a tree and hid.
When Faithful came, I slipped out from behind my tree and hid behind this rock.
I could see you both sitting there talking, but your two pairs of eyes couldnt see me.
And your three pairs of eyes couldnt see me!
said a mocking voice behind them.
The three girls jumped in surprise.
When they turned to look, it was Bao-yu himself who walked out from behind the rock.
Aroma was the first to recover her voice.
You led me a nice dance!
she said.
Where have you been all this time?
As I came out of Xi-chuns place, I could see you coming towards me, said Bao-yu.
I knew it must be me you had come for, so I hid .myself to give you a surprise.
I watched you as you walked by with your head in the air.
Then I watched you go into Xi-chuns courtyard.
Then I saw you come out again.
Then I saw you stop and ask someone something.
It was terribly funny.
I was hoping that you would eventually come by the place where I was hiding, so that I could pop out and make you jump.
But then you started dodging around, and I could see that you were hiding from someone else and evidently planning to play the same trick on them.
So I peeped out to see who it was and found that it was these two.
Then I began gradually working my way round behind you, and when you stepped out and showed yourself, I slipped forward and hid in the place where you had been biding.
Wed better go behind and have another look, said Patience.
Well probably find two more people hidden back there!
No, I think there really are no more now,- said Bao-yu.
When she realized that Bao-yu must have heard everything that had been said, Faithful lay face downwards on the rock and pretended to be asleep.
Bao-yu laughed at her and gave her a little prod.
Its damp on that stone.
Much better come indoors if you want to lie down.
He tried to pull her up, at the same time inviting Patience to accompany them back home for some tea.
When Patience and Aroma added their own coaxing to his, Faithful finally rose to her feet and the four of them went together to Green Delights.
Bao-yu had, indeed, heard everything from his hiding-place, and his concern for Faithful made him very unhappy.
When they were back, he lay back silent on his bed worrying about it while the three girls laughed and chattered in the adjoining room.
When Lady Xing asked Xi-feng about Faithfuls parents, she learned that her fathers name was Jin Cai and that he and her mother lived as caretakers at the Jia family mansion in Nanking and seldom came up to the capital.
But she has an elder brother Jin Wen-xiang, who is one of Grandmothers buyers, said Xi-feng, and her sister-in-law is Grandmothers chief laundress.
The laundress was duly summoned and Lady Xing carefully explained what was required of her.
The woman was naturally delighted and went off in a great bustle of self-importance to look for Faithful, confident that she had only to state her mission for the matter to be successfully concluded.
Ill prepared, therefore, for Faithfuls acrimonious rebuff or the strictures of Patience and Aroma which followed it, she re-turned to Lady Xing to make her report in a state of angry mortification.
Its no good, Im afraid.
She just swore at me.
Since Xi-feng was present, the woman dared not mention Patience, That Aroma was there, too, helping her.
Some of the things she said to mewell, I wouldnt offend Your Ladyships ears by repeating them.
I think you and Sir She would be well advised to buy a girl elsewhere.
That little fool Faithful evidently wasnt meant for such great fortunenor we to share it, seemingly.
Whatever has this got to do with Aroma?
said Lady Xing.
I wonder how she got to know about it.
She paused for a moment.
Was there anyone else there?
Miss Patience was there, said the woman.
I wish youd given her a box on the ears then and told her to come home, Xi-feng put in hurriedly.
She went oft wandering somewhere or other as soon as I left the house and there wasnt a sign of her when I got back.
If she was there, shell have put in her pennyworth too, I suppose.
Well, she wasnt exactly there, said the woman, she was quite a way off.
I couldnt see her very clearly.
Maybe it wasnt her, I could have been mistaken.
Go and find her at once, Xi-feng said to the servants.
Tell her Im back and Lady Xing is here and she is to come home immediately.
Felicity hurried forward to report Miss Lin sent round three to four times to ask if Patience would go over to her place, -so Patience went to see what she wanted.
I went there to call her back when you came in just now, but Miss Lin said would I please tell you that she wants Patience a bit longer to do something for her.
Shes always asking Patience to do things for her, said Xi-feng, with pretended annoyance.
I wonder what it is this time.
Resourceless, now that her plan had misfired, Lady Xing returned home as soon as she had eaten dinner and in the evening informed Jia She of what had happened.
After reflecting for some moments, Jia She ordered Jia Lian to be summoned immediately.
Jin Cai and his wife arent the only couple looking after our Nanking property, he began as soon as Jia Lian arrived.
Have him recalled immediately.
Last time we had a letter from Nanking, said Jia Lian, it said that Jin Cai was in a delirium and theyd already issued the money to buy his coffin.
He may well be dead by now and even if he isnt, hes probably unconscious and wouldnt be much use to us back here.
And his old woman is as deaf as a post.
Villain!
Parricide!
Jia She shouted, in instant fury.
Trust you to know that!
Get out of my sight!
Startled by his fathers unaccountable anger, Jia Lian retreated in a hurry.
Shortly after he had done so, Jin Wen-xiang was sent for.
Jia Lian, not daring either to go back home or to go in again to his father, stayed near at hand in his outer study, waiting to see what happened.
After a while Jin Wen-xiang arrived, and Jia Lian watched him being conducted through the inner gate by the pages.
After a lapse of time in which he could comfortably had he been so minded have eaten four or five meals, he saw Jin Wen-xiang come out again, but was still too scared to make inquiries.
He did not do so until be had allowed what he thought was a safe interval to elapse after Jin Wen-xiangs departure, and was then informed that his father had gone to bed.
Only then did he dare to go back home and it was not until Xi-feng informed him that night that he understood what it was all about.
That night Faithful was unable to sleep.
Her brother came next morning to ask Grandmother Jia if he could take his sister back home for the day.
His request was granted, and Grandmother Jia ordered Faithful to get ready.
Faithful did not want to go, but overcame her reluctance because she did not want the old lady to suspect that anything was amiss.
When they were -home, her brother told her all that Jia She had said, promising that if she accepted, her position would be an honoured one she would become Mrs Jin, and all the household would look up to her.
But no matter what he said, Faithful set her face firmly against it all and obstinately continued to say no.
In the end her brother had no alternative but to go back to Jia She and tell him that his sister was unwilling.
Jia She was greatly incensed.
Now look here, he said, you go back and get your wife to tell her this Sir She says The moon ever loved a young man.
He knows all about that saying.
No doubt she thinks him too old for her and has set her heart on one of the younger ones Bao-yu, probably, or my son Lian.
Tell her, if she has, the sooner she abandons hope in that direction the better, because if I cant have her, she may be very sure that no one else in this family will dare to.
Thats one thing.
And heres another.
She may think that because shes Lady Jias favourite, she can look forward to marrying outside one day and becoming someones regular wife.
Well if so, just let her get this firmly into her mind whoever or wherever she marries, she neednt think she will ever escape me.
If she dies or is prepared to live all her life an old maid, I might admit myself beaten but otherwise, never.
So unless she proposes to choose one of those alternatives, shed better hurry up and change her mind.
It will be a great deal easier for her if she does.
Each sentence of the above had been punctuated by a nervous Yessir from Jin Wen-xiang.
Jia She continued.
Now dont think you can fool me over this in the hope of getting better terms.
Tomorrow I shall send Lady Xing over to have a word with Faithful herself.
If Faithful still refuses after your wife has spoken to her, then that is no fault of yours and I shant hold it against you.
But woe betide you if when Lady Xing talks to her she finds that she is willing!
After a good many more Yessirs Jin Wen-xiang withdrew and went back home.
When he got back, he did not even wait to transmit Jia Shes message through his wife, but went straight in and told it all to Faithful himself It made Faithful so angry that for some time afterwards she was unable to speak.
Finally, after some inward calculation, she answered him as follows.
Even if I am willing, youll have to take me back first, so that I can have a word about it with Her Old Ladyship.
Supposing this to mean that she had changed her mind, her brother and his wife were overjoyed, and the latter at once undertook to go with her to see Grandmother Jia.
It so happened that when they arrived, Lady Wang, Aunt Xue, Li Wan, Xi-feng, Bao-yu and the girls, and some of the senior stewardesses from outside were all - there with the old lady sharing a joke.
Faithful led her sister-in-law through their midst, knelt down at her mistresss feet, and with tears streaming down her face, proceeded to tell her what Lady Xing had said to her the day before, what her sister-in-law had said to her in the Garden, and what her elder brother had told her that morning.
When I refused, Sir She said it was because I fancied Master Bao, or else because I was saving myself to marry someone outside.
He said that even if I were to fly to the worlds end, I should never as long as I live escape out of his clutches sooner or later hed have his revenge.
But Ive made my mind up, and Im telling Your Ladyship here, in front of all these witnesses.
I dont care whether its Master Bao or Prince Bao or the Emperor Bao, I dont ever want to marry anyone.
Even if Your Ladyship herself were to try and force me to, Id rather cut my own throat than marry.
Ill serve Your Ladyship until you leave this world for the next one and when that day comes, I shant go back to my brother and his wife I shall either take my own life or I shall cut my hair off arid become a nun.
And in case anyone should think I dont really mean this and am only saying it to get myself out of a corner, I call on heaven and earth and all the gods and the sun and moon to be my witness if I dont honestly and sincerely mean every word I say, may I be struck with a quinsy this very moment and matter burst out of my mouth!
She had hidden a pair of scissors up her sleeve before she came, and as she uttered this oath, she undid her hair with her left hand and began hacking away at it with the scissors in her tight.
The servants rushed forward to stop her, but before they could lay hands on her, she had already cut off a large hank.
It was fortunate that her hair was so thick and strong.
Observing with relief that she had not succeeded in cutting through all of it, the servants wound up what remained and refastened it on her head.
By the time Faithful had finished speaking, Grandmother Jia was trembling all over with rage.
I have only this one girl left that I can rely on, she said, speaking half to herself, and now they are plotting to take her away from me.
As she looked at those standing around her, her eye fastened upon Lady Wang.
You deceive me, all of you.
You who are outwardly so dutiful you are secretly plotting against me like all the rest.
Whenever I have any good thing you come and ask me for it.
All my best people you take away from me.
Now I have only this one poor girl left to me and because you see that I am nice to her, it infuriates youyou cant bear it!
And now youve found this means of getting her away from me, so that you can have me at your mercy.
Lady Wang had risen to her feet as soon as Grandmother Jia addressed her, but dared not defend herself Aunt Xue could not very well intervene when the object of these strictures was her elder sister and Li Wan had hustled her young charges from the room at the first hint of impropriety when Faithful began her complaint.
Tan-chun, always one of the more thoughtful members of the family, realized that however unjust the accusation, Lady Wang was in no position to answer back.
She realized that Aunt Xue could not speak up for her own sister or Bao-chai say anything when her mother was silent and that Li Wan, Xi-feng and Bao-yu were even more disqualified from coming to the rescue.
This was exactly the sort of situation in which a young unmarried granddaughter could be useful.
And since Ying-chun was too docile and Xi-chun too childish, Tan-chun herself, after listening for a while at the window, boldly stepped into the room and faced her grandmother with an intrepid smile.
How can this matter have anything to do with Mother, Grandma?
Can you think of any reason why a younger brothers wife should be consulted about her brother-in4aws private business?
Grandmother Jia was at once all smiles.
Of course not, my dear.
I am a silly old woman!
Mrs Xue, you must try not to laugh at me.
Your sister is a most dutiful daughter-in-law not like Shes wife, who is so scared of her husband that she has no time for me - beyond what she does for forms sake.
I have done your sister a very grave injustice.
Aunt Xue murmured something in reply, afterwards adding as a politeness The younger sons wife is often the more favoured one.
Perhaps you are biased, Lady Jia.
No, said Grandmother Jia firmly, I am not biased.
Bao-yu, she said, turning to her grandson, why didnt you speak up when I falsely accused your mother?
How could you stand by like that and watch her being treated unjustly?
How could I take Mothers side against Uncle and Aunt?
said Bao-yu.
Obviously someone was to blame but if it wasnt Mother, who was I to say that it was?
I could hardly have said that it was me.
Somehow I dont think you would have believed me!
-384 Grandmother Jia laughed.
Yes, I suppose you are right.
Go and kneel down to your mother, then, Bao-yu.
Tell her that Im getting old and that she is not to be upset by what I said to her.
Ask her to forgive me for your sake.
Bao-yu quickly went over and knelt before Lady Wang.
But before he could relay his grandmothers message, his mother had laughingly prevented him.
Get up at once and dont be ridiculous, Bao-yu I How can you possibly apologize for Grandma to me ?
Bao-yu hurriedly got up to his feet.
What about you, Feng?
said Grandmother Jia.
Why didnt you try to stop me?
Ive been trying to restrain myself from blaming you for whats happened, said Xi-feng.
I dont know why you should pick on me.
Grandmother Jias laughter was echoed by the others present.
Oh?
Now this is interesting.
I should like to know why you think Im to blame for what has happened.
You shouldnt be so good at training your girls, said Xi-feng.
When youve brought up a beautiful young bulrush like Faithful, can you blame other people for wanting her?
Its a good job Im only your granddaughter-in-law.
If Id been your grandson, I should have asked you for her for myself a long time ago.
I shouldnt have waited till now, I can tell you!
Oh, said Grandmother Jia, laughing.
So its all my fault, is it?
Of course its your fault, said Xi-feng.
In that case I wont try to keep her, said Grandmother Jia.
You can take her back with you.
Not just now said Xi-feng.
In my next life, perhaps.
If a good girl in this life, I might be reborn as a man, and I can ask you for her then!
Go on, take her with you!
said Grandmother Jia.
You can give her to your Lian.
See if that shameless father-in-law of yours still wants her then!
-1014 Lian doesnt deserve her, said Xi-feng.
All hes fit for is a couple of sad old dumplings like me and Patience!
This set everyone laughing.
A maid came in to announce someone.
Lady Xing, maam.
Lady Wang hurried out to meet her.
What followed will be revealed in the next chapter.
CHAPTER 47 In pursuit of love the Oaf King takes a fearful beating And from fear of reprisal the Reluctant Playboy makes a hasty getaway HEARING that Lady Xing had arrived, Lady Wang at once hurried out to meet her.
Lady Xing had come over to see if there had been any change in Faithfuls attitude.
She was ignorant of the fact that the secret was now out and that Grandmother Jia knew everything.
The first she heard of it was when quietly informed by some of Grandmother Jias women as she entered the old ladys courtyard.
She would have liked to turn back, but by then it was already too late she had already been seen and announced by the servants inside, and when her sister-in-law Lady Wang came out to meet her, she was obliged to go in with her and pay her respects to Grandmother Jia.
Finding that her greetings were received by the old lady in stony silence, she was covered with shame and confusion.
By this time Xi-feng had slipped out on pretext of other business and Faithful had gone off to her own room to nurse her anger alone.
Fearing that their presence might add to Lady Xings embarrassment, Aunt Xue, Lady Wang and the rest also, one after another, withdrew.
When she saw that she and Lady Xing were alone together, Grandmother Jia at last broke her silence.
I hear you have been playing the matchmaker for your husband, she said.
I must congratulate you on your wifely virtue though I must say, I think that in this case you are carrying wifeliness a little far.
You have children and grand-children of your own now why should you be frightened of his temper still at your age?
Yet they tell me that you positively encourage his excesses.
Lady Xing blushed crimson with embarrassment.
I have tried several times to dissuade him, without success.
I am sure you must realize that I have acted against my will in this matter.
You did what you were told, all the same, said Grandmother Jia sharply.
Would you do what you were told if he asked you to kill someone?
Just reflect for a moment.
There is only your sister-in-law, poor, simple soulshe is always ailing from something or otherto worry about the responsibilities of this household.
Its true that she has Lians wife to help her, hut she has so much to do that she hardly knows which way to turnalways putting the rake down to pick up the broom.
And I have to cut down on all my activities nowadays.
So if there is ever anything that your sister-in-law and Feng have overlooked, Faithful is the only one left to make sure that my needs are attended to.
She is a child who notices things.
If she sees that I lack something, she will either ask for it herself or have a word with one of the other two and make sure that I get it.
Think of all the hundreds and thousands of things there are to be done in this household.
If I hadnt got Faithful, how could the other two avoid overlooking something once in a while?
So what would you have me do then?
Would you expect me to start worrying about all these things myself?
Should I have to start calculating what I needed every day and go running off to the other two to ask them for it?
Of all the girls Ive ever had, Faithful is the only one left me now who is a bit older and more responsible than the restwho understands my little ways and knows how I like things done.
Theres a genuine bond between usfor example, she would never take advantage of our relationship, as some girls would, to ask other people for clothes or money for herself.
One consequence 6f this is that not only Feng and your sister-in-law, but everyone else in the household, from the highest down to the lowest, is able to trust her.
It means that quite apart from the fact that I have someone I can rely on, Feng and -your sister-in-law are saved a great deal of worry because with a girl like that to look after me, I dont suffer when they occasionally forget something, and that keeps me in a good temper.
If Faithful were to leave me now, who would you get for me to put in her place?
And even if you could find such a jewel, shed need to have a tongue in her head too.
Shed be no use to me if she didnt have my Faithfuls gift for expressing herself.
As a matter of fact Ive been thinking of sending someone round to your husband to tell him that if he would care to buy himself a girl, hed be very welcome to do it with my money.
I dont mind if it costs me eight thousand ten thousand evenbut if its this girl of mine he wants, Im afraid he cant have her.
Tell him that if he wants to be a dutiful son, hell be doing more for me by leaving me my Faithful, to serve me during the few years that yet remain, than if he were to come over and wait on me in person, morning, noon and night.
Its turned out very conveniently, your coming over just now youll be able to take this message back to him yourself and I can be sure of its being properly delivered.
She called for the servants.
Whats happened to everybody?
We were just in the middle of a nice chat when suddenly everyone went away.
The maids, with answering cries, went off to look for the others.
Soon all had been reassembled except Aunt Xue, who showed some resistance to the summons.
Ive only just got back, she said.
Whats the point of going out again?
Have a heart, Mrs Xue I said the maid.
Her Old Ladyship is in a passion.
If you dont come, no one else will ever shift her out of it.
If its the walking that bothers you, Ill carry you there on my back I Get along with you, little monkey I said Aunt Xue, laughing.
A few hard words wont hurt you.
She went with the maid nevertheless.
On her arrival she was cordially welcomed by Grandmother Jia.
What shall we do?
said the old lady.
Shall we play cards?
Come and sit by me, Mrs Xue.
You havent had much practice.
If the two of us sit together, there will be less chance of Feng confusing us.
Yes, said Aunt Xue.
You will have to keep an eye on my hand and help me out a bit.
Is it to be just the four of us, or shall we have one or two more?
Just us four, surely?
said Lady Wang.
No, lets have one mote, said Xi-feng.
It will make it more interesting.
Go and call Faithful, someone, said Grandmother Jia.
She can sit below me.
Mrs Xues eyesight isnt too good.
Faithful will be able to keep an eye on both our hands.
Xi-feng laughed.
I know you can read and write, she said to Tan-chun.
I suppose you havent learned how to tell fortunes too, by any chance ?
What a strange question!
said Tan-chun.
You should be concentrating all your energies on winning some of Grandmas money, not thinking about having your fortune told.
-I thought you -might be able to tell me how much Im going to lose today, said Xi-feng.
No question of winning anything.
Look how Grandmas got me ambushed on every side before weve even started playing!
Presently Faithful arrived and sat in the place below Grandmother Jia.
Xi-feng sat below Faithful.
A red blanket was spread over the table, the cards were shuffled, the players cut for deal, and the game began.
After they had been playing for some minutes, Faithful noticed that Grandmother Jia had a nearly full hand and only needed a Two of Coins to go out.
She made a sign to Xi-feng, whose turn it was to discard.
Xi-feng pretended to be in great doubt as to what she ought to play.
Im sure Aunt Xue is hanging on to the card I want.
Id better let her have this one, and then perhaps shell part with it.
Im sure I havent got anything you want, said Aunt Xue, Id need to look at your hand before I believed that, said Xi-feng.
Youre very welcome to, said Aunt Xue, Come on, now!
Put that card down and lets see what it is.
Xi-feng laid the card down in front of Aunt Xue Two of Coins.
Its no good to me, said Aunt Xue, but Ive an idea your grandmother may be going out now.
Oh, no I cried Xi-feng in mock dismay.
Its a mistake.
I didnt mean to discard that one.
-294 But Grandmother Jia, with a crow of triumph, had already thrown down her cards.
You dare take that back!
You shouldnt make mistakes!
I told you I needed a fortune-teller, said Xi-feng.
Well, I played the card, so I suppose Ive no one but myself to blame.
I should think so too!
said Grandmother Jia.
Give yourself a good hard slap on the face if you want to know where the fault lies!
She turned to Aunt Xue.
You mustnt think Im grasping, Mrs Xue.
I dont play for -the money but I do so enjoy winning!
Of course, said Aunt Xue.
No one would be so idiotic as to suppose that you played for the money.
Hearing this, Xi-feng, who had meanwhile been counting out the money she had lost, abruptly stopped, and threaded the coins back onto the string.
Right!
she said, speaking to the others present.
That settles it!
She doesnt play for the money, she just enjoys winning.
Well I am mean and grasping, Im afraid, and when I lose, I like to know how much.
But if thats the way she feels, back it all goes again!
When Grandmother Jia played cards it was her unvarying custom to let Faithful shuffle for her.
She had been talking to Aunt Xue throughout Xi-fengs bit of by play, but broke off when he became aware that Faithful had made no move.
Come child, she said.
Youre not too upset to shuffle for me, are you?
-320 Faithful took up the cards with a laugh.
No, only Mrs Lian hasnt paid up yet.
Oh, hasnt she?
said Grandmother Jia.
Shell be lucky if she gets away with that!
She called one of the junior maids to her.
Take that string of cash from in front of Mrs Lian and bring it here.
-320 The little maid did as she was bid -and laid the money on the table beside Grandmother Jia.
Please let me have it back, Xi-feng pleaded, so that I can give you the right amount.
Feng really is rather mean, said Aunt Xue jokingly.
Its only a game, after all.
Xi-feng stood up and, laying a hand on Aunt Xues arm, pointed out to her the wooden chest in which Grandmother Jia kept her money.
You see that, Aunt?
I dont know how much of my money has at one time or another found its way in there.
Before Ive been playing half an hour, my money in the chest begins calling to my money on the table to come and join it.
All I have to do now is wait until its called it all in, then the game will be over and Grannie will be in a good temper again and I shall be able to go and get on with my work.
By the time she had finished -saying this, Grandmother Jia and all the others present were laughing.
They were still laughing when Patience, fearing that her mistress might have insufficient money by her, came in bringing another string of cash.
Dont put it down in front of me, Xi-feng told her.
Put it down beside Her Old Ladyship, so that all my money can go into the chest together.
We dont want the money in the chest to have to go through the -business of calling for it all over again.
This made Grandmother Jia laugh so much that she scattered the cards she was holding all over the table.
Tear her mouth!
she said to Faithful, giving her a playful push.
Patience laid the money down as she was bidden, and after laughing a while with the others, went out again.
On her way out of the courtyard she ran into Jia Lian, who was just about to enter the gate.
Wheres Lady Xing?
he asked her.
Sir She has sent me to look for her.
Shes been standing in there with Her Old Ladyship for the last half hour, said Patience.
She hasnt dared to move yet, but I dare say shell get away as soon as she can.
Her Old Ladyship has been in quite a tizzy this morning, but thanks to the Mistress, whos been all this time humouring her, shes gradually beginning to calm down a bit.
Oh well, when I go in I shall say that Ive come to find out if Her Old Ladyship is going to Lai Das place on the fourteenth, so that I know whether or not to have the carriages ready, said Jia Lian.
I can mention that Lady Xing is wanted as an afterthought.
And after that perhaps I shall stay on and chaff the old lady a bit for a few minutes.
That should he all right, shouldnt it?
If youre asking my opinion, I think youd do much better not to go in at all, said Patience.
Everyones been in trouble with her today even Her Ladyship and Bao-yu.
If you go in now, youll walk straight into it.
Oh, surely its all over now, isnt it?
said Jia Lian.
Surely shes not going to start all over again?
Its nothing to do with me, in any case.
And Sir She did ask me to go and fetch Mother myself.
If he finds that Ive sent someone else to do it, hes in such a bad temper already, that hell probably use that as an excuse to take it out on me.
He began to go in, and Patience, to whom this sounded reasonable enough, turned back and followed him in across the courtyard.
Entering Grandmother Jias outer door, Jia Lian crossed the reception room on tiptoe and peered into the inner room at the back.
He could see his mother standing there.
Xi-feng, who had sharper eyes than the rest, spotted him at once and made a sign to him not to enter and another sign to Lady Xing indicating that she was wanted outside.
Lady Xing could not simply walk out, so she filled a cup with some tea and set it down in front of Grandmother Jia.
This caused the old lady to turn round and as Jia Lian chanced at that very moment to be looking in at the doorway and was unable to withdraw his head in time, she caught a momentary glimpse of him before he disappeared.
Whos that outside?
she said.
It looked like one of the boys peeping in there just now.
Yes said Xi-feng, quickly rising to her feet and going over to the doorway, I thought I saw someones shadow there just now.
Jia Lian walked smiling into the room.
Ive come to ask if you are going on the fourteenth, Grandma, so, that I shall know whether to get the carriages ready or not.
In that case why didnt you come in straight away, said Grandmother Jia, instead of lurking around outside?
I could see that you were playing cards, said Jia Lian with a somewhat artificial smile.
I didnt like to interrupt you.
I was hoping to get my wife to come out so that I could ask her.
And what is there so extraordinarily urgent about this that you needed to ask her now?
said Grandmother Jia.
If youd waited until she got home, you could have asked her all you wanted to then.
Why this extraordinary conscientiousness all of a sudden?
Eavesdropping is what you were up to more likely, or spying for somebody else.
Whatever it was, you gave me a nasty turn, creeping around in that sneaky, underhand way.
Disgusting creature!
Your wife will be with me a long time yet playing cards.
Better get back to that Zhao Er woman while you have the chance and carry on where you left off with your plans- for poisoning her!
The others all laughed.
It was Bao Ers wife, my old love, not Zhao Ers, said Faithful, laughing.
Thats what I said, didnt I?
Grandmother Jia snapped.
Well, Zhao or Bao or brown cow how can !be expected to remember such things?
The very mention of them makes me feel angry.
There were three generations of the family above me when I came to this household as a young bride, and now there are three generations below me, and Ive seen many shocking and many wicked and many peculiar things during the fifty-four years since first I came here, but this sort of thing is simply outside my experience.
Now be off with you!
Jia Lian bolted, not daring to say a word.
Patience, who had been standing meanwhile outside the window, quietly mocked him as he came out I told you so, but you wouldnt listen.
You walked straight into the net, didnt you?
Just at that moment Lady Xing came out.
This is all Fathers doing, said Jia Lian.
Now we have to face the consequences.
Unfilial wretch I said Lady Xing.
Some people would die for their fathers, but you a few harmless words and you are already whining and complaining.
Whats the matter with you?
You havent been hurt yetthough I should look out, if I were you Fathers been pretty angry these last few days.
Come on, you must hurry back, Mother, said Jia Lian.
He sent me to fetch you a long time ago.
He saw his mother out of the main part of the mansion and round to Jia Shes quarters next door.
Lady Xing then gave her husband, in briefest possible outline, a report of what had happened and since it was now evident that nothing more could be done about Faithful, Jia She had to put up with his mortification as best he could.
He did, however, from that day onwards, discontinue all duty calls on his mother on the pretext of being ill. Lady Xing and Jia Lian were sent to make the mandatory calls on her in his stead.
Meanwhile his agents scoured the market for likely girls.
A suitable one was eventually purchased for the sum of five hundred taels a seventeen-year-old girl called Carmine, who was duly installed in his room.
But that is another part of our story.
The card-game continued until dinner-time, and it was not until after dinner that the company finally broke up.
Of the day or two which followed these events our story preserves no record.
-347 The fourteenth came.
Before it was yet daylight, Lai Das wife came round once more to renew her invitation.
Grandmother Jia responded enthusiastically and, taking Lady Wang, Aunt Xue and the young people along with her, spent a considerable part of the day in the Lai familys private garden.
Lai Das garden was not, of course, to be compared with Prospect Garden nevertheless it was spacious and well-made and among its pools, rocks, trees and pavilions were to be found several features of striking interest or beauty.
The menfolk who were gathered in the reception hall at the front or outer part of the establishment included Xue Pan, Cousin Zhen, Jia Lian, Jia Rong and a number of the more closely related members of the Jia clan outside the immediate family.
Jia She was conspicuously absent.
Young Lai had also invited some of his office holding colleagues and a few young men of good family as congenial company for the Jias.
One of these last was a young gentleman called Liu Xianglian whom Xue Pan had met on some previous occasion and hankeringly remembered ever since.
The discovery that he was a keen amateur actor one, moreover, who specialized in romantic roles had led Xue Pan to jump to the wrong conclusion and assume that he must share the same wind and moonlight proclivities as himself.
Eager to make his closer acquaintance but hitherto denied any opportunity of doing so, he was overjoyed at finding him among the company on this occasion and consequently in a state of excitement which rendered his behaviour extremely unpredictable.
Cousin Zhen had also heard of Liu Xiang-lian and admired him.
Today, under pretext of being a little drunk, he had taken the liberty of asking him to perform for them, and Liu Xiang-lian, supported by the hired professional players, had obliged by appearing on the stage in two operatic numbers.
When he rejoined the company, Xue Pan took the opportunity of moving over to his table and began plying him with all sorts of questions and insinuations.
Liu Xiang-lian was a young man of excellent family who, having lost both his parents in early youth, had failed to complete his education.
He was of a dashing, impulsive nature, impatient of niceties.
His chief pleasures were exercising with spear or sabre, drinking, and gambling but he was not averse to gentler pastimes he frequented the budding groves and could play on both the flute and the zither.
Because he was so young and handsome, many who did not know him mistakenly supposed that, being an actor, he must have the usual actors propensities.
Lai Das son Lai Shang-rong had been a good friend of his for years and it was only natural that he should invite him on this occasion to help him entertain his guests.
Under these circumstances Lin Xiang-lian was prepared to put up with a certain amount of drunken horse-play but Xue Pan was too much for him, and soon his attentions were becoming so distasteful that Xiang-lian resolved -347 -to leave at the earliest opportunity in -order to escape from them.
Before he could break away, however, Lai Shang-rong detained him.
Bao-yu gave me a message for you just now.
He said that though he saw you briefly when he arrived, with so many other people around, be didnt have a chance of talking to you properly.
Hes most anxious that you should stay on so that he can talk to you afterwards.
If you are really set on going, wait while I call him out and you can have a word with him now.
What you do after that is your own affair I certainly shant try to detain you.
He called a waiter to him Look inside and get hold of one of the old women.
Tell her to have a quiet word with Master Bao to say that hes wanted here outside.
After about the time it would take to drink a cup of tea in, Bao-yu appeared.
Here you are, Uncle Bao!
said Lai Shang-rong when he had joined them.
I leave Xiang-lian in your bands, Ive got to go and look after my guests now.
With that he left them.
Taking Xiang-lian by the hand, Bao-yu led him into a study at the side of the hall where they sat down together.
Have you visited Qin Zhongs grave recently?
said Bao-yu.
Certainly I have, said Xiang-lian.
The other day I was out hawking with a few of the others and happened to notice that we were only half a mile or so away from it.
It occurred to me that it might not have stood up to all that heavy rain we had in the summer, so I left the others and went off to have a look.
As a matter of fact it had been washed away a bit so the day after I got back I scraped a few hundred cash together, went back first thing next morning, hired a couple of labourers, and got it patched up again.
That explains it, said Bao-yu.
Last month, when the pods were beginning to form on the lotuses in Prospect Garden, I picked ten of them and sent Tealeaf to offer them at his grave.
When he got back, I asked him if the rains had damaged it at all, and he told me that not only had it not been damaged, but that it was in even better condition than it had been the time before.
I knew from that that some friend must have been there recently and restored it.
I wish I werent so cooped up all the time at home.
I can never do anything I want to by myself.
The slightest move I make is sure to be seen and reported, and either Im physically prevented from going where I want to or else lectured at until I promise not to go.
Its useless for me ever to say that Im going to do anything, because I know that I shant be allowed to.
I cant even spend my own money in the way I want.
This thing at least is something you dont need to worry about, said Xiang-lian, with me outside to look after it for you.
Anyway, its the thought that counts.
Its enough to know that you would do it yourself if you could.
Ive already put aside the money for his anniversary on the first of next month.
You know how broke I always -am.
I never have any savings because as soon as Ive got any money I spend it all.
Well, this time I thought Id better not take any chances, so I put some by well in advance, so-as not to have to stretch my hands out helplessly when the time conies.
I was going to send Tealeaf round to see you about that, said Bao-yu, but you never seem to be at home and youre such a rolling stone that no one ever knows where to look for you.
Dont bother to try, said Xiang-lian.
This is a matter in which each of us does what he can.
Anyway, I shall be going away quite soon.
It will probably be three or four years before I come back again.
Why?
said Bao-yu in some agitation.
Thats something youll know -soon enough when the time comes.
I must be going now.
Must you?
said Bao-yu.
I so seldom get a chance of seeing you.
Cant we leave together in the evening?
Im afraid its that cousin of yours, said Xiang-lian.
The usual problem.
If I stay any longer, theres sure to be some kind of trouble.
Id much better go now and avoid it.
Bao-yu reflected for some moments.
Yes, I suppose in that case youd better.
Only, if you really and truly are going away for a long time, do please let me know before you start.
Please dont just slip away without telling me.
His eyes brimmed over with tears.
Of course Ill come and say good-bye to you, said Xiang-lian .
As long as you promise not to tell anyone.
He stood up to go.
You go in again now.
Dont try to see me out.
He left the study and made his way to the main gate but there, unfortunately, was the very person he was trying to avoid.
Whos let my little Liu get away?
Xue Pan bawled.
Xiang-lians eyes flashed angrily.
In other circumstances he would have laid him out there and then with a single blow of his fist but reflecting that to do so now would be interpreted by the others as drunken brawling and would moreover be embarrassing to his host, he restrained himself with some effort Xue Pan, in whose besotted eyes he appeared as a coveted treasure that was moving at last within his grasp, lurched towards him, smiling happily, and gripped him firmly by the arm.
Where are you off to little pal?
Just-going out for a stroll, said Xiang-lian.
Ill be back again directly.
It wont be any more fun here without you, said Xue Pan.
Do stay a bit longerjust to show me that you care for me, eh?
If its business thats taking you away, dont worry, leave it to me!
I dont care how important it is whether its a career youre after or making a pilewith me for a pal youll have no more to worry about!
Angered and revolted by his odious intimacy, Xiang-lian quickly thought of a plan for disposing of him.
Drawing him aside to a spot where they could not be overheard, he pretended to question his sincerity.
Are you really so fond of me, or are you just pretending?
Xue Pan was almost beside himself.
His eyes became tiny slits of pleasure How can you ask such a question, my dear?
Pretending?
May I die this instant if I am!
Good.
This place here is not convenient.
Wed better go in again now and sit with the others for a bit.
Then Ill leave, and you can leave a bit after me and follow me back to my place.
Well make a night of it.
Ive got a couple of very nice little boys there whove never been out before so you neednt bring anyone with you all the service well need is there already.
Xue Pan was by now so delighted that his drunkenness had already half left him.
Do you mean this?
What a person!
said Xiang-lian.
One opens ones heart to you and you dont trust them.
No, no, no, said Xue Pan hurriedly.
I trust you.
Im no fool.
Theres only one thing, though I dont know where you live.
If you leave before I do, where am I to look for you?
My place is outside the North Gate, said Xiang-lian.
Do you think you can tear yourself from home and spend a whole night outside the city?
What do I need a home for if Ive got you?
said Xue Pan.
All right, said Xiang-lian.
Ill wait for you on the bridge then, outside the North Gate.
Wed better get back to the party now.
Dont forget wait a bit after Ive gone before going yourself then -no one should suspect anything.
Yes, said Xue Pan, yes.
The two of them then went in again and resumed their places.
Xue Pan found waiting difficult and kept his eyes constantly on Xiang-lian, watching for him to go.
At the same time he began, in joyous anticipation of the pleasures in store, to drink with greater and greater abandon, not waiting for the wine to be offered, but stretching out rudely to left and right of him and plying himself from the wine-kettles of his neighbours.
Soon he was very drunk indeed.
Xiang-lian now rose to go and succeeded in slipping out of the main gate unobserved.
First he gave an order to his page Almond, who was waiting there You go home now.
I have some business outside the city to attend to.
Ill be back later.
Then he vaulted into the saddle and rode off until he came to the North Gate of the city.
Passing through, he rode on till he came to the bridge, where he halted and took up his-station-to wait for Xue Pans arrival.
After the time it would take to eat a meal, he caught sight of Xue Pan hurrying along in the distance.
His mouth was open, his eyes were staring, and his head turned from side to side as he looked anxiously about him, for all the world like one of those little clapper drums that children twirl upon a stick.
So intent was he on scanning the remoter parts of the landscape that he failed to take note of what was nearer at hand and rode right past Xiang-lian without seeing him.
Xiang-lian, who for all his loathing could not but laugh at this, gave his horse rein and followed after.
Presently Xue Pan began to notice that he was getting into the open country and brought his horse round about.
As he did so, he found himself almost face to face with Xiang-lian.
I knew you wouldnt fall me, he cried delightedly.
Xiang-lian smiled back.
Lets go on a bit furtherjust in case anyone is tracking us.
He trotted on ahead and Xue Pan followed, keeping as close to him as he could.
Presently, having satisfied himself that the country ahead was quite deserted, Xiang-lian dismounted near the edge of a reed-filled dyke and tied his horse up to a tree.
You get down too, he called pleasantly to Xue Pan.
Lets first swear an oath that if either of us is unfaithful to the other or betrays our secret to anyone, it shall happen to him as the oath shall say.
Yes, said Xue Pan.
Good ideal He dismounted eagerly tied his horse to another tree, and straightway knelt down and began his oath If ever, in the days to come, I prove unfaithful or betray this secret to another, may Heaven and Earth destroy He got no further.
At that point there was a great thump and the sensation of being hit on the back of the neck by an object like a large iron hammer.
Everything became suddenly black, except that the darkness was filled with a confusion of flying stars, and he collapsed forwards helplessly upon the ground.
Xiang-lian stepped up and surveyed him from above.
Someone not used to taking punishment, he concluded.
It would be unwise to use too much force on him.
Turning him over, he performed, with a few deft flicks over Xue Pans face, the operation which is described in the profession as opening up the fruits hop.
At first Xue Pan struggled to get up, but Xiang-lian lashed out with his foot and sent him sprawling once more upon his back.
You were willing, just as much as I was, Xue Pan muttered plaintively.
You had only to say so if you werent.
Why fool me into coming out here with you and then beat me up?
He began cursing him obscenely.
You blind iniquity!
said Liu Xiang-lian.
You dont know who youre dealing with.
You should be begging for mercy right now, not swearing at me.
Youre not worth killing, though.
Ill just give you a little lesson.
He picked up his horsewhip and turning Xue Pan on his face once more, proceeded to deal him thirty or forty cuts along the length of-his body, from his shoulders down to his calves.
Xue Pan was by now half sober, and finding the pain unbearable, began to roar.
Look at you!
said Xiang-lian contemptuously.
I should have thought you could take your medicine a bit better than that.
He took him by the left leg and dragged him a few steps to where the reeds began, in the stagnant ooze of the dyke, so that he was coated from head to foot with the liquid mud.
Now, he said, do you know who I am?
As Xue Pan merely lay in the mud whimpering and made no reply, he threw away his whip and gave him a few thumps with his fist.
Xue Pan rolled about and bellowed Youve broken my ribs.
I know youre straight.
It was the others who told me you werent.
I shouldnt have listened to them.
Leave the others out of this, said Xiang-lian.
Im talking about now.
Now?
said Xue Pan.
Now I know youre straight.
I kn6w I was wrong.
What more can I say?
Youll have to talk a bit prettier than that before Ive finished with you, said Xianglian.
Old pal Xue Pan began, whimpering.
Xiang-lian dealt him another thump with his fist.
Ow!
Ow!
Chap Two thumps this time.
Ow!
Ow!
Sir, then.
Please sir, forgive me for being so blind.
From now on I shall honour you and fear you.
-294 Now drink some of this water, said Xiang-lian.
Xue Pan knitted his brows with disgust But this water is really filthy.
I couldnt get it down.
Xiang-lian raised his list threateningly.
Ill drink, said Xue Pan hurriedly.
Ill drink.
He bent down and drank a mouthful of the water at the base of the reeds but before he could swallow it, there was a great retching noise and he vomited up all that he had recently eaten and drunk.
Filthy pig!
said Xiang-lian.
Now eat that up and I let you off Xue Pan began kotowing to him.
Please, for your souls sake, earn a bit of merit dont try to make me do that!
I couldnt do that if you -killed me.
This stench is poisoning me said Xiang-lian and leaving Xue Pan, he unfastened his horse, led it off a few paces, vaulted into the saddle, and galloped away.
Observing with relief that Xiang-lian had really gone, Xue Pan, cursing his folly for having been so egregiously mistaken in his man, attempted to struggle to his feet but every part of him was hurting so much that it was impossible for him to rise.
-347 Meanwhile, back at the party, Cousin Zhen and the others, suddenly noticing that the two of them were missing, sought them for a while without success.
Someone did say that they thought they might have gone out of the North Gate but Xue Pan had told his pages not to follow him, and they were all in such dread of their master that none of them dared go out there to look.
In the end Cousin Zhen became so uneasy that he sent Jia Rong with some of the boys to track them down.
Their trail led them through the North Gate and about two thirds of a mile along the road which crosses the bridge outside it.
There, suddenly, they caught sight of Xue Pans horse, tied up to one of the trees at the side of a reed-filled dyke.
Good!
they said.
Where the horse is, the rider must be.
And all of them went over to where the horse was standing.
As they did so, they heard someone groaning among the rushes and there, when they went to look, was Xue Pan, his clothes torn, his face cut and swollen almost beyond recognition, and so besmirched with mud from head to foot that he had more the appearance of an old wallowing sow than of a human being.
Jia Rong had little difficulty in guessing what had happened.
Slipping from his horse, he ordered the servants to help Xue Pan to his feet.
Tireless in the pursuit of love, Uncle I he said cheerfully, while they struggled to do his bidding.
This time its led you into the reeds of the marshes.
I suppose the Dragon King must have taken a fancy to you and carried you off to be his son-in-law.
To judge from appearances, I should say that you -must have got caught up on his horn!
Xue Pan wished that the earth would open and swallow up his shame.
As there was clearly no question of getting him onto his horse, Jia Rong told one of the boys to hurry back to the street outside the North Gate and hire a carrying chair.
When Xue Pan had been helped into this, they had him carried into the city, themselves accompanying him on horseback.
Jia Rong mischievously proposed that they should take him back to the Lais house to rejoin the party but Xue Pan entreated so piteously and begged him so earnestly not to tell anyone of his plight, that Jia Rong relented and allowed him to go back home alone.
Jia Rong himself returned to the party to report back to his father.
From his account of the state Xue Pan had been in when they found him Cousin Zhen deduced that he must have been beaten up by Liu Xiang-lian but appeared remarkably unconcerned, for he merely laughed and observed that he could do with the lesson.
It is true that he went to inquire after him in the evening, when he got back home from the party but Xue Pan was by that time nursing his injuries in bed and declined to see him on the grounds that he was feeling too ill.
When Grandmother Jia and her party had got back to their several apartments, Aunt Xue and Bao-chai found Caltrop with her eyes all swollen from weeping.
On discovering the cause, they rushed in to look at Xue Pan.
Fortunately he appeared to have no bones broken, but his face and body had taken a terrible battering.
Torn between maternal anguish at his plight and anger at the folly which had occasioned it, Aunt Xue inveighed against Xue Pan and Xiang-lian by turns.
She wanted to tell Lady Wang and get her to have Xiang-lian arrested, but was dissuaded from doing so by Bao-chai.
Its not important enough for that, Mamma.
The two of them had been drinking and fell out over their cups, thats all there was to it.
Whenever that happens, its always the drunker of the two who gets the worst of it.
Besides, everyone knows what a lawless, ungovernable creature Pan is.
Its only because youre his mother that you feel differently.
If its satisfaction you want, that can easily be arranged.
Just wait a few days until Pan is better and can get about again.
Im sure Mr Zhen and Mr Lian and the other menfolk will be unwilling to pass over this in silence.
Probably they will get up a little party and ask this person to it and make him apologize to Pan in front of everyone and admit that he was to blame.
But if you insist on making an issue of it now and telling Aunt about it, you will make it appear that you are so blind to Pans faults that you allow him to go around provoking other people, but that as soon as someone stands up to him, you fly up in arms and use our relations influence to oppress them.
-336 Aunt Xue at once saw the force of this.
You are quite right, my child.
I was being silly.
Dear Mamma!
But now you are being sensible.
He doesnt fear you, and he wont listen to anyone else.
He just goes on getting worse and worse.
One or two good, sharp shocks like this might bring him to his senses.
Meanwhile Xue Pan lay on the kang in his bedroom, cursing Xiang-lian by every name he could think of and calling on his boys to smash up his house, to beat him to death, to have the law on him.
Aunt Xue shouted to them that they were to do no such thing.
To Xue Pan she explained that Xiang-lian was in any case beyond the reach of his vengeance.
Xiang-lian behaved very bad because he was drunk.
When he came to himself afterwards he was very sorry and now, because he is afraid of the consequences, he has fled the country.
When Xue Pan heard that, he But you shall learn that if you wish in the following chapter.
CHAPTER 48 -214 The Love Deluded One turns his thoughts to trade and travel And the Poetry Enthusiast applies herself to making verses XUE PAN gradually calmed down when his mother told him that Xiang-lian had fled.
After four or five days the pain of his injuries had subsided, but not the bumps and bruises and as, while these still disfigured him, he was unwilling to meet any of his acquaintance, he kept to his room on the pretext that he was still too ill to go out.
The tenth month soon came.
Several of the employees working in Xue Pans shops in the capital wanted to go back home for the annual settling of accounts and Xue Pan found himself giving a farewell party for them in his room.
Among those present was one Zhang De-hui, the sixty-year-old manager of his largest pawnshop.
He had worked with the family since he was a lad and now had a household of his own and an income of two or three thousand taels.
He was planning to leave with the others but not return until half way through the following year, as he explained to Xue Pan on this occasion.
Theres a great shortage of stationery and perfumed goods just now, he said.
These things are sure to fetch high prices next year.
Im proposing to send my eldest boy here after New Year to look after the shop, so that I can travel back later.
I shall buy up supplies of stationery and sandalwood fans on my way, aiming to get back here in time for the Double Fifth.
I reckon it should be possible to make several hundred percent profit, even after the excise and all the other expenses have been deducted.
This gave Xue Pan an idea.
I havent felt like seeing anyone since that beating, he thought, and some excuse for getting away from everybody for a year or so is just what Ive been looking for.
Obviously I cant go on staying indoors and pretending Im ill indefinitely.
And for another thing, I havent done very much with my life to date Im neither a scholar nor a soldier, and though I call myself a merchant, Ive never handled a pair of scales or an abacus in my life, not to mention the fact that I know nothing about the places and peoples of the Empire or its roads and waterways.
Why dont I get a bit of capital together and spend a year or so travelling around with Zhang De-hui?
It wont matter much whether I make any money or not the main thing is that it will get me away from my disgrace and there is the added advantage that I shall be able to put in a bit of sight-seeing as well.
Having so decided, he waited until the other guests had gone and then, making himself as agreeable as he knew how, informed Zhang De-hui of his decision and asked him to delay his departure by a few days so that he would have time to prepare.
That evening he told his mother.
Aunt Xues initial reaction was one of pleasure, but this quickly gave way to misgivings.
It was not that she attached much importance to the loss of a little capital she was concerned about the scrapes he might get into away from home.
And so she ended up by refusing.
I think youd better stay here with me.
I should worry less.
After all, you dont need to make this money.
It isnt as if you havent got enough to spend.
But Xue Pan had made his mind up and was not to be put off.
Youre always telling me how inexperienced I am and how ignorant and how unwilling to learn yet now that Im making a real effort to turn over a new leaf by standing on my own feet at last and learning a bit about the business, you wont let me.
What do you want me to do?
Im not a girl, to be shut up at home all the time youll have to let me out some time or other.
Besides, Zhang De-hui is an old, experienced person and hes worked for our family all his life.
If Im with him, I dont see how anything can go wrong.
Even if I did ever slip up, Im sure hed soon tell me off about it and put me right.
And as he knows all there is to know about prices and so forth, I should naturally always consult him on business matters.
You couldnt ask for better conditions yet you wont let me go.
Very well, Ill get ready in secret and leave without telling you.
Youll see me when I come back next year, after making a fortune!
Ill show you!
With that he went off to bed in a huff.
Aunt Xue discussed the matter with Bao-chai after he had gone.
Its good that he should want to occupy himself with something serious at last, said Bao-chai.
The trouble is, of course, that however fair-sounding his intentions may be now, once hes outside he may succumb to his old weaknesses again, and then it will be that much more difficult to control him.
However, I suppose that is a risk one has to take.
If he is really going to reform, then this experience may prove a life-long blessing.
If he is not, I dont see that there is very much left that you can do.
After all, there is only so much one can do for another person the rest must be left to Heaven.
Pan is a grown man now, Mamma.
If you maintain that he is too ignorant of the world to be allowed out into it, you are not going to make him any less ignorant by keeping him shut up indoors.
And since he is being so reasonable for once, I should make up your mind that you are going to lose eight or nine hundred taels and hand it over to him to see how he manages.
After all, he will have someone from our own business helping him and they may well feel some compunction about cheating him so it s by no means a foregone conclusion that he will lose it all.
And for another thing, away from home there wont be those worthless companions of his to egg him on nor, on the other hand, will he have anyone to fall back on if he gets into trouble.
He will have to fend for himself eat when he can and go hungry when he cant.
And when it dawns on him that he is on his own and has no one he can lean on, he may begin to behave a bit better.
Surely its worth trying?
Aunt Xue pondered her daughters words for some minutes.
I think you are probably right, she said eventually.
I certainly dont mind using up some of our money on the experiment.
If he can learn a bit of sense from it, it will have been money well-spent.
Having thus concluded their discussion, the two of them went to bed.
Next day Aunt Xue had Zhang De-hui invited round once more, and while he was being entertained by Xue Pan in the study, stationed herself in the loggia at the back and, addressing him through the window from this hidden vantage point, entrusted her boy, with many a fond and careful instruction, to his care.
Zhang De-hui gave vigorous assurances of good intent, and having finished his meal, stood up and took his leave, stopping on his way out to add a few words to Xue Pan about arrangements for their departure The almanac says the fourteenth is the best day for travelling.
I should start packing and hiring mules straight away if I were you, Mr Xue, so that we can make a start first thing on the fourteenth.
Xue Pan, delighted at the prospect of getting away so soon, hastened to relay this to his mother.
Assisted by Bao-chai, Caltrop and a couple of old nannies, Aunt Xue devoted the whole of the next few days to packing.
She selected five male members of the domestic staff to accompany Xue Pan on his travels the husband of his o1d wet nurse, two experienced older servants who had been in service with his father, and two of the pages who normally waited on him.
Three heavy carts were hired for the luggage and four travelling mules.
Xue Pan himself planned to ride on a mule from his own stablesa large, sturdy animal with an iron-grey coat.
He also planned to take a saddle-horse of his own as an alternative mount.
When all other preparations had been completed, Aunt Xue and Bao-chai devoted the remaining evenings to exhortation and admonishment of the prospective traveller.
On the thirteenth Xue Pan went to take leave of his Uncle Wangs family in the city, after which he went round the two mansions saying his good-byes to the Jias.
There was some talk of Cousin Zhen and one or two of the others seeing him off next day for a parting cup on the road but whether or not anything came of it our narrative does not disclose.
Early on the morning of the fourteenth Aunt Xue and Bao-chai accompanied him to the outer threshold of the inner gate and watched him with tearful eyes until they could see him no more.
When Aunt Xue moved from Nanking to the capital, she had brought only four or five couples with her in addition to the handful of old nannies and young unmarried maids of her immediate household.
Now that five of the menfolk had gone off to accompany Xue Pan on his travels, only one or two male servants were left.
The very day that Xue Pan started on his journey, Aunt Xue went into his study, had all the small furniture, blinds, curtains and other movables carried out and stored in her own apartment, and ordered the wives of the absent menservants to move in with her to sleep.
She also ordered Caltrop to tidy up Xue Pans sleeping quarters, lock the door, and move - into her apartment with the rest.
But Mamma, Bao-chai protested, youve already got all those others to keep you company.
Why not let Caltrop move in with me?
It gets lonely in the Garden now that the nights are longer another companion to sit with me in the evenings when I am sewing would be very welcome.
Of course, said Aunt Xue.
I was forgetting.
I should have thought of it myself.
I was telling Pan only the other day Apricot is so young and scatter-brained and Oriole on her own really isnt enough for you.
We really ought to buy you another girl.
Buying is all very well if you know what the girl is going to be like, said Bao-chai but if you make a bad choice, then not only have you wasted your moneythats a small considerationbut you have a very great deal of trouble on your hands.
If we are going to buy a girl, it would be much better to take our time over the inquiries and not get one until we are quite sure about her background.
She told Caltrop to get her bedding and toilet things together and ordered Advent and one of the old nannies to carry them for her to Allspice Court.
Then she and Caltrop went into the Garden together.
I was dying to ask the Mistress if she would let me move in with you after Mr Xue had gone, said Caltrop, but I was afraid she might think I only wanted to get into the Garden to play.
How wonderful that you should have asked her for me!
I knew youd had your heart set on this Garden for some time past, said Bao-chai with a smile, but you havent really been free till now.
Dashing in and out for a few minutes each day wouldnt have given you time to enjoy it properly.
Thats why I have waited for this opportunity before asking.
Now you will be able to settle in and spend a whole year here.
You get your wish, you see, and I gain a companion!
Dear Miss!
said Caltrop Now that there is the time and the opportunity, will you teach me how to write poetry, please?
Bao-chai laughed.
Youre like the -famous general one conquest breeds appetite for another.
I advise you to take things more gently.
Today is your first day in the Garden.
If I were you, I should go out of that corner gate and, beginning with Lady Jias, call in at all the different apartments and pay your respects to everybody.
You neednt go Out of your way to tell them that you have moved into the Garden but if the subject should happen to arise, tell them that I have brought you in as my companion.
After that, when you get back into the Garden, you ought to go round and call on all the young ladies.
Caltrop was just going oft to do as Bao-chai advised, when Patience came hurrying in.
She was in a state of some agitation, which she smilingly masked, however, in response to Caltrops eager greetings.
Im bringing her in here to live with me as my companion, Bao-chai explained.
I was just about to report the matter to your mistress.
You dont need to do that, Miss!
said Patience.
Whatever next?
On the contrary, said Bao-chai.
Its the correct thing to do.
Every inn has its landlord and every temple its priest, as they say.
Even though it is not a very important matter, I think I should report it, if only so that the women on night watch may know that there are two more girlsher and Adventliving in the Garden now, and make no difficulties about letting them in and out.
Anyway, if you will tell your mistress when you get back, I wont bother to send anyone about it myself.
Patience promised that she would.
Now youre here, she said to Caltrop, you ought -to go and introduce yourself to your new neighbours.
I was just sending her off to do that when you came, said Bao-chai.
Well, you can leave nr out, Patience told Caltrop.
Mr Lian is ill at home in bed.
Caltrop murmured a reply and went off to make her calls, beginning with Grandmother Jia.
As soon as she had gone, Patience -seized Bao-chais hand and asked her, in a low and urgent voice, whether she had heard their news.
No, said Bao-chai.
Ive been so busy these last few days helping to get Pan off that I havent heard anyones news.
I havent even seen any of the girls during the past day or two.
Sir She has beaten Mr Lian so badly that he can hardly move.
Do you mean to say you havent even heard that?
I heard something to that effect, said Bao-chai, but I didnt know whether to believe it or not.
Id been thinking of going to ask your mistress about it when you came in just now.
What did he beat him for?
It was that toad Jia Yu-cuns doing, said Patience bitterly.
Horrible man!
It was a bad day for this family when they got to know him.
I don t know how much trouble he hasnt stirred up in the few years since first he came here.
Last spring Sir She saw some antique fans somewhere which so impressed him that when he got home and looked at his own collection he decided that they were all no good and at once sent everyone scouring around for some mote.
Now there was a certain poor, unlucky devil they call Stonythats a nickname, of course I dont know what his real name isso hard up that he never had enough to eat but who, it go happened, was the owner of a collection of twenty antique fans that he guarded very closely, not even allowing them to be taken out of his door.
Mr Lian had a terrible job even getting to see this man.
In the end he did though, and eventually, after a great deal of persuasion, managed to get himself invited into the house to have a look at the fans.
Mr Lian said he was only allowed a glimpse of them even then, but he said you could see at once that they were the kind of fans that simply cant be had anywhere today.
The fansticks were made of very special kinds of bamboonaiads tears, black bamboo, fawnskin and jadewoodand the paintings on them were all by old masters.
When he told Sir She about them, Sir She said at once that come what may he must have them and that Stony could name his price.
But Stony didnt want a price not if they offered him a thousand taels a fan, he said.
He said he would rather die of hunger and cold than sell them.
There was nothing Sir She could do about that, of course, except swear all the -time at Mr Lian for being incompetent.
But I ask you, Miss Mr Lian had already promised five hundred taels cash down and still old Stony had refused, so what more was there he could do?
The matter might have rested there if that black-hearted villain Jia Yu-cun hadnt got to hear about it.
He soon thought of a way.
He made out that Stony owed the government some money, had him hauled off to the yamen, and when he got there, told him they would have to detrain on his property to pay off the debt.
Then he sent his officers round to Stonys house, seized the fans, valued them at a government price, and sent them to Sir She as a present.
Poor old Stony!
I dont know whether hes alive now or dead.
What I do know is that when Sir She was telling Mr Lian how he had come by the fans at last, Mr Lian couldnt help remarking that he didnt see anything very competent about ruining a man and stripping him of all he possessed for so trifling a reason.
That made Sir She very angry, because of course he assumed that Mr Lian was really getting at him.
That was the main reason for the beating but then there were a number of smaller things a few days laterI dont even remember now what they were.
They seem to have brought things to a head, because he suddenly went for him.
He didnt pull him down and beat him with a flat-stick or a cudgel in the normal way either he just picked up the first thing that came to handI dont know what it wasand started hitting him with it where he stood.
He cut his face open in two places.
We heard that Mrs Xue has got some kind of lotion for injuries of this sort and I wondered if youd mind letting me have a tablet.
Bao-chai at once sent Oriole for the tablets and told her to bring two of them.
I wont go and see your mistress now, under the circumstances, she said, when she handed them to Patience.
Give her my regards, though, wont you?
Patience thanked her and left.
Our story returns now to Caltrop.
After dinner, by which time she had finished making her calls, while Bao-chai went to join Bao-yu and the others in Grandmother Jias apartment, Caltrop went off on her own to visit the Naiads House.
Dai-yu was by this time well on the way to recovery.
She seemed so delighted to hear that Caltrop had moved into the Garden, that Caltrop felt emboldened to make her a request Now that Im here and have got more time to spare, do you think you could teach me .to write poetry?
It would be such a piece of luck for me if you would.
You can make your kotow and become my pupil if you like said Dai-yu goodnaturedly.
Im no expert myself, but I dare say I could teach you the rudiments.
Would you really?
said Caltrop.
Then Ill be your disciple.
But you must promise not to get impatient with me.
Theres nothing in it really, said Dai-yu Theres really hardly anything to learn.
In Regulated Verse there are always four couplets the opening couplet, the developing couplet, the turning couplet and the concluding couplet.
In the two middle couplets, the developing and turning ones, you have to have tone-contrast and parallelism.
Thats to say, in each of those couplets the even tones of one line have to contrast with oblique tones in the other, and vice versa, and the substantives and non-substantives have to balance each other though if youve got a really good, original line, it doesnt matter all that much even if the tone-contrast and parallelism are wrong.
Ah, that explains it I said Caltrop, pleased.
Ive got an old poetry-book that I look at once in a while when I can find the time, and I long ago noticed that in some of the poems the tone-contrast is very strict, while in others its not.
Someone told me the rhyme -2347 For one, three and five You need not strive But two, four and six You must firmly fix.
and at first that seemed to explain the exceptions.
But then I found that in some old poems even the second, fourth and sixth syllables seemed to have -the wrong tones, and Ive been puzzling about it ever since.
Now, from what youve just said, it sounds as if these rules really arent important after allthat the most important thing is that the language should be original.
Youve hit it exactly 1 said Dai-yu.
As a matter of fact even the language isnt of primary importance.
The really important things are the ideas that lie behind it.
If the ideas behind it are genuine, theres no need to embellish the language for the poem to be a good one.
Thats what they mean when they talk about not letting the words harm the meaning I love that couplet by Lu You, said Caltrop Behind snug curtained doors the incense lingers -1014 The well-worn concave patch the ground ink settles.
Thats genuine, isnt it?
So vivid.
Good gracious!
You mustnt go reading that sort of stuff!
said Dai-yu.
Its only because of your lack of experience that you can think shallow -stuff like that any good.
Once you get stuck into that rut, youll never get out of it.
You do as I tell you.
Ive got the Collected Works of Wang Wei here.
You take a hundred of Wang Weis pentasyllabic poems in Regulated Verse and read and re-read them, carefully pondering what you read, until you are thoroughly familiar with them all.
After that read a hundred or two of Du Fus Regulated Verse heptasyllabics and a hundred or two of Li Bos heptasyllabic quatrains then, with a firm foundation of those three poets inside you, if you go on to look at some of the earlier poets like Tao Yuan-ming, Xie Ling-yun, Ruan ji, Yu Xin and Bao Zhao, with your quickness and intelligence you should have no difficulty in turning yourself into a fully-fledged bard within less than a twelvemonth.
In that case, said Caltrop excitedly, dear Miss Lin, would you please lend me that book you mentioned, so that I can take it back with me and study it before I go to bed?
Dai-yu told Nightingale to fetch down the volume of Regular Pentasyllabics from the Collected Works of Wang Wei.
Read the ones Ive marked with red circles, she said, handing the book to Caltrop.
They are my own selection.
Just work your way through them gradually, taking each one as it comes.
If you have any difficulties, you can either ask Miss Bao about them or else get me to explain them to you next time you see me.
Caltrop carried the book back with her to Allspice Court, and sitting down under the lamp, began reading -the poems, oblivious to all around her.
Bao-chai made several attempts at making her go to bed, but in the end, impressed by such total absorption, gave up and left her alone.
Next morning, just as Dai-yu had completed her toilet, a smiling Caltrop walked in, holding out the volume of Wang Wei and asking to exchange it for a volume of Du Fus heptasyllabics.
How many of them do you think you can remember?
Dai-yu asked her.
Ive been through all the ones marked with red circles, said Caltrop.
And do you think you have learnt anything from them ?
I think so, said Caltrop.
Though I can-t be sure.
Perhaps you can tell me.
Certainly, said Dai-yu.
Discussion is what I was hoping for.
it is the only way of making progress.
Tell me what you think they have taught you.
Well, said Caltrop, as I see it, poetry is very good at saying things which you cant exactly explain but which leave a very vivid impression in your mind also it often says things which at first seem illogical but are quite logical and natural when you stop to think about them.
That sounds very perceptive, said Dai-yu.
What about giving an example or two of what you mean?
Take that third couplet from his poem On the Frontier, said Caltrop -1307 Over a lone fire the straight smoke hangs In the long river the round sun sets.
-1094 Now how can smoke really be straight?
And why the round sun?
Of course the sun is round!
Yet when you close the book and start thinking about those lines, the scene they de scribe is so vivid that its almost as though you had been there.
And if you ask yourself what other two words be could have used instead of straight and round, you realize that there arent any.
Then again, in a couplet from another of his poems -1307 When the sun sets, the water whitens When the tide rises, all the world is green.
-1094 Whitens and green at first seem like nonsense but when you start thinking about it, you realize that he had to use those two words in order to describe the scene exactly as it was.
When you read those lines out loud, the flavour of them is so concentrated that its as though you had an olive weighing several -thousand catties inside your mouth!
And theres another couplet of his -1307 Down by the ford the late sun lingers Over the village a smoke-thread climbs.
Lingers and climbs so simple, but so clever!
I remember that year we came up to the capital we moored the boat one evening towards dusk in a very lonely stretch of country with only a few trees on the bank and a few houses far away in the distance from which the blue smoke of peasants cooking their evening meal was rising high, high into the clouds.
When I read this couplet last night, it suddenly took me back to that very spot.
Bao-yu and Tan-chun had come in while she was talking and quietly sat down to listen.
Bao-yu was impressed.
To judge by what youve just said, you dont need to read any more poetry.
The Emperor Jian-wen once remarked that appreciation needs not to seek far afield.
From your discussion of that last couplet, I should say that you have already reached the sam dhi!
Actually, although you wont know this yet, said Dai-yu, that smoke-thread climbs line you admire so much is based on a line written by an earlier poet.
If I show it to you, I think you will agree that it is even more austerely effective than Wang Weis line.
She took down a copy of Tao Yuan-mings Works, hunted out the couplet she had in mind, and handed it to her to look at -1014 Half-lost in haze the distant haunts of men, Whose dawdling smoke the unseen hamlet marks.
Caltrop read it and nodded approvingly Yes, I see.
He got the idea for climbs from the dawdling of this earlier line.
Bao-yu laughed delightedly.
Perfect!
You must end your discussion there.
If you go on any longer, youll begin unlearning what youve already discovered.
You can start writing poetry yourself now, straight away.
Its sure to be good.
I can see I shall soon be writing an invitation asking you to join our poetry club, said Tan-chun smilingly.
Dont make fun of me, Miss Tan, said Caltrop.
Writing poetry is something Ive always wanted to do, and now Ive got the chance, Im learning for the fun of it.
I dont expect I shall ever be any good.
Good heavens!
we only write for the fun of it ourselves, said Tan-chun.
You surely dont imagine that what we write is good poetry?
If we set ourselves up to be real poets, people outside this Garden who got to hear of it would laugh so loud that their teeth would drop out!
Thats what Mencius calls throwing yourself away, said Bao-yu.
You shouldnt do that.
The other day, when I was discussing Xi-chuns painting with some of Fathers gentlemen, they told me they had heard about our poetry club and asked if they could see some of our poems, so I wrote a few out for them from memory.
I assure you, they were genuinely impressed.
In fact, they have calligraphed them for blocks to have them printed.
Is this really true?
Tan-chun and Dai-yu asked incredulously.
If anyones telling lies, it must be the parrot said Bao-yu.
The two girls were aghast.
You really are the limit!
Quite apart from the fact that the poems arent good enough, you have no business to go showing our stuff to people outside.
Whats the harm?
said Bao-yu.
If those famous poems written by poetesses in days gone by had never been -taken outside -the womens quarters, we shouldnt know about them today.
Just then Xi-chuns maid Picture arrived and called Bao-yu away to her mistress.
Caltrop pressed Dai-yu to lend her the volume of Du Fu she also begged Dai-yu and Tan-chun to set her a subject for a poem.
Let me try my hand at writing one myself, she said, -and you can correct it for me.
Last night there was a very fine moon, said Dai-yu.
Ive been thinking of writing a poem about it myself, but havent yet got round to it.
Why dont you write a poem about the moon?
You can use sky and light as your rhymes but I wont set the other rhyme words for you, you can use whichever ones you like.
Clutching the volume of poems, Caltrop returned in great glee and at once began thinking about her composition.
After working out the first line or two, she could not resist peeping at the Du Fu and reading a couple of poems.
And in this way she continued, alternately reading and composing by fits and starts, too excited to think about eating or drinking or to sit still in the same place for two or three minutes together.
Why give yourself so much trouble when you dont have to?
Bao-chai asked her.
Its all that Frowners fault.
I shall have to go and have it out with her.
You are inclined to be a dreamer at the best of times, but now you are becoming a real case I Please, Miss Bao I said Caltrop.
You are putting me off.
She was writing while she said this.
Soon she had completed the draft of a poem and handed it to Bao-chai to look at.
Bao-chai read it and laughed.
No, this is no good.
This isnt the way to write poetry.
Still, dont be disheartened.
I should take it to her just the same and see what she says.
Caltrop followed her advice and went off to look for Dai-yu.
Dai-yu took the poem and looked at it.
This is what Caltrop had written -1014 A chilly radiance bright, a fair round shape, The cold white moon hangs in the middle sky.
The poet for inspiration seeks her oft The homesick traveller from her turns his eye.
Like a jade mirror hanging on azure wall, -1067 Like disc of jade suspended from on high.
-1094 No need for lamps on such a glorious night, -1014 When every beam and post is bathed in light.
Dai-vu smiled.
Youve certainly got some ideas there, but the words youve expressed them in some-how dont hang together properly.
Its because you havent read enough poetry yet.
It looks to me as if youve got rather stuck with this poem.
If I were you, Id abandon it altogether and begin another one.
Let yourself go a bit more this time.
Caltrop returned in silence.
This time she did not even go indoors but remained outside among the trees at the waters edgeto the considerable mystification of those who passed by and saw hersitting on a rock meditating, or squatting on her heels in order to scratch characters on the ground.
Li Wan, Bao-chai, Tan-chun and Bao-yu, hearing of this interesting sight, stood on a little hillock some distance away from her and watched with amusement.
Bao-chai insisted that Caltrop had gone mad.
You should have heard her last night.
She was muttering away to herself until four or five in the morning.
And she cant have slept for more than half an hour, for as soon as it was daylight, I could hear her getting up again.
She rushed through her toilet and then rushed off to see Frowner.
Presently she came back again, and after mooning around for half the day, she produced a poem and as that was no good, I assume she is now trying to write another one.
The genius of the place brings out the excellence of the person, said Bao-yu, misquoting slightly.
The -lord above doesnt give us our talents for nothing.
We always used to say what a pity it was that a person of her qualities should lack refinementbut look at her now!
It proves there is some justice in the world.
If only you had her powers of concentration, said Bao-chai, you might study to some purpose.
Bao-yu did not reply.
Just then a very pleased-looking Caltrop was to be seen hurrying off in the direction of the Naiads House.
Lets go after her and see if its any better this time, said Tan-chun.
When the three of them arrived, Dai-yu had the poem in her hand and was already discussing it.
Whats it like?
they asked her.
Well, for a beginner, of course, its very good, said Dai-yu but it isnt really right yet.
Its too laboured.
Shell have to try again.
The others asked if they might have a look.
This is what they read Silver or water on the casement cold?
See its round source in yon clear midnight sky.
-320 Blanched ghostly white, plum-blossoms spread their scent, And dew on willow-slips begins to dry.
Is it white powder on the paving spilled?
Or grains of frost that on the railings lie?
I wake to find no other soul in sight But that still face which through the blind sheds light.
Its not much like a poem about the moon, said Bao-chai, but if you altered the title to Moonlight, it would fit rather well.
Look at these lines each of them is not about the moon, its about moonlight.
Well, all poetry is only a lot of nonsense!
I should leave it for a few days, Caltrop, if I were you.
Theres no hurry.
But Caltrop, though she had truly believed that this second poem was a minor masterpiece and was extremely dashed by its rejection, was most unwilling to give up.
She wanted to begin thinking about her next poem straight away and as she found the talk and laughter of the cousins distracting, she went out to where the bamboos began, at the foot of the terrace.
There she gave herself up to cogitation of such fierce intensity that she became totally obvious to all sights and sounds around her, and when Tan-chun jokingly called to her through the window to call it a day, she merely looked up with a somewhat dazed expression and replied that day didnt rhyme the rhyme word she was using was sky.
The others, hearing this, all burst out laughing.
The girls got poetry mania!
said Bao-chai.
This is all Frowners doing.
Nonsense!
said Dai-yu.
The Sage tells us that we should be tireless in teaching others, She came and asked me for help.
How could I possibly refuse her?
Lets take her to Xi-chuns place and get her to look at the painting, said Li Wan.
Perhaps it will take her mind off poetry for a bit.
She went outside, the others following, and taking Caltrop by the hand, led her to the Spring In Winter room of Lotus Pavilion, where they found Xi-chun, fatigued by hr labours, lying on the couch taking an afternoon nap.
The painting was on the wall, masked by a covering of gauze.
The cousins woke up Xi-chun and removed the cover from the painting.
Barely three-tenths of it had been completed.
Several female figures were to be seen scattered about here and there in the landscape.
Look, they said, pointing them out to Caltrop, anyone who can write poetry gets put into the picture.
You must hurry up and learn, so that she can put you in too!
After chatting and joking for a while, they broke up and went off to their several apartments.
Caltrop could think of nothing else but her poem.
in the evening she sat by the lamp thinking about it, and it was after midnight when she went to bed.
Even in bed she lay with her eyes wide open, continuing to think about it and it was not until three or four in the morning that she gradually dropped off to sleep.
At daybreak Bao-chai woke up and listened Caltrop appeared to be fast asleep.
She was tossing about all night, thought Bao-chai.
I wonder if she managed to finish her poem.
I wont call her now she must be exhausted.
Just then she heard Caltrop laugh and call out in her sleep Ha!
Got it!
Let her try saying that this one isnt any good!
Bao-chai was both touched and amused.
What have you got?
she asked, quickly waking her.
This poetry business is becoming positively unnatural!
I dont know about learning how to write poetry what youll likelier get, if you go on much longer in this fashion, is a serious illness!
The intensity of Caltrops application had, in fact, induced a concentration of the vital fluids which, finding no outlet during the daytime, had resulted in her being able to produce a whole eight4ine poem in her sleep.
She wrote it down as soon as she had combed and washed, and then went out to look for the others.
At Drenched Blossoms, in the little pavilion on the bridge, she came upon Li Wan and the cousins on the way back from their morning duty-call on Lady Wang.
Bao-chai was just telling them how Caltrop had composed a poem while she was dreaming and how she had cried out in her sleep, and the others were laughing as they listened.
When they looked up and saw Caltrop herself approaching them, they eagerly asked her if they might see her poem.
For further details, please see the following chapter.
