Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall, And by the doom of death end woes and all. Merchant of Syracusa, plead no more. I am not partial to infringe our laws: The enmity and discord which of late Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen, Who, wanting guilders to redeem their lives, Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods, Excludes all pity from our threat'ning looks. For, since the mortal and intestine jars 'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us, It hath in solemn synods been decreed, Both by the Syracusians and ourselves, T' admit no traffic to our adverse towns: Nay, more, if any, born at Ephesus Be seen at Syracusian marts and fairs; Again, if any Syracusian born Come to the bay of Ephesus, he dies, His goods confiscate to the duke's dispose; Unless a thousand marks be levied, To quit the penalty and to ransom him. Thy substance, valu'd at the highest rate, Cannot amount unto a hundred marks; Therefore, by law thou art condemn'd to die. Yet this my comfort: when your words are done, My woes end likewise with the evening sun. Well, Syracusian; say, in brief the cause Why thou departedst from thy native home, And for what cause thou cam'st to Ephesus.
A heavier task could not have been impos'd Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable; Yet, that the world may witness that my end Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence, I'll utter what my sorrow gives me leave. In Syracusa was I born, and wed Unto a woman, happy but for me, And by me too, had not our hap been bad. With her I liv'd in joy: our wealth increas'd By prosperous voyages I often made To Epidamnum; till my factor's death, And the great care of goods at random left, Drew me from kind embracements of my spouse: From whom my absence was not six months old, Before herself, almost at fainting under The pleasing punishment that women bear, Had made provision for her following me, And soon and safe arrived where I was. There had she not been long but she became A joyful mother of two goodly sons; And, which was strange, the one so like the other, As could not be distinguish'd but by names. That very hour, and in the self-same inn, A meaner woman was delivered Of such a burden, male twins, both alike. Those, for their parents were exceeding poor, I bought, and brought up to attend my sons. My wife, not meanly proud of two such boys, Made daily motions for our home return: Unwilling I agreed; alas! too soon We came aboard.
A league from Epidamnum had we sail'd, Before the always-wind-obeying deep Gave any tragic instance of our harm: But longer did we not retain much hope; For what obscured light the heavens did grant Did but convey unto our fearful minds A doubtful warrant of immediate death; Which, though myself would gladly have embrac'd, Yet the incessant weepings of my wife, Weeping before for what she saw must come, And piteous plainings of the pretty babes, That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear, Forc'd me to seek delays for them and me. And this it was, for other means was none: The sailors sought for safety by our boat, And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us: My wife, more careful for the latter-born, Had fasten'd him unto a small spare mast, Such as seafaring men provide for storms; To him one of the other twins was bound, Whilst I had been like heedful of the other. The children thus dispos'd, my wife and I, Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd, Fasten'd ourselves at either end the mast; And floating straight, obedient to the stream, Were carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
At length the sun, gazing upon the earth, Dispers'd those vapours that offended us, And, by the benefit of his wished light The seas wax'd calm, and we discovered Two ships from far making amain to us; Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this: But ere they came, O! let me say no more; Gather the sequel by that went before. Nay, forward, old man; do not break off so; For we may pity, though not pardon thee. O! had the gods done so, I had not now Worthily term'd them merciless to us! For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues, We were encounter'd by a mighty rock; Which being violently borne upon, Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst; So that, in this unjust divorce of us Fortune had left to both of us alike What to delight in, what to sorrow for. Her part, poor soul! seeming as burdened With lesser weight, but not with lesser woe, Was carried with more speed before the wind, And in our sight they three were taken up By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought.
At length, another ship had seiz'd on us; And, knowing whom it was their hap to save, Gave healthful welcome to their ship-wrack'd guests; And would have reft the fishers of their prey, Had not their bark been very slow of sail; And therefore homeward did they bend their course. Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss, That by misfortune was my life prolong'd, To tell sad stories of my own mishaps. And, for the sake of them thou sorrowest for, Do me the favour to dilate at full What hath befall'n of them and thee till now. My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care, At eighteen years became inquisitive After his brother; and importun'd me That his attendant for his case was like, Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name Might bear him company in the quest of him; Whom whilst I labour'd of a love to see, I hazarded the loss of whom I lov'd. Five summers have I spent in furthest Greece, Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia, And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus, Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought Or that or any place that harbours men. But here must end the story of my life; And happy were I in my timely death, Could all my travels warrant me they live. Hapless Ægeon, whom the fates have mark'd To bear the extremity of dire mishap!
Now, trust me, were it not against our laws, Against my crown, my oath, my dignity, Which princes, would they, may not disannul, My soul should sue as advocate for thee. But though thou art adjudged to the death And passed sentence may not be recall'd But to our honour's great disparagement, Yet will I favour thee in what I can: Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day To seek thy life by beneficial help. Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus; Beg thou, or borrow, to make up the sum, And live; if no, then thou art doom'd to die. Gaoler, take him to thy custody. I will, my lord. Hopeless and helpless doth Ægeon wend, But to procrastinate his lifeless end. Therefore, give out you are of Epidamnum, Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. This very day, a Syracusian merchant Is apprehended for arrival here; And, not being able to buy out his life, According to the statute of the town Dies ere the weary sun set in the west. There is your money that I had to keep. Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host, And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
Within this hour it will be dinner-time: Till that, I'll view the manners of the town, Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings, And then return and sleep within mine inn, For with long travel I am stiff and weary. Get thee away. Many a man would take you at your word, And go indeed, having so good a mean. A trusty villain, sir, that very oft, When I am dull with care and melancholy, Lightens my humour with his merry jests. What, will you walk with me about the town, And then go to my inn and dine with me? I am invited, sir, to certain merchants, Of whom I hope to make much benefit; I crave your pardon. Soon at five o'clock, Please you, I'll meet with you upon the mart, And afterward consort you till bed-time: My present business calls me from you now. Farewell till then: I will go lose myself, And wander up and down to view the city. Sir, I commend you to your own content. He that commends me to mine own content, Commends me to the thing I cannot get. I to the world am like a drop of water That in the ocean seeks another drop; Who, falling there to find his fellow forth, Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself: So I, to find a mother and a brother, In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself. Here comes the almanack of my true date. What now?
How chance thou art return'd so soon? Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late: The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit, The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell; My mistress made it one upon my cheek: She is so hot because the meat is cold; The meat is cold because you come not home; You come not home because you have no stomach; You have no stomach, having broke your fast; But we, that know what 'tis to fast and pray, Are penitent for your default to-day. Stop in your wind, sir: tell me this, I pray: Where have you left the money that I gave you? O! sixpence, that I had o' Wednesday last To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper; The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not. I am not in a sportive humour now. Tell me, and dally not, where is the money? We being strangers here, how dar'st thou trust So great a charge from thine own custody? I pray you, jest, sir, as you sit at dinner. I from my mistress come to you in post; If I return, I shall be post indeed, For she will score your fault upon my pate. Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock And strike you home without a messenger. Come, Dromio, come; these jests are out of season; Reserve them till a merrier hour than this. Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?
To me, sir? why, you gave no gold to me. Come on, sir knave, have done your foolishness, And tell me how thou hast dispos'd thy charge. My charge was but to fetch you from the mart Home to your house, the Phœnix, sir, to dinner: My mistress and her sister stays for you. Now, as I am a Christian, answer me, In what safe place you have bestow'd my money; Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours That stands on tricks when I am undispos'd. Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me? I have some marks of yours upon my pate, Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders, But not a thousand marks between you both. If I should pay your worship those again, Perchance you will not bear them patiently. Thy mistress' marks! what mistress, slave, hast thou? Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phœnix; She that doth fast till you come home to dinner, And prays that you will hie you home to dinner. What! wilt thou flout me thus unto my face, Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave. What mean you, sir? for God's sake, hold your hands! Nay, an you will not, sir, I'll take my heels. Upon my life, by some device or other The villain is o'er-raught of all my money.
They say this town is full of cozenage; As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye, Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind, Soul-killing witches that deform the body, Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks, And many such-like liberties of sin: If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner. I'll to the Centaur, to go seek this slave: I greatly fear my money is not safe. Neither my husband, nor the slave return'd, That in such haste I sent to seek his master! Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock. Perhaps some merchant hath invited him, And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner. Good sister, let us dine and never fret: A man is master of his liberty: Time is their master, and, when they see time, They'll go or come: if so, be patient, sister. Why should their liberty than ours be more? Because their business still lies out o' door. Look, when I serve him so, he takes it ill. O! know he is the bridle of your will. There's none but asses will be bridled so. Why, headstrong liberty is lash'd with woe. There's nothing situate under heaven's eye But hath his bound, in earth, in sea, in sky: The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls, Are their males' subjects and at their controls.
Men, more divine, the masters of all these, Lords of the wide world, and wild wat'ry seas, Indu'd with intellectual sense and souls, Of more pre-eminence than fish and fowls, Are masters to their females and their lords: Then, let your will attend on their accords. This servitude makes you to keep unwed. Not this, but troubles of the marriage-bed. But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway. Ere I learn love, I'll practise to obey. How if your husband start some other where? Till he come home again, I would forbear. Patience unmov'd! no marvel though she pause; They can be meek that have no other cause. A wretched soul, bruis'd with adversity, We bid be quiet when we hear it cry; But were we burden'd with like weight of pain, As much, or more we should ourselves complain: So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee, With urging helpless patience wouldst relieve me: But if thou live to see like right bereft. This fool-begg'd patience in thee will be left. Well, I will marry one day, but to try. Here comes your man: now is your husband nigh. Say, is your tardy master now at hand? Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that my two ears can witness. Say, didst thou speak with him? Know'st thou his mind? Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear. Beshrew his hand, I scarce could understand it.
Spake he so doubtfully, thou couldst not feel his meaning? Nay, he struck so plainly, I could too well feel his blows; and withal so doubtfully, that I could scarce understand them. But say, I prithee, is he coming home? It seems he hath great care to please his wife. Why, mistress, sure my master is horn-mad. Horn-mad, thou villain! I mean not cuckold-mad; but, sure, he is stark mad. When I desir'd him to come home to dinner, He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold: ''Tis dinner time,' quoth I; 'my gold!' quoth he: 'Your meat doth burn,' quoth I; 'my gold!' quoth he: 'Will you come home?' quoth I: 'my gold!' quoth he: 'Where is the thousand marks I gave thee, villain?' 'The pig,' quoth I, 'is burn'd;' 'my gold!' quoth he: 'My mistress, sir,' quoth I: 'hang up thy mistress! I know not thy mistress: out on thy mistress!' Quoth who? Quoth my master: 'I know,' quoth he, 'no house, no wife, no mistress.' So that my errand, due unto my tongue, I thank him, I bear home upon my shoulders; For, in conclusion, he did beat me there. Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home. Go back again, and be new beaten home? For God's sake, send some other messenger. Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across. And he will bless that cross with other beating: Between you, I shall have a holy head.
Hence, prating peasant! fetch thy master home. Am I so round with you as you with me, That like a football you do spurn me thus? You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither: If I last in this service, you must case me in leather. Fie, how impatience loureth in your face! His company must do his minions grace, Whilst I at home starve for a merry look. Hath homely age the alluring beauty took From my poor cheek? then, he hath wasted it: Are my discourses dull? barren my wit? If voluble and sharp discourse be marr'd, Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard: Do their gay vestments his affections bait? That's not my fault; he's master of my state: What ruins are in me that can be found By him not ruin'd? then is he the ground Of my defeatures. My decayed fair A sunny look of his would soon repair; But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale And feeds from home: poor I am but his stale. Self-harming jealousy! fie! beat it hence. Unfeeling fools can with such wrengs dispense. I know his eye doth homage otherwhere, Or else what lets it but he would be here? Sister, you know he promis'd me a chain: Would that alone, alone he would detain, So he would keep fair quarter with his bed!
I see, the jewel best enamelled Will lose his beauty; and though gold bides still That others touch, yet often touching will Wear gold; and no man that hath a name, By falsehood and corruption doth it shame. Since that my beauty cannot please his eye, I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die. How many fond fools serve mad jealousy! The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up Safe at the Centaur; and the heedful slave Is wander'd forth, in care to seek me out. By computation, and mine host's report, I could not speak with Dromio since at first I sent him from the mart. See, here he comes. How now, sir! is your merry humour alter'd? As you love strokes, so jest with me again. You know no Centaur? You receiv'd no gold? Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner? My house was at the Phœnix? Wast thou mad, That thus so madly thou didst answer me? What answer, sir? when spake I such a word? Even now, even here, not half-an-hour since. I did not see you since you sent me hence, Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me. Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt, And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner; For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeas'd. I am glad to see you in this merry vein: What means this jest? I pray you, master, tell me.
Yea, dost thou jeer, and flout me in the teeth? Think'st thou I jest? Hold, take thou that, and that. Hold, sir, for God's sake! now your jest is earnest. Upon what bargain do you give it me? Because that I familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool, and chat with you, Your sauciness will jest upon my love, And make a common of my serious hours. When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport, But creep in crannies when he hides his beams. If you will jest with me, know my aspect, And fashion your demeanour to my looks, Or I will beat this method in your sconce. Sconce, call you it? so you would leave battering, I had rather have it a head: an you use these blows long, I must get a sconce for my head and insconce it too; or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders. But, I pray, sir, why am I beaten? Dost thou not know? Nothing, sir, but that I am beaten. Shall I tell you why? Ay, sir, and wherefore; for they say every why hath a wherefore. Why, first, for flouting me; and then, wherefore, For urging it the second time to me. Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season, When, in the why and the wherefore is neither rime nor reason? Well, sir, I thank you. Thank me, sir! for what?
Marry, sir, for this something that you gave me for nothing. I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for something. But say, sir, is it dinner-time? No, sir: I think the meat wants that I have In good time, sir; what's that? Basting. Well, sir, then 'twill be dry. If it be, sir, I pray you eat none of it. Your reason? Lest it make you choleric, and purchase me another dry basting. Well, sir, learn to jest in good time: there's a time for all things. I durst have denied that, before you were so choleric. By what rule, sir? Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of Father Time himself. Let's hear it. There's no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature. May he not do it by fine and recovery? Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig and recover the lost hair of another man. Why is Time such a niggard of hair, being, as it is, so plentiful an excrement? Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts: and what he hath scanted men in hair, he hath given them in wit. Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit. Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair. Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit.
The plainer dealer, the sooner lost: yet be loseth it in a kind of jollity. For what reason? For two; and sound ones too. Nay, not sound, I pray you. Sure ones then. Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing. Certain ones, then. Name them. The one, to save the money that he spends in tiring; the other, that at dinner they should not drop in his porridge. You would all this time have proved there is no time for all things. Marry, and did, sir; namely, no time to recover hair lost by nature. But your reason was not substantial, why there is not time to recover. Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald, and therefore to the world's end will have bald followers. I knew 'twould be a bald conclusion. But soft! who wafts us yonder? Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange, and frown: Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects, I am not Adriana, nor thy wife. The time was once when thou unurg'd wouldst vow That never words were music to thine ear, That never object pleasing in thine eye, That never touch well welcome to thy hand, That never meat sweet-savour'd in thy taste, Unless I spake, or look'd, or touch'd, or carv'd to thee. How comes it now, my husband, O! how comes it, That thou art thus estranged from thyself?
Thyself I call it, being strange to me, That, undividable, incorporate, Am better than thy dear self's better part. Ah! do not tear away thyself from me, For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall A drop of water in the breaking gulf, And take unmingled thence that drop again, Without addition or diminishing, As take from me thyself and not me too. How dearly would it touch thee to the quick, Shouldst thou but hear I were licentious, And that this body, consecrate to thee, By ruffian lust should be contaminate! Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me, And hurl the name of husband in my face, And tear the stain'd skin off my harlot-brow, And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring And break it with a deep-divorcing vow? I know thou canst; and therefore, see thou do it. I am possess'd with an adulterate blot; My blood is mingled with the crime of lust: For if we two be one and thou play false, I do digest the poison of thy flesh, Being strumpeted by thy contagion. Keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed; I live unstain'd, thou undishonoured. Plead you to me, fair dame?
I know you not: In Ephesus I am but two hours old, As strange unto your town as to your talk; Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd, Want wit in all one word to understand. Fie, brother: how the world is chang'd with you! When were you wont to use my sister thus? She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner. By Dromio? By me? By thee; and this thou didst return from him, That he did buffet thee, and in his blows, Denied my house for his, me for his wife. Did you converse, sir, with this gentle-woman? What is the course and drift of your compact? I, sir? I never saw her till this time. Villain, thou liest; for even her very words Didst thou deliver to me on the mart. I never spake with her in all my life. How can she thus then, call us by our names, Unless it be by inspiration? How ill agrees it with your gravity To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave, A betting him to thwart me in my mood! Be it my wrong you are from me exempt, But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.
Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine; Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine, Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state, Makes me with thy strength to communicate: If aught possess thee from me, it is dross, Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss; Who, all for want of pruning, with intrusion Infect thy sap and live on thy confusion. To me she speaks; she moves me for her theme! What! was I married to her in my dream? Or sleep I now and think I hear all this? What error drives our eyes and ears amiss? Until I know this sure uncertainty, I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy. Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner O, for my beads! I cross me for a sinner. This is the fairy land: O! spite of spites. We talk with goblins, owls, and elvish sprites: If we obey them not, this will ensue, They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue. Why prat'st thou to thyself and answer'st not? Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot! I am transformed, master, am not I? I think thou art, in mind, and so am I. Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape. Thou hast thine own form. No, I am an ape. If thou art chang'd to aught, 'tis to an ass. 'Tis true; she rides me and I long for grass.
'Tis so, I am an ass; else it could never be But I should know her as well as she knows me. Come, come; no longer will I be a fool, To put the finger in the eye and weep, Whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn. Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate. Husband, I'll dine above with you to-day, And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks. Sirrah, if any ask you for your master, Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter. Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well. Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell? Sleeping or waking? mad or well-advis'd? Known unto these, and to myself disguis'd! I'll say as they say, and persever so, And in this mist at all adventures go. Master, shall I be porter at the gate? Ay; and let none enter, lest I break your pate. Come, come, Antipholus; we dine too late. Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all; My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours; Say that I linger'd with you at your shop To see the making of her carkanet, And that to-morrow you will bring it home. But here's a villain, that would face me down He met me on the mart, and that I beat him, And charg'd him with a thousand marks in gold, And that I did deny my wife and house.
Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this? Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know; That you beat me at the mart, I have your hand to show: If the skin were parchment and the blows you gave were ink, Your own handwriting would tell you what I think. I think thou art an ass. Marry, so it doth appear By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear. I should kick, being kick'd; and, being at that pass, You would keep from my heels and beware of an ass. You are sad, Signior Balthazar: pray God, our cheer May answer my good will and your good welcome here. I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your welcome dear. O, Signior Balthazar, either at flesh or fish, A table-full of welcome makes scarce one dainty dish. Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords. And welcome more common, for that's nothing but words. Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast. Ay, to a niggardly host and more sparing guest: But though my cates be mean, take them in good part; Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart. But soft! my door is lock'd. Go bid them let us in. Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicely, Gillian, Ginn! Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb, idiot, patch! Either get thee from the door or sit down at the hatch.
Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st for such store, When one is one too many? Go, get thee from the door. What patch is made our porter? My master stays in the street. Let him walk from whence he came, lest he catch cold on's feet. Who talks within there? ho! open the door. Right, sir; I'll tell you when, an you'll tell me wherefore. Wherefore? for my dinner: I have not din'd to-day. Nor to-day here you must not; come again when you may. What art thou that keep'st me out from the house I owe? The porter for this time, sir, and my name is Dromio. O villain! thou hast stolen both mine office and my name: The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame. If thou hadst been Dromio to-day in my place, Thou wouldst have chang'd thy face for a name, or thy name for an ass. What a coil is there, Dromio! who are those at the gate? Let my master in, Luce. Faith, no; he comes too late; And so tell your master. O Lord! I must laugh. Have at you with a proverb: Shall I set in my staff? Have at you with another: that's when? can you tell? If thy name be call'd Luce, Luce, thou hast answer'd him well. Do you hear, you minion? you'll let us in, I trow? I thought to have ask'd you. And you said, no.
So come, help: well struck! there was blow for blow. Thou baggage, let me in. Can you tell for whose sake? Master, knock the door hard. Let him knock till it ache. You'll cry for this, minion, if I beat the door down. What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town? Who is that at the door that keeps all this noise? By my troth your town is troubled with unruly boys. Are you there, wife? you might have come before. Your wife, sir knave! go, get you from the door. If you went in pain, master, this 'knave' would go sore. Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome: we would fain have either. In debating which was best, we shall part with neither. They stand at the door, master: bid them welcome hither. There is something in the wind, that we cannot get in. You would say so, master, if your garments were thin. Your cake here is warm within; you stand here in the cold: It would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold. Go fetch me something: I'll break ope the gate. Break any breaking here, and I'll break your knave's pate. A man may break a word with you, sir, and words are but wind: Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind. It seems thou wantest breaking: out upon thee, hind! Here's too much 'out upon thee!'
I pray thee, let me in. Ay, when fowls have no feathers, and fish have no fin. Well, I'll break in. Go borrow me a crow. A crow without feather? Master, mean you so? For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather: If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together. Go get thee gone: fetch me an iron crow. Have patience, sir; O! let it not be so; Herein you war against your reputation, And draw within the compass of suspect The unviolated honour of your wife. Once this, your long experience of her wisdom, Her sober virtue, years, and modesty, Plead on her part some cause to you unknown; And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse Why at this time the doors are made against you. Be rul'd by me: depart in patience, And let us to the Tiger all to dinner; And about evening come yourself alone, To know the reason of this strange restraint. If by strong hand you offer to break in Now in the stirring passage of the day, A vulgar comment will be made of it, And that supposed by the common rout Against your yet ungalled estimation, That may with foul intrusion enter in And dwell upon your grave when you are dead; For slander lives upon succession, For ever housed where it gets possession.
You have prevail'd: I will depart in quiet, And, in despite of mirth, mean to be merry. I know a wench of excellent discourse, Pretty and witty, wild and yet, too, gentle: There will we dine: this woman that I mean, My wife, but, I protest, without desert, Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal: To her will we to dinner. Get you home, And fetch the chain; by this I know 'tis made: Bring it, I pray you, to the Porpentine; For there's the house: that chain will I bestow, Be it for nothing but to spite my wife, Upon mine hostess there. Good sir, make haste. Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me, I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me. I'll meet you at that place some hour hence. Do so. This jest shall cost me some expense. And may it be that you have quite forgot A husband's office? Shall, Antipholus, Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot? Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
If you did wed my sister for her wealth, Then, for her wealth's sake use her with more kindness: Or, if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth; Muffle your false love with some show of blindness; Let not my sister read it in your eye; Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator; Look sweet, speak fair, become disloyalty; Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger; Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted; Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint; Be secret-false: what need she be acquainted? What simple thief brags of his own attaint? 'Tis double wrong to truant with your bed, And let her read it in thy looks at board: Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed; Ill deeds are doubled with an evil word. Alas! poor women, make us but believe, Being compact of credit, that you love us; Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve; We in your motion turn, and you may move us. Then, gentle brother, get you in again; Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife: 'Tis holy sport to be a little vain, When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife. Sweet mistress, what your name is else, I know not, Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine, Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not Than our earth's wonder; more than earth divine.
Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak: Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit, Smother'd in errors, feeble, shallow, weak, The folded meaning of your words' deceit. Against my soul's pure truth why labour you To make it wander in an unknown field? Are you a god? would you create me new? Transform me then, and to your power I'll yield. But if that I am I, then well I know Your weeping sister is no wife of mine, Nor to her bed no homage do I owe: Far more, far more, to you do I decline. O! train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note, To drown me in thy sister flood of tears: Sing, siren, for thyself, and I will dote: Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs, And as a bed I'll take them and there lie; And, in that glorious supposition think He gains by death that hath such means to die: Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink! What! are you mad, that you do reason so? Not mad, but mated; how, I do not know. It is a fault that springeth from your eye. For gazing on your beams; fair sun, being by. Gaze where you should, and that will clear your sight. As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night. Why call you me love? call my sister so. Thy sister's sister. That's my sister.
No; It is thyself, mine own self's better part; Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart; My food, my fortune, and my sweet hope's aim, My sole earth's heaven, and my heaven's claim. All this my sister is, or else should be. Call thyself sister, sweet, for I aim thee. Thee will I love and with thee lead my life: Thou hast no husband yet nor I no wife. Give me thy hand. O! soft, sir; hold you still: I'll fetch my sister, to get her good will. Why, how now, Dromio! where run'st thou so fast? Do you know me, sir? am I Dromio? am I your man? am I myself? Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself. I am an ass, I am a woman's man and besides myself. What woman's man? and how besides thyself? Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due to a woman; one that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me. What claim lays she to thee? Marry, sir, such claim as you would lay to your horse; and she would have me as a beast: not that, I being a beast, she would have me; but that she, being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me. What is she? A very reverent body; aye, such a one as a man may not speak of, without he say, 'Sir-reverence.'
I have but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a wondrous fat marriage. How dost thou mean a fat marriage? Marry, sir, she's the kitchen-wench, and all grease; and I know not what use to put her to but to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light. I warrant her rags and the tallow in them will burn a Poland winter; if she lives till doomsday, she'll burn a week longer than the whole world. What complexion is she of? Swart, like my shoe, but her face nothing like so clean kept: for why she sweats; a man may go over shoes in the grime of it. That's a fault that water will mend. No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood could not do it. What's her name? Nell, sir; but her name and three quarters, that is, an ell and three quarters, will not measure her from hip to hip. Then she bears some breadth? No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip: she is spherical, like a globe; I could find out countries in her. In what part of her body stands Ireland? Marry, sir, in her buttocks: I found it out by the bogs. Where Scotland? I found it by the barrenness; hard in the palm of the hand. Where France? In her forehead; armed and reverted, making war against her heir. Where England?
I looked for the chalky cliffs, but I could find no whiteness in them: but I guess it stood in her chin, by the salt rheum that ran between France and it. Where Spain? Faith, I saw not; but I felt it hot in her breath. Where America, the Indies? O, sir! upon her nose, all o'er embellished with rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain, who sent whole armadoes of caracks to be ballast at her nose. Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands? O, sir! I did not look so low. To conclude, this drudge, or diviner, laid claim to me; call'd me Dromio; swore I was assured to her; told me what privy marks I had about me, as the mark of my shoulder, the mole in my neck, the great wart on my left arm, that I, amazed, ran from her as a witch. And, I think, if my breast had not been made of faith and my heart of steel, She had transform'd me to a curtal dog and made me turn i' the wheel. Go hie thee presently post to the road: An if the wind blow any way from shore, I will not harbour in this town to-night: If any bark put forth, come to the mart, Where I will walk till thou return to me.
If every one knows us and we know none, 'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack, and be gone. As from a bear a man would run for life, So fly I from her that would be my wife. There's none but witches do inhabit here, And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence. She that doth call me husband, even my soul Doth for a wife abhor; but her fair sister, Possess'd with such a gentle sovereign grace, Of such enchanting presence and discourse, Hath almost made me traitor to myself: But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong, I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song. Master Antipholus! Ay, that's my name. I know it well, sir: lo, here is the chain. I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine; The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long. What is your will that I shall do with this? What please yourself, sir: I have made it for you. Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not Not once, nor twice, but twenty times you have. Go home with it and please your wife withal; And soon at supper-time I'll visit you, And then receive my money for the chain. I pray you, sir, receive the money now, For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more. You are a merry man, sir: fare you well.
What I should think of this, I cannot tell: But this I think, there's no man is so vain That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain. I see, a man here needs not live by shifts, When in the streets he meets such golden gifts. I'll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay: If any ship put out, then straight away. You know since Pentecost the sum is due, And since I have not much importun'd you; Nor now I had not, but that I am bound To Persia, and want guilders for my voyage: Therefore make present satisfaction, Or I'll attach you by this officer. Even just the sum that I do owe to you Is growing to me by Antipholus; And in the instant that I met with you He had of me a chain: at five o'clock I shall receive the money for the same. Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house, I will discharge my bond, and thank you too. That labour may you save: see where he comes. While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou And buy a rope's end, that I will bestow Among my wife and her confederates, For locking me out of my doors by day. But soft! I see the goldsmith. Get thee gone; Buy thou a rope, and bring it home to me. I buy a thousand pound a year: I buy a rope!
A man is well holp up that trusts to you: I promised your presence and the chain; But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me. Belike you thought our love would last too long, If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not. Saving your merry humour, here's the note How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat. The fineness of the gold, and chargeful fashion, Which doth amount to three odd ducats more Than I stand debted to this gentleman: I pray you see him presently discharg'd, For he is bound to sea and stays but for it. I am not furnish'd with the present money; Besides, I have some business in the town. Good signior, take the stranger to my house, And with you take the chain, and bid my wife Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof: Perchance I will be there as soon as you. Then, you will bring the chain to her yourself? No; bear it with you, lest I come not time enough. Well, sir, I will. Have you the chain about you? An if I have not, sir, I hope you have, Or else you may return without your money. Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain: Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman, And I, to blame, have held him here too long. Good Lord! you use this dalliance to excuse Your breach of promise to the Porpentine.
I should have child you for not bringing it, But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl. The hour steals on; I pray you, sir, dispatch. You hear how he importunes me: the chain! Why, give it to my wife and fetch your money. Come, come; you know I gave it you even now. Either send the chain or send by me some token. Fie! now you run this humour out of breath. Come, where's the chain? I pray you, let me see it. My business cannot brook this dalliance. Good sir, say whe'r you'll answer me or no: If not, I'll leave him to the officer. I answer you! what should I answer you? The money that you owe me for the chain. I owe you none till I receive the chain. You know I gave it you half an hour since. You gave me none: you wrong me much to say so. You wrong me more, sir, in denying it: Consider how it stands upon my credit. Well, officer, arrest him at my suit. I do; And charge you in the duke's name to obey me. This touches me in reputation. Either consent to pay this sum for me, Or I attach you by this officer. Consent to pay thee that I never had! Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou dar'st. Here is thy fee: arrest him, officer. I would not spare my brother in this case, If he should scorn me so apparently.
I do arrest you, sir: you hear the suit. I do obey thee till I give thee bail. But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear As all the metal in your shop will answer. Sir, sir, I shall have law in Ephesus, To your notorious shame, I doubt it not. Master, there is a bark of Epidamnum That stays but till her owner comes aboard, And then she bears away. Our fraughtage, sir, I have convey'd aboard, and I have bought The oil, the balsamum, and aqua-vitæ. The ship is in her trim; the merry wind Blows fair from land; they stay for nought at all But for their owner, master, and yourself. How now! a madman! Why, thou peevish sheep, What ship of Epidamnum stays for me? A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage. Thou drunken slave, I sent thee for a rope; And told thee to what purpose, and what end. You sent me for a rope's end as soon: You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark. I will debate this matter at more leisure, And teach your ears to list me with more heed. To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight; Give her this key, and tell her, in the desk That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry, There is a purse of ducats: let her send it. Tell her I am arrested in the street, And that shall bail me. Hie thee, slave, be gone!
On, officer, to prison till it come. To Adriana! that is where we din'd, Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband: She is too big, I hope, for me to compass. Thither I must, although against my will, For servants must their masters' minds fulfil. Ah! Luciana, did he tempt thee so? Mights thou perceive austerely in his eye That he did plead in earnest? yea or no? Look'd he or red or pale? or sad or merrily? What observation mad'st thou in this case Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face? First he denied you had in him no right. He meant he did me none; the more my spite. Then swore he that he was a stranger here. And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were. Then pleaded I for you. And what said he? That love I begg'd for you he begg'd of me. With what persuasion did he tempt thy love? With words that in an honest suit might move. First, he did praise my beauty, then my speech. Didst speak him fair? Have patience, I beseech. I cannot, nor I will not hold me still: My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will.
He is deformed, crooked, old and sere, Ill-fac'd, worse bodied, shapeless every where: Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind, Stigmatical in making, worse in mind. Who would be jealous then, of such a one? No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone. Ah! but I think him better than I say, And yet would herein others' eyes were worse. Far from her nest the lapwing cries away: My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse. Here, go: the desk! the purse! sweet, now, make haste. How hast thou lost thy breath? By running fast. Where is thy master, Dromio? is he well? No, he's in Tartar limbo, worse than hell. A devil in an everlasting garment hath him, One whose hard heart is button'd up with steel; A fiend, a fairy, pitiless and rough; A wolf, nay, worse, a fellow all in buff; A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that countermands The passages of alleys, creeks and narrow lands; A hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well; One that, before the judgment, carries poor souls to hell. Why, man, what is the matter? I do not know the matter: he is 'rested on the case. What, is he arrested? tell me at whose suit. I know not at whose suit he is arrested well; But he's in a suit of buff which 'rested him, that can I tell. Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk? Go fetch it, sister.
This I wonder at: That he, unknown to me, should be in debt: Tell me, was he arrested on a band? Not on a band, but on a stronger thing; A chain, a chain. Do you not hear it ring? What, the chain? No, no, the bell: 'tis time that I were gone: It was two ere I left him, and now the clock strikes one. The hours come back! that did I never hear. O yes; if any hour meet a sergeant, a' turns back for very fear. As if Time were in debt! how fondly dost thou reason! Time is a very bankrupt, and owes more than he's worth to season. Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say, That Time comes stealing on by night and day? If Time be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way, Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day? Go, Dromio: there's the money, bear it straight, And bring thy master home immediately. Come, sister; I am press'd down with conceit; Conceit, my comfort and my injury. There's not a man I meet but doth salute me, As if I were their well acquainted friend; And every one doth call me by my name.
Some tender money to me; some invite me; Some other give me thanks for kindnesses; Some offer me commodities to buy: Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop And show'd me silks that he had bought for me, And therewithal, took measure of my body. Sure these are but imaginary wiles, And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here. Master, here's the gold you sent me for. What! have you got the picture of old Adam new apparelled? What gold is this? What Adam dost thou mean? Not that Adam that kept the Paradise, but that Adam that keeps the prison: he that goes in the calf's skin that was killed for the Prodigal: he that came behind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you forsake your liberty. I understand thee not. No? why, 'tis a plain case: he that went, like a base-viol, in a case of leather; the man, sir, that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a fob, and 'rests them; he, sir, that takes pity on decayed men and gives them suits of durance; he that sets up his rest to do more exploits with his mace than a morris-pike. What, thou meanest an officer? Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band; he that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band; one that thinks a man always going to bed, and says, 'God give you good rest!' Well, sir, there rest in your foolery.
Is there any ship puts forth to-night? may we be gone? Why, sir, I brought you word an hour since that the bark Expedition put forth to-night; and then were you hindered by the sergeant to tarry for the hoy Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for to deliver you. The fellow is distract, and so am I; And here we wander in illusions: Some blessed power deliver us from hence! Well met, well met, Master Antipholus. I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now: Is that the chain you promis'd me to-day? Satan, avoid! I charge thee tempt me not! Master, is this Mistress Satan? It is the devil. Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's dam, and here she comes in the habit of a light wench: and thereof comes that the wenches say, 'God damn me;' that's as much as to say, 'God make me a light wench.' It is written, they appear to men like angels of light: light is an effect of fire, and fire will burn; ergo, light wenches will burn. Come not near her. Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir. Will you go with me? we'll mend our dinner here. Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat, so bespeak a long spoon. Why, Dromio? Marry, he must have a long spoon that must eat with the devil. Avoid thee, fiend! what tell'st thou me of supping?
Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress: I conjure thee to leave me and be gone. Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner, Or, for my diamond, the chain you promis'd, And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you. Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail, A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin, A nut, a cherry-stone; But she, more covetous, would have a chain. Master, be wise: an if you give it her, The devil will shake her chain and fright us with it. I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain: I hope you do not mean to cheat me so. Avaunt, thou witch! Come, Dromio, let us go. 'Fly pride,' says the peacock: mistress, that you know. Now, out of doubt, Antipholus is mad, Else would he never so demean himself. A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats, And for the same he promis'd me a chain: Both one and other he denies me now. The reason that I gather he is mad, Besides this present instance of his rage, Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner, Of his own doors being shut against his entrance Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits, On purpose shut the doors against his way.
My way is now to hie home to his house, And tell his wife, that, being lunatic, He rush'd into my house, and took perforce My ring away. This course I fittest choose, For forty ducats is too much to lose. Fear me not, man; I will not break away: I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money, To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for. My wife is in a wayward mood to-day, And will not lightly trust the messenger. That I should be attach'd in Ephesus, I tell you, 'twill sound harshly in her ears. Here comes my man: I think he brings the money. How now, sir! have you that I sent you for? Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all. But where's the money? Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope. Five hundred ducats, villain, for a rope? I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate. To what end did I bid thee hie thee home? To a rope's end, sir; and to that end am I return'd. And to that end, sir, I will welcome you. Good sir, be patient. Nay, 'tis for me to be patient; I am in adversity. Good now, hold thy tongue. Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands. Thou whoreson, senseless villain! I would I were senseless, sir, that I might not feel your blows. Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an ass.
I am an ass indeed; you may prove it by my long ears. I have served him from the hour of my nativity to this instant, and have nothing at his hands for my service but blows. When I am cold, he heats me with beating; when I am warm, he cools me with beating; I am waked with it when I sleep; raised with it when I sit; driven out of doors with it when I go from home; welcomed home with it when I return; nay, I bear it on my shoulders, as a beggar wont her brat; and, I think, when he hath lamed me, I shall beg with it from door to door. Come, go along; my wife is coming yonder. Mistress, respice finem, respect your end; or rather, to prophesy like the parrot, 'Beware the rope's end.' Wilt thou still talk? How say you now? is not your husband mad? His incivility confirms no less. Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer; Establish him in his true sense again, And I will please you what you will demand. Alas! how fiery and how sharp he looks. Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy! Give me your hand and let me feel your pulse. There is my hand, and let it feel your ear.
I charge thee, Satan, hous'd within this man, To yield possession to my holy prayers, And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight: I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven. Peace, doting wizard, peace! I am not mad. O! that thou wert not, poor distressed soul! You minion, you, are these your customers? Did this companion with the saffron face Revel and feast it at my house to-day, Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut And I denied to enter in my house? O husband, God doth know you din'd at home; Where would you had remain'd until this time. Free from these slanders and this open shame! Din'd at home! Thou villain, what say'st thou? Sir, sooth to say, you did not dine at home. Were not my doors lock'd up and I shut out? Perdy, your doors were lock'd and you shut out. And did not she herself revile me there? Sans fable, she herself revil'd you there. Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, and scorn me? Certes, she did; the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you. And did not I in rage depart from thence? In verity you did: my bones bear witness, That since have felt the vigour of his rage. Is't good to soothe him in these contraries? It is no shame: the fellow finds his vein, And, yielding to him humours well his frenzy. Thou hast suborn'd the goldsmith to arrest me. Alas!
I sent you money to redeem you, By Dromio here, who came in haste for it. Money by me! heart and good will you might; But surely, master, not a rag of money. Went'st not thou to her for a purse of ducats? He came to me, and I deliver'd it. And I am witness with her that she did. God and the rope-maker bear me witness That I was sent for nothing but a rope! Mistress, both man and master is possess'd: I know it by their pale and deadly looks. They must be bound and laid in some dark room. Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day? And why dost thou deny the bag of gold? I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth. And, gentle master, I receiv'd no gold; But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out. Dissembling villain! thou speak'st false in both. Dissembling harlot! thou art false in all; And art confederate with a damned pack To make a loathsome abject scorn of me; But with these nails I'll pluck out those false eyes That would behold in me this shameful sport. O! bind him, bind him, let him not come near me. More company! the fiend is strong within him. Ay me! poor man, how pale and wan he looks! What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou, I am thy prisoner: wilt thou suffer them To make a rescue?
Masters, let him go: He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him. Go bind this man, for he is frantic too. What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer? Hast thou delight to see a wretched man Do outrage and displeasure to himself? He is my prisoner: if I let him go, The debt he owes will be requir'd of me. I will discharge thee ere I go from thee: Bear me forthwith unto his creditor, And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it. Good Master doctor, see him safe convey'd Home to my house. O most unhappy day! O most unhappy strumpet! Master, I am here enter'd in bond for you. Out on thee, villain! wherefore dost thou mad me? Will you be bound for nothing? be mad, good master; cry, 'the devil!' God help, poor souls! how idly do they talk. Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with me. Say now, whose suit is he arrested at? One Angelo, a goldsmith; do you know him? I know the man. What is the sum he owes? Two hundred ducats. Say, how grows it due? Due for a chain your husband had of him. He did bespeak a chain for me, but had it not.
When as your husband all in rage, to-day Came to my house, and took away my ring, The ring I saw upon his finger now, Straight after did I meet him with a chain. It may be so, but I did never see it. Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is: I long to know the truth hereof at large. God, for thy mercy! they are loose again. And come with naked swords. Let's call more help To have them bound again. Away! they'll kill us. I see, these witches are afraid of swords. She that would be your wife now ran from you. Come to the Centaur; fetch our stuff from thence: I long that we were safe and sound aboard. Faith, stay here this night, they will surely do us no harm; you saw they speak us fair, give us gold: methinks they are such a gentle nation, that, but for the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of me, I could find in my heart to stay here still, and turn witch. I will not stay to-night for all the town; Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard. I am sorry, sir, that I have hinder'd you; But, I protest, he had the chain of me, Though most dishonestly he doth deny it. How is the man esteem'd here in the city?
Of very reverend reputation, sir, Of credit infinite, highly belov'd, Second to none that lives here in the city: His word might bear my wealth at any time. Speak softly: yonder, as I think, he walks. 'Tis so; and that self chain about his neck Which he forswore most monstrously to have. Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him. Signior Antipholus, I wonder much That you would put me to this shame and trouble; And not without some scandal to yourself, With circumstance and oaths so to deny This chain which now you wear so openly: Beside the charge, the shame, imprisonment, You have done wrong to this my honest friend, Who, but for staying on our controversy, Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day. This chain you had of me; can you deny it? I think I had: I never did deny it. Yes, that you did, sir, and forswore it too. Who heard me to deny it or forswear it? These ears of mine, thou know'st, did hear thee. Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity that thou liv'st To walk where any honest men resort. Thou art a villain to impeach me thus: I'll prove mine honour and mine honesty Against thee presently, if thou dar'st stand. I dare, and do defy thee for a villain. Hold! hurt him not, for God's sake! he is mad. Some get within him, take his sword away.
Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house. Run, master, run; for God's sake, take a house! This is some priory: in, or we are spoil'd. Be quiet, people. Wherefore throng you hither? To fetch my poor distracted husband hence. Let us come in, that we may bind him fast, And bear him home for his recovery. I knew he was not in his perfect wits. I am sorry now that I did draw on him. How long hath this possession held the man? This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad, And much different from the man he was; But, till this afternoon his passion Ne'er brake into extremity of rage. Hath he not lost much wealth by wrack of sea? Buried some dear friend? Hath not else his eye Stray'd his affection in unlawful love? A sin prevailing much in youthful men, Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing. Which of these sorrows is he subject to? To none of these, except it be the last; Namely, some love that drew him oft from home. You should for that have reprehended him. Why, so I did. Ay, but not rough enough. As roughly as my modesty would let me. Haply, in private. And in assemblies too. Ay, but not enough.
It was the copy of our conference: In bed, he slept not for my urging it; At board, he fed not for my urging it; Alone, it was the subject of my theme; In company I often glanced it: Still did I tell him it was vile and bad. And thereof came it that the man was mad: The venom clamours of a jealous woman Poison more deadly than a mad dog's tooth. It seems, his sleeps were hinder'd by thy railing, And thereof comes it that his head is light. Thou say'st his meat was sauc'd with thy upbraidings: Unquiet meals make ill digestions; Thereof the raging fire of fever bred: And what's a fever but a fit of madness? Thou say'st his sports were hinder'd by thy brawls: Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue But moody moping, and dull melancholy, Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair, And at her heels a huge infectious troop Of pale distemperatures and foes to life? In food, in sport, and life-preserving rest To be disturb'd, would mad or man or beast: The consequence is then, thy jealous fits Have scar'd thy husband from the use of wits. She never reprehended him but mildly When he demean'd himself rough, rude, and wildly. Why bear you these rebukes and answer not? She did betray me to my own reproof. Good people, enter, and lay hold on him. No; not a creature enters in my house.
Then, let your servants bring my husband forth. Neither: he took this place for sanctuary, And it shall privilege him from your hands Till I have brought him to his wits again, Or lose my labour in assaying it. I will attend my husband, be his nurse, Diet his sickness, for it is my office, And will have no attorney but myself; And therefore let me have him home with me. Be patient; for I will not let him stir Till I have us'd the approved means I have, With wholesome syrups, drugs, and holy prayers, To make of him a formal man again. It is a branch and parcel of mine oath, A charitable duty of my order; Therefore depart and leave him here with me. I will not hence and leave my husband here; And ill it doth beseem your holiness To separate the husband and the wife. Be quiet, and depart: thou shalt not have him. Complain unto the duke of this indignity. Come, go: I will fall prostrate at his feet, And never rise until my tears and prayers Have won his Grace to come in person hither, And take perforce my husband from the abbess.
By this, I think, the dial points at five: Anon, I'm sure, the duke himself in person Comes this way to the melancholy vale, The place of death and sorry execution, Behind the ditches of the abbey here. Upon what cause? To see a reverend Syracusian merchant, Who put unluckily into this bay Against the laws and statutes of this town, Beheaded publicly for his offence. See where they come: we will behold his death. Kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey. Yet once again proclaim it publicly, If any friend will pay the sum for him, He shall not die; so much we tender him. Justice, most sacred duke, against the abbess! She is a virtuous and a reverend lady: It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong. May it please your Grace, Antipholus, my husband, Whom I made lord of me and all I had, At your important letters, this ill day A most outrageous fit of madness took him, That desperately he hurried through the street, With him his bondman, all as mad as he, Doing displeasure to the citizens By rushing in their houses, bearing thence Rings, jewels, anything his rage did like. Once did I get him bound and sent him home, Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went That here and there his fury had committed.
Anon, I wot not by what strong escape, He broke from those that had the guard of him, And with his mad attendant and himself, Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords Met us again, and, madly bent on us Chas'd us away, till, raising of more aid We came again to bind them. Then they fled Into this abbey, whither we pursu'd them; And here the abbess shuts the gates on us, And will not suffer us to fetch him out, Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence. Therefore, most gracious duke, with thy command Let him be brought forth, and borne hence for help. Long since thy husband serv'd me in my wars, And I to thee engag'd a prince's word, When thou didst make him master of thy bed, To do him all the grace and good I could. Go, some of you, knock at the abbey gate And bid the lady abbess come to me. I will determine this before I stir. O mistress, mistress! shift and save yourself! My master and his man are both broke loose, Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor, Whose beard they have sing'd off with brands of fire; And ever as it blaz'd they threw on him Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair.
My master preaches patience to him, and the while His man with scissors nicks him like a fool; And sure, unless you send some present help, Between them they will kill the conjurer. Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here, And that is false thou dost report to us. Mistress, upon my life, I tell you true; I have not breath'd almost, since I did see it. He cries for you and vows, if he can take you, To scotch your face, and to disfigure you. Hark, hark! I hear him, mistress: fly, be gone! Come, stand by me; fear nothing. Guard with halberds! Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you, That he is borne about invisible: Even now we hous'd him in the abbey here, And now he's here, past thought of human reason. Justice, most gracious duke! O! grant me justice, Even for the service that long since I did thee, When I bestrid thee in the wars and took Deep scars to save thy life; even for the blood That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice. Unless the fear of death doth make me dote, I see my son Antipholus and Dromio! Justice, sweet prince, against that woman there! She whom thou gav'st to me to be my wife, That hath abused and dishonour'd me, Even in the strength and height of injury! Beyond imagination is the wrong That she this day hath shameless thrown on me.
Discover how, and thou shalt find me just. This day, great duke, she shut the doors upon me, While she with harlots feasted in my house. A grievous fault! Say, woman, didst thou so? No, my good lord: myself, he, and my sister To-day did dine together. So befall my soul As this is false he burdens me withal! Ne'er may I look on day, nor sleep on night, But she tells to your highness simple truth! O perjur'd woman! They are both forsworn: In this the madman justly chargeth them! My liege, I am advised what I say: Neither disturb'd with the effect of wine, Nor heady-rash, provok'd with raging ire, Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad. This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner: That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her, Could witness it, for he was with me then; Who parted with me to go fetch a chain, Promising to bring it to the Porpentine, Where Balthazar and I did dine together. Our dinner done, and he not coming thither, I went to seek him: in the street I met him, And in his company that gentleman. There did this perjur'd goldsmith swear me down That I this day of him receiv'd the chain, Which, God he knows, I saw not; for the which He did arrest me with an officer. I did obey, and sent my peasant home For certain ducats: he with none return'd.
Then fairly I bespoke the officer To go in person with me to my house. By the way we met My wife, her sister, and a rabble more Of vile confederates: along with them They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-fac'd villain, A mere anatomy, a mountebank, A threadbare juggler, and a fortune-teller, A needy, hollow-ey'd, sharp-looking wretch, A living-dead man. This pernicious slave, Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer, And, gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse, And with no face, as 'twere, out-facing me, Cries out, I was possess'd. Then, altogether They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence, And in a dark and dankish vault at home There left me and my man, both bound together; Till, gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder, I gain'd my freedom, and immediately Ran hither to your Grace; whom I beseech To give me ample satisfaction For these deep shames and great indignities. My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him, That he din'd not at home, but was lock'd out. But had he such a chain of thee, or no? He had, my lord; and when he ran in here, These people saw the chain about his neck.
Besides, I will be sworn these ears of mine Heard you confess you had the chain of him After you first forswore it on the mart; And thereupon I drew my sword on you; And then you fled into this abbey here, From whence, I think, you are come by miracle. I never came within these abbey walls; Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me; I never saw the chain, so help me heaven! And this is false you burden me withal. Why, what an intricate impeach is this! I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup. If here you hous'd him, here he would have been; If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly; You say he din'd at home; the goldsmith here Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you? Sir, he din'd with her there, at the Porpentine. He did, and from my finger snatch'd that ring. 'Tis true, my liege; this ring I had of her. Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here? As sure, my liege, as I do see your Grace. Why, this is strange. Go call the abbess hither. I think you are all mated or stark mad. Most mighty duke, vouchsafe me speak a word: Haply I see a friend will save my life, And pay the sum that may deliver me. Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt. Is not your name, sir, called Antipholus? And is not that your bondman Dromio?
Within this hour I was his bondman, sir; But he, I thank him, gnaw'd in two my cords: Now am I Dromio and his man, unbound. I am sure you both of you remember me. Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you; For lately we were bound, as you are now. You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir? Why look you strange on me? you know me well. I never saw you in my life till now. O! grief hath chang'd me since you saw me last, And careful hours, with Time's deformed hand, Have written strange defeatures in my face: But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice? Neither. Dromio, nor thou? No, trust me, sir, not I. I am sure thou dost. Ay, sir; but I am sure I do not; and whatsoever a man denies, you are now bound to believe him. Not know my voice! O, time's extremity, Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue In seven short years, that here my only son Knows not my feeble key of untun'd cares?
Though now this grained face of mine be hid In sap-consuming winter's drizzled snow, And all the conduits of my blood froze up, Yet hath my night of life some memory, My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left, My dull deaf ears a little use to hear: All these old witnesses, I cannot err, Tell me thou art my son Antipholus. I never saw my father in my life. But seven years since, in Syracusa, boy, Thou know'st we parted: but perhaps, my son, Thou sham'st to acknowledge me in misery. The duke and all that know me in the city Can witness with me that it is not so: I ne'er saw Syracusa in my life. I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years Have I been patron to Antipholus, During which time he ne'er saw Syracusa. I see thy age and dangers make thee dote. Most mighty duke, behold a man much wrong'd. I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me! One of these men is Genius to the other; And so of these: which is the natural man, And which the spirit? Who deciphers them? I, sir, am Dromio: command him away. I, sir, am Dromio: pray let me stay. Ægeon art thou not? or else his ghost? O! my old master; who hath bound him here? Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds, And gain a husband by his liberty.
Speak, old Ægeon, if thou be'st the man That hadst a wife once call'd Æmilia, That bore thee at a burden two fair sons. O! if thou be'st the same Ægeon, speak, And speak unto the same Æmilia! If I dream not, thou art Æmilia: If thou art she, tell me where is that son That floated with thee on the fatal raft? By men of Epidamnum, he and I, And the twin Dromio, all were taken up: But by and by rude fishermen of Corinth By force took Dromio and my son from them, And me they left with those of Epidamnum. What then became of them, I cannot tell; I to this fortune that you see me in. Why, here begins his morning story right: These two Antipholus', these two so like, And these two Dromios, one in semblance, Besides her urging of her wrack at sea; These are the parents to these children, Which accidentally are met together. Antipholus, thou cam'st from Corinth first? No, sir, not I; I came from Syracuse. Stay, stand apart; I know not which is which. I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord, And I with him. Brought to this town by that most famous warrior, Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle. Which of you two did dine with me to-day? I, gentle mistress. And are not you my husband? No; I say nay to that.
And so do I; yet did she call me so; And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here, Did call me brother. What I told you then, I hope I shall have leisure to make good, If this be not a dream I see and hear. That is the chain, sir, which you had of me. I think it be, sir; I deny it not. And you, sir, for this chain arrested me. I think I did, sir; I deny it not. I sent you money, sir, to be your bail, By Dromio; but I think he brought it not. No, none by me. This purse of ducats I receiv'd from you, And Dromio, my man, did bring them me. I see we still did meet each other's man, And I was ta'en for him, and he for me, And thereupon these errors are arose. These ducats pawn I for my father here. It shall not need: thy father hath his life. Sir, I must have that diamond from you. There, take it; and much thanks for my good cheer. Renowned duke, vouchsafe to take the pains To go with us into the abbey here, And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes; And all that are assembled in this place, That by this sympathized one day's error Have suffer'd wrong, go keep us company, And we shall make full satisfaction.
Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail Of you, my sons; and, till this present hour My heavy burdens ne'er delivered. The duke, my husband, and my children both, And you the calendars of their nativity, Go to a gossip's feast, and joy with me: After so long grief such festivity! With all my heart I'll gossip at this feast. Master, shall I fetch your stuff from shipboard? Dromio, what stuff of mine hast thou embark'd? Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur. He speaks to me. I am your master, Dromio: Come, go with us; we'll look to that anon: Embrace thy brother there; rejoice with him. There is a fat friend at your master's house, That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner: She now shall be my sister, not my wife. Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother: I see by you I am a sweet-fac'd youth. Will you walk in to see their gossiping? Not I, sir; you are my elder. That's a question: how shall we try it? We'll draw cuts for the senior: till then lead thou first. Nay, then, thus: We came into the world like brother and brother; And now let's go hand in hand, not one before another.
Let fame, that all hunt after in their lives, Live register'd upon our brazen tombs, And then grace us in the disgrace of death; When, spite of cormorant devouring Time, The endeavour of this present breath may buy That honour which shall bate his scythe's keen edge, And make us heirs of all eternity. Therefore, brave conquerors, for so you are, That war against your own affections And the huge army of the world's desires, Our late edict shall strongly stand in force: Navarre shall be the wonder of the world; Our court shall be a little academe, Still and contemplative in living art. You three, Berowne, Dumaine, and Longaville, Have sworn for three years' term to live with me, My fellow-scholars, and to keep those statutes That are recorded in this schedule here: Your oaths are pass'd; and now subscribe your names, That his own hand may strike his honour down That violates the smallest branch herein. If you are arm'd to do, as sworn to do, Subscribe to your deep oaths, and keep it too. I am resolv'd; 'tis but a three years' fast: The mind shall banquet, though the body pine: Fat paunches have lean pates, and dainty bits Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.
My loving lord, Dumaine is mortified: The grosser manner of these world's delights He throws upon the gross world's baser slaves: To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die; With all these living in philosophy. I can but say their protestation over; So much, dear liege, I have already sworn, That is, to live and study here three years. But there are other strict observances; As, not to see a woman in that term, Which I hope well is not enrolled there: And one day in a week to touch no food, And but one meal on every day beside; The which I hope is not enrolled there: And then, to sleep but three hours in the night, And not be seen to wink of all the day, When I was wont to think no harm all night And make a dark night too of half the day, Which I hope well is not enrolled there. O! these are barren tasks, too hard to keep, Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep. Your oath is pass'd to pass away from these. Let me say no, my liege, an if you please. I only swore to study with your Grace, And stay here in your court for three years' space. You swore to that, Berowne, and to the rest. By yea and nay, sir, then I swore in jest. What is the end of study? let me know.
Why, that to know which else we should not know. Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense? Ay, that is study's god-like recompense. Come on then; I will swear to study so, To know the thing I am forbid to know; As thus: to study where I well may dine, When I to feast expressly am forbid; Or study where to meet some mistress fine, When mistresses from common sense are hid; Or, having sworn too hard-a-keeping oath, Study to break it, and not break my troth. If study's gain be thus, and this be so, Study knows that which yet it doth not know. Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say no. These be the stops that hinder study quite, And train our intellects to vain delight. Why, all delights are vain; but that most vain Which, with pain purchas'd doth inherit pain: As, painfully to pore upon a book, To seek the light of truth; while truth the while Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look: Light seeking light doth light of light beguile: So, ere you find where light in darkness lies, Your light grows dark by losing of your eyes. Study me how to please the eye indeed, By fixing it upon a fairer eye, Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed, And give him light that it was blinded by.
Study is like the heaven's glorious sun, That will not be deep-search'd with saucy looks; Small have continual plodders ever won, Save base authority from others' books. These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights That give a name to every fixed star, Have no more profit of their shining nights Than those that walk and wot not what they are. Too much to know is to know nought but fame; And every godfather can give a name. How well he's read, to reason against reading! Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding! He weeds the corn, and still lets grow the weeding. The spring is near, when green geese are a-breeding. How follows that? Fit in his place and time. In reason nothing. Something then, in rime. Berowne is like an envious sneaping frost That bites the first-born infants of the spring. Well, say I am: why should proud summer boast Before the birds have any cause to sing? Why should I joy in an abortive birth? At Christmas I no more desire a rose Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled mirth; But like of each thing that in season grows. So you, to study now it is too late, Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate. Well, sit you out: go home, Berowne: adieu!
No, my good lord; I have sworn to stay with you: And though I have for barbarism spoke more Than for that angel knowledge you can say, Yet confident I'll keep to what I swore, And bide the penance of each three years' day. Give me the paper; let me read the same; And to the strict'st decrees I'll write my name. How well this yielding rescues thee from shame! Item, That no woman shall come within a mile of my court. Hath this been proclaimed? Four days ago. Let's see the penalty. On pain of losing her tongue. Who devised this penalty? Marry, that did I. Sweet lord, and why? To fright them hence with that dread penalty. A dangerous law against gentility! Item. If any man be seen to talk with a woman within the term of three years, he shall endure such public shame as the rest of the court can possibly devise. This article, my liege, yourself must break; For well you know here comes in embassy The French king's daughter with yourself to speak A maid of grace and complete majesty About surrender up of Aquitaine To her decrepit, sick, and bed-rid father: Therefore this article is made in vain, Or vainly comes th' admired princess hither. What say you, lords? why, this was quite forgot.
So study evermore is overshot: While it doth study to have what it would, It doth forget to do the thing it should; And when it hath the thing it hunteth most, 'Tis won as towns with fire; so won, so lost. We must of force dispense with this decree; She must lie here on mere necessity. Necessity will make us all forsworn Three thousand times within this three years' space; For every man with his affects is born, Not by might master'd, but by special grace. If I break faith this word shall speak for me, I am forsworn 'on mere necessity.' So to the laws at large I write my name: And he that breaks them in the least degree Stands in attainder of eternal shame: Suggestions are to others as to me; But I believe, although I seem so loath, I am the last that will last keep his oath. But is there no quick recreation granted? Ay, that there is.
Our court, you know, is haunted With a refined traveller of Spain; A man in all the world's new fashion planted, That hath a mint of phrases in his brain; One whom the music of his own vain tongue Doth ravish like enchanting harmony; A man of complements, whom right and wrong Have chose as umpire of their mutiny: This child of fancy, that Armado hight, For interim to our studies shall relate In high-born words the worth of many a knight From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate. How you delight, my lords, I know not, I; But, I protest, I love to hear him lie, And I will use him for my minstrelsy. Armado is a most illustrious wight, A man of fire-new words, fashion's own knight. Costard the swain and he shall be our sport; And, so to study, three years is but short. Which is the duke's own person? This, fellow. What wouldst? I myself reprehend his own person, for I am his Grace's tharborough: but I would see his own person in flesh and blood. This is he. Signior Arm Arm commends you. There's villany abroad: this letter will tell you more. Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me. A letter from the magnificent Armado. How long soever the matter, I hope in God for high words. A high hope for a low heaven: God grant us patience! To hear, or forbear laughing?
To hear meekly, sir, and to laugh moderately; or to forbear both. Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to climb in the merriness. The matter is to me, sir, as concerning Jaquenetta. The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner. In what manner? In manner and form following, sir; all those three: I was seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with her upon the form, and taken following her into the park; which, put together, is, in manner and form following. Now, sir, for the manner, it is the manner of a man to speak to a woman, for the form, in some form. For the following, sir? As it shall follow in my correction; and God defend the right! Will you hear this letter with attention? As we would hear an oracle. Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh. Great deputy, the welkin's vicegerent, and sole dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's God, and body's fostering patron, Not a word of Costard yet. So it is, It may be so; but if he say it is so, he is, in telling true, but so. Peace! Be to me and every man that dares not fight. No words! Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.
So it is, besieged with sable-coloured melancholy, I did commend the black-oppressing humour to the most wholesome physic of thy health-giving air; and, as I am a gentleman, betook myself to walk. The time when? About the sixth hour; when beasts most graze, birds best peck, and men sit down to that nourishment which is called supper: so much for the time when. Now for the ground which; which, I mean, I walked upon: it is ycleped thy park. Then for the place where; where, I mean, I did encounter that most obscene and preposterous event, that draweth from my snow-white pen the ebon-coloured ink, which here thou viewest, beholdest, surveyest, or seest. But to the place where, it standeth north-north-east and by east from the west corner of thy curious-knotted garden: there did I see that low-spirited swain, that base minnow of thy mirth, Me. that unlettered small-knowing soul, Me. that shallow vessel, Still me. which, as I remember, hight Costard, O me. sorted and consorted, contrary to thy established proclaimed edict and continent canon, with with, O! with but with this I passion to say wherewith, With a wench. with a child of our grandmother Eve, a female; or, for thy more sweet understanding, a woman.
Him, I, as my everesteemed duty pricks me on, have sent to thee, to receive the meed of punishment, by thy sweet Grace's officer, Antony Dull; a man of good repute, carriage, bearing, and estimation. Me, an't please you; I am Antony Dull. For Jaquenetta, so is the weaker vessel called which I apprehended with the aforesaid swain, I keep her as a vessel of thy law's fury; and shall, at the least of thy sweet notice, bring her to trial. Thine, in all compliments of devoted and heart-burning heat of duty, DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO. This is not so well as I looked for, but the best that ever I heard. Ay, the best for the worst. But, sirrah, what say you to this? Sir, I confess the wench. Did you hear the proclamation? I do confess much of the hearing it, but little of the marking of it. It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment to be taken with a wench. I was taken with none, sir: I was taken with a damosel. Well, it was proclaimed 'damosel.' This was no damosel neither, sir: she was a 'virgin.' It is so varied too; for it was proclaimed 'virgin.' If it were, I deny her virginity: I was taken with a maid. This maid will not serve your turn, sir. This maid will serve my turn, sir. Sir, I will pronounce your sentence: you shall fast a week with bran and water.
I had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge. And Don Armado shall be your keeper. My Lord Berowne, see him deliver'd o'er: And go we, lords, to put in practice that Which each to other hath so strongly sworn. I'll lay my head to any good man's hat, These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn. Sirrah, come on. I suffer for the truth, sir: for true it is I was taken with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true girl; and therefore welcome the sour cup of prosperity! Affliction may one day smile again; and till then, sit thee down, sorrow! Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit grows melancholy? A great sign, sir, that he will look sad. Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp. No, no; O Lord, sir, no. How canst thou part sadness and melancholy, my tender juvenal? By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough senior. Why tough senior? why tough senior? Why tender juvenal? why tender juvenal? I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton appertaining to thy young days, which we may nominate tender. And I, tough senior, as an appertinent title to your old time, which we may name tough. Pretty, and apt. How mean you, sir? I pretty, and my saying apt? or I apt, and my saying pretty? Thou pretty, because little. Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt? And therefore apt, because quick.
Speak you this in my praise, master? In thy condign praise. I will praise an eel with the same praise. What! that an eel is ingenious? That an eel is quick. I do say thou art quick in answers: thou heatest my blood. I am answered, sir. I love not to be crossed. He speaks the mere contrary: crosses love not him. I have promised to study three years with the duke. You may do it in an hour, sir. Impossible. How many is one thrice told? I am ill at reckoning; it fitteth the spirit of a tapster. You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir. I confess both: they are both the varnish of a complete man. Then, I am sure you know how much the gross sum of deuce-ace amounts to. It doth amount to one more than two. Which the base vulgar do call three. True. Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now, here's three studied, ere you'll thrice wink; and how easy it is to put 'years' to the word 'three,' and study three years in two words, the dancing horse will tell you. A most fine figure! To prove you a cipher. I will hereupon confess I am in love; and as it is base for a soldier to love, so am I in love with a base wench.
If drawing my sword against the humour of affection would deliver me from the reprobate thought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, and ransom him to any French courtier for a new devised curtsy. I think scorn to sigh: methinks I should outswear Cupid. Comfort me, boy: what great men have been in love? Hercules, master. Most sweet Hercules! More authority, dear boy, name more; and, sweet my child, let them be men of good repute and carriage. Samson, master: he was a man of good carriage, great carriage, for he carried the towngates on his back like a porter; and he was in love. O well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I do excel thee in my rapier as much as thou didst me in carrying gates. I am in love too. Who was Samson's love, my dear Moth? A woman, master. Of what complexion? Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the four. Tell me precisely of what complexion. Of the sea-water green, sir. Is that one of the four complexions? As I have read, sir; and the best of them too. Green indeed is the colour of lovers; but to have a love of that colour, methinks Samson had small reason for it. He surely affected her for her wit. It was so, sir, for she had a green wit. My love is most immaculate white and red. Most maculate thoughts, master, are masked under such colours.
Define, define, well-educated infant. My father's wit, and my mother's tongue, assist me! Sweet invocation of a child; most pretty and pathetical! If she be made of white and red, Her faults will ne'er be known, For blushing cheeks by faults are bred, And fears by pale white shown: Then if she fear, or be to blame, By this you shall not know, For still her cheeks possess the same Which native she doth owe. A dangerous rime, master, against the reason of white and red. Is there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Beggar? The world was very guilty of such a ballad some three ages since; but I think now 'tis not to be found; or, if it were, it would neither serve for the writing nor the tune. I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may example my digression by some mighty precedent. Boy, I do love that country girl that I took in the park with the rational hind Costard: she deserves well. To be whipped; and yet a better love than my master. Sing, boy: my spirit grows heavy in love. And that's great marvel, loving a light wench. I say, sing. Forbear till this company be past. Sir, the duke's pleasure is, that you keep Costard safe: and you must let him take no delight nor no penance, but a' must fast three days a week.
For this damsel, I must keep her at the park; she is allowed for the day-woman. Fare you well. I do betray myself with blushing. Maid! Man? I will visit thee at the lodge. That's hereby. I know where it is situate. Lord, how wise you are! I will tell thee wonders. With that face? I love thee. So I heard you say. And so farewell. Fair weather after you! Come, Jaquenetta, away! Villain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thou be pardoned. Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on a full stomach. Thou shalt be heavily punished. I am more bound to you than your fellows, for they are but lightly rewarded. Take away this villain: shut him up. Come, you transgressing slave: away! Let me not be pent up, sir: I will fast, being loose. No, sir; that were fast and loose: thou shalt to prison. Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation that I have seen, some shall see What shall some see? Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon. It is not for prisoners to be too silent in their words; and therefore I will say nothing: I thank God I have as little patience as another man, and therefore I can be quiet.
I do affect the very ground, which is base, where her shoe, which is baser, guided by her foot, which is basest, doth tread. I shall be forsworn, which is a great argument of falsehood, if I love. And how can that be true love which is falsely attempted? Love is a familiar; Love is a devil: there is no evil angel but Love. Yet was Samson so tempted, and he had an excellent strength; yet was Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit. Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club, and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier. The first and second clause will not serve my turn; the passado he respects not, the duello he regards not: his disgrace is to be called boy, but his glory is, to subdue men. Adieu, valour! rust, rapier! be still, drum! for your manager is in love; yea, he loveth. Assist me some extemporal god of rime, for I am sure I shall turn sonneter. Devise, wit; write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.
Now, madam, summon up your dearest spirits: Consider whom the king your father sends, To whom he sends, and what's his embassy: Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem, To parley with the sole inheritor Of all perfections that a man may owe, Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen. Be now as prodigal of all dear grace As Nature was in making graces dear When she did starve the general world beside, And prodigally gave them all to you. Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean, Needs not the painted flourish of your praise: Beauty is bought by judgment of the eye, Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues. I am less proud to hear you tell my worth Than you much willing to be counted wise In spending your wit in the praise of mine. But now to task the tasker: good Boyet, You are not ignorant, all-telling fame Doth noise abroad, Navarre hath made a vow, Till painful study shall out-wear three years, No woman may approach his silent court: Therefore to us seemth it a needful course, Before we enter his forbidden gates, To know his pleasure; and in that behalf, Bold of your worthiness, we single you As our best-moving fair solicitor. Tell him, the daughter of the King of France, On serious business, craving quick dispatch, Importunes personal conference with his Grace.
Haste, signify so much; while we attend, Like humble-visag'd suitors, his high will. Proud of employment, willingly I go. All pride is willing pride, and yours is so. Who are the votaries, my loving lords, That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke? Lord Longaville is one. Know you the man? I know him, madam: at a marriage feast, Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir Of Jacques Falconbridge, solemnized In Normandy, saw I this Longaville. A man of sovereign parts he is esteem'd; Well fitted in the arts, glorious in arms: Nothing becomes him ill that he would well. The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss, If virtue's gloss will stain with any soil, Is a sharp wit match'd with too blunt a will; Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills It should none spare that come within his power. Some merry mocking lord, belike; is't so? They say so most that most his humours know. Such short-liv'd wits do wither as they grow. Who are the rest? The young Dumaine, a well-accomplish'd youth, Of all that virtue love for virtue lov'd: Most power to do most harm, least knowing ill, For he hath wit to make an ill shape good, And shape to win grace though he had no wit. I saw him at the Duke Alençon's once; And much too little of that good I saw Is my report to his great worthiness.
Another of these students at that time Was there with him, if I have heard a truth: Berowne they call him; but a merrier man, Within the limit of becoming mirth, I never spent an hour's talk withal. His eye begets occasion for his wit; For every object that the one doth catch The other turns to a mirth-moving jest, Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor, Delivers in such apt and gracious words, That aged ears play truant at his tales, And younger hearings are quite ravished; So sweet and voluble is his discourse. God bless my ladies! are they all in love, That every one her own hath garnished With such bedecking ornaments of praise? Here comes Boyet. Now, what admittance, lord? Navarre had notice of your fair approach; And he and his competitors in oath Were all address'd to meet you, gentle lady, Before I came. Marry, thus much I have learnt; He rather means to lodge you in the field, Like one that comes here to besiege his court, Than seek a dispensation for his oath, To let you enter his unpeeled house. Here comes Navarre. Fair princess, welcome to the court of Navarre. 'Fair,' I give you back again; and 'welcome' I have not yet: the roof of this court is too high to be yours, and welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine. You shall be welcome, madam, to my court.
I will be welcome, then: conduct me thither. Hear me, dear lady; I have sworn an oath. Our Lady help my lord! he'll be forsworn. Not for the world, fair madam, by my will. Why, will shall break it; will, and nothing else. Your ladyship is ignorant what it is. Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise, Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance. I hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping: 'Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord, And sin to break it. But pardon me, I am too sudden-bold: To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me. Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming, And suddenly resolve me in my suit. Madam, I will, if suddenly I may. You will the sooner that I were away, For you'll prove perjur'd if you make me stay. Did not I dance with you in Brabant once? Did not I dance with you in Brabant once? I know you did. How needless was it then To ask the question! You must not be so quick. 'Tis 'long of you that spur me with such questions. Your wit's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire. Not till it leave the rider in the mire. What time o' day? The hour that fools should ask. Now fair befall your mask! Fair fall the face it covers! And send you many lovers! Amen, so you be none. Nay, then I will be gone.
Madam, your father here doth intimate The payment of a hundred thousand crowns; Being but the one half of an entire sum Disbursed by my father in his wars. But say that he, or we, as neither have, Receiv'd that sum, yet there remains unpaid A hundred thousand more; in surety of the which, One part of Aquitaine is bound to us, Although not valu'd to the money's worth. If then the king your father will restore But that one half which is unsatisfied, We will give up our right in Aquitaine, And hold fair friendship with his majesty. But that it seems, he little purposeth, For here he doth demand to have repaid A hundred thousand crowns; and not demands, On payment of a hundred thousand crowns, To have his title live in Aquitaine; Which we much rather had depart withal, And have the money by our father lent, Than Aquitaine, so gelded as it is. Dear princess, were not his requests so far From reason's yielding, your fair self should make A yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast, And go well satisfied to France again. You do the king my father too much wrong And wrong the reputation of your name, In so unseeming to confess receipt Of that which hath so faithfully been paid. I do protest I never heard of it; And if you prove it, I'll repay it back Or yield up Aquitaine. We arrest your word.
Boyet, you can produce acquittances For such a sum from special officers Of Charles his father. Satisfy me so. So please your Grace, the packet is not come Where that and other specialties are bound: To-morrow you shall have a sight of them. It shall suffice me: at which interview All liberal reason I will yield unto. Meantime, receive such welcome at my hand As honour, without breach of honour, may Make tender of to thy true worthiness. You may not come, fair princess, in my gates; But here without you shall be so receiv'd, As you shall deem yourself lodg'd in my heart, Though so denied fair harbour in my house. Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell: To-morrow shall we visit you again. Sweet health and fair desires consort your Grace! Thy own wish wish I thee in every place! Lady, I will commend you to mine own heart. Pray you, do my commendations; I would be glad to see it. I would you heard it groan. Is the fool sick? Sick at the heart. Alack! let it blood. Would that do it good? My physic says, 'ay.' Will you prick't with your eye? No point, with my knife. Now, God save thy life! And yours from long living! I cannot stay thanksgiving. Sir, I pray you, a word: what lady is that same? The heir of Alençon, Katharine her name. A gallant lady. Monsieur, fare you well.
I beseech you a word: what is she in the white? A woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light. Perchance light in the light. I desire her name. She hath but one for herself; to desire that, were a shame. Pray you, sir, whose daughter? Her mother's, I have heard. God's blessing on your beard! Good sir, be not offended. She is an heir of Falconbridge. Nay, my choler is ended. She is a most sweet lady. Not unlike, sir; that may be. What's her name, in the cap? Rosaline, by good hap. Is she wedded or no? To her will, sir, or so. You are welcome, sir. Adieu. Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you. That last is Berowne, the merry mad-cap lord: Not a word with him but a jest. And every jest but a word. It was well done of you to take him at his word. I was as willing to grapple, as he was to board. Two hot sheeps, marry! And wherefore not ships? No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips. You sheep, and I pasture: shall that finish the jest? So you grant pasture for me. Not so, gentle beast. My lips are no common, though several they be. Belonging to whom? To my fortunes and me. Good wits will be jangling; but, gentles, agree.
This civil war of wits were much better us'd On Navarre and his book-men, for here 'tis abus'd. If my observation, which very seldom lies, By the heart's still rhetoric disclosed with eyes, Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected. With what? With that which we lovers entitle affected. Your reason. Why, all his behaviours did make their retire To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire; His heart, like an agate, with your print impress'd, Proud with his form, in his eye pride express'd: His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see, Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be; All senses to that sense did make their repair, To feel only looking on fairest of fair, Methought all his senses were lock'd in his eye, As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy; Who, tend'ring their own worth from where they were glass'd, Did point you to buy them, along as you pass'd. His face's own margent did quote such amazes, That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes. I'll give you Aquitaine, and all that is his, An' you give him for my sake but one loving kiss. Come to our pavilion: Boyet is dispos'd. But to speak that in words which his eye hath disclos'd. I only have made a mouth of his eye, By adding a tongue which I know will not he.
Thou art an old love-monger, and speak'st skilfully. He is Cupid's grandfather and learns news of him. Then was Venus like her mother, for her father is but grim. Do you hear, my mad wenches? No. What, then, do you see? Ay, our way to be gone. You are too hard for me. Warble, child; make passionate my sense of hearing. Concolinel, Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years; take this key, give enlargement to the swain, bring him festinately hither; I must employ him in a letter to my love. Master, will you win your love with a French brawl? How meanest thou? brawling in French? No, my complete master; but to jig off a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humour it with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note and sing a note, sometime through the throat, as if you swallowed love by singing love, sometime through the nose, as if you snuffed up love by smelling love; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of your eyes; with your arms crossed on your thin belly-doublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in your pocket like a man after the old painting; and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.
These are complements, these are humours, these betray nice wenches, that would be betrayed without these; and make them men of note, do you note me? that most are affected to these. How hast thou purchased this experience? By my penny of observation. But O but O, 'The hobby-horse is forgot.' Callest thou my love 'hobby-horse?' No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your love perhaps, a hackney. But have you forgot your love? Almost I had. Negligent student! learn her by heart. By heart, and in heart, boy. And out of heart, master: all those three I will prove. What wilt thou prove? A man, if I live; and this, by, in, and without, upon the instant: by heart you love her, because your heart cannot come by her; in heart you love her, because your heart is in love with her; and out of heart you love her, being out of heart that you cannot enjoy her. I am all these three. And three times as much more, and yet nothing at all. Fetch hither the swain: he must carry me a letter. A message well sympathized: a horse to be ambassador for an ass. Ha, ha! what sayest thou? Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse, for he is very slow-gaited. But I go. The way is but short: away! As swift as lead, sir. Thy meaning, pretty ingenious? Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?
Minime, honest master; or rather, master, no. I say, lead is slow. You are too swift, sir, to say so: Is that lead slow which is fir'd from a gun? Sweet smoke of rhetoric! He reputes me a cannon; and the bullet, that's he: I shoot thee at the swain. Thump then, and I flee. A most acute juvenal; volable and free of grace! By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face: Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place. My herald is return'd. A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin. Some enigma, some riddle: come, thy l'envoy; begin. No egma, no riddle, no l'envoy; no salve in the mail, sir. O! sir, plantain, a plain plantain: no l'envoy, no l'envoy: no salve, sir, but a plantain. By virtue, thou enforcest laughter; thy silly thought, my spleen; the heaving of my lungs provokes me to ridiculous smiling: O! pardon me, my stars. Doth the inconsiderate take salve for l'envoy, and the word l'envoy for a salve? Do the wise think them other? is not l'envoy a salve? No, page: it is an epilogue or discourse, to make plain Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain. I will example it: The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee Were still at odds, being but three. There's the moral. Now the l'envoy. I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee, Were still at odds, being but three. Until the goose came out of door, And stay'd the odds by adding four. Now will I begin your moral, and do you follow with my l'envoy. The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee, Were still at odds, being but three. Until the goose came out of door, Staying the odds by adding four. A good l'envoy, ending in the goose. Would you desire more? The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat. Sir, your pennyworth is good an your goose be fat. To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose: Let me see; a fat l'envoy; ay, that's a fat goose. Come hither, come hither. How did this argument begin? By saying that a costard was broken in a shin. Then call'd you for the l'envoy. True, and I for a plantain: thus came your argument in; Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought; And he ended the market. But tell me; how was there a costard broken in a shin? I will tell you sensibly. Thou hast no feeling of it, Moth: I will speak that l'envoy: I, Costard, running out, that was safely within, Fell over the threshold and broke my shin. We will talk no more of this matter. Till there be more matter in the shin. Sirrah Costard, I will enfranchise thee. O!
marry me to one Frances: I smell some l'envoy, some goose, in this. By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty, enfreedoming thy person: thou wert immured, restrained, captivated, bound. True, true, and now you will be my purgation and let me loose. I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance; and in lieu thereof, impose upon thee nothing but this: Bear this significant to the country maid Jaquenetta. There is remuneration; for the best ward of mine honour is rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow. Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu. My sweet ounce of man's flesh! my incony Jew! Now will I look to his remuneration. Remuneration! O! that's the Latin word for three farthings: three farthings, remuneration. 'What's the price of this inkle?' 'One penny.' 'No, I'll give you a remuneration:' why, it carries it Remuneration! why, it is a fairer name than French crown. I will never buy and sell out of this word. O! my good knave Costard, exceedingly well met. Pray you, sir, how much carnation riband may a man buy for a remuneration? What is a remuneration? Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing. Why then, three-farthing-worth of silk. I thank your worship. God be wi' you! Stay, slave; I must employ thee: As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave, Do one thing for me that I shall entreat. When would you have it done, sir? O, this afternoon. Well, I will do it, sir! fare you well.
O, thou knowest not what it is. I shall know, sir, when I have done it. Why, villain, thou must know first. I will come to your worship to-morrow morning. It must be done this afternoon. Hark, slave, it is but this: The princess comes to hunt here in the park, And in her train there is a gentle lady: When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name, And Rosaline they call her: ask for her And to her white hand see thou do commend This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon: go. Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration; a 'leven-pence farthing better. Most sweet gardon! I will do it, sir, in print Gardon! remuneration! And I, Forsooth, in love! I, that have been love's whip; A very beadle to a humorous sigh; A critic, nay, a night-watch constable, A domineering pedant o'er the boy, Than whom no mortal so magnificent! This wimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy, This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid; Regent of love-rimes, lord of folded arms, The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans, Liege of all loiterers and malecontents, Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces, Sole imperator and great general Of trotting 'paritors: O my little heart! And I to be a corporal of his field, And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop! What I! I love! I sue! I seek a wife!
A woman that is like a German clock, Still a-repairing, ever out of frame, And never going aright, being a watch, But being watch'd that it may still go right! Nay, to be perjur'd, which is worst of all; And, among three, to love the worst of all; A wightly wanton with a velvet brow, With two pitch balls stuck in her face for eyes; Ay, and, by heaven, one that will do the deed Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard: And I to sigh for her! to watch for her! To pray for her! Go to; it is a plague That Cupid will impose for my neglect Of his almighty dreadful little might. Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue, and groan: Some men must love my lady, and some Joan. Was that the king, that spurr'd his horse so hard Against the steep uprising of the hill? I know not; but I think it was not he. Whoe'er a' was, a' show'd a mounting mind. Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch; On Saturday we will return to France. Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush That we must stand and play the murderer in? Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice; A stand where you may make the fairest shoot. I thank my beauty, I am fair that shoot, And thereupon thou speak'st the fairest shoot. Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so. What, what?
first praise me, and again say no? O short-liv'd pride! Not fair? alack for woe! Yes, madam, fair. Nay, never paint me now: Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow. Here, good my glass: Take this for telling true: Fair payment for foul words is more than due. Nothing but fair is that which you inherit. See, see! my beauty will be sav'd by merit. O heresy in fair, fit for these days! A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise. But come, the bow: now mercy goes to kill, And shooting well is then accounted ill. Thus will I save my credit in the shoot: Not wounding, pity would not let me do't; If wounding, then it was to show my skill, That more for praise than purpose meant to kill. And out of question so it is sometimes, Glory grows guilty of detested crimes, When, for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part, We bend to that the working of the heart; As I for praise alone now seek to spill The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill. Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty Only for praise' sake, when they strive to be Lords o'er their lords? Only for praise; and praise we may afford To any lady that subdues a lord. Here comes a member of the commonwealth. God dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady?
Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that have no heads. Which is the greatest lady, the highest? The thickest, and the tallest. The thickest, and the tallest! it is so; truth is truth. An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit, One o'these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit. Are not you the chief woman? you are the thickest here. What's your will, sir? what's your will? I have a letter from Monsieur Berowne to one Lady Rosaline. O! thy letter, thy letter; he's a good friend of mine. Stand aside, good bearer. Boyet, you can carve; Break up this capon. I am bound to serve. This letter is mistook; it importeth none here: It is writ to Jaquenetta. We will read it, I swear. Break the neck of the wax, and every one give ear. By heaven, that thou art fair, is most infallible; true, that thou art beauteous; truth itself, that thou art lovely. More fairer than fair, beautiful than beauteous, truer than truth itself, have commiseration on thy heroical vassal! The magnanimous and most illustrate king Cophetua set eye upon the pernicious and indubitate beggar Zenelophon, and he it was that might rightly say veni, vidi, vici; which to anatomize in the vulgar O base and obscure vulgar! videlicet, he came, saw, and overcame: he came, one; saw, two; overcame, three. Who came? the king: Why did he come? to see: Why did he see?
to overcome: To whom came he? to the beggar: What saw he? the beggar. Whom overcame he? the beggar. The conclusion is victory: on whose side? the king's; the captive is enriched: on whose side? the beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial: on whose side? the king's, no, on both in one, or one in both. I am the king, for so stands the comparison; thou the beggar, for so witnesseth thy lowliness. Shall I command thy love? I may: Shall I enforce thy love? I could: Shall I entreat thy love? I will. What shalt thou exchange for rags? robes; for tittles? titles; for thyself? me. Thus, expecting thy reply, I profane my lips on thy foot, my eyes on thy picture, and my heart on thy every part. Thine, in the dearest design of Industry, DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO. Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar 'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey: Submissive fall his princely feet before, And he from forage will incline to play. But if thou strive, poor soul, what art thou then? Food for his rage, repasture for his den. What plume of feathers is he that indited this letter? What vane? what weathercock? did you ever hear better? I am much deceiv'd but I remember the style. Else your memory is bad, going o'er it erewhile.
This Armado is a Spaniard, that keeps here in court; A phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport To the prince and his book-mates. Thou, fellow, a word. Who gave thee this letter? I told you; my lord. To whom shouldst thou give it? From my lord to my lady. From which lord, to which lady? From my lord Berowne, a good master of mine, To a lady of France, that he call'd Rosaline. Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords, away. Here, sweet, put up this: 'twill be thine another day. Who is the suitor? who is the suitor? Shall I teach you to know? Ay, my continent of beauty. Why, she that bears the bow. Finely put off! My lady goes to kill horns; but, if thou marry, Hang me by the neck if horns that year miscarry. Finely put on! Well then, I am the shooter. And who is your deer? If we choose by the horns, yourself: come not near. Finely put on, indeed! You still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes at the brow. But she herself is hit lower: have I hit her now? Shall I come upon thee with an old saying, that was a man when King Pepin of France was a little boy, as touching the hit it?
So may I answer thee with one as old, that was a woman when Queen Guinever of Britain was a little wench, as touching the hit it. Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it, Thou canst not hit it, my good man. An I cannot, cannot, cannot, An I cannot, another can. By my troth, most pleasant: how both did fit it! A mark marvellous well shot, for they both did hit it. A mark! O! mark but that mark; a mark, says my lady! Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be. Wide o' the bow hand! i' faith your hand is out. Indeed a' must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout. An' if my hand be out, then belike your hand is in. Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin. Come, come, you talk greasily; your lips grow foul. She's too hard for you at pricks, sir: challenge her to bowl. I fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl. By my soul, a swain! a most simple clown! Lord, lord how the ladies and I have put him down! O' my troth, most sweet jests! most incony vulgar wit! When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it were, so fit, Armado, o' the one side, O! a most dainty man. To see him walk before a lady, and to bear her fan! To see him kiss his hand!
and how most sweetly a' will swear! And his page o' t'other side, that handful of wit! Ah! heavens, it is a most pathetical nit. Sola, sola! Very reverend sport, truly: and done in the testimony of a good conscience. The deer was, as you know, sanguis, in blood; ripe as a pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in the ear of cælo, the sky, the welkin, the heaven; and anon falleth like a crab on the face of terra, the soil, the land, the earth. Truly, Master Holofernes, the epithets are sweetly varied, like a scholar at the least: but, sir, I assure ye, it was a buck of the first head. Sir Nathaniel, haud credo. 'Twas not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket. Most barbarous intimation! yet a kind of insinuation, as it were, in via, in way, of explication; facere, as it were, replication, or, rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his inclination, after his undressed, unpolished, uneducated, unpruned, untrained, or, rather, unlettered, or, ratherest, unconfirmed fashion, to insert again my haud credo for a deer. I said the deer was not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket. Twice sod simplicity, bis coctus! O! thou monster Ignorance, how deformed dost thou look!
Sir, he hath not fed of the dainties that are bred of a book; he hath not eat paper, as it were; he hath not drunk ink: his intellect is not replenished; he is only an animal, only sensible in the duller parts: And such barren plants are set before us, that we thankful should be, Which we of taste and feeling are, for those parts that do fructify in us more than he; For as it would ill become me to be vain, indiscreet, or a fool: So, were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school: But, omne bene, say I; being of an old Father's mind, Many can brook the weather that love not the wind. You two are book-men: can you tell by your wit, What was a month old at Cain's birth, that's not five weeks old as yet? Dictynna, goodman Dull: Dictynna, goodman Dull. What is Dictynna? A title to Phœbe, to Luna, to the moon. The moon was a month old when Adam was no more; And raught not to five weeks when he came to five-score. The allusion holds in the exchange. 'Tis true indeed: the collusion holds in the exchange. God comfort thy capacity! I say, the allusion holds in the exchange.
And I say the pollusion holds in the exchange, for the moon is never but a month old; and I say beside that 'twas a pricket that the princess killed. Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph on the death of the deer? and, to humour the ignorant, I have call'd the deer the princess killed, a pricket. Perge, good Master Holofernes, perge; so it shall please you to abrogate scurrility. I will something affect the letter; for it argues facility. The preyful princess pierc'd and prick'd a pretty pleasing pricket; Some say a sore; but not a sore, till now made sore with shooting. The dogs did yell; put l to sore, then sorel jumps from thicket; Or pricket, sore, or else sorel; the people fall a hooting. If sore be sore, then l to sore makes fifty sores one sorel! Of one sore I a hundred make, by adding but one more l. A rare talent! If a talent be a claw, look how he claws him with a talent. This is a gift that I have, simple, simple; a foolish extravagant spirit, full of forms, figures, shapes, objects, ideas, apprehensions, motions, revolutions: these are begot in the ventricle of memory, nourished in the womb of pia mater, and delivered upon the mellowing of occasion. But the gift is good in those in whom it is acute, and I am thankful for it.
Sir, I praise the Lord for you, and so may my parishioners; for their sons are well tutored by you, and their daughters profit very greatly under you: you are a good member of the commonwealth. Mehercle! if their sons be ingenuous, they shall want no instruction; if their daughters be capable, I will put it to them. But, vir sapit qui pauca loquitur. A soul feminine saluteth us. God give you good morrow, Master parson. Master parson, quasi pers-on. An if one should be pierced, which is the one? Marry, Master schoolmaster, he that is likest to a hogshead. Piercing a hogshead! a good lustre of conceit in a turf of earth; fire enough for a flint, pearl enough for a swine: 'tis pretty; it is well. Good Master parson be so good as read me this letter: it was given me by Costard, and sent me from Don Armado: I beseech you, read it. Fauste, precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra Ruminat, and so forth. Ah! good old Mantuan. I may speak of thee as the traveller doth of Venice: Venetia, Venetia, Chi non te vede, non te pretia. Old Mantuan! old Mantuan! Who understandeth thee not, loves thee not. Ut, re, sol, la, mi, fa. Under pardon, sir, what are the contents? or, rather, as Horace says in his What, my soul, verses? Ay, sir, and very learned.
Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse: lege, domine. If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to love? Ah! never faith could hold, if not to beauty vow'd; Though to myself forsworn, to thee I'll faithful prove; Those thoughts to me were oaks, to thee like osiers bow'd Study his bias leaves and makes his book thine eyes. Where all those pleasures live that art would comprehend: If knowledge be the mark, to know thee shall suffice Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend; All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder; Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder, Which, not to anger bent, is music and sweet fire. Celestial as thou art, O! pardon love this wrong. That sings heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue! You find not the apostrophas, and so miss the accent: let me supervise the canzonet. Here are only numbers ratified; but, for the elegancy, facility, and golden cadence of poesy, caret. Ovidius Naso was the man: and why, indeed, Naso, but for smelling out the odoriferous flowers of fancy, the jerks of invention? Imitari is nothing; so doth the hound his master, the ape his keeper, the 'tired horse his rider. But, damosella virgin, was this directed to you? Ay, sir; from one Monsieur Berowne, one of the strange queen's lords.
I will overglance the superscript: 'To the snow-white hand of the most beauteous Lady Rosaline.' I will look again on the intellect of the letter, for the nomination of the party writing to the person written unto: 'Your Ladyship's in all desired employment, Berowne.' Sir Nathaniel, this Berowne is one of the votaries with the King; and here he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger queen's which accidentally, or by the way of progression, hath miscarried. Trip and go, my sweet; deliver this paper into the royal hand of the King; it may concern much. Stay not thy compliment; I forgive thy duty. Adieu. Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life! Have with thee, my girl. Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very religiously; and, as a certain Father saith Sir, tell not me of the Father; I do fear colourable colours. But to return to the verses: did they please you, Sir Nathaniel? Marvellous well for the pen.
I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil of mine; where, if before repast it shall please you to gratify the table with a grace, I will, on my privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid child or pupil, undertake your ben venuto; where I will prove those verses to be very unlearned, neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention. I beseech your society. And thank you too; for society saith the text is the happiness of life. And, certes, the text most infallibly concludes it. Sir, I do invite you too: you shall not say me nay: pauca verba. Away! the gentles are at their game, and we will to our recreation. The king he is hunting the deer; I am coursing myself: they have pitched a toil; I am toiling in a pitch, pitch that defiles: defile! a foul word! Well, sit thee down, sorrow! for so they say the fool said, and so say I, and I the fool: well proved, wit! By the Lord, this love is as mad as Ajax: it kills sheep: it kills me, I a sheep: well proved again o' my side! I will not love; if I do, hang me; i' faith, I will not. O! but her eye, by this light, but for her eye, I would not love her; yes, for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing in the world but lie, and lie in my throat.
By heaven, I do love, and it hath taught me to rime, and to be melancholy; and here is part of my rime, and here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my sonnets already: the clown bore it, the fool sent it, and the lady hath it: sweet clown, sweeter fool, sweetest lady! By the world, I would not care a pin if the other three were in. Here comes one with a paper: God give him grace to groan! Ah me! Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid: thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the left pap. In faith, secrets! So sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not To those fresh morning drops upon the rose, As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows: Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright Through the transparent bosom of the deep, As doth thy face through tears of mine give light, Thou shin'st in every tear that I do weep. No drop but as a coach doth carry thee; So ridest thou triumphing in my woe. Do but behold the tears that swell in me, And they thy glory through my grief will show But do not love thyself, then thou wilt keep My tears for glasses, and still make me weep. O queen of queens!
how far thou dost excel, No thought can think, nor tongue of mortal tell How shall she know my griefs? I'll drop the paper: Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes here? What, Longaville! and reading! listen, ear. Now, in thy likeness, one more fool appear! Ay me! I am forsworn. Why, he comes in like a perjure, wearing papers. In love, I hope: sweet fellowship in shame! One drunkard loves another of the name. Am I the first that have been perjur'd so? I could put thee in comfort: not by two that I know: Thou mak'st the triumviry, the corner-cap of society, The shape of love's Tyburn, that hangs up simplicity. I fear these stubborn lines lack power to move. O sweet Maria, empress of my love! These numbers will I tear, and write in prose. O! rimes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose: Disfigure not his slop. This same shall go. Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye, 'Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument, Persuade my heart to this false perjury? Vows for thee broke deserve not punishment. A woman I forswore; but I will prove, Thou being a goddess, I forswore not thee: My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love; Thy grace, being gain'd, cures all disgrace in me.
Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is: Then thou, fair sun, which on my earth dost shine, Exhal'st this vapour-vow; in thee it is: If broken, then, it is no fault of mine: If by me broke, what fool is not so wise To lose an oath to win a paradise! This is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity; A green goose a goddess; pure, pure idolatry. God amend us, God amend! we are much out o' the way. By whom shall I send this? Company! stay. All hid, all hid; an old infant play. Like a demi-god here sit I in the sky, And wretched fools' secrets heedfully o'er-eye. More sacks to the mill! O heavens! I have my wish. Dumaine transform'd: four woodcocks in a dish! O most divine Kate! O most profane coxcomb! By heaven, the wonder of a mortal eye! By earth, she is but corporal; there you lie. Her amber hairs for foul have amber quoted. An amber-colour'd raven was well noted. As upright as the cedar. Stoop, I say; Her shoulder is with child. As fair as day. Ay, as some days; but then no sun must shine. O! that I had my wish. And I had mine! And I mine too, good Lord! Amen, so I had mine. Is not that a good word? I would forget her; but a fever she Reigns in my blood, and will remember'd be. A fever in your blood!
why, then incision Would let her out in saucers: sweet misprision! Once more I'll read the ode that I have writ. Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit. On a day, alack the day! Love, whose month is ever May, Spied a blossom passing fair Playing in the wanton air: Through the velvet leaves the wind, All unseen, 'gan passage find; That the lover, sick to death, Wish'd himself the heaven's breath. Air, quoth he, thy cheeks may blow; Air, would I might triumph so! But alack! my hand is sworn Ne'er to pluck thee from thy thorn: Vow, alack! for youth unmeet, Youth so apt to pluck a sweet. Do not call it sin in me, That I am forsworn for thee; Thou for whom e'en Jove would swear Juno but an Ethiop were; And deny himself for Jove, Turning mortal for thy love. This will I send, and something else more plain, That shall express my true love's fasting pain. O! would the King, Berowne, and Longaville Were lovers too. Ill, to example ill, Would from my forehead wipe a perjur'd note; For none offend where all alike do dote. Dumaine, thy love is far from charity, That in love's grief desir'st society: You may look pale, but I should blush, I know, To be o'erheard and taken napping so.
Come, sir, you blush: as his your case is such; You chide at him, offending twice as much: You do not love Maria; Longaville Did never sonnet for her sake compile, Nor never lay his wreathed arms athwart His loving bosom to keep down his heart. I have been closely shrouded in this bush, And mark'd you both, and for you both did blush. I heard your guilty rimes, observ'd your fashion, Saw sighs reek from you, noted well your passion: Ay me! says one; O Jove! the other cries; One, her hairs were gold, crystal the other's eyes: You would for paradise break faith and troth; And Jove, for your love, would infringe an oath. What will Berowne say, when that he shall hear A faith infringed, which such zeal did swear? How will he scorn! how will he spend his wit! How will he triumph, leap and laugh at it! For all the wealth that ever I did see, I would not have him know so much by me. Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy. Ah! good my liege, I pray thee, pardon me: Good heart! what grace hast thou, thus to reprove These worms for loving, that art most in love? Your eyes do make no coaches; in your tears There is no certain princess that appears: You'll not be perjur'd, 'tis a hateful thing: Tush! none but minstrels like of sonneting. But are you not asham'd?
nay, are you not, All three of you, to be thus much o'ershot? You found his mote; the king your mote did see; But I a beam do find in each of three. O! what a scene of foolery have I seen, Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow, and of teen; O me! with what strict patience have I sat, To see a king transformed to a gnat; To see great Hercules whipping a gig, And profound Solomon to tune a jig, And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys, And critic Timon laugh at idle toys! Where lies thy grief? O! tell me, good Dumaine, And, gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain? And where my liege's? all about the breast: A caudle, ho! Too bitter is thy jest. Are we betray'd thus to thy over-view? Not you to me, but I betray'd by you: I, that am honest; I, that hold it sin To break the vow I am engaged in; I am betray'd, by keeping company With men like men, men of inconstancy. When shall you see me write a thing in rime? Or groan for Joan? or spend a minute's time In pruning me? When shall you hear that I Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye, A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist, leg, a limb? Soft! Whither away so fast? true man or a thief that gallops so?
I post from love; good lover, let me go. God bless the king! What present hast thou there? Some certain treason. What makes treason here? Nay, it makes nothing, sir. If it mar nothing neither, The treason and you go in peace away together. I beseech your Grace, let this letter be read: Our parson misdoubts it; 'twas treason, he said. Berowne, read it over There hadst thou it? Of Costard. Where hadst thou it? Of Dun Adramadio, Dun Adramadio. How now! what is in you? why dost thou tear it? A toy, my liege, a toy: your Grace needs not fear it. It did move him to passion, and therefore let's hear it. It is Berowne's writing, and here is his name. Ah, you whoreson logger-head, you were born to do me shame. Guilty, my lord, guilty; I confess, I confess. What? That you three fools lack'd me fool to make up the mess; He, he, and you, and you my liege, and I, Are pick-purses in love, and we deserve to die. O! dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more. Now the number is even. True, true; we are four. Will these turtles be gone? Hence, sirs; away! Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay. Sweet lords, sweet lovers, O! let us embrace.
As true we are as flesh and blood can be: The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face; Young blood doth not obey an old decree: We cannot cross the cause why we were born; Therefore, of all hands must we be forsworn. What! did these rent lines show some love of thine? 'Did they,' quoth you? Who sees the heavenly Rosaline, That, like a rude and savage man of Inde, At the first opening of the gorgeous east, Bows not his vassal head, and, strucken blind, Kisses the base ground with obedient breast? What peremptory eagle-sighted eye Dares look upon the heaven of her brow, That is not blinded by her majesty? What zeal, what fury hath inspir'd thee now? My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon; She, an attending star, scarce seen a light. My eyes are then no eyes, nor I Berowne: O! but for my love, day would turn to night. Of all complexions the cull'd sovereignty Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek; Where several worthies make one dignity, Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek. Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues, Fie, painted rhetoric! O! she needs it not: To things of sale a seller's praise belongs; She passes praise; then praise too short doth blot.
A wither'd hermit, five-score winters worn, Might shake off fifty, looking in her eye: Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born, And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy. O! 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine. By heaven, thy love is black as ebony. Is ebony like her? O wood divine! A wife of such wood were felicity. O! who can give an oath? where is a book? That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack, If that she learn not of her eye to look: No face is fair that is not full so black. O paradox! Black is the badge of hell, The hue of dungeons and the scowl of night; And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well. Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light. O! if in black my lady's brows be deck'd, It mourns that painting and usurping hair Should ravish doters with a false aspect; And therefore is she born to make black fair. Her favour turns the fashion of the days, For native blood is counted painting now: And therefore red, that would avoid dispraise, Paints itself black, to imitate her brow. To look like her are chimney-sweepers black. And since her time are colliers counted bright. And Ethiops of their sweet complexion crack. Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light. Your mistresses dare never come in rain, For fear their colours should be wash'd away.
'Twere good yours did; for, sir, to tell you plain, I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day. I'll prove her fair, or talk till doomsday here. No devil will fright thee then so much as she. I never knew man hold vile stuff so dear. Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see. O! if the streets were paved with thine eyes, Her feet were much too dainty for such tread. O vile! then, as she goes, what upward lies The street should see as she walk'd over head. But what of this? Are we not all in love? Nothing so sure; and thereby all forsworn. Then leave this chat; and good Berowne, now prove Our loving lawful, and our faith not torn. Ay, marry, there; some flattery for this evil. O! some authority how to proceed; Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil. Some salve for perjury. O, 'tis more than need. Have at you, then, affection's men-at-arms: Consider what you first did swear unto, To fast, to study, and to see no woman; Flat treason 'gainst the kingly state of youth. Say, can you fast? your stomachs are too young, And abstinence engenders maladies. And where that you have vow'd to study, lords, In that each of you hath forsworn his book, Can you still dream and pore and thereon look?
For when would you, my lord, or you, or you, Have found the ground of study's excellence Without the beauty of a woman's face? From women's eyes this doctrine I derive: They are the ground, the books, the academes, From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire. Why, universal plodding poisons up The nimble spirits in the arteries, As motion and long-during action tires The sinewy vigour of the traveller. Now, for not looking on a woman's face, You have in that forsworn the use of eyes, And study too, the causer of your vow; For where is any author in the world Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye? Learning is but an adjunct to ourself, And where we are our learning likewise is: Then when ourselves we see in ladies' eyes, Do we not likewise see our learning there? O! we have made a vow to study, lords, And in that vow we have forsworn our books: For when would you, my liege, or you, or you, In leaden contemplation have found out Such fiery numbers as the prompting eyes Of beauty's tutors have enrich'd you with?
Other slow arts entirely keep the brain, And therefore, finding barren practisers, Scarce show a harvest of their heavy toil; But love, first learned in a lady's eyes, Lives not alone immured in the brain, But, with the motion of all elements, Courses as swift as thought in every power, And gives to every power a double power, Above their functions and their offices. It adds a precious seeing to the eye; A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind; A lover's ear will hear the lowest sound, When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd: Love's feeling is more soft and sensible Than are the tender horns of cockled snails: Love's tongue proves dainty Bacchus gross in taste. For valour, is not Love a Hercules, Still climbing trees in the Hesperides? Subtle as Sphinx; as sweet and musical As bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair; And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony. Never durst poet touch a pen to write Until his ink were temper'd with Love's sighs; O! then his lines would ravish savage ears, And plant in tyrants mild humility. From women's eyes this doctrine I derive: They sparkle still the right Promethean fire; They are the books, the arts, the academes, That show, contain, and nourish all the world; Else none at all in aught proves excellent.
Then fools you were these women to forswear, Or, keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools. For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love, Or for love's sake, a word that loves all men, Or for men's sake, the authors of these women; Or women's sake, by whom we men are men, Let us once lose our oaths to find ourselves, Or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths. It is religion to be thus forsworn; For charity itself fulfils the law; And who can sever love from charity? Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field! Advance your standards, and upon them, lords! Pell-mell, down with them! but be first advis'd, In conflict that you get the sun of them. Now to plain-dealing; lay these glozes by; Shall we resolve to woo these girls of France? And win them too: therefore let us devise Some entertainment for them in their tents. First, from the park let us conduct them thither; Then homeward every man attach the hand Of his fair mistress: in the afternoon We will with some strange pastime solace them, Such as the shortness of the time can shape; For revels, dances, masks, and merry hours, Forerun fair Love, strewing her way with flowers. Away, away! no time shall be omitted, That will betime, and may by us be fitted. Allons! allons!
Sow'd cockle reap'd no corn; And justice always whirls in equal measure: Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn; If so, our copper buys no better treasure. Satis quod sufficit. I praise God for you, sir: your reasons at dinner have been sharp and sententious; pleasant without scurrility, witty without affection, audacious without impudency, learned without opinion, and strange without heresy. I did converse this quondam day with a companion of the king's, who is intituled, nominated, or called, Don Adriano de Armado. Novi hominem tanquam te: his humour is lofty, his discourse peremptory, his tongue field, his eye ambitious, his gait majestical, and his general behaviour vain, ridiculous, and thrasonical. He is too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd, as it were, too peregrinate, as I may call it. A most singular and choice epithet. He draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer than the staple of his argument. I abhor such fanatical phantasimes, such insociable and point-devise companions; such rackers of orthography, as to speak dout, fine, when he should say, doubt; det, when he should pronounce, debt, d, e, b, t, not d, e, t: he clepeth a calf, cauf; half, hauf; neighbour vocatur nebour, neigh abbreviated ne. This is abhominable, which he would call abominable, it insinuateth me of insanie: anne intelligis, domine? To make frantic, lunatic. Laus Deo bone intelligo. Bone? bone, for bene: Priscian a little scratched; 'twill serve. Videsne quis venit? Video, et gaudeo. Chirrah!
Quare Chirrah, not sirrah? Men of peace, well encountered. Most military sir, salutation. They have been at a great feast of languages, and stolen the scraps. O! they have lived long on the almsbasket of words. I marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word; for thou art not so long by the head as honorificabilitudinitatibus: thou art easier swallowed than a flap-dragon. Peace! the peal begins. Monsieur, are you not lettered? Yes, yes; he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a, b, spelt backward, with the horn on his head? Ba, pueritia, with a horn added. Ba! most silly sheep with a horn. You hear his learning. Quis, quis, thou consonant? The third of the five vowels, if you repeat them; or the fifth, if I. I will repeat them, a, e, i, The sheep; the other two concludes it, o, u. Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet touch, a quick venew of wit! snip, snap, quick and home! it rejoiceth my intellect: true wit! Offered by a child to an old man; which is wit-old. What is the figure? what is the figure? Horns. Thou disputest like an infant; go, whip thy gig. Lend me your horn to make one, and I will whip about your infamy circum circa. A gig of a cuckold's horn. An I had but one penny in the world, thou shouldst have it to buy gingerbread.
Hold, there is the very remuneration I had of thy master, thou halfpenny purse of wit, thou pigeon-egg of discretion. O! an the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but my bastard, what a joyful father wouldst thou make me. Go to; thou hast it ad dunghill, at the fingers' ends, as they say. O! I smell false Latin; dunghill for unguem. Arts-man, præambula: we will be singled from the barbarous. Do you not educate youth at the charge-house on the top of the mountain? Or mons, the hill. At your sweet pleasure, for the mountain. I do, sans question. Sir, it is the king's most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulate the princess at her pavilion in the posteriors of this day, which the rude multitude call the afternoon. The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is liable, congruent, and measurable for the afternoon: the word is well culled, chose, sweet and apt, I do assure you, sir; I do assure. Sir, the king is a noble gentleman, and my familiar, I do assure ye, very good friend.
For what is inward between us, let it pass: I do beseech thee, remember thy curtsy; I beseech thee, apparel thy head: and among other importunate and most serious designs, and of great import indeed, too, but let that pass: for I must tell thee, it will please his Grace, by the world, sometime to lean upon my poor shoulder, and with his royal finger, thus dally with my excrement, with my mustachio: but, sweet heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no fable: some certain special honours it pleaseth his greatness to impart to Armado, a soldier, a man of travel, that hath seen the world: but let that pass. The very all of all is, but, sweet heart, I do implore secrecy, that the king would have me present the princess, sweet chuck, with some delightful ostentation, or show, or pageant, or antick, or fire-work. Now, understanding that the curate and your sweet self are good at such eruptions and sudden breaking out of mirth, as it were, I have acquainted you withal, to the end to crave your assistance. Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.
Sir Nathaniel, as concerning some entertainment of time, some show in the posterior of this day, to be rendered by our assistance, at the king's command, and this most gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman, before the princess; I say, none so fit as to present the Nine Worthies. Where will you find men worthy enough to present them? Joshua, yourself; myself, or this gallant gentleman, Judas Maccabæus; this swain, because of his great limb, or joint, shall pass Pompey the Great; the page, Hercules, Pardon, sir; error: he is not quantity enough for that Worthy's thumb: he is not so big as the end of his club. Shall I have audience? he shall present Hercules in minority: his enter and exit shall be strangling a snake; and I will have an apology for that purpose. An excellent device! so, if any of the audience hiss, you may cry, 'Well done, Hercules! now thou crushest the snake!' that is the way to make an offence gracious, though few have the grace to do it. For the rest of the Worthies? I will play three myself. Thrice-worthy gentleman! Shall I tell you a thing? We attend. We will have, if this fadge not, an antick. I beseech you, follow. Via, goodman Dull! thou hast spoken no word all this while. Nor understood none neither, sir. Allons! we will employ thee.
I'll make one in a dance, or so; or I will play the tabor to the Worthies, and let them dance the hay. Most dull, honest Dull, to our sport, away! Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart, If fairings come thus plentifully in: lady wall'd about with diamonds! Look you what I have from the loving king. Madam, came nothing else along with that? Nothing but this! yes, as much love in rime As would be cramm'd up in a sheet of paper, Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all, That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name. That was the way to make his godhead wax; For he hath been five thousand years a boy. Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too. You'll ne'er be friends with him: a' kill'd your sister. He made her melancholy, sad, and heavy; And so she died: had she been light, like you, Of such a merry, nimble, stirring spirit, She might ha' been a grandam ere she died; And so may you, for a light heart lives long. What's your dark meaning, mouse, of this light word? A light condition in a beauty dark. We need more light to find your meaning out. You'll mar the light by taking it in snuff; Therefore, I'll darkly end the argument. Look, what you do, you do it still i' the dark. So do not you, for you are a light wench.
Indeed I weigh not you, and therefore light. You weigh me not. O! that's you care not for me. Great reason; for, 'past cure is still past care.' Well bandied both; a set of wit well play'd. But Rosaline, you have a favour too: Who sent it? and what is it? I would you knew: An if my face were but as fair as yours, My favour were as great; be witness this. Nay, I have verses too, I thank Berowne: The numbers true; and, were the numb'ring too, I were the fairest goddess on the ground: I am compar'd to twenty thousand fairs. O! he hath drawn my picture in his letter. Anything like? Much in the letters, nothing in the praise. Beauteous as ink; a good conclusion. Fair as a text B in a copy-book. 'Ware pencils! how? let me not die your debtor. My red dominical, my golden letter: O, that your face were not so full of O's! A pox of that jest! and beshrew all shrows! But what was sent to you from fair Dumaine? Madam, this glove. Did he not send you twain? Yes, madam; and moreover, Some thousand verses of a faithful lover: A huge translation of hypocrisy, Vilely compil'd, profound simplicity. This, and these pearls to me sent Longaville: The letter is too long by half a mile. I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart The chain were longer and the letter short?
Ay, or I would these hands might never part. We are wise girls to mock our lovers so. They are worse fools to purchase mocking so. That same Berowne I'll torture ere I go. O that I knew he were but in by the week! How I would make him fawn, and beg, and seek, And wait the season, and observe the times, And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rimes, And shape his service wholly to my hests, And make him proud to make me proud that jests! So perttaunt-like would I o'ersway his state That he should be my fool, and I his fate. None are so surely caught, when they are catch'd, As wit turn'd fool: folly, in wisdom hatch'd, Hath wisdom's warrant and the help of school And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool. The blood of youth burns not with such excess As gravity's revolt to wantonness. Folly in fools bears not so strong a note As foolery in the wise, when wit doth dote; Since all the power thereof it doth apply To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity. Here comes Boyet, and mirth is in his face. O! I am stabb'd with laughter. Where's her Grace? Thy news, Boyet? Prepare, madam, prepare! Arm, wenches, arm!
encounters mounted are Against your peace: Love doth approach disguis'd, Armed in arguments; you'll be surpris'd: Muster your wits; stand in your own defence; Or hide your heads like cowards, and fly hence. Saint Denis to Saint Cupid! What are they That charge their breath against us? say, scout, say. Under the cool shade of a sycamore I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour, When, lo! to interrupt my purpos'd rest, Toward that shade I might behold addrest The king and his companions: warily I stole into a neighbour thicket by, And overheard what you shall overhear; That, by and by, disguis'd they will be here. Their herald is a pretty knavish page, That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage: Action and accent did they teach him there; 'Thus must thou speak, and thus thy body bear.' And ever and anon they made a doubt Presence majestical would put him out; 'For,' quoth the king, 'an angel shalt thou see; Yet fear not thou, but speak audaciously.' The boy replied, 'An angel is not evil; I should have fear'd her had she been a devil.' With that all laugh'd and clapp'd him on the shoulder, Making the bold wag by their praises bolder. One rubb'd his elbow thus, and fleer'd, and swore A better speech was never spoke before; Another, with his finger and his thumb, Cry'd 'Via!
we will do't, come what will come;' The third he caper'd and cried, 'All goes well;' The fourth turn'd on the toe, and down he fell. With that, they all did tumble on the ground, With such a zealous laughter, so profound, That in this spleen ridiculous appears, To check their folly, passion's solemn tears. But what, but what, come they to visit us? They do, they do; and are apparell'd thus, Like Muscovites or Russians, as I guess. Their purpose is to parle, to court and dance; And every one his love-feat will advance Unto his several mistress, which they'll know By favours several which they did bestow. And will they so? the gallants shall be task'd: For, ladies, we will every one be mask'd, And not a man of them shall have the grace, Despite of suit, to see a lady's face. Hold, Rosaline, this favour thou shalt wear, And then the king will court thee for his dear: Hold, take thou this, my sweet, and give me thine, So shall Berowne take me for Rosaline, And change you favours too; so shall your loves Woo contrary, deceiv'd by these removes. Come on, then; wear the favours most in sight. But in this changing what is your intent? The effect of my intent is, to cross theirs: They do it but in mocking merriment; And mock for mock is only my intent.
Their several counsels they unbosom shall To loves mistook and so be mock'd withal Upon the next occasion that we meet, With visages display'd, to talk and greet. But shall we dance, if they desire us to't? No, to the death, we will not move a foot: Nor to their penn'd speech render we no grace; But while 'tis spoke each turn away her face. Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart, And quite divorce his memory from his part. Therefore I do it; and I make no doubt, The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out. There's no such sport as sport by sport o'erthrown, To make theirs ours and ours none but our own: So shall we stay, mocking intended game, And they, well mock'd, depart away with shame. The trumpet sounds: be mask'd; the maskers come. All hail, the richest beauties on the earth! Beauties no richer than rich taffeta. A holy parcel of the fairest dames, That ever turn'd their backs to mortal views! 'Their eyes,' villain, 'their eyes.' That ever turn'd their eyes to mortal views! Out True; 'out,' indeed. 'Out of your favours, heavenly spirits, vouchsafe Not to behold' 'Once to behold,' rogue. 'Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes, with your sun-beamed eyes' They will not answer to that epithet; You were best call it 'daughter-beamed eyes.' They do not mark me, and that brings me out. Is this your perfectness? be gone, you rogue! What would these strangers?
know their minds, Boyet: If they do speak our language, 'tis our will That some plain man recount their purposes: Know what they would. What would you with the princess? Nothing but peace and gentle visitation. What would they, say they? Nothing but peace and gentle visitation. Why, that they have; and bid them so be gone. She says, you have it, and you may be gone. Say to her, we have measur'd many miles, To tread a measure with her on this grass. They say, that they have measur'd many a mile, To tread a measure with you on this grass. It is not so. Ask them how many inches Is in one mile: if they have measur'd many, The measure then of one is easily told. If to come hither you have measur'd miles, And many miles, the princess bids you tell How many inches do fill up one mile. Tell her we measure them by weary steps. She hears herself. How many weary steps, Of many weary miles you have o'ergone, Are number'd in the travel of one mile? We number nothing that we spend for you: Our duty is so rich, so infinite, That we may do it still without accompt. Vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face, That we, like savages, may worship it. My face is but a moon, and clouded too. Blessed are clouds, to do as such clouds do!
Vouchsafe, bright moon, and these thy stars, to shine, Those clouds remov'd, upon our wat'ry eyne. O vain petitioner! beg a greater matter; Thou now request'st but moonshine in the water. Then, in our measure but vouchsafe one change. Thou bid'st me beg; this begging is not strange. Play, music, then! Nay, you must do it soon. Not yet! no dance! thus change I like the moon. Will you not dance? How come you thus estrang'd? You took the moon at full, but now she's chang'd. Yet still she is the moon, and I the man. The music plays; vouchsafe some motion to it. Our ears vouchsafe it. But your legs should do it. Since you are strangers, and come here by chance, We'll not be nice: take hands: we will not dance. Why take we hands then? Only to part friends. Curtsy, sweet hearts; and so the measure ends. More measure of this measure: be not nice. We can afford no more at such a price. Prize you yourselves? what buys your company? Your absence only. That can never be. Then cannot we be bought: and so, adieu; Twice to your visor, and half once to you! If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat. In private, then. I am best pleas'd with that. White-handed mistress, one sweet word with thee. Honey, and milk, and sugar; there are three.
Nay then, two treys, an if you grow so nice, Metheglin, wort, and malmsey: well run, dice! There's half a dozen sweets. Seventh sweet, adieu: Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you. One word in secret. Let it not be sweet. Thou griev'st my gall. Gall! bitter. Therefore meet. Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word? Name it. Fair lady, Say you so? Fair lord, Take that for your fair lady. Please it you, As much in private, and I'll bid adieu. What! was your visor made without a tongue? I know the reason, lady, why you ask. O! for your reason; quickly, sir; I long. You have a double tongue within your mask, And would afford my speechless visor half. 'Veal,' quoth the Dutchman. Is not 'veal' a calf? A calf, fair lady! No, a fair lord calf. Let's part the word. No, I'll not be your half: Take all, and wean it: it may prove an ox. Look, how you butt yourself in these sharp mocks. Will you give horns, chaste lady? do not so. Then die a calf, before your horns do grow. One word in private with you, ere I die. Bleat softly then; the butcher hears you cry.
The tongues of mocking wenches are as keen As is the razor's edge invisible, Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen, Above the sense of sense; so sensible Seemeth their conference; their conceits have wings Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things. Not one word more, my maids: break off, break off. By heaven, all dry-beaten with pure scoff! Farewell, mad wenches: you have simple wits. Twenty adieus, my frozen Muscovits. Are these the breed of wits so wonder'd at? Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out. Well-liking wits they have; gross, gross; fat, fat. O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout! Will they not, think you, hang themselves to-night? Or ever, but in visors, show their faces? This pert Berowne was out of countenance quite. O! they were all in lamentable cases. The king was weeping-ripe for a good word. Berowne did swear himself out of all suit. Dumaine was at my service, and his sword: 'No point,' quoth I: my servant straight was mute. Lord Longaville said, I came o'er his heart; And trow you what he call'd me? Qualm, perhaps. Yes, in good faith. Go, sickness as thou art! Well, better wits have worn plain statutecaps. But will you hear? the king is my love sworn. And quick Berowne hath plighted faith to me. And Longaville was for my service born. Dumaine is mine, as sure as bark on tree.
Madam, and pretty mistresses, give ear: Immediately they will again be here In their own shapes; for it can never be They will digest this harsh indignity. Will they return? They will, they will, God knows; And leap for joy, though they are lame with blows: Therefore change favours; and, when they repair, Blow like sweet roses in this summer air. How blow? how blow? speak to be understood. Fair ladies mask'd, are roses in their bud: Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown, Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown. Avaunt perplexity! What shall we do If they return in their own shapes to woo? Good madam, if by me you'll be advis'd, Let's mock them still, as well known as disguis'd. Let us complain to them what fools were here, Disguis'd like Muscovites, in shapeless gear; And wonder what they were, and to what end Their shallow shows and prologue vilely penn'd, And their rough carriage so ridiculous, Should be presented at our tent to us. Ladies, withdraw: the gallants are at hand. Whip to your tents, as roes run over land. Fair sir, God save you! Where is the princess? Gone to her tent. Please it your majesty, Command me any service to her thither? That she vouchsafe me audience for one word. I will; and so will she, I know, my lord.
This fellow pecks up wit, as pigeons pease, And utters it again when God doth please: He is wit's pedlar, and retails his wares At wakes and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs; And we that sell by gross, the Lord doth know, Have not the grace to grace it with such show. This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve; Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve: He can carve too, and lisp: why, this is he That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy; This is the ape of form, monsieur the nice, That, when he plays at tables, chides the dice In honourable terms: nay, he can sing A mean most meanly, and in ushering Mend him who can: the ladies call him, sweet; The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet. This is the flower that smiles on every one, To show his teeth as white as whales-bone; And consciences, that will not die in debt, Pay him the due of honey-tongu'd Boyet. A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart, That put Armado's page out of his part! See where it comes! Behaviour, what wert thou, Till this man show'd thee? and what art thou now? All hail, sweet madam, and fair time of day! 'Fair,' in 'all hail,' is foul, as I conceive. Construe my speeches better, if you may. Then wish me better: I will give you leave.
We came to visit you, and purpose now To lead you to our court: vouchsafe it then. This field shall hold me, and so hold your vow: Nor God, nor I, delights in perjur'd men. Rebuke me not for that which you provoke: The virtue of your eye must break my oath. You nick-name virtue; vice you should have spoke; For virtue's office never breaks men's troth. Now, by my maiden honour, yet as pure As the unsullied lily, I protest, A world of torments though I should endure, I would not yield to be your house's guest; So much I hate a breaking cause to be Of heavenly oaths, vow'd with integrity. O! you have liv'd in desolation here, Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame. Not so, my lord; it is not so, I swear; We have had pastime here and pleasant game. A mess of Russians left us but of late. How, madam! Russians? Ay, in truth, my lord; Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state. Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord: My lady, to the manner of the days, In courtesy gives undeserving praise. We four, indeed, confronted were with four In Russian habit: here they stay'd an hour, And talk'd apace; and in that hour, my lord, They did not bless us with one happy word. I dare not call them fools; but this I think, When they are thirsty, fools would fam have drink.
This jest is dry to me. Fair gentle sweet, Your wit makes wise things foolish: when we greet, With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye, By light we lose light: your capacity Is of that nature that to your huge store Wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor. This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye I am a fool, and full of poverty. But that you take what doth to you belong, It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue. O! I am yours, and all that I possess. All the fool mine? I cannot give you less. Which of the visors was it that you wore? Where? when? what visor? why demand you this? There, then, that visor; that superfluous case That hid the worse, and show'd the better face. We are descried: they'll mock us now downright. Let us confess, and turn it to a jest. Amaz'd, my lord? Why looks your highness sad? Help! hold his brows! he'll swound. Why look you pale? Sea-sick, I think, coming from Muscovy. Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury. Can any face of brass hold longer out?
Here stand I, lady; dart thy skill at me; Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout; Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance; Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit; And I will wish thee never more to dance, Nor never more in Russian habit wait. O! never will I trust to speeches penn'd, Nor to the motion of a school-boy's tongue, Nor never come in visor to my friend, Nor woo in rime, like a blind harper's song, Taffeta phrases, silken terms precise, Three-pil'd hyperboles, spruce affectation, Figures pedantical; these summer flies Have blown me full of maggot ostentation: I do forswear them; and I here protest, By this white glove, how white the hand, God knows, Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd In russet yeas and honest kersey noes: And, to begin, wench, so God help me, la! My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw. Sans 'sans,' I pray you. Yet I have a trick Of the old rage: bear with me, I am sick; I'll leave it by degrees. Soft! let us see: Write, 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three; They are infected, in their hearts it lies; They have the plague, and caught it of your eyes: These lords are visited; you are not free, For the Lord's tokens on you do I see. No, they are free that gave these tokens to us. Our states are forfeit: seek not to undo us.
It is not so. For how can this be true, That you stand forfeit, being those that sue? Peace! for I will not have to do with you. Nor shall not, if I do as I intend. Speak for yourselves: my wit is at an end. Teach us, sweet madam, for our rude transgression Some fair excuse. The fairest is confession. Were you not here, but even now, disguis'd? Madam, I was. And were you well advis'd? I was, fair madam. When you then were here, What did you whisper in your lady's ear? That more than all the world I did respect her. When she shall challenge this, you will reject her. Upon mine honour, no. Peace! peace! forbear; Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear. Despise me, when I break this oath of mine. I will; and therefore keep it. Rosaline, What did the Russian whisper in your ear? Madam, he swore that he did hold me dear As precious eyesight, and did value me Above this world; adding thereto, moreover, That he would wed me, or else die my lover. God give thee joy of him! the noble lord Most honourably doth uphold his word. What mean you, madam? by my life, my troth, I never swore this lady such an oath. By heaven you did; and to confirm it plain, You gave me this: but take it, sir, again.
My faith and this the princess I did give: I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve. Pardon me, sir, this jewel did she wear; And Lord Berowne, I thank him, is my dear. What, will you have me, or your pearl again? Neither of either; I remit both twain. I see the trick on't: here was a consent, Knowing aforehand of our merriment, To dash it like a Christmas comedy. Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany, Some mumble-news, some trencher-knight, some Dick, That smiles his cheek in years, and knows the trick To make my lady laugh when she's dispos'd, Told our intents before; which once disclos'd, The ladies did change favours, and then we, Following the signs, woo'd but the sign of she. Now, to our perjury to add more terror, We are again forsworn, in will and error. Much upon this it is: and might not you Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue? Do not you know my lady's foot by the squire, And laugh upon the apple of her eye? And stand between her back, sir, and the fire, Holding a trencher, jesting merrily? You put our page out: go, you are allow'd; Die when you will, a smock shall be your shroud. You leer upon me, do you? there's an eye Wounds like a leaden sword. Full merrily Hath this brave manage, this career, been run. Lo! he is tilting straight. Peace! I have done. Welcome, pure wit!
thou partest a fair fray. O Lord, sir, they would know Whether the three Worthies shall come in or no. What, are there but three? No, sir; but it is vara fine, For every one pursents three. And three times thrice is nine. Not so, sir; under correction, sir, I hope, it is not so. You cannot beg us, sir, I can assure you, sir; we know what we know: I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir, Is not nine. Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount. By Jove, I always took three threes for nine. O Lord, sir! it were pity you should get your living by reckoning, sir. How much is it? O Lord, sir! the parties themselves, the actors, sir, will show whereuntil it doth amount: for mine own part, I am, as they say, but to parfect one man in one poor man, Pompion the Great, sir. Art thou one of the Worthies? It pleased them to think me worthy of Pompion the Great: for mine own part, I know not the degree of the Worthy, but I am to stand for him. Go, bid them prepare. We will turn it finely off, sir; we will take some care. Berowne, they will shame us; let them not approach. We are shame-proof, my lord; and 'tis some policy To have one show worse than the king's and his company. I say they shall not come.
Nay, my good lord, let me o'errule you now. That sport best pleases that doth least know how; Where zeal strives to content, and the contents Die in the zeal of those which it presents; Their form confounded makes most form in mirth, When great things labouring perish in their birth. A right description of our sport, my lord. Anointed, I implore so much expense of thy royal sweet breath as will utter a brace of words. Doth this man serve God? Why ask you? He speaks not like a man of God's making, That's all one, my fair, sweet, honey monarch; for, I protest, the schoolmaster is exceeding fantastical; too-too vain; too-too vain: but we will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la guerra. I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement! Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He presents Hector of Troy; the swain, Pompey the Great; the parish curate, Alexander; Armado's page, Hercules; the pedant, Judas Maccabæus: And if these four Worthies in their first show thrive, These four will change habits and present the other five. There is five in the first show. You are deceived, 'tis not so. The pedant, the braggart, the hedgepriest, the fool, and the boy: Abate throw at novum, and the whole world again Cannot pick out five such, take each one in his vein. The ship is under sail, and here she comes amain.
I Pompey am, You lie, you are not he. I Pompey am, With libbard's head on knee. Well said, old mocker: I must needs be friends with thee. I Pompey am, Pompey surnam'd the Big, 'The Great.' It is 'Great,' sir; Pompey surnam'd the Great; That oft in field, with targe and shield, did make my foe to sweat: And travelling along this coast, I here am come by chance, And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France. If your ladyship would say, 'Thanks, Pompey,' I had done. Great thanks, great Pompey. 'Tis not so much worth; but I hope I was perfect. I made a little fault in 'Great.' My hat to a halfpenny, Pompey proves the best Worthy. When in the world I liv'd, I was the world's commander; By east, west, north, and south, I spread my conquering might: My scutcheon plain declares that I am Alisander, Your nose says, no, you are not; for it stands too right. Your nose smells 'no,' in this, most tender-smelling knight. The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good Alexander. When in the world I liv'd, I was the world's commander; Most true; 'tis right: you were so, Alisander. Pompey the Great, Your servant, and Costard. Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander. O! sir, you have overthrown Alisander the conqueror!
You will be scraped out of the painted cloth for this: your lion, that holds his poll-axe sitting on a close-stool, will be given to Ajax: he will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror, and afeard to speak! run away for shame, Alisander! There, an't shall please you: a foolish mild man; an honest man, look you, and soon dashed! He is a marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a very good bowler; but, for Alisander, alas, you see how 'tis, a little o'erparted. But there are Worthies a-coming will speak their mind in some other sort. Stand aside, good Pompey. Great Hercules is presented by this imp, Whose club kill'd Cerberus, that three-headed canis; And, when he was a babe, a child, a shrimp, Thus did he strangle serpents in his manus. Quoniam, he seemeth in minority, Ergo, I come with this apology. Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish. Judas I am. A Judas! Not Iscariot, sir. Judas I am, ycleped Maccabæus. Judas Maccabæus clipt is plain Judas. A kissing traitor. How art thou prov'd Judas? Judas I am. The more shame for you, Judas. What mean you, sir? To make Judas hang himself. Begin, sir; you are my elder. Well follow'd: Judas was hanged on an elder. I will not be put out of countenance. Because thou hast no face. What is this? A cittern-head. The head of a bodkin. A death's face in a ring. The face of an old Roman coin, scarce seen.
The pommel of Cæsar's falchion. The carved-bone face on a flask. Saint George's half-cheek in a brooch. Ay, and in a brooch of lead. Ay, and worn in the cap of a toothdrawer. And now forward; for we have put thee in countenance. You have put me out of countenance. False: we have given thee faces. But you have outfaced them all. An thou wert a lion, we would do so. Therefore, as he is an ass, let him go. And so adieu, sweet Jude! nay, why dost thou stay? For the latter end of his name. For the ass to the Jude? give it him: Jud-as, away! This is not generous, not gentle, not humble. A light for Monsieur Judas! it grows dark, he may stumble. Alas! poor Maccabæus, how hath he been baited. Hide thy head, Achilles: here comes Hector in arms. Though my mocks come home by me, I will now be merry. Hector was but a Troyan in respect of this. But is this Hector? I think Hector was not so clean-timbered. His calf is too big for Hector. More calf, certain. No; he is best indued in the small. This cannot be Hector. He's a god or a painter; for he makes faces. The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty, Gave Hector a gift, A gilt nutmeg. A lemon. Stuck with cloves. No, cloven. Peace!
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty, Gave Hector a gift, the heir of Ilion; A man so breath'd, that certain he would fight ye From morn till night, out of his pavilion. I am that flower, That mint. That columbine. Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue. I must rather give it the rein, for it runs against Hector. Ay, and Hector's a greyhound. The sweet war-man is dead and rotten; sweet chucks, beat not the bones of the buried; when he breathed, he was a man. But I will forward with my device. Sweet royalty, bestow on me the sense of hearing. Speak, brave Hector; we are much delighted. I do adore thy sweet Grace's slipper. Loves her by the foot. He may not by the yard. This Hector far surmounted Hannibal, The party is gone; fellow Hector, she is gone; she is two months on her way. What meanest thou? Faith, unless you play the honest Troyan, the poor wench is cast away: she's quick; the child brags in her belly already: 'tis yours. Dost thou infamonize me among potentates? Thou shalt die. Then shall Hector be whipped for Jaquenetta that is quick by him, and hanged for Pompey that is dead by him. Most rare Pompey! Renowned Pompey! Greater than great, great, great, great Pompey! Pompey the Huge! Hector trembles. Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! stir them on! stir them on! Hector will challenge him.
Ay, if a' have no more man's blood in's belly than will sup a flea. By the north pole, I do challenge thee. I will not fight with a pole, like a northern man: I'll slash; I'll do it by the sword. I bepray you, let me borrow my arms again. Room for the incensed Worthies! I'll do it in my shirt. Most resolute Pompey! Master, let me take you a button-hole lower. Do you not see Pompey is uncasing for the combat? What mean you? you will lose your reputation. Gentlemen and soldiers, pardon me; I will not combat in my shirt. You may not deny it; Pompey hath made the challenge. Sweet bloods, I both may and will. What reason have you for't? The naked truth of it is, I have no shirt. I go woolward for penance. True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of linen; since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none but a dish-clout of Jaquenetta's, and that a' wears next his heart for a favour. God save you, madam! Welcome, Marcade; But that thou interrupt'st our merriment. I am sorry, madam; for the news I bring Is heavy in my tongue. The king your father Dead, for my life! Even so: my tale is told. Worthies, away! The scene begins to cloud. For my own part, I breathe free breath.
I have seen the day of wrong through the little hole of discretion, and I will right myself like a soldier. How fares your majesty? Boyet, prepare: I will away to-night. Madam, not so: I do beseech you, stay. Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords, For all your fair endeavours; and entreat, Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe In your rich wisdom to excuse or hide The liberal opposition of our spirits, If over-boldly we have borne ourselves In the converse of breath; your gentleness Was guilty of it. Farewell, worthy lord! A heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue, Excuse me so, coming so short of thanks For my great suit so easily obtain'd. The extreme part of time extremely forms All causes to the purpose of his speed, And often, at his very loose, decides That which long process could not arbitrate: And though the mourning brow of progeny Forbid the smiling courtesy of love The holy suit which fain it would convince; Yet, since love's argument was first on foot, Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it From what it purpos'd; since, to wail friends lost Is not by much so wholesome-profitable As to rejoice at friends but newly found. I understand you not: my griefs are double. Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief; And by these badges understand the king.
For your fair sakes have we neglected time, Play'd foul play with our oaths. Your beauty, ladies, Hath much deform'd us, fashioning our humours Even to the opposed end of our intents; And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous, As love is full of unbefitting strains; All wanton as a child, skipping and vain; Form'd by the eye, and, therefore, like the eye, Full of stray shapes, of habits and of forms, Varying in subjects, as the eye doth roll To every varied object in his glance: Which parti-coated presence of loose love Put on by us, if, in your heavenly eyes, Have misbecome our oaths and gravities, Those heavenly eyes, that look into these faults, Suggested us to make. Therefore, ladies, Our love being yours, the error that love makes Is likewise yours: we to ourselves prove false, By being once false for ever to be true To those that make us both, fair ladies, you: And even that falsehood, in itself a sin, Thus purifies itself and turns to grace. We have receiv'd your letters full of love; Your favours, the embassadors of love; And, in our maiden council, rated them At courtship, pleasant jest, and courtesy, As bombast and as lining to the time. But more devout than this in our respects Have we not been; and therefore met your loves In their own fashion, like a merriment. Our letters, madam, show'd much more than jest. So did our looks. We did not quote them so.
Now, at the latest minute of the hour, Grant us your loves. A time, methinks, too short To make a world-without-end bargain in. No, no, my lord, your Grace is perjur'd much, Full of dear guiltiness; and therefore this: If for my love, as there is no such cause, You will do aught, this shall you do for me: Your oath I will not trust; but go with speed To some forlorn and naked hermitage, Remote from all the pleasures of the world; There stay, until the twelve celestial signs Have brought about their annual reckoning. If this austere insociable life Change not your offer made in heat of blood; If frosts and fasts, hard lodging and thin weeds, Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love, But that it bear this trial and last love; Then, at the expiration of the year, Come challenge me, challenge me by these deserts, And, by this virgin palm now kissing thine, I will be thine; and, till that instant, shut My woful self up in a mourning house, Raining the tears of lamentation For the remembrance of my father's death. If this thou do deny, let our hands part; Neither intitled in the other's heart. If this, or more than this, I would deny, To flatter up these powers of mine with rest, The sudden hand of death close up mine eye! Hence ever then my heart is in thy breast. And what to me, my love? and what to me?
You must be purged too, your sins are rack'd: You are attaint with faults and perjury; Therefore, if you my favour mean to get, A twelvemonth shall you spend, and never rest, But seek the weary beds of people sick. But what to me, my love? but what to me? A wife! A beard, fair health, and honesty; With three-fold love I wish you all these three. O! shall I say, I thank you, gentle wife? Not so, my lord. A twelvemonth and a day I'll mark no words that smooth-fac'd wooers say: Come when the king doth to my lady come; Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some. I'll serve thee true and faithfully till then. Yet swear not, lest you be forsworn again. What says Maria? At the twelvemonth's end I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend. I'll stay with patience; but the time is long. The liker you; few taller are so young. Studies my lady? mistress, look on me. Behold the window of my heart, mine eye, What humble suit attends thy answer there; Impose some service on me for thy love.
Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Berowne, Before I saw you, and the world's large tongue Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks; Full of comparisons and wounding flouts, Which you on all estates will execute That lie within the mercy of your wit: To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain, And therewithal to win me, if you please, Without the which I am not to be won, You shall this twelvemonth term, from day to day, Visit the speechless sick, and still converse With groaning wretches; and your task shall be, With all the fierce endeavour of your wit To enforce the pained impotent to smile. To move wild laughter in the throat of death? It cannot be; it is impossible: Mirth cannot move a soul in agony. Why, that's the way to choke a gibing spirit, Whose influence is begot of that loose grace Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools.
A jest's prosperity lics in the ear Of him that hears it, never in the tongue Of him that makes it: then, if sickly ears, Deaf'd with the clamours of their own dear groans, Will hear your idle scorns, continue them, And I will have you and that fault withal; But if they will not, throw away that spirit, And I shall find you empty of that fault, Right joyful of your reformation. A twelvemonth! well, befall what will befall, I'll jest a twelvemonth in a hospital. Ay, sweet my lord; and so I take my leave. No, madam; we will bring you on your way. Our wooing doth not end like an old play; Jack hath not Jill; these ladies' courtesy Might well have made our sport a comedy. Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth and a day, And then 'twill end. That's too long for a play. Sweet majesty, vouchsafe me, Was not that Hector? The worthy knight of Troy. I will kiss thy royal finger, and take leave. I am a votary; I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the plough for her sweet love three years. But, most esteemed greatness, will you hear the dialogue that the two learned men have compiled in praise of the owl and the cuckoo? it should have followed in the end of our show. Call them forth quickly; we will do so. Holla! approach.
This side is Hiems, Winter; this Ver, the Spring; the one maintained by the owl, the other by the cuckoo. Ver, begin. SPRING. I When daisies pied and violets blue And lady-smocks all silver-white And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue Do paint the meadows with delight, The cuckoo then, on every tree, Mocks married men; for thus sings he, Cuckoo, Cuckoo, cuckoo: O, word of fear, Unpleasing to a married ear! II. When shepherds pipe on oaten straws, And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks, When turtles tread, and rooks, and daws, And maidens bleach their summer smocks, The cuckoo then, on every tree, Mocks married men; for thus sings he, Cuckoo; Cuckoo, cuckoo: O, word of fear, Unpleasing to a married ear! WINTER. III. When icicles hang by the wall, And Dick the shepherd blows his nail, And Tom bears logs into the hall, And milk comes frozen home in pail, When blood is nipp'd, and ways be foul, Then nightly sings the staring owl, Tu-who; Tu-whit, tu-who a merry note, While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
IV When all aloud the wind doth blow, And coughing drowns the parson's saw, And birds sit brooding in the snow, And Marian's nose looks red and raw, When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl, Then nightly sings the staring owl, Tu-who; Tu-whit, tu-who a merry note, While greasy Joan doth keel the pot. The words of Mercury are harsh after the songs of Apollo. You, that way: we, this way.
I'll pheeze you, in faith. A pair of stocks, you rogue! Y'are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues; look in the chronicles; we came in with Richard Conqueror. Therefore, paucas pallabris; let the world slide. Sessa! You will not pay for the glasses you have burst? No, not a denier. Go by, Jeronimy, go to thy cold bed, and warm thee. I know my remedy: I must go fetch the third-borough. Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I'll answer him by law. I'll not budge an inch, boy: let him come, and kindly. Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds: Brach Merriman, the poor cur is emboss'd, And couple Clowder with the deep-mouth'd brach. Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good At the hedge-corner, in the coldest fault? I would not lose the dog for twenty pound. Why, Bellman is as good as he, my lord; He cried upon it at the merest loss, And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent: Trust me, I take him for the better dog. Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet, I would esteem him worth a dozen such. But sup them well, and look unto them all: To-morrow I intend to hunt again. I will, my lord. What's here? one dead, or drunk? See, doth he breathe? He breathes, my lord. Were he not warm'd with ale, This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly. O monstrous beast!
how like a swine he lies! Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image! Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man. What think you, if he were convey'd to bed, Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers, A most delicious banquet by his bed, And brave attendants near him when he wakes, Would not the beggar then forget himself? Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose. It would seem strange unto him when he wak'd. Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy. Then take him up and manage well the jest. Carry him gently to my fairest chamber, And hang it round with all my wanton pictures; Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters, And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet. Procure me music ready when he wakes, To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound; And if he chance to speak, be ready straight, And with a low submissive reverence Say, 'What is it your honour will command?' Let one attend him with a silver basin Full of rose-water, and bestrew'd with flowers; Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper, And say, 'Will't please your lordship cool your hands?' Some one be ready with a costly suit, And ask him what apparel he will wear; Another tell him of his hounds and horse, And that his lady mourns at his disease.
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic; And, when he says he is say that he dreams, For he is nothing but a mighty lord. This do, and do it kindly, gentle sirs: It will be pastime passing excellent, If it be husbanded with modesty. My lord, I warrant you we will play our part, As he shall think, by our true diligence, He is no less than what we say he is. Take him up gently, and to bed with him, And each one to his office when he wakes. Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds: Belike, some noble gentleman that means, Travelling some journey, to repose him here. How now! who is it? An it please your honour, Players that offer service to your lordship. Bid them come near. Now, fellows, you are welcome. We thank your honour. Do you intend to stay with me to-night? So please your lordship to accept our duty. With all my heart. This fellow I remember, Since once he play'd a farmer's eldest son: 'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well. I have forgot your name; but, sure, that part Was aptly fitted and naturally perform'd. I think 'twas Soto that your honour means. 'Tis very true: thou didst it excellent. Well, you are come to me in happy time, The rather for I have some sport in hand Wherein your cunning can assist me much.
There is a lord will hear you play to-night; But I am doubtful of your modesties, Lest, over-eyeing of his odd behaviour, For yet his honour never heard a play, You break into some merry passion And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs, If you should smile he grows impatient. Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves Were he the veriest antick in the world. Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery, And give them friendly welcome every one: Let them want nothing that my house affords. Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page, And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady: That done, conduct him to the drunkard's chamber; And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance. Tell him from me, as he will win my love, He bear himself with honourable action, Such as he hath observ'd in noble ladies Unto their lords, by them accomplished: Such duty to the drunkard let him do With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy; And say, 'What is't your honour will command, Wherein your lady and your humble wife May show her duty, and make known her love?'
And then, with kind embracements, tempting kisses, And with declining head into his bosom, Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy'd To see her noble lord restor'd to health, Who for this seven years hath esteemed him No better than a poor and loathsome beggar. And if the boy have not a woman's gift To rain a shower of commanded tears, An onion will do well for such a shift, Which in a napkin being close convey'd, Shall in despite enforce a watery eye. See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst: Anon I'll give thee more instructions. I know the boy will well usurp the grace, Voice, gait, and action of a gentlewoman: I long to hear him call the drunkard husband, And how my men will stay themselves from laughter When they do homage to this simple peasant. I'll in to counsel them: haply, my presence May well abate the over merry spleen Which otherwise would grow into extremes. For God's sake! a pot of small ale. Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack? Will't please your honour taste of these conserves? What raiment will your honour wear to-day? I am Christophero Sly; call not me honour, nor lordship: I ne'er drank sack in my life; and if you give me any conserves, give me conserves of beef.
Ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear, for I have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings than legs, nor no more shoes than feet: nay, sometime more feet than shoes, or such shoes as my toes look through the overleather. Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour! O, that a mighty man, of such descent, Of such possessions, and so high esteem, Should be infused with so foul a spirit! What! would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher Sly, old Sly's son, of Burtonheath; by birth a pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker? Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if she know me not: if she say I am not fourteen pence on the score for sheer ale, score me up for the lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not bestraught: here's O! this it is that makes your lady mourn. O! this it is that makes your servants droop. Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house, As beaten hence by your strange lunacy. O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth, Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment, And banish hence these abject lowly dreams. Look how thy servants do attend on thee, Each in his office ready at thy beck: Wilt thou have music? hark! Apollo plays, And twenty caged nightingales do sing: Or wilt thou sleep?
we'll have thee to a couch Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis. Say thou wilt walk, we will bestrew the ground: Or wilt thou ride? thy horses shall be trapp'd, Their harness studded all with gold and pearl. Dost thou love hawking? thou hast hawks will soar Above the morning lark: or wilt thou hunt? Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them, And fetch shrill echoes from the hollow earth. Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift As breathed stags, ay, fleeter than the roe. Dost thou love pictures? we will fetch thee straight Adonis painted by a running brook, And Cytherea all in sedges hid, Which seem to move and wanton with her breath, Even as the waving sedges play with wind. We'll show thee Io as she was a maid, And how she was beguiled and surpris'd, As lively painted as the deed was done. Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood, Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds; And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep, So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn. Thou art a lord and nothing but a lord: Thou hast a lady far more beautiful Than any woman in this waning age.
And till the tears that she hath shed for thee Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face, She was the fairest creature in the world; And yet she is inferior to none. Am I a lord? and have I such a lady? Or do I dream? or have I dream'd till now? I do not sleep; I see, I hear, I speak; I smell sweet savours, and I feel soft things: Upon my life, I am a lord indeed; And not a tinker, nor Christophero Sly. Well, bring our lady hither to our sight; And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale. Will't please your mightiness to wash your hands? O, how we joy to see your wit restor'd! O, that once more you knew but what you are! These fifteen years you have been in a dream, Or, when you wak'd, so wak'd as if you slept. These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap. But did I never speak of all that time? O! yes, my lord, but very idle words; For though you lay here in this goodly chamber, Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door, And rail upon the hostess of the house, And say you would present her at the leet, Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts. Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket. Ay, the woman's maid of the house.
Why, sir, you know no house, nor no such maid, Nor no such men as you have reckon'd up, As Stephen Sly, and old John Naps of Greece, And Peter Turf, and Henry Pimpernell, And twenty more such names and men as these, Which never were nor no man ever saw. Now, Lord be thanked for my good amends! Amen. I thank thee; thou shalt not lose by it. How fares my noble lord? Marry, I fare well, for here is cheer enough. Where is my wife? Here, noble lord: what is thy will with her? Are you my wife, and will not call me husband? My men should call me lord: I am your goodman. My husband and my lord, my lord and husband; I am your wife in all obedience. I know it well. What must I call her? Madam. Al'ce madam, or Joan madam? Madam, and nothing else: so lords call ladies. Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd And slept above some fifteen year or more. Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me, Being all this time abandon'd from your bed. 'Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone. Madam, undress you, and come now to bed.
Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you To pardon me yet for a night or two, Or, if not so, until the sun be set: For your physicians have expressly charg'd, In peril to incur your former malady, That I should yet absent me from your bed: I hope this reason stands for my excuse. Ay, it stands so, that I may hardly tarry so long; but I would be loath to fall into my dreams again: I will therefore tarry, in spite of the flesh and the blood. Your honour's players, hearing your amendment, Are come to play a pleasant comedy; For so your doctors hold it very meet, Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood, And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy: Therefore they thought it good you hear a play, And frame your mind to mirth and merriment, Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life. Marry, I will; let them play it. Is not a commonty a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick? No, my good lord; it is more pleasing stuff. What! household stuff? It is a kind of history. Well, we'll see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side, And let the world slip: we shall ne'er be younger.
Tranio, since for the great desire I had To see fair Padua, nursery of arts, I am arriv'd for fruitful Lombardy, The pleasant garden of great Italy; And by my father's love and leave am arm'd With his good will and thy good company, My trusty servant well approv'd in all, Here let us breathe, and haply institute A course of learning and ingenious studies. Pisa, renowned for grave citizens, Gave me my being and my father first, A merchant of great traffic through the world, Vincentio, come of the Bentivolii. Vincentio's son, brought up in Florence, It shall become to serve all hopes conceiv'd, To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds: And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study, Virtue and that part of philosophy Will I apply that treats of happiness By virtue specially to be achiev'd. Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left And am to Padua come, as he that leaves A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep, And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst. Mi perdonate, gentle master mine, I am in all affected as yourself, Glad that you thus continue your resolve To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy. Only, good master, while we do admire This virtue and this moral discipline, Let's be no stoics nor no stocks, I pray; Or so devote to Aristotle's checks As Ovid be an outcast quite abjur'd.
Balk logic with acquaintance that you have, And practise rhetoric in your common talk; Music and poesy use to quicken you; The mathematics and the metaphysics, Fall to them as you find your stomach serves you; No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en; In brief, sir, study what you most affect. Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise. If, Biondello, thou wert come ashore, We could at once put us in readiness, And take a lodging fit to entertain Such friends as time in Padua shall beget. But stay awhile: what company is this? Master, some show to welcome us to town. Gentlemen, importune me no further, For how I firmly am resolv'd you know; That is, not to bestow my youngest daughter Before I have a husband for the elder. If either of you both love Katharina, Because I know you well and love you well, Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure. To cart her rather: she's too rough for me. There, there, Hortensio, will you any wife? I pray you, sir, is it your will To make a stale of me amongst these mates? Mates, maid! how mean you that? no mates for you, Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
I' faith, sir, you shall never need to fear: I wis it is not half way to her heart; But if it were, doubt not her care should be To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool, And paint your face, and use you like a fool. From all such devils, good Lord deliver us! And me too, good Lord! Hush, master! here is some good pastime toward: That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward. But in the other's silence do I see Maid's mild behaviour and sobriety. Peace, Tranio! Well said, master; mum! and gaze your fill. Gentlemen, that I may soon make good What I have said, Bianca, get you in: And let it not displease thee, good Bianca, For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl. A pretty peat! it is best Put finger in the eye, an she knew why. Sister, content you in my discontent. Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe: My books and instruments shall be my company, On them to look and practise by myself. Hark, Tranio! thou mayst hear Minerva speak. Signior Baptista, will you be so strange? Sorry am I that our good will effects Bianca's grief. Why will you mew her up, Signior Baptista, for this fiend of hell, And make her bear the penance of her tongue? Gentlemen, content ye; I am resolv'd. Go in, Bianca.
And for I know she taketh most delight In music, instruments, and poetry, Schoolmasters will I keep within my house, Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio, Or Signior Gremio, you, know any such, Prefer them hither; for to cunning men I will be very kind, and liberal To mine own children in good bringing up; And so, farewell. Katharina, you may stay; For I have more to commune with Bianca. Why, and I trust I may go too; may I not? What! shall I be appointed hours, as though, belike, I knew not what to take, and what to leave? Ha! You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so good, here's none will hold you. Their love is not so great, Hortensio, but we may blow our nails together, and fast it fairly out: our cake's dough on both sides. Farewell: yet, for the love I bear my sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit man to teach her that wherein she delights, I will wish him to her father. So will I, Signior Gremio: but a word, I pray. Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked parle, know now, upon advice, it toucheth us both, that we may yet again have access to our fair mistress and be happy rivals in Bianca's love, to labour and effect one thing specially. What's that, I pray? Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister. A husband!
a devil. I say, a husband. I say, a devil. Thinkest thou, Hortensio, though her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool to be married to hell? Tush, Gremio! though it pass your patience and mine to endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good fellows in the world, an a man could light on them, would take her with all faults, and money enough. I cannot tell; but I had as lief take her dowry with this condition, to be whipped at the high-cross every morning. Faith, as you say, there's small choice in rotten apples. But, come; since this bar in law makes us friends, it shall be so far forth friendly maintained, till by helping Baptista's eldest daughter to a husband, we set his youngest free for a husband, and then have to't afresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man be his dole! He that runs fastest gets the ring. How say you, Signior Gremio? I am agreed: and would I had given him the best horse in Padua to begin his wooing, that would thoroughly woo her, wed her, and bed her, and rid the house of her. Come on. I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible That love should of a sudden take such hold? O Tranio!
till I found it to be true, I never thought it possible or likely; But see, while idly I stood looking on, I found the effect of love in idleness; And now in plainness do confess to thee, That art to me as secret and as dear As Anna to the Queen of Carthage was, Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio, If I achieve not this young modest girl. Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst: Assist me, Tranio, for I know thou wilt. Master, it is no time to chide you now; Affection is not rated from the heart: If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so, Redime te captum, quam queas minimo. Gramercies, lad; go forward: this contents: The rest will comfort, for thy counsel's sound. Master, you look'd so longly on the maid, Perhaps you mark'd not what's the pith of all. O yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face, Such as the daughter of Agenor had, That made great Jove to humble him to her hand, When with his knees he kiss'd the Cretan strand. Saw you no more? mark'd you not how her sister Began to scold and raise up such a storm That mortal ears might hardly endure the din? Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move, And with her breath she did perfume the air; Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her.
Nay, then, 'tis time to stir him from his trance. I pray, awake, sir: if you love the maid, Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands: Her elder sister is so curst and shrewd, That till the father rid his hands of her, Master, your love must live a maid at home; And therefore has he closely mew'd her up, Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors. Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he! But art thou not advis'd he took some care To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her? Ay, marry, am I, sir; and now 'tis plotted. I have it, Tranio. Master, for my hand, Both our inventions meet and jump in one. Tell me thine first. You will be schoolmaster, And undertake the teaching of the maid: That's your device. It is: may it be done? Not possible; for who shall bear your part, And be in Padua here Vincentio's son? Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends; Visit his countrymen, and banquet them? Basta; content thee; for I have it full.
We have not yet been seen in any house, Nor can we be distinguish'd by our faces For man, or master: then, it follows thus: Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead, Keep house, and port, and servants, as I should: I will some other be; some Florentine, Some Neapolitan, or meaner man of Pisa. 'Tis hatch'd and shall be so: Tranio, at once Uncase thee, take my colour'd hat and cloak: When Biondello comes, he waits on thee; But I will charm him first to keep his tongue. So had you need. In brief then, sir, sith it your pleasure is, And I am tied to be obedient; For so your father charg'd me at our parting, 'Be serviceable to my son,' quoth he, Although I think 'twas in another sense: I am content to be Lucentio, Because so well I love Lucentio. Tranio, be so, because Lucentio loves; And let me be a slave, to achieve that maid Whose sudden sight hath thrall'd my wounded eye. Here comes the rogue. Sirrah, where have you been? Where have I been! Nay, how now! where are you? Master, has my fellow Tranio stol'n your clothes, Or you stol'n his? or both? pray, what's the news? Sirrah, come hither: 'tis no time to jest, And therefore frame your manners to the time.
Your fellow Tranio, here, to save my life, Puts my apparel and my countenance on, And I for my escape have put on his; For in a quarrel since I came ashore I kill'd a man, and fear I was descried. Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes, While I make way from hence to save my life: You understand me? I, sir! ne'er a whit. And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth: Tranio is changed to Lucentio. The better for him: would I were so too! So would I, faith, boy, to have the next wish after, That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter. But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master's, I advise You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies: When I am alone, why, then I am Tranio; But in all places else your master, Lucentio. Tranio, let's go. One thing more rests, that thyself execute, to make one among these wooers: if thou ask me why, sufficeth my reasons are both good and weighty. My lord, you nod; you do not mind the play. Yes, by Saint Anne, I do. A good matter, surely: comes there any more of it? My lord, 'tis but begun. 'Tis a very excellent piece of work, madam lady: would 'twere done!
Verona, for awhile I take my leave, To see my friends in Padua; but, of all My best beloved and approved friend, Hortensio; and I trow this is his house. Here, sirrah Grumio; knock, I say. Knock, sir! whom should I knock? is there any man has rebused your worship? Villain, I say, knock me here soundly. Knock you here, sir! why, sir, what am I, sir, that I should knock you here, sir? Villain, I say, knock me at this gate; And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate. My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock you first, And then I know after who comes by the worst. Will it not be? Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock, I'll ring it; I'll try how you can sol, fa, and sing it. Help, masters, help! my master is mad. Now, knock when I bid you, sirrah villain! How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio! and my good friend Petruchio! How do you all at Verona? Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray? Con tutto il cuore ben trovato, may I say. Alla nostra casa ben venuto; molto honorato signior mio Petruchio. Rise, Grumio, rise: we will compound this quarrel. Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
If this be not a lawful cause for me to leave his service, look you, sir, he bid me knock him and rap him soundly, sir: well, was it fit for a servant to use his master so; being, perhaps, for aught I see, two-and-thirty, a pip out? Whom would to God, I had well knock'd at first, Then had not Grumio come by the worst. A senseless villain! Good Hortensio, I bade the rascal knock upon your gate, And could not get him for my heart to do it. Knock at the gate! O heavens! Spake you not these words plain, 'Sirrah, knock me here, rap me here, knock me well, and knock me soundly?' And come you now with 'knocking at the gate?' Sirrah, be gone, or talk not, I advise you. Petruchio, patience; I am Grumio's pledge. Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you, Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio. And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale Blows you to Padua here from old Verona? Such wind as scatters young men through the world To seek their fortunes further than at home, Where small experience grows. But in a few, Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me: Antonio, my father, is deceas'd, And I have thrust myself into this maze, Haply to wive and thrive as best I may. Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home, And so am come abroad to see the world.
Petruchio, shall I then come roundly to thee, And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour'd wife? Thou'dst thank me but a little for my counsel; And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich, And very rich: but thou'rt too much my friend, And I'll not wish thee to her. Signior Hortensio, 'twixt such friends as we, Few words suffice; and therefore, if thou know One rich enough to be Petruchio's wife, As wealth is burden of my wooing dance, Be she as foul as was Florentius' love, As old as Sibyl, and as curst and shrewd As Socrates' Xanthippe, or a worse, She moves me not, or not removes, at least, Affection's edge in me, were she as rough As are the swelling Adriatic seas: I come to wive it wealthily in Padua; If wealthily, then happily in Padua. Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his mind is: why, give him gold enough and marry him to a puppet or an aglet-baby; or an old trot with ne'er a tooth in her head, though she have as many diseases as two-and-fifty horses: why, nothing comes amiss, so money comes withal. Petruchio, since we are stepp'd thus far in, I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife With wealth enough, and young and beauteous, Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman: Her only fault, and that is faults enough, Is, that she is intolerable curst And shrewd and froward, so beyond all measure, That, were my state far worser than it is, I would not wed her for a mine of gold: Hortensio, peace! thou know'st not gold's effect: Tell me her father's name, and 'tis enough; For I will board her, though she chide as loud As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack. Her father is Baptista Minola, An affable and courteous gentleman; Her name is Katharina Minola, Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue. I know her father, though I know not her; And he knew my deceased father well. I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her; And therefore let me be thus bold with you, To give you over at this first encounter, Unless you will accompany me thither. I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts. O' my word, an she knew him as well as I do, she would think scolding would do little good upon him. She may, perhaps, call him half a score knaves or so: why, that's nothing: an he begin once, he'll rail in his ropetricks.
I'll tell you what, sir, an she stand him but a little, he will throw a figure in her face, and so disfigure her with it that she shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat. You know him not, sir. Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee, For in Baptista's keep my treasure is: He hath the jewel of my life in hold, His youngest daughter, beautiful Bianca, And her withholds from me and other more, Suitors to her and rivals in my love; Supposing it a thing impossible, For those defects I have before rehears'd, That ever Katharina will be woo'd: Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en, That none shall have access unto Bianca, Till Katharine the curst have got a husband. Katharine the curst! A title for a maid of all titles the worst. Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace, And offer me, disguis'd in sober robes, To old Baptista as a schoolmaster Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca; That so I may, by this device, at least Have leave and leisure to make love to her, And unsuspected court her by herself. Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks, how the young folks lay their heads together! Master, master, look about you: who goes there, ha? Peace, Grumio! 'tis the rival of my love. Petruchio, stand by awhile. A proper stripling, and an amorous! O! very well; I have perus'd the note.
Hark you, sir; I'll have them very fairly bound: All books of love, see that at any hand, And see you read no other lectures to her. You understand me. Over and beside Signior Baptista's liberality, I'll mend it with a largess. Take your papers too, And let me have them very well perfum'd; For she is sweeter than perfume itself To whom they go to. What will you read to her? Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you, As for my patron, stand you so assur'd, As firmly as yourself were still in place; Yea, and perhaps with more successful words Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir. O! this learning, what a thing it is. O! this woodcock, what an ass it is. Peace, sirrah! Grumio, mum! God save you, Signior Gremio! And you're well met, Signior Hortensio. Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola. I promis'd to inquire carefully About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca; And, by good fortune, I have lighted well On this young man; for learning and behaviour Fit for her turn; well read in poetry And other books, good ones, I warrant ye. 'Tis well: and I have met a gentleman Hath promis'd me to help me to another, A fine musician to instruct our mistress: So shall I no whit be behind in duty To fair Bianca, so belov'd of me. Belov'd of me, and that my deeds shall prove.
And that his bags shall prove. Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love: Listen to me, and if you speak me fair, I'll tell you news indifferent good for either. Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met, Upon agreement from us to his liking, Will undertake to woo curst Katharine; Yea, and to marry her, if her dowry please. So said, so done, is well. Hortensio, have you told him all her faults? I know she is an irksome, brawling scold: If that be all, masters, I hear no harm. No, sayst me so, friend? What countryman? Born in Verona, old Antonio's son: My father dead, my fortune lives for me; And I do hope good days and long to see. O, sir, such a life, with such a wife, were strange! But if you have a stomach, to't i' God's name: You shall have me assisting you in all. But will you woo this wild-cat? Will I live? Will he woo her? ay, or I'll hang her. Why came I hither but to that intent? Think you a little din can daunt mine ears? Have I not in my time heard lions roar? Have I not heard the sea, puff'd up with winds, Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat? Have I not heard great ordnance in the field, And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
Have I not in a pitched battle heard Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang? And do you tell me of a woman's tongue, That gives not half so great a blow to hear As will a chestnut in a farmer's fire? Tush, tush! fear boys with bugs. For he fears none. Hortensio, hark: This gentleman is happily arriv'd, My mind presumes, for his own good and ours. I promis'd we would be contributors, And bear his charge of wooing, whatsoe'er. And so we will, provided that he win her. I would I were as sure of a good dinner. Gentlemen, God save you! If I may be bold, Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way To the house of Signior Baptista Minola? He that has the two fair daughters: is't he you mean? Even he, Biondello! Hark you, sir; you mean not her to Perhaps, him and her, sir: what have you to do? Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray. I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away. Well begun, Tranio. Sir, a word ere you go: Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no? And if I be, sir, is it any offence? No; if without more words you will get you hence. Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free For me as for you? But so is not she. For what reason, I beseech you?
For this reason, if you'll know, That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio. That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio. Softly, my masters! if you be gentlemen, Do me this right; hear me with patience. Baptista is a noble gentleman, To whom my father is not all unknown; And were his daughter fairer than she is, She may more suitors have, and me for one. Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers; Then well one more may fair Bianca have, And so she shall; Lucentio shall make one, Though Paris came in hope to speed alone. What! this gentleman will out-talk us all. Sir, give him head: I know he'll prove a jade. Hortensio, to what end are all these words? Sir, let me be so bold as ask you, Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter? No, sir; but hear I do that he hath two, The one as famous for a scolding tongue As is the other for beauteous modesty. Sir, sir, the first's for me; let her go by. Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules, And let it be more than Alcides' twelve. Sir, understand you this of me in sooth: The youngest daughter, whom you hearken for, Her father keeps from all access of suitors, And will not promise her to any man Until the elder sister first be wed; The younger then is free, and not before.
If it be so, sir, that you are the man Must stead us all, and me among the rest; And if you break the ice, and do this feat, Achieve the elder, set the younger free For our access, whose hap shall be to have her Will not so graceless be to be ingrate. Sir, you say well, and well you do conceive; And since you do profess to be a suitor, You must, as we do, gratify this gentleman, To whom we all rest generally beholding. Sir, I shall not be slack: in sign whereof, Please ye we may contrive this afternoon, And quaff carouses to our mistress' health, And do as adversaries do in law, Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends. O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone. O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone. The motion's good indeed, and be it so: Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto. Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself, To make a bondmaid and a slave of me; That I disdain: but for these other gawds, Unbind my hands, I'll pull them off myself, Yea, all my raiment, to my petticoat; Or what you will command me will I do, So well I know my duty to my elders. Of all thy suitors, here I charge thee, tell Whom thou lov'st best: see thou dissemble not.
Believe me, sister, of all the men alive I never yet beheld that special face Which I could fancy more than any other. Minion, thou liest. Is't not Hortensio? If you affect him, sister, here I swear I'll plead for you myself, but you shall have him. O! then, belike, you fancy riches more: You will have Gremio to keep you fair. Is it for him you do envy me so? Nay, then you jest; and now I well perceive You have but jested with me all this while: I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands. If that be jest, then all the rest was so. Why, how now, dame! whence grows this insolence? Bianca, stand aside. Poor girl! she weeps. Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her. For shame, thou hilding of a devilish spirit, Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee? When did she cross thee with a bitter word? Her silence flouts me, and I'll be reveng'd. What! in my sight? Bianca, get thee in. What! will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see She is your treasure, she must have a husband; I must dance bare-foot on her wedding-day, And, for your love to her, lead apes in hell. Talk not to me: I will go sit and weep Till I can find occasion of revenge. Was ever gentleman thus griev'd as I? But who comes here? Good morrow, neighbour Baptista. Good morrow, neighbour Gremio. God save you, gentlemen!
And you, good sir. Pray, have you not a daughter Call'd Katharina, fair and virtuous? I have a daughter, sir, call'd Katharina. You are too blunt: go to it orderly. You wrong me, Signior Gremio: give me leave. I am a gentleman of Verona, sir, That, hearing of her beauty and her wit, Her affability and bashful modesty, Her wondrous qualities and mild behaviour, Am bold to show myself a forward guest Within your house, to make mine eye the witness Of that report which I so oft have heard. And, for an entrance to my entertainment, I do present you with a man of mine, Cunning in music and the mathematics, To instruct her fully in those sciences, Whereof I know she is not ignorant. Accept of him, or else you do me wrong: His name is Licio, born in Mantua. You're welcome, sir; and he, for your good sake. But for my daughter Katharine, this I know, She is not for your turn, the more my grief. I see you do not mean to part with her, Or else you like not of my company. Mistake me not; I speak but as I find. Whence are you, sir? what may I call your name? Petruchio is my name; Antonio's son; A man well known throughout all Italy. I know him well: you are welcome for his sake.
Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray, Let us, that are poor petitioners, speak too. Backare! you are marvellous forward. O, pardon me, Signior Gremio; I would fain be doing. I doubt it not, sir; but you will curse your wooing. Neighbour, this is a gift very grateful, I am sure of it. To express the like kindness myself, that have been more kindly beholding to you than any, freely give unto you this young scholar, that has been long studying at Rheims; as cunning in Greek, Latin, and other languages, as the other in music and mathematics. His name is Cambio; pray accept his service. A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio; welcome, good Cambio. But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger: may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming? Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own, That, being a stranger in this city here, Do make myself a suitor to your daughter, Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous. Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me, In the preferment of the eldest sister.
This liberty is all that I request, That, upon knowledge of my parentage, I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo, And free access and favour as the rest: And, toward the education of your daughters, I here bestow a simple instrument, And this small packet of Greek and Latin books: If you accept them, then their worth is great. Lucentio is your name, of whence, I pray? Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio. A mighty man of Pisa; by report I know him well: you are very welcome, sir. Take you the lute, and you the set of books; You shall go see your pupils presently. Holla, within! Sirrah, lead these gentlemen To my two daughters, and then tell them both These are their tutors: bid them use them well. We will go walk a little in the orchard, And then to dinner. You are passing welcome, And so I pray you all to think yourselves. Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste, And every day I cannot come to woo. You knew my father well, and in him me, Left solely heir to all his lands and goods, Which I have better'd rather than decreas'd: Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love, What dowry shall I have with her to wife? After my death the one half of my lands, And in possession twenty thousand crowns.
And, for that dowry, I'll assure her of Her widowhood, be it that she survive me, In all my lands and leases whatsoever. Let specialties be therefore drawn between us, That covenants may be kept on either hand. Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd, That is, her love; for that is all in all. Why, that is nothing; for I tell you, father, I am as peremptory as she proud-minded; And where two raging fires meet together They do consume the thing that feeds their fury: Though little fire grows great with little wind, Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all; So I to her, and so she yields to me; For I am rough and woo not like a babe. Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed! But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words. Ay, to the proof; as mountains are for winds, That shake not, though they blow perpetually. How now, my friend! why dost thou look so pale? For fear, I promise you, if I look pale. What, will my daughter prove a good musician? I think she'll sooner prove a soldier: Iron may hold with her, but never lutes. Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute? Why, no; for she hath broke the lute to me.
I did but tell her she mistook her frets, And bow'd her hand to teach her fingering; When, with a most impatient devilish spirit, 'Frets, call you these?' quoth she; 'I'll fume with them;' And, with that word, she struck me on the head, And through the instrument my pate made way; And there I stood amazed for a while, As on a pillory, looking through the lute; While she did call me rascal fiddler, And twangling Jack; with twenty such vile terms As she had studied to misuse me so. Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench! I love her ten times more than e'er I did: O! how I long to have some chat with her! Well, go with me, and be not so discomfited: Proceed in practice with my younger daughter; She's apt to learn, and thankful for good turns. Signior Petruchio, will you go with us, Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you? I pray you do; I will attend her here, And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
Say that she rail; why then I'll tell her plain She sings as sweetly as a nightingale: Say that she frown; I'll say she looks as clear As morning roses newly wash'd with dew: Say she be mute and will not speak a word; Then I'll commend her volubility, And say she uttereth piercing eloquence: If she do bid me pack; I'll give her thanks, As though she bid me stay by her a week: If she deny to wed; I'll crave the day When I shall ask the banns, and when be married. But here she comes; and now, Petruchio, speak. Good morrow, Kate; for that's your name, I hear. Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing: They call me Katharine that do talk of me. You lie, in faith; for you are call'd plain Kate, And bonny Kate, and sometimes Kate the curst; But, Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom; Kate of Kate-Hall, my super-dainty Kate, For dainties are all cates: and therefore, Kate, Take this of me, Kate of my consolation; Hearing thy mildness prais'd in every town, Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded, Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs, Myself am mov'd to woo thee for my wife. Mov'd! in good time: let him that mov'd you hither Remove you hence. I knew you at the first, You were a moveable. Why, what's a moveable? A joint-stool. Thou hast hit it: come, sit on me.
Asses are made to bear, and so are you. Women are made to bear, and so are you. No such jade as bear you, if me you mean. Alas! good Kate, I will not burden thee; For, knowing thee to be but young and light, Too light for such a swain as you to catch, And yet as heavy as my weight should be. Should be! should buz! Well ta'en, and like a buzzard. O slow-wing'd turtle! shall a buzzard take thee? Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard. Come, come, you wasp; i' faith you are too angry. If I be waspish, best beware my sting. My remedy is, then, to pluck it out. Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies. Who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting? In his tail. In his tongue. Whose tongue? Yours, if you talk of tails; and so farewell. What! with my tongue in your tail? nay, come again. Good Kate, I am a gentleman. That I'll try. I swear I'll cuff you if you strike again. So may you lose your arms: If you strike me, you are no gentleman; And if no gentleman, why then no arms. A herald, Kate? O! put me in thy books. What is your crest? a coxcomb? A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen. No cock of mine; you crow too like a craven.
Nay, come, Kate, come; you must not look so sour. It is my fashion when I see a crab. Why, here's no crab, and therefore look not sour. There is, there is. Then show it me. Had I a glass, I would. What, you mean my face? Well aim'd of such a young one. Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you. Yet you are wither'd. 'Tis with cares. I care not. Nay, hear you, Kate: in sooth, you 'scape not so. I chafe you, if I tarry: let me go. No, not a whit: I find you passing gentle. 'Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen, And now I find report a very liar; For thou art pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous, But slow in speech, yet sweet as spring-time flowers: Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance, Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will; Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk; But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers, With gentle conference, soft and affable. Why does the world report that Kate doth limp? O slanderous world! Kate, like the hazel-twig, Is straight and slender, and as brown in hue As hazel nuts, and sweeter than the kernels. O! let me see thee walk: thou dost not halt. Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command. Did ever Dian so become a grove As Kate this chamber with her princely gait? O!
be thou Dian, and let her be Kate, And then let Kate be chaste, and Dian sportful! Where did you study all this goodly speech? It is extempore, from my mother-wit. A witty mother! witless else her son. Am I not wise? Yes; keep you warm. Marry, so I mean, sweet Katharine, in thy bed: And therefore, setting all this chat aside, Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented That you shall be my wife; your dowry 'greed on; And will you, nill you, I will marry you. Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn; For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty, Thy beauty that doth make me like thee well, Thou must be married to no man but me: For I am he am born to tame you, Kate; And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate Conformable as other household Kates. Here comes your father: never make denial; I must and will have Katharine to my wife. Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter? How but well, sir? how but well? It were impossible I should speed amiss. Why, how now, daughter Katharine! in your dumps? Call you me daughter? now, I promise you You have show'd a tender fatherly regard, To wish me wed to one half lunatic; A mad-cap ruffian and a swearing Jack, That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world, That talk'd of her, have talk'd amiss of her: If she be curst, it is for policy, For she's not froward, but modest as the dove; She is not hot, but temperate as the morn; For patience she will prove a second Grissel, And Roman Lucrece for her chastity; And to conclude, we have 'greed so well together, That upon Sunday is the wedding-day. I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first. Hark, Petruchio: she says she'll see thee hang'd first. Is this your speeding? nay then, good night our part! Be patient, gentlemen; I choose her for myself: If she and I be pleas'd, what's that to you? 'Tis bargain'd 'twixt us twain, being alone, That she shall still be curst in company. I tell you, 'tis incredible to believe How much she loves me: O! the kindest Kate. She hung about my neck, and kiss on kiss She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath, That in a twink she won me to her love. O! you are novices: 'tis a world to see, How tame, when men and women are alone, A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew. Give me thy hand, Kate: I will unto Venice To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day. Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests; I will be sure my Katharine shall be fine. I know not what to say; but give me your hands.
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'tis a match. Amen, say we: we will be witnesses. Amen, say we: we will be witnesses. Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu. I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace: We will have rings, and things, and fine array; And, kiss me, Kate, we will be married o' Sunday. Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly? Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part, And venture madly on a desperate mart. 'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you: 'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas. The gain I seek is, quiet in the match. No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch. But now, Baptista, to your younger daughter: Now is the day we long have looked for: I am your neighbour, and was suitor first. And I am one that love Bianca more Than words can witness, or your thoughts can guess. Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I. Greybeard, thy love doth freeze. But thine doth fry. Skipper, stand back: 'tis age that nourisheth. But youth in ladies eyes that flourisheth. Content you, gentlemen; I'll compound this strife: 'Tis deeds must win the prize; and he, of both, That can assure my daughter greatest dower Shall have my Bianca's love. Say, Signior Gremio, what can you assure her?
First, as you know, my house within the city Is richly furnished with plate and gold: Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands; My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry; In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns; In cypress chests my arras counterpoints, Costly apparel, tents, and canopies, Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl, Valance of Venice gold in needle-work, Pewter and brass, and all things that belong To house or housekeeping: then, at my farm I have a hundred milch-kine to the pail, Six score fat oxen standing in my stalls, And all things answerable to this portion. Myself am struck in years, I must confess; And if I die to-morrow, this is hers, If whilst I live she will be only mine. That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me: I am my father's heir and only son: If I may have your daughter to my wife, I'll leave her houses three or four as good, Within rich Pisa walls, as any one Old Signior Gremio has in Padua; Besides two thousand ducats by the year Of fruitful land, all of which shall be her jointure. What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio? Two thousand ducats by the year of land! My land amounts not to so much in all: That she shall have; besides an argosy That now is lying in Marseilles' road. What, have I chok'd you with an argosy?
Gremio, 'tis known my father hath no less Than three great argosies, besides two galliasses, And twelve tight galleys; these I will assure her, And twice as much, whate'er thou offer'st next. Nay, I have offer'd all, I have no more; And she can have no more than all I have: If you like me, she shall have me and mine. Why, then the maid is mine from all the world, By your firm promise. Gremio is out-vied. I must confess your offer is the best; And, let your father make her the assurance, She is your own; else, you must pardon me: If you should die before him, where's her dower? That's but a cavil: he is old, I young. And may not young men die as well as old? Well, gentlemen, I am thus resolv'd. On Sunday next, you know, My daughter Katharine is to be married: Now, on the Sunday following, shall Bianca Be bride to you, if you make this assurance; If not, to Signior Gremio: And so, I take my leave, and thank you both. Adieu, good neighbour. Now I fear thee not: Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool To give thee all, and in his waning age Set foot under thy table. Tut! a toy! An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy. A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide! Yet I have fac'd it with a card of ten.
'Tis in my head to do my master good: I see no reason, but suppos'd Lucentio Must get a father, called 'suppos'd Vincentio;' And that's a wonder: fathers, commonly Do get their children; but in this case of wooing, A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning. Fiddler, forbear; you grow too forward, sir: Have you so soon forgot the entertainment Her sister Katharine welcom'd you withal? But, wrangling pedant, this is The patroness of heavenly harmony: Then give me leave to have prerogative; And when in music we have spent an hour, Your lecture shall have leisure for as much. Preposterous ass, that never read so far To know the cause why music was ordain'd! Was it not to refresh the mind of man After his studies or his usual pain? Then give me leave to read philosophy, And while I pause, serve in your harmony. Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine. Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong, To strive for that which resteth in my choice. I am no breeching scholar in the schools; I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times, But learn my lessons as I please myself. And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down: Take you your instrument, play you the whiles; His lecture will be done ere you have tun'd. You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune? That will be never: tune vour instrument. Where left we last?
Here, madam: Hac ibat Simois; hic est Sigeia tellus; Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis. Construe them. Hac ibat, as I told you before, Simois, I am Lucentio, hic est, son unto Vincentio of Pisa, Sigeia tellus, disguised thus to get your love; Hic steterat, and that Lucentio that comes a wooing, Priami, is my man Tranio, regia, bearing my port, celsa senis, that we might beguile the old pantaloon. Madam, my instrument's in tune. Let's hear. O fie! the treble jars. Spit in the hole, man, and tune again. Now let me see if I can construe it: Hac ibat Simois, I know you not, hic est Sigeia tellus, I trust you not; Hic steterat Priami, take heed he hear us not, regia, presume not; celsa senis, despair not. Madam, 'tis now in tune. All but the base. The base is right; 'tis the base knave that jars. How fiery and forward our pedant is! Now, for my life, the knave doth court my love: Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet. In time I may believe, yet I mistrust. Mistrust it not; for, sure, Æacides Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather. I must believe my master; else, I promise you, I should be arguing still upon that doubt: But let it rest. Now, Licio, to you. Good masters, take it not unkindly, pray, That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
You may go walk, and give me leave a while: My lessons make no music in three parts. Are you so formal, sir? Well, I must wait, And watch withal; for, but I be deceiv'd, Our fine musician groweth amorous. Madam, before you touch the instrument, To learn the order of my fingering, I must begin with rudiments of art; To teach you gamut in a briefer sort, More pleasant, pithy, and effectual, Than hath been taught by any of my trade: And there it is in writing, fairly drawn. Why, I am past my gamut long ago. Yet read the gamut of Hortensio. 'Gamut' I am, the ground of all accord, 'A re,' to plead Hortensio's passion; 'B mi,' Bianca, take him for thy lord, 'C fa ut,' that loves with all affection: 'D sol re,' one clef, two notes have I: 'E la mi,' show pity, or I die. Call you this gamut? tut, I like it not: Old fashions please me best; I am not so nice, To change true rules for odd inventions. Mistress, your father prays you leave your books, And help to dress your sister's chamber up: You know to-morrow is the wedding-day. Farewell, sweet masters both: I must be gone. Faith, mistress, then I have no cause to stay. But I have cause to pry into this pedant: Methinks he looks as though he were in love.
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble To cast thy wandering eyes on every stale, Seize thee that list: if once I find thee ranging, Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing. Signior Lucentio, this is the 'pointed day That Katharine and Petruchio should be married, And yet we hear not of our son-in-law. What will be said? what mockery will it be To want the bridegroom when the priest attends To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage! What says Lucentio to this shame of ours? No shame but mine: I must, forsooth, be forc'd To give my hand oppos'd against my heart Unto a mad-brain rudesby, full of spleen; Who woo'd in haste and means to wed at leisure. I told you, I, he was a frantic fool, Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behaviour; And to be noted for a merry man, He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage, Make friends invite, and proclaim the banns; Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd. Now must the world point at poor Katharine, And say, 'Lo! there is mad Petruchio's wife, If it would please him come and marry her.' Patience, good Katharine, and Baptista too. Upon my life, Petruchio means but well, Whatever fortune stays him from his word: Though he be blunt, I know him passing wise; Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest. Would Katharine had never seen him though!
Go, girl: I cannot blame thee now to weep, For such an injury would vex a very saint, Much more a shrew of thy impatient humour. Master, master! news! old news, and such news as you never heard of! Is it new and old too? how may that be? Why, is it not news to hear of Petruchio's coming? Is he come? Why, no, sir. What then? He is coming. When will he be here? When he stands where I am and sees you there. But, say, what to thine old news?
Why, Petruchio is coming, in a new hat and an old jerkin; a pair of old breeches thrice turned; a pair of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled, another laced; an old rusty sword ta'en out of the town-armoury, with a broken hilt, and chapeless; with two broken points: his horse hipped with an old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred; besides, possessed with the glanders and like to mose in the chine; troubled with the lampass, infected with the fashions, full of windgalls, sped with spavins, rayed with the yellows, past cure of the fives, stark spoiled with the staggers, begnawn with the bots, swayed in the back, and shoulder-shotten; near-legged before, and with a half-checked bit, and a head-stall of sheep's leather, which, being restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been often burst and now repaired with knots; one girth six times pieced, and a woman's crupper of velure, which hath two letters for her name fairly set down in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread. Who comes with him? O, sir!
his lackey, for all the world caparisoned like the horse; with a linen stock on one leg and a kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red and blue list; an old hat, and the 'humour of forty fancies' pricked in't for a feather: a monster, a very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian footboy or a gentleman's lackey. 'Tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion; Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell'd. I am glad he is come, howsoe'er he comes. Why, sir, he comes not. Didst thou not say he comes? Who? that Petruchio came? Ay, that Petruchio came. No, sir; I say his horse comes, with him on his back. Why, that's all one. Nay, by Saint Jamy, I hold you a penny, A horse and a man Is more than one, And yet not many. Come, where be these gallants? who is at home? You are welcome, sir. And yet I come not well. And yet you halt not. Not so well apparell'd As I wish you were. Were it better, I should rush in thus. But where is Kate? where is my lovely bride? How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown: And wherefore gaze this goodly company, As if they saw some wondrous monument, Some comet, or unusual prodigy?
Why, sir, you know this is your weddingday: First were we sad, fearing you would not come; Now sadder, that you come so unprovided. Fie! doff this habit, shame to your estate, An eye-sore to our solemn festival. And tell us what occasion of import Hath all so long detain'd you from your wife, And sent you hither so unlike yourself? Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear: Sufficeth, I am come to keep my word, Though in some part enforced to digress; Which, at more leisure, I will so excuse As you shall well be satisfied withal. But where is Kate? I stay too long from her: The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church. See not your bride in these unreverent robes: Go to my chamber; put on clothes of mine. Not I, believe me: thus I'll visit her. But thus, I trust, you will not marry her. Good sooth, even thus; therefore ha' done with words: To me she's married, not unto my clothes. Could I repair what she will wear in me As I can change these poor accoutrements, 'Twere well for Kate and better for myself. But what a fool am I to chat with you When I should bid good morrow to my bride, And seal the title with a lovely kiss! He hath some meaning in his mad attire. We will persuade him, be it possible, To put on better ere he go to church.
I'll after him, and see the event of this. But to her love concerneth us to add Her father's liking: which to bring to pass, As I before imparted to your worship, I am to get a man, whate'er he be It skills not much, we'll fit him to our turn, And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa, And make assurance here in Padua, Of greater sums than I have promised. So shall you quietly enjoy your hope, And marry sweet Bianca with consent. Were it not that my fellow schoolmaster Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly, 'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage; Which once perform'd, let all the world say no, I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world. That by degrees we mean to look into, And watch our vantage in this business. We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio, The narrow-prying father, Minola, The quaint musician, amorous Licio; All for my master's sake, Lucentio. Signior Gremio, came you from the church? As willingly as e'er I came from school. And is the bride and bridegroom coming home? A bridegroom say you? 'Tis a groom indeed, A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find. Curster than she? why, 'tis impossible. Why, he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend. Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam. Tut! she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him.
I'll tell you, Sir Lucentio: when the priest Should ask, if Katharine should be his wife, 'Ay, by gogs-wouns!' quoth he; and swore so loud, That, all amaz'd, the priest let fall the book; And, as he stoop'd again to take it up, The mad-brain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff That down fell priest and book and book and priest: 'Now take them up,' quoth he, 'if any list.' What said the wench when he arose again? Trembled and shook; for why he stampt and swore, As if the vicar meant to cozen him. But after many ceremonies done, He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he; as if He had been aboard, carousing to his mates After a storm; quaff'd off the muscadel, And threw the sops all in the sexton's face; Having no other reason But that his beard grew thin and hungerly, And seem'd to ask him sops as he was drinking. This done, he took the bride about the neck, And kiss'd her lips with such a clamorous smack That at the parting all the church did echo: And I, seeing this, came thence for very shame; And after me, I know, the rout is coming. Such a mad marriage never was before. Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.
Gentlemen and friends, I thank you for your pains: I know you think to dine with me to-day, And have prepar'd great store of wedding cheer; But so it is, my haste doth call me hence, And therefore here I mean to take my leave. Is't possible you will away to-night? I must away to-day, before night come. Make it no wonder: if you knew my business, You would entreat me rather go than stay. And, honest company, I thank you all, That have beheld me give away myself To this most patient, sweet, and virtuous wife. Dine with my father, drink a health to me, For I must hence; and farewell to you all. Let us entreat you stay till after dinner. It may not be. Let me entreat you. It cannot be. Let me entreat you. I am content. Are you content to stay? I am content you shall entreat me stay, But yet not stay, entreat me how you can. Now, if you love me, stay. Grumio, my horse! Ay, sir, they be ready: the oats have eaten the horses.
Nay, then, Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day; No, nor to-morrow, nor till I please myself, The door is open, sir, there lies your way; You may be jogging whiles your boots are green; For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself. 'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom, That take it on you at the first so roundly. O Kate! content thee: prithee, be not angry. I will be angry: what hast thou to do? Father, be quiet; he shall stay my leisure. Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work. Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner: I see a woman may be made a fool, If she had not a spirit to resist. They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command. Obey the bride, you that attend on her; Go to the feast, revel and domineer, Carouse full measure to her maidenhead, Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves: But for my bonny Kate, she must with me. Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret; I will be master of what is mine own.
She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house, My household stuff, my field, my barn, My horse, my ox, my ass, my anything; And here she stands, touch her whoever dare; I'll bring mine action on the proudest he That stops my way in Padua. Grumio, Draw forth thy weapon, we're beset with thieves; Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man. Fear not, sweet wench; they shall not touch thee, Kate: I'll buckler thee against a million. Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones. Went they not quickly I should die with laughing. Of all mad matches never was the like. Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister? That, being mad herself, she's madly mated. I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated. Neighbours and friends, though bride and bridegroom wants For to supply the places at the table, You know there wants no junkets at the feast. Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place, And let Bianca take her sister's room. Shall sweet Bianca practise how to bride it? She shall, Lucentio. Come, gentlemen, let's go. Fie, fie, on all tired jades, on all mad masters, and all foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? was ever man so rayed? was ever man so weary? I am sent before to make a fire, and they are coming after to warm them.
Now, were not I a little pot and soon hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my tongue to the roof of my mouth, my heart in my belly, ere I should come by a fire to thaw me; but I, with blowing the fire, shall warm myself; for, considering the weather, a taller man than I will take cold. Holla, ho! Curtis. Who is that calls so coldly? A piece of ice: if thou doubt it, thou mayst slide from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my neck. A fire, good Curtis. Is my master and his wife coming, Grumio? O! ay, Curtis, ay; and therefore fire, fire; cast on no water. Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported? She was, good Curtis, before this frost; but, thou knowest, winter tames man, woman, and beast; for it hath tamed my old master, and my new mistress, and myself, fellow Curtis. Away, you three-inch-fool! I am no beast. Am I but three inches? why, thy horn is a foot; and so long am I at the least. But wilt thou make a fire, or shall I complain on thee to our mistress, whose hand, she being now at hand, thou shalt soon feel, to thy cold comfort, for being slow in thy hot office? I prithee, good Grumio, tell me, how goes the world?
A cold world, Curtis, in every office but thine; and therefore, fire. Do thy duty, and have thy duty, for my master and mistress are almost frozen to death. There's fire ready; and therefore, good Grumio, the news? Why, 'Jack, boy! ho, boy!' and as much news as thou wilt. Come, you are so full of cony-catching. Why therefore fire: for I have caught extreme cold. Where's the cook? is supper ready, the house trimmed, rushes strewed, cobwebs swept; the serving-men in their new fustian, their white stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on? Be the Jacks fair within, the Jills fair without, and carpets laid, and everything in order? All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news? First, know, my horse is tired; my master and mistress fallen out. How? Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby hangs a tale. Let's ha't, good Grumio. Lend thine ear. Here. There. This is to feel a tale, not to hear a tale. And therefore it is called a sensible tale; and this cuff was but to knock at your ear and beseech listening. Now I begin: Imprimis, we came down a foul hill, my master riding behind my mistress, Both of one horse? What's that to thee? Why, a horse.
Tell thou the tale: but hadst thou not crossed me thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell, and she under her horse; thou shouldst have heard in how miry a place, how she was bemoiled: how he left her with the horse upon her; how he beat me because her horse stumbled; how she waded through the dirt to pluck him off me: how he swore; how she prayed, that never prayed before; how I cried; how the horses ran away; how her bridle was burst; how I lost my crupper; with many things of worthy memory, which now shall die in oblivion, and thou return unexperienced to thy grave. By this reckoning he is more shrew than she. Ay; and that, thou and the proudest of you all shall find when he comes home. But what talk I of this? Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip, Walter, Sugarsop, and the rest: let their heads be sleekly combed, their blue coats brushed, and their garters of an indifferent knit: let them curtsy with their left legs, and not presume to touch a hair of my master's horsetail till they kiss their hands. Are they all ready? They are. Call them forth. Do you hear? ho! you must meet my master to countenance my mistress. Why, she hath a face of her own. Who knows not that? Thou, it seems, that callest for company to countenance her. I call them forth to credit her.
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them. Welcome home, Grumio! How now, Grumio? What, Grumio! Fellow Grumio! How now, old lad! Welcome, you; how now, you; what, you; fellow, you; and thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce companions, is all ready, and all things neat? All things is ready. How near is our master? E'en at hand, alighted by this; and therefore be not, Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master. Where be these knaves? What! no man at door To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse? Where is Nathaniel, Gregory, Philip? Here, here, sir; here, sir. Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! You logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms! What, no attendance? no regard? no duty? Where is the foolish knave I sent before? Here, sir; as foolish as I was before. You peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge! Did I not bid thee meet me in the park, And bring along these rascal knaves with thee? Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made, And Gabriel's pumps were all unpink'd i' the heel, There was no link to colour Peter's hat, And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing, There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory; The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly; Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you. Go, rascals, go, and fetch my supper in. Where is the life that late I led? Where are those ? Sit down, Kate, and welcome.
Soud, soud, soud, soud! Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry. Off with my boots, you rogues! you villains! When? It was the friar of orders grey, As he forth walked on his way: Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry: Take that, and mend the plucking off the other. Be merry, Kate. Some water, here; what, ho! Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither: One, Kate, that you must kiss, and be acquainted with. Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water? Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily. You whoreson villain! will you let it fall? Patience, I pray you; 'twas a fault unwilling. A whoreson, beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave! Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach. Will you give thanks, sweet Kate, or else shall I? What's this? mutton? Ay. Who brought it? I. 'Tis burnt; and so is all the meat. What dogs are these! Where is the rascal cook? How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser, And serve it thus to me that love it not? There, take it to you, trenchers, cups, and all. You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves! What! do you grumble? I'll be with you straight. I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet: The meat was well if you were so contented.
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away; And I expressly am forbid to touch it, For it engenders choler, planteth anger; And better 'twere that both of us did fast, Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric, Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh. Be patient; to-morrow't shall be mended, And for this night we'll fast for company: Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber. Peter, didst ever see the like? He kills her in her own humour. Where is he? In her chamber, making a sermon of continency to her; And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul, Knows not which way to stand, to look, to speak, And sits as one new-risen from a dream. Away, away! for he is coming hither. Thus have I politicly begun my reign, And 'tis my hope to end successfully. My falcon now is sharp and passing empty, And till she stoop she must not be full-gorg'd, For then she never looks upon her lure. Another way I have to man my haggard, To make her come and know her keeper's call; That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites That bate and beat and will not be obedient.
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat; Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not: As with the meat, some undeserved fault I'll find about the making of the bed; And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster, This way the coverlet, another way the sheets: Ay, and amid this hurly I intend That all is done in reverend care of her; And in conclusion she shall watch all night: And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl, And with the clamour keep her still awake. This is a way to kill a wife with kindness; And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour. He that knows better how to tame a shrew, Now let him speak: 'tis charity to show. Is't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca Doth fancy any other but Lucentio? I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand. Sir, to satisfy you in what I have said, Stand by, and mark the manner of his teaching. Now, mistress, profit you in what you read? What, master, read you? first resolve me that. I read that I profess, the Art to Love. And may you prove, sir, master of your art! While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart. Quick proceeders, marry! Now, tell me, I pray, You that durst swear that your mistress Bianca Lov'd none in the world so well as Lucentio. O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful. Mistake no more: I am not Licio, Nor a musician, as I seem to be; But one that scorns to live in this disguise, For such a one as leaves a gentleman, And makes a god of such a cullion: Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio. Signior Hortensio, I have often heard Of your entire affection to Bianca; And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness, I will with you, if you be so contented, Forswear Bianca and her love for ever. See, how they kiss and court! Signior Lucentio, Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow Never to woo her more; but I do forswear her, As one unworthy all the former favours That I have fondly flatter'd her withal. And here I take the like unfeigned oath, Never to marry with her though she would entreat. Fie on her! see how beastly she doth court him. Would all the world, but he had quite forsworn! For me, that I may surely keep mine oath, I will be married to a wealthy widow Ere three days pass, which hath as long lov'd me As I have lov'd this proud disdainful haggard. And so farewell, Signior Lucentio. Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks, Shall win my love: and so I take my leave, In resolution as I swore before.
Mistress Bianca, bless you with such grace As 'longeth to a lover's blessed case! Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love, And have forsworn you with Hortensio. Tranio, you jest. But have you both forsworn me? Mistress, we have. Then we are rid of Licio. I' faith, he'll have a lusty widow now, That shall be woo'd and wedded in a day. God give him joy! Ay, and he'll tame her. He says so, Tranio. Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school. The taming-school! what, is there such a place? Ay, mistress, and Petruchio is the master; That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long, To tame a shrew, and charm her chattering tongue. O master, master! I have watch'd so long That I'm dog-weary; but at last I spied An ancient angel coming down the hill Will serve the turn. What is he, Biondello? Master, a mercatante, or a pedant, I know not what; but formal in apparel, In gait and countenance surely like a father. And what of him, Tranio? If he be credulous and trust my tale, I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio, And give assurance to Baptista Minola, As if he were the right Vincentio. Take in your love, and then let me alone. God save you, sir! And you, sir! you are welcome. Travel you far on, or are you at the furthest?
Sir, at the furthest for a week or two; But then up further, and as far as Rome; And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life. What countryman, I pray? Of Mantua. Of Mantua, sir! marry, God forbid! And come to Padua, careless of your life? My life, sir! how, I pray? for that goes hard. 'Tis death for any one in Mantua To come to Padua. Know you not the cause? Your ships are stay'd at Venice; and the duke, For private quarrel 'twixt your duke and him, Hath publish'd and proclaim'd it openly. 'Tis marvel, but that you are but newly come, You might have heard it else proclaim'd about. Alas, sir! it is worse for me than so; For I have bills for money by exchange From Florence, and must here deliver them. Well, sir, to do you courtesy, This will I do, and this I will advise you: First, tell me, have you ever been at Pisa? Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been; Pisa, renowned for grave citizens. Among them, know you one Vincentio? I know him not, but I have heard of him; A merchant of incomparable wealth. He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say, In countenance somewhat doth resemble you. As much as an apple doth an oyster, and all one.
To save your life in this extremity, This favour will I do you for his sake; And think it not the worst of all your fortunes That you are like to Sir Vincentio. His name and credit shall you undertake, And in my house you shall be friendly lodg'd, Look that you take upon you as you should! You understand me, sir; so shall you stay Till you have done your business in the city. If this be courtesy, sir, accept of it. O sir, I do; and will repute you ever The patron of my life and liberty. Then go with me to make the matter good. This, by the way, I let you understand: My father is here look'd for every day, To pass assurance of a dower in marriage 'Twixt me and one Baptista's daughter here: In all these circumstances I'll instruct you. Go with me to clothe you as becomes you. No, no, forsooth; I dare not, for my life. The more my wrong the more his spite appears. What, did he marry me to famish me?
Beggars, that come unto my father's door, Upon entreaty have a present alms; If not, elsewhere they meet with charity: But I, who never knew how to entreat, Nor never needed that I should entreat, Am starv'd for meat, giddy for lack of sleep; With oaths kept waking, and with brawling fed. And that which spites me more than all these wants, He does it under name of perfect love; As who should say, if I should sleep or eat 'Twere deadly sickness, or else present death. I prithee go and get me some repast; I care not what, so it be wholesome food. What say you to a neat's foot? 'Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it. I fear it is too choleric a meat. How say you to a fat tripe finely broil'd? I like it well: good Grumio, fetch it me. I cannot tell; I fear 'tis choleric. What say you to a piece of beef and mustard? A dish that I do love to feed upon. Ay, but the mustard is too hot a little. Why, then the beef, and let the mustard rest. Nay, then I will not: you shall have the mustard, Or else you get no beef of Grumio. Then both, or one, or anything thou wilt. Why then, the mustard without the beef. Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave, That feed'st me with the very name of meat.
Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you, That triumph thus upon my misery! Go, get thee gone, I say. How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort? Mistress, what cheer? Faith, as cold as can be. Pluck up thy spirits; look cheerfully upon me. Here, love; thou seest how diligent I am, To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee: I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks. What! not a word? Nay then, thou lov'st it not, And all my pains is sorted to no proof. Here, take away this dish. I pray you, let it stand. The poorest service is repaid with thanks, And so shall mine, before you touch the meat. I thank you, sir. Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame. Come, Mistress Kate, I'll bear you company. Eat it up all, Hortensio, if thou lov'st me. Much good do it unto thy gentle heart! Kate, eat apace: and now, my honey love, Will we return unto thy father's house, And revel it as bravely as the best, With silken coats and caps and golden rings, With ruffs and cuffs and farthingales and things; With scarfs and fans and double change of bravery, With amber bracelets, beads and all this knavery. What! hast thou din'd? The tailor stays thy leisure, To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure. Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments; Lay forth the gown. What news with you, sir?
Here is the cap your worship did bespeak. Why, this was moulded on a porringer; A velvet dish: fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy: Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell, A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap: Away with it! come, let me have a bigger. I'll have no bigger: this doth fit the time, And gentlewomen wear such caps as these. When you are gentle, you shall have one too; And not till then. That will not be in haste. Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak, And speak I will; I am no child, no babe: Your betters have endur'd me say my mind, And if you cannot, best you stop your ears. My tongue will tell the anger of my heart, Or else my heart, concealing it, will break: And rather than it shall, I will be free Even to the uttermost, as I please, in words. Why, thou sayst true; it is a paltry cap, A custard-coffin, a bauble, a silken pie. I love thee well in that thou lik'st it not. Love me or love me not, I like the cap, And it I will have, or I will have none. Thy gown? why, ay: come, tailor, let us see't. O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here? What's this? a sleeve? 'tis like a demi-cannon: What! up and down, carv'd like an apple-tart?
Here's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash, Like to a censer in a barber's shop. Why, what, i' devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this? I see, she's like to have neither cap nor gown. You bid me make it orderly and well, According to the fashion and the time. Marry, and did: but if you be remember'd, I did not bid you mar it to the time. Go, hop me over every kennel home, For you shall hop without my custom, sir. I'll none of it: hence! make your best of it. I never saw a better-fashion'd gown, More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable. Belike you mean to make a puppet of me. Why, true; he means to make a puppet of thee. She says your worship means to make a puppet of her. O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread, Thou thimble, Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail! Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou! Brav'd in mine own house with a skein of thread! Away! thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant, Or I shall so be-mete thee with thy yard As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou liv'st! I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown. Your worship is deceiv'd: the gown is made Just as my master had direction. Grumio gave order how it should be done. I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff. But how did you desire it should be made?
Marry, sir, with needle and thread. But did you not request to have it cut? Thou hast faced many things. I have. Face not me: thou hast braved many men; brave not me: I will neither be faced nor braved. I say unto thee, I bid thy master cut out the gown; but I did not bid him cut it to pieces: ergo, thou liest. Why, here is the note of the fashion to testify. Read it. The note lies in's throat if he say I said so. Imprimis. A loose-bodied gown. Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in the skirts of it, and beat me to death with a bottom of brown thread. I said, a gown. Proceed. With a small compassed cape. I confess the cape. With a trunk sleeve. I confess two sleeves. The sleeves curiously cut. Ay, there's the villany. Error i' the bill, sir; error i' the bill. I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and sewed up again; and that I'll prove upon thee, though thy little finger be armed in a thimble. This is true that I say: an I had thee in place where thou shouldst know it. I am for thee straight: take thou the bill, give me thy mete-yard, and spare not me. God-a-mercy, Grumio! then he shall have no odds. Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me. You are i' the right, sir; 'tis for my mistress.
Go, take it up unto thy master's use. Villain, not for thy life! take up my mistress' gown for thy master's use! Why, sir, what's your conceit in that? O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for. Take up my mistress' gown to his master's use! O, fie, fie, fie! Hortensio, say thou wilt see the tailor paid. Go take it hence; be gone, and say no more. Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown to-morrow: Take no unkindness of his hasty words. Away! I say; commend me to thy master. Well, come, my Kate; we will unto your father's, Even in these honest mean habiliments. Our purses shall be proud, our garments poor: For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich; And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds, So honour peereth in the meanest habit. What is the jay more precious than the lark Because his feathers are more beautiful? Or is the adder better than the eel Because his painted skin contents the eye? O, no, good Kate; neither art thou the worse For this poor furniture and mean array. If thou account'st it shame, lay it on me; And therefore frolic: we will hence forthwith, To feast and sport us at thy father's house. Go, call my men, and let us straight to him; And bring our horses unto Long-lane end; There will we mount, and thither walk on foot.
Let's see; I think 'tis now some seven o'clock, And well we may come there by dinner-time. I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two; And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there. It shall be seven ere I go to horse. Look, what I speak, or do, or think to do, You are still crossing it. Sirs, let't alone: I will not go to-day; and ere I do, It shall be what o'clock I say it is. Why, so this gallant will command the sun. Sir, this is the house: please it you that I call? Ay, what else? and, but I be deceived, Signior Baptista may remember me, Near twenty years ago, in Genoa, Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus. 'Tis well; and hold your own, in any case, With such austerity as 'longeth to a father. I warrant you. But, sir, here comes your boy; 'Twere good he were school'd. Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello, Now do your duty throughly, I advise you: Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio. Tut! fear not me. But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista? I told him that your father was at Venice, And that you look'd for him this day in Padua. Thou'rt a tall fellow: hold thee that to drink. Here comes Baptista. Set your countenance, sir. Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of: I pray you, stand good father to me now, Give me Bianca for my patrimony. Soft, son! Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio Made me acquainted with a weighty cause Of love between your daughter and himself: And, for the good report I hear of you, And for the love he beareth to your daughter, And she to him, to stay him not too long, I am content, in a good father's care, To have him match'd; and, if you please to like No worse than I, upon some agreement Me shall you find ready and willing With one consent to have her so bestow'd; For curious I cannot be with you, Signior Baptista, of whom I hear so well. Sir, pardon me in what I have to say: Your plainness and your shortness please me well. Right true it is, your son Lucentio here Doth love my daughter and she loveth him, Or both dissemble deeply their affections: And therefore, if you say no more than this, That like a father you will deal with him And pass my daughter a sufficient dower, The match is made, and all is done: Your son shall have my daughter with consent. I thank you, sir. Where, then, do you know best We be affied and such assurance ta'en As shall with either part's agreement stand?
Not in my house, Lucentio; for, you know, Pitchers have ears, and I have many servants. Besides, old Gremio is hearkening still, And happily we might be interrupted. Then at my lodging an it like you: There doth my father lie, and there this night We'll pass the business privately and well. Send for your daughter by your servant here; My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently. The worst is this, that, at so slender warning, You're like to have a thin and slender pittance. It likes me well. Cambio, hie you home, And bid Bianca make her ready straight; And, if you will, tell what hath happened: Lucentio's father is arriv'd in Padua, And how she's like to be Lucentio's wife. I pray the gods she may with all my heart! Dally not with the gods, but get thee gone. Signior Baptista, shall I lead the way? Welcome! one mess is like to be your cheer. Come, sir; we will better it in Pisa. I follow you. Cambio! What sayst thou, Biondello? You saw my master wink and laugh upon you? Biondello, what of that? Faith, nothing; but he has left me here behind to expound the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens. I pray thee, moralize them. Then thus. Baptista is safe, talking with the deceiving father of a deceitful son. And what of him? His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper. And then?
The old priest at Saint Luke's church is at your command at all hours. And what of all this? I cannot tell, expect they are busied about a counterfeit assurance: take you assurance of her, cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum. To the church! take the priest, clerk, and some sufficient honest witnesses. If this be not that you look for, I have no more to say, But bid Bianca farewell for ever and a day. Hearest thou, Biondello? I cannot tarry: I knew a wench married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit; and so may you, sir; and so, adieu, sir. My master hath appointed me to go to Saint Luke's, to bid the priest be ready to come against you come with your appendix. I may, and will, if she be so contented: She will be pleas'd; then wherefore should I doubt? Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her: It shall go hard if Cambio go without her. Come on, i' God's name; once more toward our father's. Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon! The moon! the sun: it is not moonlight now. I say it is the moon that shines so bright. I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
Now, by my mother's son, and that's myself, It shall be moon, or star, or what I list, Or ere I journey to your father's house. Go one and fetch our horses back again. Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd! Say as he says, or we shall never go. Forward, I pray, since we have come so far, And be it moon, or sun, or what you please. An if you please to call it a rush-candle, Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me. I say it is the moon. I know it is the moon. Nay, then you lie; it is the blessed sun. Then God be bless'd, it is the blessed sun: But sun it is not when you say it is not, And the moon changes even as your mind. What you will have it nam'd, even that it is; And so, it shall be so for Katharine. Petruchio, go thy ways; the field is won. Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run, And not unluckily against the bias. But soft! what company is coming here? Good morrow, gentle mistress: where away? Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too, Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman? Such war of white and red within her cheeks! What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty, As those two eyes become that heavenly face? Fair lovely maid, once more good day to thee. Sweet Kate, embrace her for her beauty's sake.
A' will make the man mad, to make a woman of him. Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet, Whither away, or where is thy abode? Happy the parents of so fair a child; Happier the man, whom favourable stars Allot thee for his lovely bed-fellow! Why, how now, Kate! I hope thou art not mad: This is a man, old, wrinkled, faded, wither'd, And not a maiden, as thou sayst he is. Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes, That have been so bedazzled with the sun That everything I look on seemeth green: Now I perceive thou art a reverend father; Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking. Do, good old grandsire; and withal make known Which way thou travellest: if along with us, We shall be joyful of thy company. Fair sir, and you my merry mistress, That with your strange encounter much amaz'd me, My name is called Vincentio; my dwelling, Pisa; And bound I am to Padua, there to visit A son of mine, which long I have not seen. What is his name? Lucentio, gentle sir. Happily met; the happier for thy son. And now by law, as well as reverend age, I may entitle thee my loving father: The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman, Thy son by this hath married.
Wonder not, Nor be not griev'd: she is of good esteem, Her dowry wealthy, and of worthy birth; Beside, so qualified as may beseem The spouse of any noble gentleman. Let me embrace with old Vincentio; And wander we to see thy honest son, Who will of thy arrival be full joyous. But is this true? or is it else your pleasure, Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest Upon the company you overtake? I do assure thee, father, so it is. Come, go along, and see the truth hereof; For our first merriment hath made thee jealous. Well, Petruchio, this has put me in heart. Have to my widow! and if she be froward, Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward. Softly and swiftly, sir, for the priest is ready. I fly, Biondello: but they may chance to need thee at home; therefore leave us. Nay, faith, I'll see the church o' your back; and then come back to my master as soon as I can. I marvel Cambio comes not all this while. Sir, here's the door, this is Lucentio's house: My father's bears more toward the marketplace; Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir. You shall not choose but drink before you go. I think I shall command your welcome here, And, by all likelihood, some cheer is toward. They're busy within; you were best knock louder. What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir? He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal. What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two, to make merry withal? Keep your hundred pounds to yourself: he shall need none so long as I live. Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua. Do you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances, I pray you, tell Signior Lucentio that his father is come from Pisa, and is here at the door to speak with him. Thou liest: his father is come from Padua, and here looking out at the window. Art thou his father? Ay, sir; so his mother says, if I may believe her. Why, how now, gentleman! why, this is flat knavery, to take upon you another man's name. Lay hands on the villain: I believe, a' means to cozen somebody in this city under my countenance. I have seen them in the church together: God send 'em good shipping! But who is here? mine old master, Vincentio! now we are undone and brought to nothing. Come hither, crack-hemp. I hope I may choose, sir. Come hither, you rogue. What, have you forgot me? Forgot you! no, sir: I could not forget you, for I never saw you before in all my life. What, you notorious villain! didst thou never see thy master's father, Vincentio? What, my old, worshipful old master? yes, marry, sir: see where he looks out of the window.
Is't so, indeed? Help, help, help! here's a madman will murder me. Help, son! help, Signior Baptista! Prithee, Kate, let's stand aside, and see the end of this controversy. Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant? What am I, sir! nay, what are you, sir? O immortal gods! O fine villain! A silken doublet! a velvet hose! a scarlet cloak! and a copatain hat! O, I am undone! I am undone! while I play the good husband at home, my son and my servant spend all at the university. How now! what's the matter? What, is the man lunatic? Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your habit, but your words show you a madman. Why, sir, what 'cerns it you if I wear pearl and gold? I thank my good father, I am able to maintain it. Thy father! O villain! he is a sailmaker in Bergamo. You mistake, sir, you mistake, sir. Pray, what do you think is his name? His name! as if I knew not his name: I have brought him up ever since he was three years old, and his name is Tranio. Away, away, mad ass! his name is Lucentio; and he is mine only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vincentio. Lucentio! O! he hath murdered his master. Lay hold on him, I charge you in the duke's name. O my son, my son!
tell me, thou villain, where is my son Lucentio? Call forth an officer. Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista, I charge you see that he be forthcoming. Carry me to the gaol! Stay, officer: he shall not go to prison. Talk not, Signior Gremio: I say he shall go to prison. Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be cony-catched in this business: I dare swear this is the right Vincentio. Swear, if thou darest. Nay, I dare not swear it. Then thou wert best say, that I am not Lucentio. Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio. Away with the dotard! to the gaol with him! Thus strangers may be haled and abused: O monstrous villain! O! we are spoiled; and yonder he is: deny him, forswear him, or else we are all undone. Pardon, sweet father. Lives my sweetest son? Pardon, dear father. How hast thou offended? Where is Lucentio? Here's Lucentio, Right son to the right Vincentio; That have by marriage made thy daughter mine, While counterfeit supposes blear'd thine eyne. Here's packing, with a witness, to deceive us all! Where is that damned villain Tranio, That fac'd and brav'd me in this matter so? Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio? Cambio is chang'd into Lucentio. Love wrought these miracles.
Bianca's love Made me exchange my state with Tranio, While he did bear my countenance in the town; And happily I have arriv'd at last Unto the wished haven of my bliss. What Tranio did, myself enforc'd him to; Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake. I'll slit the villain's nose, that would have sent me to the gaol. But do you hear, sir? Have you married my daughter without asking my good will? Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to: but I will in, to be revenged for this villany. And I, to sound the depth of this knavery. Look not pale, Bianca; thy father will not frown. My cake is dough; but I'll in among the rest, Out of hope of all, but my share of the feast. Husband, let's follow, to see the end of this ado. First kiss me, Kate, and we will. What! in the midst of the street? What! art thou ashamed of me? No, sir, God forbid; but ashamed to kiss. Why, then let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away. Nay, I will give thee a kiss: now pray thee, love, stay. Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate: Better once than never, for never too late. At last, though long, our jarring notes agree: And time it is, when raging war is done, To smile at 'scapes and perils overblown.
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome, While I with self-same kindness welcome thine. Brother Petruchio, sister Katharina, And thou, Hortensio, with thy loving widow, Feast with the best, and welcome to my house: My banquet is to close our stomachs up, After our great good cheer. Pray you, sit down; For now we sit to chat as well as eat. Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat! Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio. Padua affords nothing but what is kind. For both our sakes I would that word were true. Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow. Then never trust me, if I be afeard. You are very sensible, and yet you miss my sense: I mean, Hortensio is afeard of you. He that is giddy thinks the world turns round. Roundly replied. Mistress, how mean you that? Thus I conceive by him. Conceives by me! How likes Hortensio that? My widow says, thus she conceives her tale. Very well mended. Kiss him for that, good widow. 'He that is giddy thinks the world turns round:' I pray you, tell me what you meant by that. Your husband, being troubled with a shrew, Measures my husband's sorrow by his woe: And now you know my meaning. A very mean meaning. Right, I mean you. And I am mean, indeed, respecting you. To her, Kate! To her, widow! A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down. That's my office.
Spoke like an officer: ha' to thee, lad. How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks? Believe me, sir, they butt together well. Head and butt! a hasty-witted body Would say your head and butt were head and horn. Ay, mistress bride, hath that awaken'd you? Ay, but not frighted me; therefore I'll sleep again. Nay, that you shall not; since you have begun, Have at you for a bitter jest or two. Am I your bird? I mean to shift my bush; And then pursue me as you draw your bow. You are welcome all. She hath prevented me. Here, Signior Tranio; This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not: Therefore a health to all that shot and miss'd. O sir! Lucentio slipp'd me, like his greyhound, Which runs himself, and catches for his master. A good swift simile, but something currish. 'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself: 'Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay. O ho, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now. I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio. Confess, confess, hath he not hit you here? A' has a little gall'd me, I confess; And, as the jest did glance away from me, 'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright. Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio, I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
Well, I say no: and therefore, for assurance, Let's each one send unto his wife; And he whose wife is most obedient To come at first when he doth send for her, Shall win the wager which we will propose. Content. What is the wager? Twenty crowns. Twenty crowns! I'll venture so much of my hawk or hound, But twenty times so much upon my wife. A hundred then. Content. A match! 'tis done. Who shall begin? That will I. Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me. I go. Son, I will be your half, Bianca comes. I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself. How now! what news? Sir, my mistress sends you word That she is busy and she cannot come. How! she is busy, and she cannot come! Is that an answer? Ay, and a kind one too: Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse. I hope, better. Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife To come to me forthwith. O ho! entreat her! Nay, then she must needs come. I am afraid, sir, Do what you can, yours will not be entreated. Now, where's my wife? She says you have some goodly jest in hand: She will not come: she bids you come to her. Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile, Intolerable, not to be endur'd! Sirrah Grumio, go to your mistress; say, I command her come to me. I know her answer. What? She will not.
The fouler fortune mine, and there an end. Now, by my holidame, here comes Katharina! What is your will, sir, that you send for me? Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife? They sit conferring by the parlour fire. Go, fetch them hither: if they deny to come, Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands. Away, I say, and bring them hither straight. Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder. And so it is. I wonder what it bodes. Marry, peace it bodes, and love, and quiet life, An awful rule and right supremacy; And, to be short, what not that's sweet and happy. Now fair befall thee, good Petruchio! The wager thou hast won; and I will add Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns; Another dowry to another daughter, For she is chang'd, as she had never been. Nay, I will win my wager better yet, And show more sign of her obedience, Her new-built virtue and obedience. See where she comes, and brings your froward wives As prisoners to her womanly persuasion. Katharine, that cap of yours becomes you not: Off with that bauble, throw it under foot. Lord! let me never have a cause to sigh, Till I be brought to such a silly pass! Fie! what a foolish duty call you this?
I would your duty were as foolish too: The wisdom of your duty, fair Bianca, Hath cost me an hundred crowns since supper-time. The more fool you for laying on my duty. Katharine, I charge thee, tell these headstrong women What duty they do owe their lords and husbands. Come, come, you're mocking: we will have no telling. Come on, I say; and first begin with her. She shall not. I say she shall: and first begin with her. Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow, And dart not scornful glances from those eyes, To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor: It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads, Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds, And in no sense is meet or amiable. A woman mov'd is like a fountain troubled, Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty; And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it.
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper, Thy head, thy sovereign; one that cares for thee, And for thy maintenance commits his body To painful labour both by sea and land, To watch the night in storms, the day in cold, Whilst thou liest warm at home, secure and safe; And craves no other tribute at thy hands But love, fair looks, and true obedience; Too little payment for so great a debt. Such duty as the subject owes the prince, Even such a woman oweth to her husband; And when she's froward, peevish, sullen, sour, And not obedient to his honest will, What is she but a foul contending rebel, And graceless traitor to her loving lord? I am asham'd that women are so simple To offer war where they should kneel for peace, Or seek for rule, supremacy, and sway, When they are bound to serve, love, and obey. Why are our bodies soft, and weak, and smooth, Unapt to toil and trouble in the world, But that our soft conditions and our hearts Should well agree with our external parts? Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
My mind hath been as big as one of yours, My heart as great, my reason haply more, To bandy word for word and frown for frown; But now I see our lances are but straws, Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare, That seeming to be most which we indeed least are. Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot, And place your hands below your husband's foot: In token of which duty, if he please, My hand is ready; may it do him ease. Why, there's a wench! Come on, and kiss me, Kate. Well, go thy ways, old lad, for thou shalt ha't. 'Tis a good hearing when children are toward. But a harsh hearing when women are froward. Come, Kate, we'll to bed. We three are married, but you two are sped. 'Twas I won the wager, though you hit the white; And, being a winner, God give you good night! Now, go thy ways; thou hast tam'd a curst shrew. 'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tam'd so.
Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour Draws on apace: four happy days bring in Another moon; but O! methinks how slow This old moon wanes; she lingers my desires, Like to a step dame, or a dowager Long withering out a young man's revenue. Four days will quickly steep themselves in night; Four nights will quickly dream away the time; And then the moon, like to a silver bow New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night Of our solemnities. Go, Philostrate, Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments; Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth; Turn melancholy forth to funerals; The pale companion is not for our pomp. Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword, And won thy love doing thee injuries; But I will wed thee in another key, With pomp, with triumph, and with revelling. Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke! Thanks, good Egeus: what's the news with thee? Full of vexation come I, with complaint Against my child, my daughter Hermia. Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord, This man hath my consent to marry her.
Stand forth, Lysander: and, my gracious duke, This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child: Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rimes, And interchang'd love-tokens with my child; Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung, With feigning voice, verses of feigning love; And stol'n the impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits, Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth; With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart; Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me, To stubborn harshness. And, my gracious duke, Be it so she will not here before your Grace Consent to marry with Demetrius, I beg the ancient privilege of Athens, As she is mine, I may dispose of her; Which shall be either to this gentleman, Or to her death, according to our law Immediately provided in that case. What say you, Hermia? be advis'd, fair maid. To you, your father should be as a god; One that compos'd your beauties, yea, and one To whom you are but as a form in wax By him imprinted, and within his power To leave the figure or disfigure it. Demetrius is a worthy gentleman. So is Lysander. In himself he is; But, in this kind, wanting your father's voice, The other must be held the worthier. I would my father look'd but with my eyes. Rather your eyes must with his judgment look. I do entreat your Grace to pardon me.
I know not by what power I am made bold, Nor how it may concern my modesty In such a presence here to plead my thoughts; But I beseech your Grace, that I may know The worst that may befall me in this case, If I refuse to wed Demetrius. Either to die the death, or to abjure For ever the society of men. Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires; Know of your youth, examine well your blood, Whe'r, if you yield not to your father's choice, You can endure the livery of a nun, For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd, To live a barren sister all your life, Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon. Thrice blessed they that master so their blood, To undergo such maiden pilgrimage; But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd, Than that which withering on the virgin thorn Grows, lives, and dies, in single blessedness. So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord, Ere I will yield my virgin patent up Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke My soul consents not to give sovereignty.
Take time to pause; and, by the next new moon, The sealing-day betwixt my love and me For everlasting bond of fellowship, Upon that day either prepare to die For disobedience to your father's will, Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would; Or on Diana's altar to protest For aye austerity and single life. Relent, sweet Hermia; and, Lysander, yield Thy crazed title to my certain right. You have her father's love, Demetrius; Let me have Hermia's: do you marry him. Scornful Lysander! true, he hath my love, And what is mine my love shall render him; And she is mine, and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius. I am, my lord, as well deriv'd as he, As well possess'd; my love is more than his; My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd If not with vantage, as Demetrius'; And, which is more than all these boasts can be, I am belov'd of beauteous Hermia. Why should not I then prosecute my right? Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head, Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena, And won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes, Devoutly dotes, dotes in idolatry, Upon this spotted and inconstant man. I must confess that I have heard so much, And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof; But, being over-full of self-affairs, My mind did lose it.
But, Demetrius, come; And come, Egeus; you shall go with me, I have some private schooling for you both. For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself To fit your fancies to your father's will, Or else the law of Athens yields you up, Which by no means we may extenuate, To death, or to a vow of single life. Come, my Hippolyta: what cheer, my love? Demetrius and Egeus, go along: I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial, and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves. With duty and desire we follow you. How now, my love! Why is your cheek so pale? How chance the roses there do fade so fast? Belike for want of rain, which I could well Beteem them from the tempest of mine eyes. Ay me! for aught that ever I could read, Could ever hear by tale or history, The course of true love never did run smooth; But, either it was different in blood, O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low. Or else misgraffed in respect of years, O spite! too old to be engag'd to young. Or else it stood upon the choice of friends, O hell! to choose love by another's eye.
Or, if there were a sympathy in choice, War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it, Making it momentany as a sound, Swift as a shadow, short as any dream, Brief as the lightning in the collied night, That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth, And ere a man hath power to say, 'Behold!' The jaws of darkness do devour it up: So quick bright things come to confusion. If then true lovers have been ever cross'd, It stands as an edict in destiny: Then let us teach our trial patience, Because it is a customary cross, As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs, Wishes and tears, poor fancy's followers. A good persuasion: therefore, hear me, Hermia. I have a widow aunt, a dowager Of great revenue, and she hath no child: From Athens is her house remote seven leagues; And she respects me as her only son. There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee, And to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us. If thou lov'st me then, Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night, And in the wood, a league without the town, Where I did meet thee once with Helena, To do observance to a morn of May, There will I stay for thee. My good Lysander!
I swear to thee by Cupid's strongest bow, By his best arrow with the golden head, By the simplicity of Venus' doves, By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves, And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen, When the false Troyan under sail was seen, By all the vows that ever men have broke, In number more than ever women spoke, In that same place thou hast appointed me, To-morrow truly will I meet with thee. Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena. God speed fair Helena! Whither away? Call you me fair? that fair again unsay. Demetrius loves your fair: O happy fair! Your eyes are lode-stars! and your tongue's sweet air More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear, When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear. Sickness is catching: O! were favour so, Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go; My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye, My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody. Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated, The rest I'd give to be to you translated. O! teach me how you look, and with what art You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart. I frown upon him, yet he loves me still. O! that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill. I give him curses, yet he gives me love. O! that my prayers could such affection move. The more I hate, the more he follows me.
The more I love, the more he hateth me. His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine. None, but your beauty: would that fault were mine! Take comfort: he no more shall see my face; Lysander and myself will fly this place. Before the time I did Lysander see, Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me: O! then, what graces in my love do dwell, That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell. Helen, to you our minds we will unfold. To-morrow night, when Phœbe doth behold Her silver visage in the wat'ry glass, Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass, A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal, Through Athens' gates have we devis'd to steal. And in the wood, where often you and I Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie, Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet, There my Lysander and myself shall meet; And thence from Athens turn away our eyes, To seek new friends and stranger companies. Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us; And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius! Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight. I will, my Hermia. Helena, adieu: As you on him, Demetrius dote on you! How happy some o'er other some can be! Through Athens I am thought as fair as she; But what of that?
Demetrius thinks not so; He will not know what all but he do know; And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes, So I, admiring of his qualities. Things base and vile, holding no quantity, Love can transpose to form and dignity. Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind. Nor hath Love's mind of any judgment taste; Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste: And therefore is Love said to be a child, Because in choice he is so oft beguil'd. As waggish boys in game themselves forswear, So the boy Love is perjur'd every where; For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne, He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine; And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt, So he dissolv'd, and showers of oaths did melt. I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight: Then to the wood will he to-morrow night Pursue her; and for this intelligence If I have thanks, it is a dear expense: But herein mean I to enrich my pain, To have his sight thither and back again. Is all our company here? You were best to call them generally, man by man, according to the scrip. Here is the scroll of every man's name, which is thought fit, through all Athens, to play in our interlude before the duke and the duchess on his wedding-day at night.
First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats on; then read the names of the actors, and so grow to a point. Marry, our play is, The most lamentable comedy, and most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisby. A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your actors by the scroll. Masters, spread yourselves. Answer as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver. Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed. You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus. What is Pyramus? a lover, or a tyrant? A lover, that kills himself most gallantly for love. That will ask some tears in the true performing of it: if I do it, let the audience look to their eyes; I will move storms, I will condole in some measure. To the rest: yet my chief humour is for a tyrant. I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a cat in, to make all split. The raging rocks And shivering shocks Shall break the locks Of prison gates: And Phibbus' car Shall shine from far And make and mar The foolish Fates. This was lofty! Now name the rest of the players. This is Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein; a lover is more condoling. Francis Flute, the bellows-mender. Here, Peter Quince. You must take Thisby on you. What is Thisby? a wandering knight? It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
Nay, faith, let not me play a woman; I have a beard coming. That's all one: you shall play it in a mask, and you may speak as small as you will. An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too. I'll speak in a monstrous little voice, 'Thisne, Thisne!' 'Ah, Pyramus, my lover dear; thy Thisby dear, and lady dear!' No, no; you must play Pyramus; and Flute, you Thisby. Well, proceed. Robin Starveling, the tailor. Here, Peter Quince. Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother. Tom Snout, the tinker. Here, Peter Quince. You, Pyramus's father; myself, Thisby's father; Snug, the joiner, you the lion's part: and, I hope, here is a play fitted. Have you the lion's part written? pray you, if it be, give it me, for I am slow of study. You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring. Let me play the lion too. I will roar, that I will do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar, that I will make the duke say, 'Let him roar again, let him roar again.' An you should do it too terribly, you would fright the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek; and that were enough to hang us all. That would hang us, every mother's son.
I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the ladies out of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us; but I will aggravate my voice so that I will roar you as gently as any sucking dove; I will roar you as 'twere any nightingale. You can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a sweet-faced man; a proper man, as one shall see in a summer's day; a most lovely, gentleman-like man; therefore, you must needs play Pyramus. Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best to play it in? Why, what you will. I will discharge it in either your straw-colour beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your French-crown colour beard, your perfect yellow. Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and then you will play bare-faced. But masters, here are your parts; and I am to entreat you, request you, and desire you, to con them by to-morrow night, and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the town, by moonlight: there will we rehearse; for if we meet in the city, we shall be dogged with company, and our devices known. In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties, such as our play wants. I pray you, fail me not. We will meet; and there we may rehearse more obscenely and courageously. Take pains; be perfect; adieu. At the duke's oak we meet.
Enough; hold, or cut bow-strings. How now, spirit! whither wander you? Over hill, over dale, Thorough bush, thorough brier, Over park, over pale, Thorough flood, thorough fire, I do wander every where, Swifter than the moone's sphere; And I serve the fairy queen, To dew her orbs upon the green: The cowslips tall her pensioners be; In their gold coats spots you see; Those be rubies, fairy favours, In their freckles live their savours: I must go seek some dew-drops here, And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear. Farewell, thou lob of spirits: I'll be gone; Our queen and all her elves come here anon. The king doth keep his revels here to-night. Take heed the queen come not within his sight; For Oberon is passing fell and wrath, Because that she as her attendant hath A lovely boy, stol'n from an Indian king; She never had so sweet a changeling; And jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild; But she, perforce, withholds the loved boy, Crowns him with flowers, and makes him all her joy. And now they never meet in grove, or green, By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen, But they do square; that all their elves, for fear, Creep into acorn-cups and hide them there.
Either I mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite Call'd Robin Goodfellow: are you not he That frights the maidens of the villagery; Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern, And bootless make the breathless housewife churn; And sometime make the drink to bear no barm; Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm? Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck, You do their work, and they shall have good luck: Are you not he? Fairy, thou speak'st aright; I am that merry wanderer of the night. I jest to Oberon, and make him smile When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile, Neighing in likeness of a filly foal: And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl, In very likeness of a roasted crab; And, when she drinks, against her lips I bob And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale. The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale, Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me; Then slip I from her bum, down topples she, And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough; And then the whole quire hold their hips and loff; And waxen in their mirth, and neeze, and swear A merrier hour was never wasted there. But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon. And here my mistress. Would that he were gone! Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania. What! jealous Oberon. Fairies, skip hence: I have forsworn his bed and company. Tarry, rash wanton! am not I thy lord?
Then, I must be thy lady; but I know When thou hast stol'n away from fairy land, And in the shape of Corin sat all day, Playing on pipes of corn, and versing love To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here, Come from the furthest steppe of India? But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded, and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity. How canst thou thus for shame, Titania, Glance at my credit with Hippolyta, Knowing I know thy love to Theseus? Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna, whom he ravished? And make him with fair Ægle break his faith, With Ariadne, and Antiopa? These are the forgeries of jealousy: And never, since the middle summer's spring, Met we on hill, in dale, forest, or mead, By paved fountain, or by rushy brook, Or in the beached margent of the sea, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport.
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain, As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea Contagious fogs; which, falling in the land, Have every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents: The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain, The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard: The fold stands empty in the drowned field, And crows are fatted with the murrion flock; The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud, And the quaint mazes in the wanton green For lack of tread are undistinguishable: The human mortals want their winter here: No night is now with hymn or carol blest: Therefore the moon, the governess of floods, Pale in her anger, washes all the air, That rheumatic diseases do abound: And thorough this distemperature we see The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose, And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds Is, as in mockery, set. The spring, the summer, The childing autumn, angry winter, change Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world, By their increase, now knows not which is which. And this same progeny of evil comes From our debate, from our dissension: We are their parents and original. Do you amend it then; it lies in you. Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
I do but beg a little changeling boy, To be my henchman. Set your heart at rest; The fairy land buys not the child of me. His mother was a votaress of my order: And, in the spiced Indian air, by night, Full often hath she gossip'd by my side, And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands, Marking the embarked traders on the flood; When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait Following, her womb then rich with my young squire, Would imitate, and sail upon the land, To fetch me trifles, and return again, As from a voyage, rich with merchandise. But she, being mortal, of that boy did die; And for her sake I do rear up her boy, And for her sake I will not part with him. How long within this wood intend you stay? Perchance, till after Theseus' weddingday. If you will patiently dance in our round, And see our moonlight revels, go with us; If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts. Give me that boy, and I will go with thee. Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away! We shall chide downright, if I longer stay. Well, go thy way: thou shalt not from this grove Till I torment thee for this injury. My gentle Puck, come hither.
Thou remember'st Since once I sat upon a promontory, And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath, That the rude sea grew civil at her song, And certain stars shot madly from their spheres To hear the sea-maid's music. I remember. That very time I saw, but thou couldst not, Flying between the cold moon and the earth, Cupid all arm'd: a certain aim he took At a fair vestal throned by the west, And loos'd his love-shaft smartly from his bow, As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts; But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft Quench'd in the chaste beams of the wat'ry moon, And the imperial votaress passed on, In maiden meditation, fancy-free. Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell: It fell upon a little western flower, Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound, And maidens call it, Love-in-idleness. Fetch me that flower; the herb I show'd thee once: The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees. Fetch me this herb; and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league. I'll put a girdle round about the earth In forty minutes.
Having once this juice I'll watch Titania when she is asleep, And drop the liquor of it in her eyes: The next thing then she waking looks upon, Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull, On meddling monkey, or on busy ape, She shall pursue it with the soul of love: And ere I take this charm off from her sight, As I can take it with another herb, I'll make her render up her page to me. But who comes here? I am invisible, And I will overhear their conference. I love thee not, therefore pursue me not. Where is Lysander and fair Hermia? The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me. Thou told'st me they were stol'n into this wood; And here am I, and wood within this wood, Because I cannot meet my Hermia. Hence! get thee gone, and follow me no more. You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant: But yet you draw not iron, for my heart Is true as steel: leave you your power to draw, And I shall have no power to follow you. Do I entice you? Do I speak you fair? Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth Tell you I do not nor I cannot love you? And even for that do I love you the more.
I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius, The more you beat me, I will fawn on you: Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me, Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave, Unworthy as I am, to follow you. What worser place can I beg in your love, And yet a place of high respect with me, Than to be used as you use your dog? Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit, For I am sick when I do look on you. And I am sick when I look not on you. You do impeach your modesty too much, To leave the city, and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not; To trust the opportunity of night And the ill counsel of a desert place With the rich worth of your virginity. Your virtue is my privilege: for that It is not night when I do see your face, Therefore I think I am not in the night; Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company, For you in my respect are all the world: Then how can it be said I am alone, When all the world is here to look on me? I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes, And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts. The wildest hath not such a heart as you.
Run when you will, the story shall be chang'd; Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase; The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind Makes speed to catch the tiger: bootless speed, When cowardice pursues and valour flies. I will not stay thy questions: let me go; Or, if thou follow me, do not believe But I shall do thee mischief in the wood. Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field, You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius! Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex. We cannot fight for love, as men may do; We should be woo'd and were not made to woo. I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell, To die upon the hand I love so well. Fare thee well, nymph: ere he do leave this grove, Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love. Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer. Ay, there it is. I pray thee, give it me.
I know a bank whereon the wild thyme blows, Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine, With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine: There sleeps Titania some time of the night, Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight; And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin, Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in: And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes, And make her full of hateful fantasies. Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove: A sweet Athenian lady is in love With a disdainful youth: anoint his eyes; But do it when the next thing he espies May be the lady. Thou shalt know the man By the Athenian garments he hath on. Effect it with some care, that he may prove More fond on her than she upon her love. And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow. Fear not, my lord, your servant shall do so. Come, now a roundel and a fairy song; Then, for the third of a minute, hence; Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds, Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings, To make my small elves coats, and some keep back The clamorous owl, that nightly hoots, and wonders At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep; Then to your offices, and let me rest. The Fairies sing. I.
You spotted snakes with double tongue, Thorny hedge-hogs, be not seen; Newts, and blind-worms, do no wrong; Come not near our fairy queen. Philomel, with melody, Sing in our sweet lullaby: Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby: Never harm, Nor spell, nor charm, Come our lovely lady nigh; So, good night, with lullaby. II. Weaving spiders come not here; Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence! Beetles black, approach not near; Worm nor snail, do no offence. Philomel, with melody, &c. Hence, away! now all is well. One aloof stand sentinel. What thou seest when thou dost wake, Do it for thy true-love take; Love and languish for his sake: Be it ounce, or cat, or bear, Pard, or boar with bristled hair, In thy eye that shall appear When thou wak'st, it is thy dear. Wake when some vile thing is near. Fair love, you faint with wandering in the wood; And to speak troth, I have forgot our way: We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good, And tarry for the comfort of the day. Be it so, Lysander: find you out a bed, For I upon this bank will rest my head. One turf shall serve as pillow for us both; One heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth. Nay, good Lysander; for my sake, my dear, Lie further off yet, do not lie so near. O! take the sense, sweet, of my innocence, Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
I mean that my heart unto yours is knit, So that but one heart we can make of it; Two bosoms interchained with an oath; So then two bosoms and a single troth. Then by your side no bed-room me deny, For, lying so, Hermia, I do not lie. Lysander riddles very prettily: Now much beshrew my manners and my pride, If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied. But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy Lie further off; in human modesty, Such separation as may well be said Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid, So far be distant; and, good night, sweet friend. Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end! Amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say I; And then end life when I end loyalty! Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest! With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd! Through the forest have I gone, But Athenian found I none, On whose eyes I might approve This flower's force in stirring love. Night and silence! who is here? Weeds of Athens he doth wear: This is he, my master said, Despised the Athenian maid; And here the maiden, sleeping sound, On the dank and dirty ground. Pretty soul! she durst not lie Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy. Churl, upon thy eyes I throw All the power this charm doth owe.
When thou wak'st, let love forbid Sleep his seat on thy eyelid: So awake when I am gone; For I must now to Oberon. Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius. I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus. O! wilt thou darkling leave me? do not so. Stay, on thy peril: I alone will go. O! I am out of breath in this fond chase. The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace. Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies; For she hath blessed and attractive eyes. How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears: If so, my eyes are oftener wash'd than hers. No, no, I am as ugly as a bear; For beasts that meet me run away for fear; Therefore no marvel though Demetrius Do, as a monster, fly my presence thus. What wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne? But who is here? Lysander! on the ground! Dead? or asleep? I see no blood, no wound. Lysander, if you live, good sir, awake. And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake. Transparent Helena! Nature shows art, That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart. Where is Demetrius? O! how fit a word Is that vile name to perish on my sword. Do not say so, Lysander; say not so. What though he love your Hermia? Lord! what though? Yet Hermia still loves you: then be content. Content with Hermia!
No: I do repent The tedious minutes I with her have spent. Not Hermia, but Helena I love: Who will not change a raven for a dove? The will of man is by his reason sway'd, And reason says you are the worthier maid. Things growing are not ripe until their season; So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason; And touching now the point of human skill, Reason becomes the marshal to my will, And leads me to your eyes; where I o'erlook Love's stories written in love's richest book. Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born? When at your hands did I deserve this scorn? Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man, That I did never, no, nor never can, Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye, But you must flout my insufficiency? Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do, In such disdainful manner me to woo. But fare you well: perforce I must confess I thought you lord of more true gentleness. O! that a lady of one man refus'd, Should of another therefore be abus'd. She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there; And never mayst thou come Lysander near.
For, as a surfeit of the sweetest things The deepest loathing to the stomach brings; Or, as the heresies that men do leave Are hated most of those they did deceive: So thou, my surfeit and my heresy, Of all be hated, but the most of me! And, all my powers, address your love and might To honour Helen, and to be her knight. Help me, Lysander, help me! do thy best To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast. Ay me, for pity! what a dream was here! Lysander, look how I do quake with fear: Methought a serpent eat my heart away, And you sat smiling at his cruel prey. Lysander! what! remov'd? Lysander! lord! What! out of hearing? gone? no sound, no word? Alack! where are you? speak, an if you hear; Speak, of all loves! I swound almost with fear. No! then I well perceive you are not nigh: Either death or you I'll find immediately. Are we all met? Pat, pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place for our rehearsal. This green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house; and we will do it in action as we will do it before the duke. Peter Quince, What sayst thou, bully Bottom? There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisby that will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself, which the ladies cannot abide. How answer you that?
By'r lakin, a parlous fear. I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done. Not a whit: I have a device to make all well. Write me a prologue; and let the prologue seem to say, we will do no harm with our swords, and that Pyramus is not killed indeed; and, for the more better assurance, tell them that I, Pyramus, am not Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver: this will put them out of fear. Well, we will have such a prologue, and it shall be written in eight and six. No, make it two more: let it be written in eight and eight. Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion? I fear it, I promise you. Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to bring in, God shield us! a lion among ladies, is a most dreadful thing; for there is not a more fearful wild-fowl than your lion living, and we ought to look to it. Therefore, another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through, saying thus, or to the same defect, 'Ladies,' or, 'Fair ladies,' 'I would wish you,' or, 'I would request you,' or, 'I would entreat you, not to fear, not to tremble: my life for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it were pity of my life: no, I am no such thing: I am a man as other men are;' and there indeed let him name his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner. Well, it shall be so. But there is two hard things, that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for, you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight. Doth the moon shine that night we play our play? A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanack; find out moonshine, find out moonshine. Yes, it doth shine that night. Why, then may you leave a casement of the great chamber-window, where we play, open; and the moon may shine in at the casement. Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to present, the person of Moonshine.
Then, there is another thing: we must have a wall in the great chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby, says the story, did talk through the chink of a wall. You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom? Some man or other must present Wall; and let him have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisby whisper. If that may be, than all is well. Come, sit down, every mother's son, and rehearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin: when you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake; and so every one according to his cue. What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here, So near the cradle of the fairy queen? What! a play toward; I'll be an auditor; An actor too perhaps, if I see cause. Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth. Thisby, the flowers have odious savours sweet, Odorous, odorous. odours savours sweet: So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear. But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile, And by and by I will to thee appear. A stranger Pyramus than e'er play'd here! Must I speak now? Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand, he goes but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue, Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier, Most brisky juvenal, and eke most lovely Jew, As true as truest horse that yet would never tire, I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb. 'Ninus' tomb,' man. Why, you must not speak that yet; that you answer to Pyramus: you speak all your part at once, cues and all. Pyramus, enter: your cue is past; it is 'never tire.' O! As true as truest horse, that yet would never tire. If I were, fair Thisby, I were only thine. O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray, masters! fly, masters! Help! I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round, Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier: Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound, A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire; And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn, Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn. Why do they run away? this is a knavery of them to make me afeard. O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee? What do you see? you see an ass-head of your own, do you? Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art translated. I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to fright me, if they could.
But I will not stir from this place, do what they can: I will walk up and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear I am not afraid. The ousel-cock, so black of hue, With orange-tawny bill, The throstle with his note so true, The wren with little quill. What angel wakes me from my flowery bed? The finch, the sparrow, and the lark, The plain-song cuckoo gray, Whose note full many a man doth mark, And dares not answer, nay; for indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird? who would give a bird the lie, though he cry 'cuckoo' never so? I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again: Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note; So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape; And thy fair virtue's force, perforce, doth move me, On the first view, to say, to swear, I love thee. Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company together now-a-days. The more the pity, that some honest neighbours will not make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion. Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful. Not so, neither; but if I had wit enough to get out of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn. Out of this wood do not desire to go: Thou shalt remain here, whe'r thou wilt or no.
I am a spirit of no common rate; The summer still doth tend upon my state; And I do love thee: therefore, go with me; I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee, And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep, And sing, while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep: And I will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go. Pease-blossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed! Ready. And I. And I. And I. Where shall we go? Be kind and courteous to this gentleman; Hop in his walks, and gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricocks and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries. The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs, And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes, To have my love to bed, and to arise; And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes: Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies. Hail, mortal! Hail! Hail! Hail! I cry your worships mercy, heartily: I beseech your worship's name. Cobweb. I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Cobweb: if I out my finger, I shall make bold with you. Your name, honest gentleman? Pease-blossom. I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good Master Pease-blossom, I shall desire you of more acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir? Mustard-seed.
Good Master Mustard-seed, I know your patience well: that same cowardly, giant-like ox-beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house. I promise you, your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now. I desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Mustard-seed. Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower. The moon methinks, looks with a watery eye; And when she weeps, weeps every little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastity. Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently. I wonder if Titania be awak'd; Then, what it was that next came in her eye, Which she must dote on in extremity. Here comes my messenger. How now, mad spirit! What night-rule now about this haunted grove? My mistress with a monster is in love. Near to her close and consecrated bower, While she was in her dull and sleeping hour, A crew of patches, rude mechanicals, That work for bread upon Athenian stalls, Were met together to rehearse a play Intended for great Theseus' nuptial day. The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort, Who Pyramus presented in their sport Forsook his scene, and enter'd in a brake, When I did him at this advantage take; An ass's nowl I fixed on his head: Anon his Thisbe must be answered, And forth my mimick comes.
When they him spy, As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye, Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort, Rising and cawing at the gun's report, Sever themselves, and madly sweep the sky; So, at his sight, away his fellows fly, And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls; He murder cries, and help from Athens calls. Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears thus strong, Made senseless things begin to do them wrong; For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch; Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all things catch. I led them on in this distracted fear, And left sweet Pyramus translated there; When in that moment, so it came to pass, Titania wak'd and straightway lov'd an ass. This falls out better than I could devise. But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do? I took him sleeping, that is finish'd too, And the Athenian woman by his side; That, when he wak'd, of force she must be ey'd. Stand close: this is the same Athenian. This is the woman; but not this the man. O! why rebuke you him that loves you so? Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe. Now I but chide; but I should use thee worse, For thou, I fear, hast given me cause to curse.
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep, Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in knee deep, And kill me too. The sun was not so true unto the day As he to me. Would he have stol'n away From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon This whole earth may be bor'd, and that the moon May through the centre creep, and so displease Her brother's noontide with the Antipodes. It cannot be but thou hast murder'd him; So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim. So should the murder'd look, and so should I, Pierc'd through the heart with your stern cruelty; Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear, As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere. What's this to my Lysander? where is he? Ah! good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me? I had rather give his carcass to my hounds. Out, dog! out, cur! thou driv'st me past the bounds Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him then? Henceforth be never number'd among men! O! once tell true, tell true, e'en for my sake; Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake, And hast thou kill'd him sleeping? O brave touch! Could not a worm, an adder, do so much? An adder did it; for with doubler tongue Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung.
You spend your passion on a mispris'd mood: I am not guilty of Lysander's blood, Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell. I pray thee, tell me then that he is well. An if I could, what should I get therefore? A privilege never to see me more. And from thy hated presence part I so; See me no more, whe'r he be dead or no. There is no following her in this fierce vein: Here therefore for awhile I will remain. So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe; Which now in some slight measure it will pay, If for his tender here I make some stay. What hast thou done? thou hast mistaken quite, And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight: Of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true-love turn'd, and not a false turn'd true. Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth, A million fail, confounding oath on oath. About the wood go swifter than the wind, And Helena of Athens look thou find: All fancy-sick she is, and pale of cheer With sighs of love, that cost the fresh blood dear. By some illusion see thou bring her here: I'll charm his eyes against she do appear. I go, I go; look how I go; Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow. Flower of this purple dye, Hit with Cupid's archery, Sink in apple of his eye.
When his love he doth espy, Let her shine as gloriously As the Venus of the sky. When thou wak'st, if she be by, Beg of her for remedy. Captain of our fairy band, Helena is here at hand, And the youth, mistook by me, Pleading for a lover's fee. Shall we their fond pageant see? Lord, what fools these mortals be! Stand aside: the noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake. Then will two at once woo one; That must needs be sport alone; And those things do best please me That befall preposterously. Why should you think that I should woo in scorn? Scorn and derision never come in tears: Look, when I vow, I weep; and vows so born, In their nativity all truth appears. How can these things in me seem scorn to you, Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true? You do advance your cunning more and more. When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray! These vows are Hermia's: will you give her o'er? Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh: Your vows, to her and me, put in two scales, Will even weigh, and both as light as tales. I had no judgment when to her I swore. Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er. Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you. O Helen! goddess, nymph, perfect, divine! To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne? Crystal is muddy. O!
how ripe in show Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow, This pure congealed white, high Taurus' snow, Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow When thou hold'st up thy hand. O! let me kiss That princess of pure white, this seal of bliss. O spite! O hell! I see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment: If you were civil and knew courtesy, You would not do me thus much injury. Can you not hate me, as I know you do, But you must join in souls to mock me too? If you were men, as men you are in show, You would not use a gentle lady so; To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts, When I am sure you hate me with your hearts. You both are rivals, and love Hermia, And now both rivals, to mock Helena: A trim exploit, a manly enterprise, To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes With your derision! none of noble sort Would so offend a virgin, and extort A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
You are unkind, Demetrius; be not so; For you love Hermia; this you know I know: And here, with all good will, with all my heart, In Hermia's love I yield you up my part; And yours of Helena to me bequeath, Whom I do love, and will do to my death. Never did mockers waste more idle breath. Lysander, keep thy Hermia; I will none: If e'er I lov'd her, all that love is gone. My heart with her but as guest wise sojourn'd, And now to Helen it is home return'd, There to remain. Helen, it is not so. Disparage not the faith thou dost not know, Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear. Look! where thy love comes: yonder is thy dear. Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, The ear more quick of apprehension makes; Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense, It pays the hearing double recompense. Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found; Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound. But why unkindly didst thou leave me so? Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go? What love could press Lysander from my side? Lysander's love, that would not let him bide, Fair Helena, who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light. Why seek'st thou me? could not this make thee know, The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so?
You speak not as you think: it cannot be. Lo! she is one of this confederacy. Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three To fashion this false sport in spite of me. Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid! Have you conspir'd, have you with these contriv'd To bait me with this foul derision? Is all the counsel that we two have shar'd, The sister-vows, the hours that we have spent, When we have chid the hasty-footed time For parting us, O! is it all forgot? All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence? We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our neelds created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds, Had been incorporate. So we grew together, Like to a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet an union in partition; Two lovely berries moulded on one stem; So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart; Two of the first, like coats in heraldry, Due but to one, and crowned with one crest. And will you rent our ancient love asunder, To join with men in scorning your poor friend? It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly: Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it, Though I alone do feel the injury. I am amazed at your passionate words. I scorn you not: it seems that you scorn me.
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn, To follow me and praise my eyes and face, And made your other love, Demetrius, Who even but now did spurn me with his foot, To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare, Precious, celestial? Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates? and wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love, so rich within his soul, And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent? What though I be not so in grace as you, So hung upon with love, so fortunate, But miserable most to love unlov'd? This you should pity rather than despise. I understand not what you mean by this. Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back; Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up: This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled. If you have any pity, grace, or manners, You would not make me such an argument. But, fare ye well: 'tis partly mine own fault, Which death or absence soon shall remedy. Stay, gentle Helena! hear my excuse: My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena! O excellent! Sweet, do not scorn her so. If she cannot entreat, I can compel. Thou canst compel no more than she entreat: Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers.
Helen, I love thee; by my life, I do: I swear by that which I will lose for thee, To prove him false that says I love thee not. I say I love thee more than he can do. If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too. Quick, come! Lysander, whereto tends all this? Away, you Ethiop! No, no, he'll . . . Seem to break loose; take on, as you would follow, But yet come not: you are a tame man, go! Hang off, thou cat, thou burr! vile thing, let loose, Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent. Why are you grown so rude? what change is this, Sweet love, Thy love! out, tawny Tartar, out! Out, loathed medicine! hated poison, hence! Do you not jest? Yes, sooth; and so do you. Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee. I would I had your bond, for I perceive A weak bond holds you: I'll not trust your word. What! should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead? Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so. What! can you do me greater harm than hate? Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love? Am not I Hermia? Are not you Lysander? I am as fair now as I was erewhile. Since night you lov'd me; yet, since night you left me: Why, then you left me, O, the gods forbid! In earnest, shall I say?
Ay, by my life; And never did desire to see thee more. Therefore be out of hope, of question, doubt; Be certain, nothing truer: 'tis no jest, That I do hate thee and love Helena. O me! you juggler! you canker-blossom! You thief of love! what! have you come by night And stol'n my love's heart from him? Fine, i' faith! Have you no modesty, no maiden shame, No touch of bashfulness? What! will you tear Impatient answers from my gentle tongue? Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet you! Puppet! why, so: ay, that way goes the game. Now I perceive that she hath made compare Between our statures: she hath urg'd her height; And with her personage, her tall personage, Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him. And are you grown so high in his esteem, Because I am so dwarfish and so low? How low am I, thou painted maypole? speak; How low am I? I am not yet so low But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes. I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen, Let her not hurt me: I was never curst; I have no gift at all in shrewishness; I am a right maid for my cowardice: Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think, Because she is something lower than myself, That I can match her. Lower! hark, again. Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me.
I evermore did love you, Hermia, Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you; Save that, in love unto Demetrius, I told him of your stealth unto this wood. He follow'd you; for love I follow'd him; But he hath chid me hence, and threaten'd me To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too: And now, so you will let me quiet go, To Athens will I bear my folly back, And follow you no further: let me go: You see how simple and how fond I am. Why, get you gone. Who is't that hinders you? A foolish heart, that I leave here behind. What! with Lysander? With Demetrius. Be not afraid: she shall not harm thee, Helena. No, sir; she shall not, though you take her part. O! when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd. She was a vixen when she went to school: And though she be but little, she is fierce. 'Little' again! nothing but 'low' and 'little!' Why will you suffer her to flout me thus? Let me come to her. Get you gone, you dwarf; You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made; You bead, you acorn! You are too officious In her behalf that scorns your services. Let her alone; speak not of Helena; Take not her part, for, if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her, Thou shalt aby it.
Now she holds me not; Now follow, if thou dar'st, to try whose right, Or thine or mine, is most in Helena. Follow! nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jole. You, mistress, all this coil is 'long of you: Nay, go not back. I will not trust you, I, Nor longer stay in your curst company. Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray, My legs are longer though, to run away. I am amaz'd, and know not what to say. This is thy negligence: still thou mistak'st, Or else commit'st thy knaveries wilfully. Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook. Did not you tell me I should know the man By the Athenian garments he had on? And so far blameless proves my enterprise, That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes; And so far am I glad it so did sort, As this their jangling I esteem a sport. Thou see'st these lovers seek a place to fight: Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night; The starry welking cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron; And lead these testy rivals so astray, As one come not within another's way.
Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue, Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong; And sometime rail thou like Demetrius; And from each other look thou lead them thus, Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep: Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye; Whose liquor hath this virtuous property, To take from thence all error with his might, And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight. When they next wake, all this derision Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision; And back to Athens shall the lovers wend, With league whose date till death shall never end. Whiles I in this affair do thee employ, I'll to my queen and beg her Indian boy; And then I will her charmed eye release From monster's view, and all things shall be peace. My fairy lord, this must be done with haste, For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast, And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger; At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there, Troop home to churchyards: damned spirits all, That in cross-ways and floods have burial, Already to their wormy beds are gone; For fear lest day should look their shames upon, They wilfully themselves exile from light, And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night. But we are spirits of another sort.
I with the morning's love have oft made sport; And, like a forester, the groves may tread, Even till the eastern gate, all fiery-red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt green-streams. But, notwithstanding, haste; make no delay: We may effect this business yet ere day. Up and down, up and down; I will lead them up and down: I am fear'd in field and town; Goblin, lead them up and down. Here comes one. Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now. Here, villain! drawn and ready. Where art thou? I will be with thee straight. Follow me, then, To plainer ground. Lysander! speak again. Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled? Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head? Thou coward! art thou bragging to the stars, Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars, And wilt not come? Come, recreant; come, thou child; I'll whip thee with a rod: he is defil'd That draws a sword on thee. Yea, art thou there? Follow my voice: we'll try no manhood here. He goes before me and still dares me on: When I come where he calls, then he is gone. The villain is much lighter-heel'd than I: I follow'd fast, but faster he did fly; That fallen am I in dark uneven way, And here will rest me. Come, thou gentle day!
For if but once thou show me thy grey light, I'll find Demetrius and revenge this spite. Ho! ho! ho! Coward, why com'st thou not? Abide me, if thou dar'st; for well I wot Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place, And dar'st not stand, nor look me in the face. Where art thou now? Come hither: I am here. Nay then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear, If ever I thy face by daylight see: Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me To measure out my length on this cold bed: By day's approach look to be visited. O weary night! O long and tedious night, Abate thy hours! shine, comforts, from the east! That I may back to Athens by daylight, From these that my poor company detest: And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye, Steal me awhile from mine own company. Yet but three? Come one more; Two of both kinds make up four. Here she comes, curst and sad: Cupid is a knavish lad, Thus to make poor females mad. Never so weary, never so in woe, Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers, I can no further crawl, no further go; My legs can keep no pace with my desires. Here will I rest me till the break of day. Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray!
On the ground Sleep sound: I'll apply To your eye, Gentle lover, remedy When thou wak'st, Thou tak'st True delight In the sight Of thy former lady's eye: And the country proverb known, That every man should take his own, In your waking shall be shown: Jack shall have Jill; Nought shall go ill; The man shall have his mare again, And all shall be well. Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed, While I thy amiable cheeks do coy, And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head, And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy. Where's Pease-blossom? Ready. Scratch my head, Pease-blossom. Where's Mounsieur Cobweb? Ready. Mounsieur Cobweb, good mounsieur, get your weapons in your hand, and kill me a red-hipped humble-bee on the top of a thistle; and, good mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret yourself too much in the action, mounsieur; and, good mounsieur, have a care the honey-bag break not; I would be loath to have you overflown with a honey-bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur Mustard-seed? Ready. Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mustard-seed. Pray you, leave your curtsy, good mounsieur. What's your will? Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch. I must to the barber's, mounsieur, for methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face; and I am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me, I must scratch. What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?
I have a reasonable good ear in music: let us have the tongs and the bones. Or say, sweet love, what thou desir'st to eat. Truly, a peck of provender: I could munch your good dry oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay: good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow. I have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee thence new nuts. I had rather have a handful or two of dried pease. But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me: I have an exposition of sleep come upon me. Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms. Fairies, be gone, and be all ways away. So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist; the female ivy so Enrings the barky fingers of the elm. O! how I love thee; how I dote on thee! Welcome, good Robin. See'st thou this sweet sight?
Her dotage now I do begin to pity: For, meeting her of late behind the wood, Seeking sweet favours for this hateful fool, I did upbraid her and fall out with her; For she his hairy temples then had rounded With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers; And that same dew, which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls, Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail. When I had at my pleasure taunted her, And she in mild terms begg'd my patience, I then did ask of her her changeling child; Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent To bear him to my bower in fairy land. And now I have the boy, I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes: And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain, That he, awaking when the other do, May all to Athens back again repair, And think no more of this night's accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream. But first I will release the fairy queen. Be as thou wast wont to be; See as thou wast wont to see: Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower Hath such force and blessed power. Now, my Titania; wake you, my sweet queen. My Oberon! what visions have I seen! Methought I was enamour'd of an ass. There lies your love. How came these things to pass? O!
how mine eyes do loathe his visage now. Silence, awhile. Robin, take off this head. Titania, music call; and strike more dead Than common sleep of all these five the sense. Music, ho! music! such as charmeth sleep. When thou wak'st, with thine own fool's eyes peep. Sound, music! Come, my queen, take hands with me, And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be. Now thou and I are new in amity, And will to-morrow midnight solemnly Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly, And bless it to all fair prosperity. There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity. Fairy king, attend, and mark: I do hear the morning lark. Then, my queen, in silence sad, Trip we after the night's shade; We the globe can compass soon, Swifter than the wandering moon. Come, my lord; and in our flight Tell me how it came this night That I sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground. Go, one of you, find out the forester; For now our observation is perform'd; And since we have the vaward of the day, My love shall hear the music of my hounds. Uncouple in the western valley; let them go: Dispatch, I say, and find the forester. We will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top, And mark the musical confusion Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
I was with Hercules and Cadmus once, When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear With hounds of Sparta: never did I hear Such gallant chiding; for, besides the groves, The skies, the fountains, every region near Seem'd all one mutual cry. I never heard So musical a discord, such sweet thunder. My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind, So flew'd, so sanded; and their heads are hung With ears that sweep away the morning dew; Crook-knee'd, and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls; Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells, Each under each. A cry more tuneable Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn, In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly: Judge, when you hear. But, soft! what nymphs are these? My lord, this is my daughter here asleep; And this, Lysander; this Demetrius is; This Helena, old Nedar's Helena: I wonder of their being here together. No doubt they rose up early to observe The rite of May, and, hearing our intent, Came here in grace of our solemnity. But speak, Egeus, is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice? It is, my lord. Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns. Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past: Begin these wood-birds but to couple now? Pardon, my lord. I pray you all, stand up.
I know you two are rival enemies: How comes this gentle concord in the world, That hatred is so far from jealousy, To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity? My lord, I shall reply amazedly, Half sleep, half waking: but as yet, I swear, I cannot truly say how I came here; But, as I think, for truly would I speak, And now I do bethink me, so it is, I came with Hermia hither: our intent Was to be gone from Athens, where we might, Without the peril of the Athenian law Enough, enough, my lord; you have enough: I beg the law, the law, upon his head. They would have stol'n away; they would, Demetrius, Thereby to have defeated you and me; You of your wife, and me of my consent, Of my consent that she should be your wife. My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth, Of this their purpose hither, to this wood; And I in fury hither follow'd them, Fair Helena in fancy following me.
But, my good lord, I wot not by what power, But by some power it is, my love to Hermia, Melted as doth the snow, seems to me now As the remembrance of an idle gaud Which in my childhood I did dote upon; And all the faith, the virtue of my heart, The object and the pleasure of mine eye, Is only Helena. To her, my lord, Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia: But, like in sickness, did I loathe this food; But, as in health, come to my natural taste, Now do I wish it, love it, long for it, And will for evermore be true to it. Fair lovers, you are fortunately met: Of this discourse we more will hear anon. Egeus, I will overbear your will, For in the temple, by and by, with us, These couples shall eternally be knit: And, for the morning now is something worn, Our purpos'd hunting shall be set aside. Away with us, to Athens: three and three, We'll hold a feast in great solemnity. Come, Hippolyta. These things seem small and undistinguishable, Like far-off mountains turned into clouds. Methinks I see these things with parted eye, When everything seems double. So methinks: And I have found Demetrius, like a jewel, Mine own, and not mine own. Are you sure That we are awake? It seems to me That yet we sleep, we dream.
Do you not think The duke was here, and bid us follow him? Yea; and my father. And Hippolyta. And he did bid us follow to the temple. Why then, we are awake. Let's follow him; And by the way let us recount our dreams. When my cue comes, call me, and I will answer: my next is, 'Most fair Pyramus.' Heigh-ho! Peter Quince! Flute, the bellows-mender! Snout, the tinker! Starveling! God's my life! stolen hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare vision. I have had a dream, past the wit of man to say what dream it was: man is but an ass, if he go about to expound this dream. Methought I was there is no man can tell what. Methought I was, and methought I had, but man is but a patched fool, if he will offer to say what methought I had. The eye of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream was. I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream: it shall be called Bottom's Dream, because it hath no bottom; and I will sing it in the latter end of a play, before the duke: peradventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall sing it at her death. Have you sent to Bottom's house? is he come home yet?
He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is transported. If he come not, then the play is marred: it goes not forward, doth it? It is not possible: you have not a man in all Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he. No; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens. Yea, and the best person too; and he is a very paramour for a sweet voice. You must say, 'paragon:' a paramour is, God bless us! a thing of naught. Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and there is two or three lords and ladies more married: if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made men. O sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life; he could not have 'scaped sixpence a day: an the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged; he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in Pyramus, or nothing. Where are these lads? where are these hearts? Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour! Masters, I am to discourse wonders: but ask me not what; for if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I will tell you everything, right as it fell out. Let us hear, sweet Bottom. Not a word of me. All that I will tell you is, that the duke hath dined.
Get your apparel together, good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your pumps; meet presently at the palace; every man look o'er his part; for the short and the long is, our play is preferred. In any case, let Thisby have clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion pare his nails, for they shall hang out for the lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath, and I do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet comedy. No more words: away! go; away. 'Tis strange, my Theseus, that these lovers speak of. More strange than true. I never may believe These antique fables, nor these fairy toys. Lovers and madmen have such seething brains, Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend More than cool reason ever comprehends.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, Are of imagination all compact: One sees more devils than vast hell can hold, That is, the madman; the lover, all as frantic, Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt: The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven; And, as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Such tricks hath strong imagination, That, if it would but apprehend some joy, It comprehends some bringer of that joy; Or in the night, imagining some fear, How easy is a bush suppos'd a bear! But all the story of the night told over, And all their minds transfigur'd so together, More witnesseth than fancy's images, And grows to something of great constancy, But, howsoever, strange and admirable. Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth. Joy, gentle friends! joy, and fresh days of love Accompany your hearts! More than to us Wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed! Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have, To wear away this long age of three hours Between our after-supper and bed-time? Where is our usual manager of mirth? What revels are in hand? Is there no play, To ease the anguish of a torturing hour? Call Philostrate. Here, mighty Theseus. Say, what abridgment have you for this evening? What masque?
what music? How shall we beguile The lazy time, if not with some delight? There is a brief how many sports are ripe; Make choice of which your highness will see first. The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung By an Athenian eunuch to the harp. We'll none of that: that have I told my love, In glory of my kinsman Hercules. The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals, Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage. That is an old device; and it was play'd When I from Thebes came last a conqueror. The thrice three Muses mourning for the death Of Learning, late deceas'd in beggary. That is some satire keen and critical, Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony. A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth. Merry and tragical! tedious and brief! That is, hot ice and wonderous strange snow. How shall we find the concord of this discord? A play there is, my lord, some ten words long, Which is as brief as I have known a play; But by ten words, my lord, it is too long, Which makes it tedious; for in all the play There is not one word apt, one player fitted. And tragical, my noble lord, it is; For Pyramus therein doth kill himself. Which when I saw rehears'd, I must confess, Made mine eyes water; but more merry tears The passion of loud laughter never shed. What are they that do play it?
Hard-handed men, that work in Athens here, Which never labour'd in their minds till now, And now have toil'd their unbreath'd memories With this same play, against your nuptial. And we will hear it. No, my noble lord; It is not for you: I have heard it over, And it is nothing, nothing in the world; Unless you can find sport in their intents, Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain, To do you service. I will hear that play; For never anything can be amiss, When simpleness and duty tender it. Go, bring them in: and take your places, ladies. I love not to see wretchedness o'ercharg'd, And duty in his service perishing. Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing. He says they can do nothing in this kind. The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing. Our sport shall be to take what they mistake: And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect Takes it in might, not merit. Where I have come, great clerks have purposed To greet me with premeditated welcomes; Where I have seen them shiver and look pale, Make periods in the midst of sentences, Throttle their practis'd accent in their fears, And, in conclusion, dumbly have broke off, Not paying me a welcome.
Trust me, sweet, Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome; And in the modesty of fearful duty I read as much as from the rattling tongue Of saucy and audacious eloquence. Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity In least speak most, to my capacity. So please your Grace, the Prologue is address'd. Let him approach. If we offend, it is with our good will. That you should think, we come not to offend, But with good will. To show our simple skill, That is the true beginning of our end. Consider then we come but in despite. We do not come as minding to content you, Our true intent is. All for your delight, We are not here. That you should here repent you, The actors are at hand; and, by their show, You shall know all that you are like to know. This fellow doth not stand upon points. He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not enough to speak, but to speak true. Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child on a recorder; a sound, but not in government. His speech was like a tangled chain; nothing impaired, but all disordered. Who is next? Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show; But wonder on, till truth make all things plain.
This man is Pyramus, if you would know; This beauteous lady Thisby is, certain. This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder; And through Wall's chink, poor souls, they are content To whisper, at the which let no man wonder. This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn, Presenteth Moonshine; for, if you will know, By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo. This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name, The trusty Thisby, coming first by night, Did scare away, or rather did affright; And, as she fied, her mantle she did fall, Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain. Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall, And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain: Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade, He bravely broach'd his boiling bloody breast; And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade, His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest, Let Lion, Moonshine, Wall, and lovers twain, At large discourse, while here they do remain. I wonder, if the lion be to speak. No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do. Wall.
In this same interlude it doth befall That I, one Snout by name, present a wall; And such a wall, as I would have you think, That had in it a crannied hole or chink, Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby, Did whisper often very secretly. This loam, this rough-cast, and this stone doth show That I am that same wall; the truth is so; And this the cranny is, right and sinister, Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper. Would you desire lime and hair to speak better? It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard discourse, my lord. Pyramus draws near the wall: silence! O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black! O night, which ever art when day is not! O night! O night! alack, alack, alack! I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot. And thou, O wall! O sweet, O lovely wall! That stand'st between her father's ground and mine; Thou wall, O wall! O sweet, and lovely wall! Show me thy chink to blink through with mine eyne. Thanks, courteous wall: Jove shield thee well for this! But what see I? No Thisby do I see. O wicked wall! through whom I see no bliss; Curs'd be thy stones for thus deceiving me! The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again. No, in truth, sir, he should not.
'Deceiving me,' is Thisby's cue: she is to enter now, and I am to spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will fall pat as I told you. Yonder she comes. O wall! full often hast thou heard my moans, For parting my fair Pyramus and me: My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones, Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee. I see a voice: now will I to the chink, To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face. Thisby. My love! thou art my love, I think. Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace; And, like Limander, am I trusty still. And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill. Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true. As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you. O! kiss me through the hole of this vile wall. I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway? 'Tide life, 'tide death, I come without delay. Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so; And, being done, thus Wall away doth go. Now is the mural down between the two neighbours. No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear without warning. This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard. The best in this kind are but shadows, and the worst are no worse, if imagination amend them. It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
If we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves, they may pass for excellent men. Here come two noble beasts in, a man and a lion. You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor, May now perchance both quake and tremble here, When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar. Then know that I, one Snug the joiner, am A lion-fell, nor else no lion's dam: For, if I should as lion come in strife Into this place, 'twere pity on my life. A very gentle beast, and of a good conscience. The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw. This lion is a very fox for his valour. True; and a goose for his discretion. Not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his discretion, and the fox carries the goose. His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valour, for the goose carries not the fox. It is well: leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon. This lanthorn doth the horned moon present; He should have worn the horns on his head. He is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the circumference. This lanthorn doth the horned moon present; Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be. This is the greatest error of all the rest.
The man should be put into the lanthorn: how is it else the man i' the moon? He dares not come there for the candle; for, you see, it is already in snuff. I am aweary of this moon: would he would change! It appears, by his small light of discretion, that he is in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all reason, we must stay the time. Proceed, Moon. All that I have to say, is, to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon; I, the man in the moon; this thorn-bush, my thorn-bush; and this dog, my dog. Why, all these should be in the lanthorn; for all these are in the moon. But, silence! here comes Thisbe. This is old Ninny's tomb. Where is my love? Oh . Well roared, Lion. Well run, Thisbe. Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a good grace. Well moused, Lion. And then came Pyramus. And so the lion vanished. Sweet moon, I thank thee for thy sunny beams; I thank thee, moon, for shining now so bright, For, by thy gracious, golden, glittering streams, I trust to taste of truest Thisby's sight. But stay, O spite! But mark, poor knight, What dreadful dole is here! Eyes, do you see? How can it be? O dainty duck! O dear! Thy mantle good, What! stain'd with blood! Approach, ye Furies fell!
O Fates, come, come, Cut thread and thrum; Quail, crush, conclude, and quell! This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go near to make a man look sad. Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man. O! wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame? Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear? Which is no, no which was the fairest dame That liv'd, that lov'd, that lik'd, that look'd with cheer. Come tears, confound; Out, sword, and wound The pap of Pyramus: Ay, that left pap, Where heart doth hop: Thus die I, thus, thus, thus. Now am I dead, Now am I fled; My soul is in the sky: Tongue, lose thy light! Moon, take thy flight! Now die, die, die, die, die. No die, but an ace, for him; for he is but one. Less than an ace, man, for he is dead; he is nothing. With the help of a surgeon, he might yet recover, and prove an ass. How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes back and finds her lover? She will find him by starlight. Here she comes; and her passion ends the play. Methinks she should not use a long one for such a Pyramus: I hope she will be brief. A mote will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which Thisbe, is the better: he for a man, God warrant us; she for a woman, God bless us. She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
And thus she moans, videlicet: Asleep, my love? What, dead, my dove? O Pyramus, arise! Speak, speak! Quite dumb? Dead, dead! A tomb Must cover thy sweet eyes. These lily lips, This cherry nose, These yellow cowslip cheeks, Are gone, are gone: Lovers, make moan! His eyes were green as leeks. O, Sisters Three, Come, come to me, With hands as pale as milk; Lay them in gore, Since you have shore With shears his thread of silk. Tongue, not a word: Come, trusty sword: Come, blade, my breast imbrue: And farewell, friends; Thus Thisby ends: Adieu, adieu, adieu. Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead. Ay, and Wall too. No, I assure you; the wall is down that parted their fathers. Will it please you to see the epilogue, or to hear a Bergomask dance between two of our company? No epilogue, I pray you; for your play needs no excuse. Never excuse; for when the players are all dead, there need none to be blamed. Marry, if he that writ it had played Pyramus, and hanged himself in Thisbe's garter, it would have been a fine tragedy: and so it is, truly, and very notably discharged. But come, your Bergomask: let your epilogue alone. The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve; Lovers, to bed; 'tis almost fairy time. I fear we shall out-sleep the coming morn, As much as we this night have overwatch'd.
This palpable-gross play hath well beguil'd The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed. A fortnight hold we this solemnity, In nightly revels, and new jollity. Now the hungry lion roars, And the wolf behowls the moon; Whilst the heavy ploughman snores, All with weary task fordone. Now the wasted brands do glow, Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud, Puts the wretch that lies in woe In remembrance of a shroud. Now it is the time of night That the graves, all gaping wide, Every one lets forth his sprite, In the church-way paths to glide: And we fairies, that do run By the triple Hecate's team, From the presence of the sun, Following darkness like a dream, Now are frolic; not a mouse Shall disturb this hallow'd house: I am sent with broom before, To sweep the dust behind the door. Through the house give glimmering light By the dead and drowsy fire; Every elf and fairy sprite Hop as light as bird from brier; And this ditty after me Sing and dance it trippingly. First, rehearse your song by rote, To each word a warbling note: Hand in hand, with fairy grace, Will we sing, and bless this place. Now, until the break of day, Through this house each fairy stray. To the best bride-bed will we, Which by us shall blessed be; And the issue there create Ever shall be fortunate.
So shall all the couples three Ever true in loving be; And the blots of Nature's hand Shall not in their issue stand: Never mole, hare-lip, nor scar, Nor mark prodigious, such as are Despised in nativity, Shall upon their children be. With this field-dew consecrate, Every fairy take his gait, And each several chamber bless, Through this palace, with sweet peace; Ever shall in safety rest, And the owner of it blest. Trip away; Make no stay; Meet me all by break of day. If we shadows have offended, Think but this, and all is mended, That you have but slumber'd here While these visions did appear. And this weak and idle theme, No more yielding but a dream, Gentles, do not reprehend: If you pardon, we will mend. And, as I'm an honest Puck, If we have unearned luck Now to 'scape the serpent's tongue, We will make amends ere long; Else the Puck a liar call: So, good night unto you all. Give me your hands, if we be friends, And Robin shall restore amends.
Boatswain! Here, master: what cheer? Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't yarely, or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir. Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts! yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the master's whistle. Blow, till thou burst thy wind, if room enough! Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master? Play the men. I pray now, keep below. Where is the master, boson? Do you not hear him? You mar our labour: keep your cabins: you do assist the storm. Nay, good, be patient. When the sea is. Hence! What cares these roarers for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not. Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard. None that I more love than myself. You are a counsellor: if you can command these elements to silence, and work the peace of the present, we will not hand a rope more; use your authority: if you cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out of our way, I say. I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his hanging! make the rope of his destiny our cable, for our own doth little advantage! If he be not born to be hanged, our case is miserable. Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower!
Bring her to try with main-course. A plague upon this howling! they are louder than the weather, or our office. Yet again? what do you here? Shall we give o'er, and drown? Have you a mind to sink? A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous, incharitable dog! Work you, then. Hang, cur, hang! you whoreson, insolent noisemaker, we are less afraid to be drowned than thou art. I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship were no stronger than a nutshell, and as leaky as an unstanched wench. Lay her a-hold, a-hold! Set her two courses; off to sea again; lay her off. All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost! What, must our mouths be cold? The king and prince at prayers! let us assist them, For our case is as theirs. I am out of patience. We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards. This wide-chapp'd rascal, would thou might'st lie drowning, The washing of ten tides! He'll be hang'd yet, Though every drop of water swear against it, And gape at wid'st to glut him. 'We split, we split!' 'Farewell, my wife and children!' 'Farewell, brother!' 'We split, we split, we split!' ] Let's all sink wi' the king. Let's take leave of him. Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground; long heath, brown furze, any thing. The wills above be done! but I would fain die a dry death.
If by your art, my dearest father, you have Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them. The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch, But that the sea, mounting to th' welkin's cheek, Dashes the fire out. O! I have suffer'd With those that I saw suffer: a brave vessel, Who had, no doubt, some noble creatures in her, Dash'd all to pieces. O! the cry did knock Against my very heart. Poor souls, they perish'd. Had I been any god of power, I would Have sunk the sea within the earth, or e'er It should the good ship so have swallow'd and The fraughting souls within her. Be collected: No more amazement. Tell your piteous heart There's no harm done. O, woe the day! No harm. I have done nothing but in care of thee, Of thee, my dear one! thee, my daughter! who Art ignorant of what thou art, nought knowing Of whence I am: nor that I am more better Than Prospero, master of a full poor cell, And thy no greater father. More to know Did never meddle with my thoughts. 'Tis time I should inform thee further. Lend thy hand, And pluck my magic garment from me. So: Lie there, my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
The direful spectacle of the wrack, which touch'd The very virtue of compassion in thee, I have with such provision in mine art So safely order'd, that there is no soul No, not so much perdition as an hair, Betid to any creature in the vessel Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink. Sit down; For thou must now know further. You have often Begun to tell me what I am, but stopp'd, And left me to a bootless inquisition, Concluding, 'Stay; not yet.' The hour's now come, The very minute bids thee ope thine ear; Obey and be attentive. Canst thou remember A time before we came unto this cell? I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not Out three years old. Certainly, sir, I can. By what? by any other house or person? Of anything the image tell me, that Hath kept with thy remembrance. 'Tis far off; And rather like a dream than an assurance That my remembrance warrants. Had I not Four or five women once that tended me? Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it That this lives in thy mind? What seest thou else In the dark backward and abysm of time? If thou remember'st aught ere thou cam'st here, How thou cam'st here, thou may'st. But that I do not. Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since, Thy father was the Duke of Milan and A prince of power. Sir, are not you my father?
Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father Was Duke of Milan, and his only heir A princess, no worse issued. O, the heavens! What foul play had we that we came from thence? Or blessed was't we did? Both, both, my girl: By foul play, as thou say'st, were we heav'd thence; But blessedly holp hither. O! my heart bleeds To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to, Which is from my remembrance. Please you, further. My brother and thy uncle, call'd Antonio, I pray thee, mark me, that a brother should Be so perfidious! he whom next thyself, Of all the world I lov'd, and to him put The manage of my state; as at that time, Through all the signiories it was the first, And Prospero the prime duke; being so reputed In dignity, and for the liberal arts, Without a parallel: those being all my study, The government I cast upon my brother, And to my state grew stranger, being transported And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle Dost thou attend me? Sir, most heedfully.
Being once perfected how to grant suits, How to deny them, who t'advance, and who To trash for over-topping; new created The creatures that were mine, I say, or chang'd 'em, Or else new form'd 'em: having both the key Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state To what tune pleas'd his ear; that now he was The ivy which had hid my princely trunk, And suck'd my verdure out on't. Thou attend'st not. O, good sir! I do. I pray thee, mark me. I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated To closeness and the bettering of my mind With that, which, but by being so retir'd, O'erpriz'd all popular rate, in my false brother Awak'd an evil nature; and my trust, Like a good parent, did beget of him A falsehood in its contrary as great As my trust was; which had, indeed no limit, A confidence sans bound. He being thus lorded, Not only with what my revenue yielded, But what my power might else exact, like one, Who having, into truth, by telling of it, Made such a sinner of his memory, To credit his own lie, he did believe He was indeed the duke; out o' the substitution, And executing th' outward face of royalty, With all prerogative: Hence his ambition growing, Dost thou hear? Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
To have no screen between this part he play'd And him he play'd it for, he needs will be Absolute Milan. Me, poor man, my library Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties He thinks me now incapable; confederates, So dry he was for sway, wi' the king of Naples To give him annual tribute, do him homage; Subject his coronet to his crown, and bend The dukedom, yet unbow'd, alas, poor Milan! To most ignoble stooping. O the heavens! Mark his condition and the event; then tell me If this might be a brother. I should sin To think but nobly of my grandmother: Good wombs have borne bad sons. Now the condition. This King of Naples, being an enemy To me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit; Which was, that he, in lieu o' the premises Of homage and I know not how much tribute, Should presently extirpate me and mine Out of the dukedom, and confer fair Milan, With all the honours on my brother: whereon, A treacherous army levied, one midnight Fated to the purpose did Antonio open The gates of Milan; and, i' the dead of darkness, The ministers for the purpose hurried thence Me and thy crying self. Alack, for pity! I, not rememb'ring how I cried out then, Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint, That wrings mine eyes to 't.
Hear a little further, And then I'll bring thee to the present business Which now's upon us; without the which this story Were most impertinent. Wherefore did they not That hour destroy us? Well demanded, wench: My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not, So dear the love my people bore me, nor set A mark so bloody on the business; but With colours fairer painted their foul ends. In few, they hurried us aboard a bark, Bore us some leagues to sea; where they prepar'd A rotten carcass of a boat, not rigg'd, Nor tackle, sail, nor mast; the very rats Instinctively have quit it: there they hoist us, To cry to the sea that roar'd to us; to sigh To the winds whose pity, sighing back again, Did us but loving wrong. Alack! what trouble Was I then to you! O, a cherubin Thou wast, that did preserve me! Thou didst smile, Infused with a fortitude from heaven, When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt, Under my burden groan'd; which rais'd in me An undergoing stomach, to bear up Against what should ensue. How came we ashore? By Providence divine.
Some food we had and some fresh water that A noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo, Out of his charity, who being then appointed Master of this design, did give us; with Rich garments, linens, stuffs, and necessaries, Which since have steaded much; so, of his gentleness, Knowing I lov'd my books, he furnish'd me, From mine own library with volumes that I prize above my dukedom. Would I might But ever see that man! Now I arise: Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow. Here in this island we arriv'd; and here Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit Than other princes can, that have more time For vainer hours and tutors not so careful. Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you, sir, For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason For raising this sea-storm? Know thus far forth. By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune, Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies Brought to this shore; and by my prescience I find my zenith doth depend upon A most auspicious star, whose influence If now I court not but omit, my fortunes Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions; Thou art inclin'd to sleep; 'tis a good dulness, And give it way; I know thou canst not choose. Come away, servant, come! I'm ready now. Approach, my Ariel; come! All hail, great master! grave sir, hail!
I come To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly, To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride On the curl'd clouds: to thy strong bidding task Ariel and all his quality. Hast thou, spirit, Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee? To every article. I boarded the king's ship; now on the beak, Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin, I flam'd amazement: sometime I'd divide And burn in many places; on the topmast, The yards, and boresprit, would I flame distinctly, Then meet, and join: Jove's lightnings, the precursors O' the dreadful thunder-claps, more momentary And sight-outrunning were not: the fire and cracks Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble, Yea, his dread trident shake. My brave spirit! Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil Would not infect his reason? Not a soul But felt a fever of the mad and play'd Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners, Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel, Then all a-fire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand, With hair up-staring, then like reeds, not hair, Was the first man that leap'd; cried, 'Hell is empty, And all the devils are here.' Why, that's my spirit! But was not this nigh shore? Close by, my master. But are they, Ariel, safe?
Not a hair perish'd; On their sustaining garments not a blemish, But fresher than before: and, as thou bad'st me, In troops I have dispers'd them 'bout the isle. The king's son have I landed by himself; Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs In an odd angle of the isle and sitting, His arms in this sad knot. Of the king's ship The mariners, say how thou hast dispos'd, And all the rest o' the fleet. Safely in harbour Is the king's ship; in the deep nook, where once Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew From the still-vex'd Bermoothes; there she's hid: The mariners all under hatches stow'd; Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour, I have left asleep: and for the rest o' the fleet Which I dispers'd, they all have met again, And are upon the Mediterranean flote, Bound sadly home for Naples, Supposing that they saw the king's ship wrack'd, And his great person perish. Ariel, thy charge Exactly is perform'd: but there's more work: What is the time o' th' day? Past the mid season. At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now Must by us both be spent most preciously. Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains, Let me remember thee what thou hast promis'd Which is not yet perform'd me. How now! moody? What is't thou canst demand? My liberty. Before the time be out? no more!
I prithee Remember, I have done thee worthy service; Told thee no lies, made no mistakings, serv'd Without or grudge or grumblings: thou didst promise To bate me a full year. Dost thou forget From what a torment I did free thee? No. Thou dost; and think'st it much to tread the ooze Of the salt deep, To run upon the sharp wind of the north, To do me business in the veins o' th' earth When it is bak'd with frost. I do not, sir. Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy Was grown into a hoop? hast thou forgot her? No, sir. Thou hast. Where was she born? speak; tell me. Sir, in Argier. O! was she so? I must, Once in a month, recount what thou hast been, Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch, Sycorax, For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible To enter human hearing, from Argier, Thou know'st, was banish'd: for one thing she did They would not take her life. Is not this true? Ay, sir. This blue-ey'd hag was hither brought with child And here was left by the sailors.
Thou, my slave, As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant: And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands, Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee, By help of her more potent ministers, And in her most unmitigable rage, Into a cloven pine; within which rift Imprison'd, thou didst painfully remain A dozen years; within which space she died And left thee there, where thou didst vent thy groans As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island, Save for the son that she did litter here, A freckled whelp hag-born, not honour'd with A human shape. Yes; Caliban her son. Dull thing, I say so; he that Caliban, Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st What torment I did find thee in; thy groans Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts Of ever-angry bears: it was a torment To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax Could not again undo; it was mine art, When I arriv'd and heard thee, that made gape The pine, and let thee out. I thank thee, master. If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak And peg thee in his knotty entrails till Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters. Pardon, master; I will be correspondent to command, And do my spiriting gently. Do so; and after two days I will discharge thee. That's my noble master! What shall I do? say what? what shall I do?
Go make thyself like a nymph of the sea: be subject To no sight but thine and mine; invisible To every eyeball else. Go, take this shape, And hither come in't: go, hence with diligence! Awake, dear heart, awake! thou hast slept well; Awake! The strangeness of your story put Heaviness in me. Shake it off. Come on; We'll visit Caliban my slave, who never Yields us kind answer. 'Tis a villain, sir, I do not love to look on. But, as 'tis, We cannot miss him: he does make our fire, Fetch in our wood; and serves in offices That profit us. What ho! slave! Caliban! Thou earth, thou! speak. There's wood enough within. Come forth, I say; there's other business for thee: Come, thou tortoise! when? Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel, Hark in thine ear. My lord, it shall be done. Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself Upon thy wicked dam, come forth! As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd With raven's feather from unwholesome fen Drop on you both! a south-west blow on ye, And blister you all o'er!
For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps, Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins Shall forth at vast of night, that they may work All exercise on thee: thou shalt be pinch'd As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging Than bees that made them. I must eat my dinner. This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother, Which thou tak'st from me. When thou camest first, Thou strok'dst me, and mad'st much of me; wouldst give me Water with berries in't; and teach me how To name the bigger light, and how the less, That burn by day and night: and then I lov'd thee And show'd thee all the qualities o' th' isle, The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place, and fertile. Cursed be I that did so! All the charms Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you! For I am all the subjects that you have, Which first was mine own king; and here you sty me In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me The rest o' th' island. Thou most lying slave, Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have us'd thee, Filth as thou art, with human care; and lodg'd thee In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate The honour of my child. Oh ho! Oh ho! would it had been done! Thou didst prevent me; I had peopled else This isle with Calibans.
Abhorred slave, Which any print of goodness will not take, Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee, Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour One thing or other: when thou didst not, savage, Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes With words that made them known: but thy vile race, Though thou didst learn, had that in't which good natures Could not abide to be with; therefore wast thou Deservedly confin'd into this rock, Who hadst deserv'd more than a prison. You taught me language: and my profit on't Is, I know how to curse: the red plague rid you, For learning me your language! Hag-seed, hence! Fetch us in fuel; and be quick, thou'rt best, To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice? If thou neglect'st, or dost unwillingly What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps, Fill all thy bones with aches; make thee roar, That beasts shall tremble at thy din. No, pray thee! I must obey: his art is of such power, It would control my dam's god, Setebos, And make a vassal of him. So, slave; hence! Come unto these yellow sands, And then take hands: Curtsied when you have, and kiss'd, The wild waves whist, Foot it featly here and there; And, sweet sprites, the burden bear. Hark, hark! The watch-dogs bark: Hark, hark! I hear The strain of strutting Chanticleer Where should this music be?
i' th' air, or th' earth? It sounds no more; and sure, it waits upon Some god o' th' island. Sitting on a bank, Weeping again the king my father's wrack, This music crept by me upon the waters, Allaying both their fury, and my passion, With its sweet air: thence I have follow'd it, Or it hath drawn me rather, but 'tis gone. No, it begins again. Full fathom five thy father lies; Of his bones are coral made Those are pearls that were his eyes: Nothing of him that doth fade, But doth suffer a sea-change Into something rich and strange. Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell: Hark! now I hear them, ding-dong, bell. The ditty does remember my drown'd father. This is no mortal business, nor no sound That the earth owes: I hear it now above me. The fringed curtains of thine eye advance, And say what thou seest yond. What is't? a spirit? Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir, It carries a brave form: but 'tis a spirit.
No, wench; it eats and sleeps, and hath such senses As we have, such; this gallant which thou see'st, Was in the wrack; and, but he's something stain'd With grief, that's beauty's canker, thou might'st call him A goodly person: he hath lost his fellows And strays about to find 'em. I might call him A thing divine; for nothing natural I ever saw so noble. It goes on, I see, As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee Within two days for this. Most sure, the goddess On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe, my prayer May know if you remain upon this island; And that you will some good instruction give How I may bear me here: my prime request, Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder! If you be maid or no? No wonder, sir; But certainly a maid. My language! heavens! I am the best of them that speak this speech, Were I but where 'tis spoken. How! the best? What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee? A single thing, as I am now, that wonders To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me; And, that he does, I weep: myself am Naples, Who with mine eyes, ne'er since at ebb, beheld The king, my father wrack'd. Alack, for mercy! Yes, faith, and all his lords; the Duke of Milan, And his brave son being twain.
The Duke of Milan, And his more braver daughter could control thee, If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight They have changed eyes: delicate Ariel, I'll set thee free for this! A word, good sir; I fear you have done yourself some wrong: a word. Why speaks my father so ungently? This Is the third man that e'er I saw; the first That e'er I sigh'd for: pity move my father To be inclin'd my way! O! if a virgin, And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you The Queen of Naples. Soft, sir: one word more They are both in either's powers: but this swift business I must uneasy make, lest too light winning Make the prize light. One word more: I charge thee That thou attend me. Thou dost here usurp The name thou ow'st not; and hast put thyself Upon this island as a spy, to win it From me, the lord on't. No, as I am a man. There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple: If the ill spirit have so fair a house, Good things will strive to dwell with't. Follow me. Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come; I'll manacle thy neck and feet together: Sea-water shalt thou drink; thy food shall be The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow. No; I will resist such entertainment till Mine enemy has more power. O dear father!
Make not too rash a trial of him, for He's gentle, and not fearful. What! I say, My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor; Who mak'st a show, but dar'st not strike, thy conscience Is so possess'd with guilt: come from thy ward, For I can here disarm thee with this stick And make thy weapon drop. Beseech you, father! Hence! hang not on my garments. Sir, have pity: I'll be his surety. Silence! one word more Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What! An advocate for an impostor? hush! Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he, Having seen but him and Caliban: foolish wench! To the most of men this is a Caliban And they to him are angels. My affections Are then most humble; I have no ambition To see a goodlier man. Come on; obey: Thy nerves are in their infancy again, And have no vigour in them. So they are: My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up. My father's loss, the weakness which I feel, The wrack of all my friends, or this man's threats, To whom I am subdued, are but light to me, Might I but through my prison once a day Behold this maid: all corners else o' th' earth Let liberty make use of; space enough Have I in such a prison. Come on. Thou hast done well, fine Ariel! Follow me.
Hark, what thou else shalt do me. Be of comfort; My father's of a better nature, sir, Than he appears by speech: this is unwonted, Which now came from him. Thou shalt be as free As mountain winds; but then exactly do All points of my command. To the syllable. Come, follow. Speak not for him. Beseech you, sir, be merry: you have cause, So have we all, of joy; for our escape Is much beyond our loss. Our hint of woe Is common: every day some sailor's wife, The masters of some merchant and the merchant, Have just our theme of woe; but for the miracle, I mean our preservation, few in millions Can speak like us: then wisely, good sir, weigh Our sorrow with our comfort. Prithee, peace. He receives comfort like cold porridge. The visitor will not give him o'er so. Look, he's winding up the watch of his wit; by and by it will strike. Sir, One: tell. When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd, Comes to the entertainer A dollar. Dolour comes to him, indeed: you have spoken truer than you purposed. You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should. Therefore, my lord, Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue! I prithee, spare. Well, I have done: but yet He will be talking. Which, of he or Adrian, for a good wager, first begins to crow? The old cock. The cockerel. Done. The wager? A laughter. A match!
Though this island seem to be desert, Ha, ha, ha! So you're paid. Uninhabitable, and almost inaccessible, Yet Yet He could not miss it. It must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate temperance. Temperance was a delicate wench. Ay, and a subtle; as he most learnedly delivered. The air breathes upon us here most sweetly. As if it had lungs, and rotten ones. Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen. Here is everything advantageous to life. True; save means to live. Of that there's none, or little. How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green! The ground indeed is tawny. With an eye of green in't. He misses not much. No; he doth but mistake the truth totally. But the rarity of it is, which is indeed almost beyond credit, As many vouch'd rarities are. That our garments, being, as they were, drenched in the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and glosses; being rather new-dyed than stain'd with salt water. If but one of his pockets could speak, would it not say he lies? Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report. Methinks, our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis. 'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return. Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen. Not since widow Dido's time. Widow! a pox o' that!
How came that widow in? Widow Dido! What if he had said, widower Æneas too? Good Lord, how you take it! Widow Dido, said you? you make me study of that: she was of Carthage, not of Tunis. This Tunis, sir, was Carthage. Carthage? I assure you, Carthage. His word is more than the miraculous harp. He hath rais'd the wall, and houses too. What impossible matter will he make easy next? I think he will carry this island home in his pocket, and give it his son for an apple. And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring forth more islands. Ay? Why, in good time. Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of your daughter, who is now queen. And the rarest that e'er came there. Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido. O! widow Dido; ay, widow Dido. Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I wore it? I mean, in a sort. That sort was well fish'd for. When I wore it at your daughter's marriage? You cram these words into mine ears, against The stomach of my sense. Would I had never Married my daughter there! for, coming thence, My son is lost; and, in my rate, she too, Who is so far from Italy remov'd, I ne'er again shall see her. O thou, mine heir Of Naples and of Milan!
what strange fish Hath made his meal on thee? Sir, he may live: I saw him beat the surges under him, And ride upon their backs: he trod the water, Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted The surge most swoln that met him: his bold head 'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke To the shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bow'd, As stooping to relieve him. I not doubt He came alive to land. No, no; he's gone. Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss, That would not bless our Europe with your daughter, But rather lose her to an African; Where she at least is banish'd from your eye, Who hath cause to wet the grief on't. Prithee, peace. You were kneel'd to and importun'd otherwise By all of us; and the fair soul herself Weigh'd between loathness and obedience, at Which end o' the beam should bow. We have lost your son, I fear, for ever: Milan and Naples have More widows in them of this business' making, Than we bring men to comfort them: the fault's Your own. So is the dearest of the loss. My lord Sebastian, The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness And time to speak it in; you rub the sore, When you should bring the plaster. Very well. And most chirurgeonly. It is foul weather in us all, good sir, When you are cloudy. Foul weather?
Very foul. Had I plantation of this isle, my lord, He'd sow't with nettle-seed. Or docks, or mallows. 'And were the king on't, what would I do? 'Scape being drunk for want of wine. I' the commonwealth I would by contraries Execute all things; for no kind of traffic Would I admit; no name of magistrate; Letters should not be known; riches, poverty, And use of service, none; contract, succession, Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none; No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil; No occupation; all men idle, all; And women too, but innocent and pure; No sovereignty, Yet he would be king on't. The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the beginning. All things in common nature should produce Without sweat or endeavour: treason, felony, Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine, Would I not have; but nature should bring forth, Of its own kind, all foison, all abundance, To feed my innocent people. No marrying 'mong his subjects? None, man; all idle; whores and knaves. I would with such perfection govern, sir, To excel the golden age Save his majesty! Long live Gonzalo! And, do you mark me, sir? Prithee, no more: thou dost talk nothing to me. I do well believe your highness; and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen, who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing. 'Twas you we laugh'd at.
Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing to you; so you may continue and laugh at nothing still. What a blow was there given! An it had not fallen flat-long. You are gentlemen of brave mettle: you would lift the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue in it five weeks without changing. We would so, and then go a-bat-fowling. Nay, good my lord, be not angry. No, I warrant you; I will not adventure my discretion so weakly. Will you laugh me asleep, for I am very heavy? Go sleep, and hear us. What! all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: I find They are inclin'd to do so. Please you, sir, Do not omit the heavy offer of it: It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth It is a comforter. We two, my lord, Will guard your person while you take your rest, And watch your safety. Thank you. Wondrous heavy. What a strange drowsiness possesses them! It is the quality o' the climate. Why Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not Myself dispos'd to sleep. Nor I: my spirits are nimble. They fell together all, as by consent; They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might, Worthy Sebastian? O! what might? No more: And yet methinks I see it in thy face, What thou should'st be.
The occasion speaks thee; and My strong imagination sees a crown Dropping upon thy head. What! art thou waking? Do you not hear me speak? I do; and surely, It is a sleepy language, and thou speak'st Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say? This is a strange repose, to be asleep With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving, And yet so fast asleep. Noble Sebastian, Thou let'st thy fortune sleep die rather; wink'st Whiles thou art waking. Thou dost snore distinctly: There's meaning in thy snores. I am more serious than my custom: you Must be so too, if heed me; which to do Trebles thee o'er. Well; I am standing water. I'll teach you how to flow. Do so: to ebb, Hereditary sloth instructs me. O! If you but knew how you the purpose cherish Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it, You more invest it! Ebbing men, indeed, Most often do so near the bottom run By their own fear or sloth. Prithee, say on: The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim A matter from thee, and a birth indeed Which throes thee much to yield.
Thus, sir: Although this lord of weak remembrance, this Who shall be of as little memory When he is earth'd, hath here almost persuaded, For he's a spirit of persuasion, only Professes to persuade, the king, his son's alive, 'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd As he that sleeps here swims. I have no hope That he's undrown'd. O! out of that 'no hope What great hope have you! no hope that way is Another way so high a hope that even Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond, But doubts discovery there. Will you grant with me That Ferdinand is drown'd? He's gone. Then tell me Who's the next heir of Naples? Claribel. She that is Queen of Tums; she that dwells Ten leagues beyond man's life; she that from Naples Can have no note, unless the sun were post The man i' th' moon's too slow till new-born chins Be rough and razorable: she that, from whom? We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again, And by that destiny to perform an act Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come In yours and my discharge. What stuff is this! How say you? 'Tis true my brother's daughter's Queen of Tunis; So is she heir of Naples; 'twixt which regions There is some space. A space whose every cubit Seems to cry out, 'How shall that Claribel Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis, And let Sebastian wake!'
Say, this were death That now hath seiz'd them; why, they were no worse Than now they are. There be that can rule Naples As well as he that sleeps; lords that can prate As amply and unnecessarily As this Gonzalo; I myself could make A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore The mind that I do! what a sleep were this For your advancement! Do you understand me? Methinks I do. And how does your content Tender your own good fortune? I remember You did supplant your brother Prospero. True: And look how well my garments sit upon me; Much feater than before; my brother's servants Were then my fellows; now they are my men. But, for your conscience, Ay, sir; where lies that? if it were a kibe, 'Twould put me to my slipper; but I feel not This deity in my bosom: twenty consciences, That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they, And melt ere they molest! Here lies your brother, No better than the earth he lies upon, If he were that which now he's like, that's dead; Whom I, with this obedient steel, three inches of it, Can lay to bed for ever; whiles you, doing thus, To the perpetual wink for aye might put This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who Should not upbraid our course.
For all the rest, They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk; They'll tell the clock to any business that We say befits the hour. Thy case, dear friend, Shall be my precedent: as thou got'st Milan, I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword: one stroke Shall free thee from the tribute which thou pay'st, And I the king shall love thee. Draw together; And when I rear my hand, do you the like, To fall it on Gonzalo. O! but one word. My master through his art foresees the danger That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth For else his project dies to keep thee living. While you here do snoring lie, Open-ey'd Conspiracy His time doth take. If of life you keep a care, Shake off slumber, and beware Awake! awake! Then let us both be sudden. Now, good angels Preserve the king! Why, how now! ho, awake! Why are you drawn? Wherefore this ghastly looking? What's the matter? Whiles we stood here securing your repose, Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing Like bulls, or rather hons; did't not wake you? It struck mine ear most terribly. I heard nothing. O! 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear, To make an earthquake: sure it was the roar Of a whole herd of lions. Heard you this, Gonzalo? Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming, And that a strange one too, which did awake me.
I shak'd you, sir, and cry'd; as mine eyes open'd, I saw their weapons drawn: there was a noise, That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard, Or that we quit this place: let's draw our weapons. Lead off this ground, and let's make further search For my poor son. Heavens keep him from these beasts! For he is, sure, i' the island. Lead away. Prospero my lord shall know what I have done: So, king, go safely on to seek thy son. All the infections that the sun sucks up From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall, and make him By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me, And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch, Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' the mire, Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark Out of my way, unless he bid 'em; but For every trifle are they set upon me: Sometime like apes, that mow and chatter at me And after bite me; then like hedge-hogs, which Lie tumbling in my bare-foot way and mount Their pricks at my foot-fall; sometime am I All wound with adders, who with cloven tongues Do hiss me into madness. Lo now! lo! Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me For bringing wood in slowly: I'll fall flat; Perchance he will not mind me.
Here's neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all, and another storm brewing; I hear it sing i' the wind: yond same black cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor. If it should thunder as it did before, I know not where to hide my head: yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls. What have we here? a man or a fish? Dead or alive? A fish: he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish-like smell; a kind of not of the newest Poor-John. A strange fish! Were I in England now, as once I was, and had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver: there would this monster make a man; any strange beast there makes a man. When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian. Legg'd like a man! and his fins like arms! Warm, o' my troth! I do now let loose my opinion, hold it no longer; this is no fish, but an islander, that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt. Alas! the storm is come again: my best way is to creep under his gaberdine; there is no other shelter hereabout: misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows. I will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past.
I shall no more to sea, to sea, Here shall I die a-shore: This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's funeral: Well, here's my comfort. The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I, The gunner and his mate, Lov'd Mall, Meg, and Marian and Margery, But none of us car'd for Kate; For she had a tongue with a tang, Would cry to a sailor, 'Go hang!' She lov'd not the savour of tar nor of pitch, Yet a tailor might scratch her where-e'er she did itch: Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang. This is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort. Do not torment me: O! What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you put tricks upon us with savages and men of Ind? Ha! I have not 'scaped drowning, to be afeard now of your four legs; for it hath been said, As proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground: and it shall be said so again while Stephano breathes at's nostrils. The spirit torments me: O! This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who hath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devil should he learn our language?
I will give him some relief, if it be but for that: if I can recover him and keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he's a present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's-leather. Do not torment me, prithee: I'll bring my wood home faster. He's in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest. He shall taste of my bottle: if he have never drunk wine afore it will go near to remove his fit. If I can recover him, and keep him tame, I will not take too much for him: he shall pay for him that hath him, and that soundly. Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon, I know it by thy trembling: now Prosper works upon thee. Come on your ways: open your mouth; here is that which will give language to you, cat. Open your mouth: this will shake your shaking, I can tell you, and that soundly : you cannot tell who's your friend; open your chaps again. I should know that voice: it should be but he is drowned, and these are devils. O! defend me. Four legs and two voices; a most delicate monster! His forward voice now is to speak well of his friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches, and to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will recover him, I will help his ague. Come. Amen! I will pour some in thy other mouth.
Stephano! Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy! mercy! This is a devil, and no monster: I will leave him; I have no long spoon. Stephano! if thou beest Stephano, touch me, and speak to me; for I am Trinculo: be not afeard thy good friend Trinculo. If thou beest Trinculo, come forth. I'll pull thee by the lesser legs: if any be Trinculo's legs, these are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed! How cam'st thou to be the siege of this moon-calf? Can he vent Trinculos? I took him to be killed with a thunderstroke. But art thou not drowned, Stephano? I hope now thou art not drowned. Is the storm overblown? I hid me under the dead mooncalf's gaberdine for fear of the storm. And art thou living, Stephano? O Stephano! two Neapolitans 'scaped! Prithee, do not turn me about: my stomach is not constant. These be fine things an if they be not sprites. That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor: I will kneel to him. How didst thou 'scape? How cam'st thou hither? swear by this bottle, how thou cam'st hither. I escaped upon a butt of sack, which the sailors heaved overboard, by this bottle! which I made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands, since I was cast ashore. I'll swear upon that bottle, to be thy true subject; for the liquor is not earthly. Here: swear then, how thou escapedst.
Swam ashore, man, like a duck: I can swim like a duck, I'll be sworn. Here, kiss the book . Though thou canst swim like a duck, thou art made like a goose. O Stephano! hast any more of this? The whole butt, man: my cellar is in a rock by the seaside, where my wine is hid. How now, moon-calf! how does thine ague? Hast thou not dropped from heaven? Out o the moon, I do assure thee: I was the man in the moon, when time was. I have seen thee in her, and I do adore thee; my mistress showed me thee, and thy dog, and thy bush. Come, swear to that; kiss the book; I will furnish it anon with new contents; swear. By this good light, this is a very shallow monster. I afeard of him! a very weak monster. The man i' the moon! a most poor credulous monster! Well drawn, monster, in good sooth. I'll show thee every fertile inch o' the island; And I will kiss thy foot. I prithee, be my god. By this light, a most perfidious and drunken monster: when his god's asleep, he'll rob his bottle. I'll kiss thy foot: I'll swear myself thy subject. Come on then; down, and swear. I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in my heart to beat him, Come, kiss.
But that the poor monster's in drink: an abominable monster! I'll shew thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee berries; I'll fish for thee, and get thee wood enough. A plague upon the tyrant that I serve! I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee, Thou wondrous man. A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a poor drunkard! I prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow; And I with my long nails will dig thee pig-nuts; Show thee a jay's nest and instruct thee how To snare the nimble marmozet; I'll bring thee To clust'ring filberts, and sometimes I'll get thee Young scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me? I prithee now, lead the way, without any more talking. Trinculo, the king and all our company else being drowned, we will inherit here. Here; bear my bottle. Fellow Trinculo, we'll fill him by and by again. Farewell, master; farewell, farewell A howling monster, a drunken monster. No more dams I'll make for fish, Nor fetch in firing At requiring, Nor scrape trenchering, nor wash dish, 'Ban, 'Ban, Ca Caliban, Has a new master Get a new man. Freedom, high-day! high-day, freedom! freedom! high-day, freedom! O brave monster! lead the way. There be some sports are painful, and their labour Delight in them sets off: some kinds of baseness Are nobly undergone, and most poor matters Point to rich ends.
This my mean task Would be as heavy to me as odious; but The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead And makes my labours pleasures: O! she is Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed, And he's compos'd of harshness. I must remove Some thousands of these logs and pile them up, Upon a sore injunction: my sweet mistress Weeps when she sees me work, and says such baseness Had never like executor. I forget: But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours, Most busiest when I do it. Alas! now, pray you, Work not so hard: I would the lightning had Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile! Pray, set it down and rest you: when this burns, 'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father Is hard at study; pray now, rest yourself: He's safe for these three hours. O most dear mistress, The sun will set, before I shall discharge What I must strive to do. If you'll sit down, I'll bear your logs the while. Pray, give me that; I'll carry it to the pile. No, precious creature: I had rather crack my sinews, break my back, Than you should such dishonour undergo, While I sit lazy by. It would become me As well as it does you: and I should do it With much more ease; for my good will is to it, And yours it is against. Poor worm!
thou art infected: This visitation shows it. You look wearily. No, noble mistress; 'tis fresh morning with me When you are by at night. I do beseech you Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers What is your name? Miranda. O my father! I have broke your hest to say so. Admir'd Miranda! Indeed, the top of admiration; worth What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady I have ey'd with best regard, and many a time The harmony of their tongues hath into bondage Brought my too diligent ear: for several virtues Have I lik'd several women; never any With so full soul but some defect in her Did quarrel with the noblest grace she ow'd, And put it to the foil: but you, O you! So perfect and so peerless, are created Of every creature's best. I do not know One of my sex; no woman's face remember, Save, from my glass, mine own; nor have I seen More that I may call men than you, good friend, And my dear father: how features are abroad, I am skill-less of; but, by my modesty, The jewel in my dower, I would not wish Any companion in the world but you; Nor can imagination form a shape, Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle Something too wildly and my father's precepts I therein do forget.
I am in my condition A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king; I would not so! and would no more endure This wooden slavery than to suffer The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak: The very instant that I saw you did My heart fly to your service; there resides, To make me slave to it; and for your sake Am I this patient log-man. Do you love me? O heaven! O earth! bear witness to this sound, And crown what I profess with kind event If I speak true: if hollowly, invert What best is boded me to mischief! I, Beyond all limit of what else i' the world, Do love, prize, honour you. I am a fool To weep at what I am glad of. Fair encounter Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace On that which breeds between them! Wherefore weep you? At mine unworthiness, that dare not offer What I desire to give; and much less take What I shall die to want. But this is trifling; And all the more it seeks to hide itself The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning! And prompt me, plain and holy innocence! I am your wife, if you will marry me; If not, I'll die your maid: to be your fellow You may deny me; but I'll be your servant Whether you will or no. My mistress, dearest; And I thus humble ever. My husband then?
Ay, with a heart as willing As bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand. And mine, with my heart in't: and now farewell Till half an hour hence. A thousand thousand! So glad of this as they, I cannot be, Who are surpris'd withal; but my rejoicing At nothing can be more. I'll to my book; For yet, ere supper time, must I perform Much business appertaining. Tell not me: when the butt is out, we will drink water; not a drop before: therefore bear up, and board 'em. Servant-monster, drink to me. Servant-monster! the folly of this island! They say there's but five upon this isle: we are three of them; if th' other two be brained like us, the state totters. Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee: thy eyes are almost set in thy head. Where should they be set else? he were a brave monster indeed, if they were set in his tail. My man-monster hath drowned his tongue in sack: for my part, the sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere I could recover the shore, five-and-thirty leagues, off and on, by this light. Thou shalt be my lieutenant, monster, or my standard. Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard. We'll not run, Monsieur monster. Nor go neither: but you'll lie, like dogs; and yet say nothing neither. Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a good moon-calf. How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
I'll not serve him, he is not valiant. Thou hest, most ignorant monster: I am in case to justle a constable. Why, thou deboshed fish thou, was there ever a man a coward that hath drunk so much sack as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being but half a fish and half a monster? Lo, how he mocks me! wilt thou let him, my lord? 'Lord' quoth he! that a monster should be such a natural! Lo, lo, again! bite him to death, I prithee. Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head: if you prove a mutineer, the next tree! The poor monster's my subject, and he shall not suffer indignity. I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleas'd To hearken once again the suit I made thee? Marry, will I; kneel, and repeat it: I will stand, and so shall Trinculo. As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant, a sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island. Thou liest. Thou liest, thou jesting monkey thou; I would my valiant master would destroy thee; I do not lie. Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in his tale, by this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth. Why, I said nothing. Mum then and no more. Proceed.
I say, by sorcery he got this isle; From me he got it: if thy greatness will, Revenge it on him, for, I know, thou dar'st; But this thing dare not, That's most certain. Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee. How now shall this be compassed? Canst thou bring me to the party? Yea, yea, my lord: I'll yield him thee asleep, Where thou may'st knock a nail into his head. Thou liest; thou canst not. What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch! I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows, And take his bottle from him: when that's gone He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him Where the quick freshes are. Trinculo, run into no further danger: interrupt the monster one word further, and, by this hand, I'll turn my mercy out o' doors and make a stock-fish of thee. Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go further off. Didst thou not say he hed? Thou liest. Do I so? take thou that. As you like this, give me the lie another time. I did not give thee the he: Out o' your wits and hearing too? A pox o' your bottle! this can sack and drinking do. A murrain on your monster, and the devil take your fingers! Ha, ha, ha! Now, forward with your tale. Prithee stand further off. Beat him enough: after a little time I'll beat him too. Stand further. Come, proceed.
Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him I' the afternoon to sleep: there thou may'st brain him, Having first seiz'd his books; or with a log Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake, Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember First to possess his books; for without them He's but a sot, as I am, nor hath not One spirit to command: they all do hate him As rootedly as I. Burn but his books; He has brave utensils, for so he calls them, Which, when he has a house, he'll deck withal: And that most deeply to consider is The beauty of his daughter; he himself Calls her a nonpareil: I never saw a woman, But only Sycorax my dam and she; But she as far surpasseth Sycorax As great'st does least. Is it so brave a lass? Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant, And bring thee forth brave brood. Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and I will be king and queen, save our graces! and Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou like the plot, Trinculo? Excellent. Give me thy hand: I am sorry I beat thee; but, while thou livest, keep a good tongue in thy head. Within this half hour will he be asleep; Wilt thou destroy him then? Ay, on mine honour. This will I tell my master.
Thou mak'st me merry: I am full of pleasure. Let us be jocund: will you troll the catch You taught me but while-ere? At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any reason: Come on, Trinculo, let us sing. Flout 'em, and scout 'em; and scout 'em, and flout 'em; Thought is free. That's not the tune. What is this same? This is the tune of our catch, played by the picture of Nobody. If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy likeness: if thou beest a devil, take't as thou list. O, forgive me my sins! He that dies pays all debts: I defy thee. Mercy upon us! Art thou afeard? No, monster, not I. Be not afeard: the isle is full of noises, Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight, and hurt not. Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments Will hum about mine ears; and sometime voices, That, if I then had wak'd after long sleep, Will make mesleep again: and then, in dreaming, The clouds methought would open and show riches Ready to drop upon me; that, when I wak'd I cried to dream again. This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I shall have my music for nothing. When Prospero is destroyed. That shall be by and by: I remember the story. The sound is going away: let's follow it, and after do our work. Lead, monster; we'll follow. I would I could see this taborer! he lays it on. Wilt come?
I'll follow, Stephano. By'r lakin, I can go no further, sir; My old bones ache: here's a maze trod indeed, Through forth-rights, and meanders! by your patience, I needs must rest me. Old lord, I cannot blame thee, Who am myself attach'd with weariness, To the dulling of my spirits: sit down, and rest. Even here I will put off my hope, and keep it No longer for my flatterer: he is drown'd Whom thus we stray to find; and the sea mocks Our frustrate search on land. Well, let him go. I am right glad that he's so out of hope. Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose That you resolv'd to effect. The next advantage Will we take throughly. Let it be to-night; For, now they are oppress'd with travel, they Will not, nor cannot, use such vigilance As when they are fresh. I say to-night: no more. What harmony is this? my good friends, hark! Marvellous sweet music! Give us kind keepers, heavens! What were these? A living drollery. Now I will believe That there are unicorns; that in Arabia There is one tree, the phœnix' throne; one phœnix At this hour reigning there. I'll believe both; And what does else want credit, come to me, And I'll be sworn 'tis true: travellers ne'er did lie, Though fools at home condemn them. If in Naples I should report this now, would they believe me?
If I should say I saw such islanders, For, certes, these are people of the island, Who, though they are of monstrous shape, yet, note, Their manners are more gentle-kind than of Our human generation you shall find Many, nay, almost any. Honest lord, Thou hast said well; for some of you there present Are worse than devils. I cannot too much muse, Such shapes, such gesture, and such sound, expressing, Although they want the use of tongue, a kind Of excellent dumb discourse. Praise in departing. They vanish'd strangely. No matter, since They have left their viands behind; for we have stomachs. Will't please you to taste of what is here? Not I. Faith, sir, you need not fear. When we were boys, Who would believe that there were mountaineers Dew-lapp'd like bulls, whose throats had hanging at them Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men Whose heads stood in their breasts? which now we find Each putter-out of five for one will bring us Good warrant of. I will stand to and feed, Although my last; no matter, since I feel The best is past. Brother, my lord the duke, Stand to and do as we.
You are three men of sin, whom Destiny That hath to instrument this lower world And what is in't, the never-surfeited sea Hath caused to belch up you; and on this island Where man doth not inhabit; you 'mongst men Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad; And even with such-like valour men hang and drown Their proper selves. You fools! I and my fellows Are ministers of fate: the elements Of whom your swords are temper'd, may as well Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish One dowle that's in my plume; my fellow-ministers Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt, Your swords are now too massy for your strengths, And will not be uplifted. But, remember, For that's my business to you, that you three From Milan did supplant good Prospero; Expos'd unto the sea, which hath requit it, Him and his innocent child: for which foul deed The powers, delaying, not forgetting, have Incens'd the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures, Against your peace.
Thee of thy son, Alonso, They have bereft; and do pronounce, by me, Lingering perdition, worse than any death Can be at once, shall step by step attend You and your ways; whose wraths to guard you from Which here in this most desolate isle, else falls Upon your heads, is nothing but heart-sorrow And a clear life ensuing. Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou Perform'd, my Ariel; a grace it had, devouring: Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated In what thou hadst to say: so, with good life And observation strange, my meaner ministers Their several kinds have done. My high charms work, And these mine enemies are all knit up In their distractions: they now are in my power; And in these fits I leave them, while I visit Young Ferdinand, whom they suppose is drown'd, And his and mine lov'd darling. I the name of something holy, sir, why stand you In this strange stare? O, it is monstrous! monstrous! Methought the billows spoke and told me of it; The winds did sing it to me; and the thunder, That deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pronounc'd The name of Prosper: it did bass my trespass. Therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded; and I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded, And with him there lie mudded. But one fiend at a time, I'll fight their legions o'er. I'll be thy second.
All three of them are desperate; their great guilt, Like poison given to work a great time after, Now 'gins to bite the spirits. I do beseech you That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly And hinder them from what this ecstasy May now provoke them to. Follow, I pray you. If I have too austerely punish'd you, Your compensation makes amends; for I Have given you here a third of mine own life, Or that for which I live; whom once again I tender to thy hand: all thy vexations Were but my trials of thy love, and thou Hast strangely stood the test: here, afore Heaven, I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand! Do not smile at me that I boast her off, For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise, And make it halt behind her. I do believe it Against an oracle.
Then, as my gift and thine own acquisition Worthily purchas'd, take my daughter: but If thou dost break her virgin knot before All sanctimonious ceremonies may With full and holy rite be minister'd, No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall To make this contract grow; but barren hate, Sour-ey'd disdain and discord shall bestrew The union of your bed with weeds so loathly That you shall hate it both: therefore take heed, As Hymen's lamps shall light you. As I hope For quiet days, fair issue and long life, With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den, The most opportune place, the strong'st sug gestion Our worser genius can, shall never melt Mine honour into lust, to take away The edge of that day's celebration When I shall think, or Phœbus' steeds are founder'd, Or Night kept chain'd below. Fairly spoke: Sit then, and talk with her, she is thine own. What, Ariell my industrious servant Ariell What would my potent master? here I am. Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service Did worthily perform; and I must use you In such another trick. Go bring the rabble, O'er whom I give thee power, here to this place: Incite them to quick motion; for I must Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple Some vanity of mine art: it is my promise, And they expect it from me. Presently? Ay, with a twink.
Before you can say, 'Come,' and 'Go,' And breathe twice; and cry, 'so, so,' Each one, tripping on his toe, Will be here with mop and mow. Do you love me, master? no? Dearly my delicate Ariel. Do not approach Till thou dost hear me call. Well, I conceive. Look, thou be true; do not give dalliance Too much the rein: the strongest oaths are straw To the fire i' the blood: be more abstemious, Or else good night your vow! I warrant you, sir; The white-cold virgin snow upon my heart Abates the ardour of my liver. Well. Now come, my Ariel! bring a corollary, Rather than want a spirit: appear, and pertly. No tongue! all eyes! be silent.
Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich leas Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats, and peas; Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep, And flat meads thatch'd with stover, them to keep; Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims, Which spongy April at thy hest betrims, To make cold nymphs chaste crowns; and thy broom groves, Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves, Being lass-lorn; thy pole-clipt vineyard; And thy sea-marge, sterile and rocky-hard, Where thou thyself dost air: the queen o' the sky, Whose watery arch and messenger am I, Bids thee leave these; and with her sovereign grace, Here on this grass-plot, in this very place, To come and sport; her peacocks fly amain: Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain. Hail, many-colour'd messenger, that ne'er Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter; Who with thy saffron wings upon my flowers Diffusest honey-drops, refreshing showers: And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown My bosky acres, and my unshrubb'd down, Rich scarf to my proud earth; why hath thy queen Summon'd me hither, to this short-grass'd green? A contract of true love to celebrate, And some donation freely to estate On the bless'd lovers. Tell me, heavenly bow, If Venus or her son, as thou dost know, Do now attend the queen? since they did plot The means that dusky Dis my daughter got, Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company I have forsworn.
Of her society Be not afraid; I met her deity Cutting the clouds towards Paphos and her son Dove-drawn with her. Here thought they to have done Some wanton charm upon this man and maid, Whose vows are, that no bed-rite shall be paid Till Hymen's torch be lighted; but in vain: Mars's hot minion is return'd again; Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows, Swears he will shoot no more, but play with sparrows, And be a boy right out. Highest queen of state, Great Juno comes; I know her by her gait. How does my bounteous sister? Go with me To bless this twain, that they may prosperous be, And honour'd in their issue. Honour, riches, marriage-blessing, Long continuance, and increasing, Hourly joys be still upon you! Juno sings her blessings on you. Earth's increase, foison plenty, Barns and garners never empty: Vines, with clust'ring bunches growing; Plants with goodly burden bowing; Spring come to you at the farthest In the very end of harvest! Scarcity and want shall shun you; Ceres' blessing so is on you. This is a most majestic vision, and Harmonious charmingly: May I be bold To think these spirits? Spirits, which by mine art I have from their confines call'd to enact My present fancies. Let me live here ever: So rare a wonder'd father and a wise, Makes this place Paradise. Sweet, now, silence!
Juno and Ceres whisper seriously, There's something else to do: hush, and be mute, Or else our spell is marr'd. You nymphs, call'd Naiades, of the windring brooks, With your sedg'd crowns, and ever-harmless looks, Leave your crisp channels, and on this green land Answer your summons: Juno does command. Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate A contract of true love: be not too late. You sun-burn'd sicklemen, of August weary, Come hither from the furrow, and be merry: Make holiday: your rye-straw hats put on, And these fresh nymphs encounter every one In country footing. I had forgot that foul conspiracy Of the beast Caliban, and his confederates Against my life: the minute of their plot Is almost come. Well done! avoid; no more! This is strange: your father's in some passion That works him strongly. Never till this day Saw I him touch'd with anger so distemper'd. You do look, my son, in a mov'd sort, As if you were dismay'd: be cheerful, sir: Our revels now are ended.
These our actors, As I foretold you, were all spirits and Are melted into air, into thin air: And, like the baseless fabric of this vision, The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself, Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve And, like this insubstantial pageant faded, Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life Is rounded with a sleep. Sir, I am vex'd: Bear with my weakness; my old brain is troubled. Be not disturb'd with my infirmity. If you be pleas'd, retire into my cell And there repose: a turn or two I'll walk, To still my beating mind. We wish your peace. Come with a thought! I thank thee: Ariel, come! Thy thoughts I cleave to. What's thy pleasure? Spirit, We must prepare to meet with Caliban. Ay, my commander; when I presented Ceres, I thought to have told thee of it; but I fear'd Lest I might anger thee. Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets? I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking; So full of valour that they smote the air For breathing in their faces; beat the ground For kissing of their feet; yet always bending Towards their project.
Then I beat my tabor; At which, like unback'd colts, they prick'd their ears, Advanc'd their eyelids, lifted up their noses As they smelt music: so I charm'd their ears That, calf-like, they my lowing follow'd through Tooth'd briers, sharp furzes, pricking goss and thorns, Which enter'd their frail shins: at last I left them I' the filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell, There dancing up to the chins, that the foul lake O'erstunk their feet. This was well done, my bird. Thy shape invisible retain thou still: The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither, For stale to catch these thieves. I go, I go. A devil, a born devil, on whose nature Nurture can never stick; on whom my pains, Humanely taken, are all lost, quite lost; And as with age his body uglier grows, So his mind cankers. I will plague them all, Even to roaring. Come, hang them on this line. Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not Hear a foot fall: we now are near his cell. Monster, your fairy, which you say is a harmless fairy, has done little better than played the Jack with us. Monster, I do smell all horse-piss; at which my nose is in great indignation. So is mine. Do you hear, monster? If I should take a displeasure against you, look you, Thou wert but a lost monster.
Good my lord, give me thy favour still: Be patient, for the prize I'll bring thee to Shall hoodwink this mischance: therefore speak softly; All's hush'd as midnight yet. Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool, There is not only disgrace and dishonour in that, monster, but an infinite loss. That's more to me than my wetting: yet this is your harmless fairy, monster. I will fetch off my bottle, though I be o'er ears for my labour. Prithee, my king, be quiet. Seest thou here, This is the mouth o' the cell: no noise, and enter. Do that good mischief, which may make this island Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban, For aye thy foot-licker. Give me thy hand: I do begin to have bloody thoughts. O king Stephano! O peer! O worthy Stephano! look, what a wardrobe here is for thee! Let it alone, thou fool; it is but trash. O, ho, monster! we know what belongs to a frippery. O king Stephano! Put off that gown, Trinculo; by this hand, I'll have that gown. Thy grace shall have it. The dropsy drown this fooll what do you mean To dote thus on such luggage? Let's along, And do the murder first: if he awake, From toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches; Make us strange stuff. Be you quiet, monster. Mistress line, is not this my jerkin?
Now is the jerkin under the line: now, jerkin, you are like to lose your hair and prove a bald jerkin. Do, do: we steal by line and level, an't like your grace. I thank thee for that jest; here's a garment for't: wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this country: 'Steal by line and level,' is an excellent pass of pate; there's another garment for't. Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers, and away with the rest. I will have none on't: we shall lose our time, And all be turn'd to barnacles, or to apes With foreheads villanous low. Monster, lay-to your fingers: help to bear this away where my hogshead of wine is, or I'll turn you out of my kingdom. Go to; carry this. And this. Ay, and this. Hey, Mountain, hey! Silver! there it goes, Silver! Fury, Fury! there, Tyrant, there! hark, hark! Go, charge my goblins that they grind their joints With dry convulsions; shorten up their sinews With aged cramps, and more pinch-spotted make them Than pard, or cat o' mountain. Hark! they roar. Let them be hunted soundly. At this hour Lie at my mercy all mine enemies: Shortly shall all my labours end, and thou Shalt have the air at freedom: for a little, Follow, and do me service. Now does my project gather to a head: My charms crack not; my spirits obey, and time Goes upright with his carriage. How's the day?
On the sixth hour; at which time, my lord, You said our work should cease. I did say so, When first I rais'd the tempest. Say, my spirit, How fares the king and's followers? Confin'd together In the same fashion as you gave in charge, Just as you left them: all prisoners, sir, In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell; They cannot budge till your release. The king, His brother, and yours, abide all three distracted, And the remainder mourning over them, Brimful of sorrow and dismay; but chiefly Him, that you term'd, sir, 'The good old lord Gonzalo:' His tears run down his beard, like winter's drops From eaves of reeds; your charm so strongly works them, That if you now beheld them, your affections Would become tender. Dost thou think so, spirit? Mine would, sir, were I human. And mine shall. Hast thou, which art but air, a touch, a feeling Of their afflictions, and shall not myself, One of their kind, that relish all as sharply, Passion as they, be kindlier mov'd than thou art? Though with their high wrongs I am struck to the quick, Yet with my nobler reason 'gainst my fury Do I take part: the rarer action is In virtue than in vengeance: they being penitent, The sole drift of my purpose doth extend Not a frown further. Go, release them, Ariel. My charms I'll break, their senses I'll restore, And they shall be themselves.
I'll fetch them, sir Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes, and groves; And ye, that on the sands with printless foot Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him When he comes back; you demi-puppets, that By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make Whereof the ewe not bites; and you, whose pastime Is to make midnight mushrooms; that rejoice To hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid, Weak masters though ye be I have bedimm'd The noontide sun, call'd forth the mutinous winds, And 'twixt the green sea and the azur'd vault Set roaring war: to the dread-rattling thunder Have I given fire and rifted Jove's stout oak With his own bolt: the strong-bas'd promontory Have I made shake; and by the spurs pluck'd up The pine and cedar: graves at my command Have wak'd their sleepers, op'd, and let them forth By my so potent art. But this rough magic I here abjure; and, when I have requir'd Some heavenly music, which even now I do, To work mine end upon their senses that This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff, Bury it certain fathoms in the earth, And, deeper than did ever plummet sound, I'll drown my book. A solemn air and the best comforter To an unsettled fancy, cure thy brains, Now useless, boil'd within thy skull! There stand, For you are spell-stopp'd.
Holy Gonzalo, honourable man, Mine eyes, even sociable to the show of thine, Fall fellowly drops. The charm dissolves apace; And as the morning steals upon the night, Melting the darkness, so their rising senses Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle Their clearer reason. O good Gonzalo! My true preserver, and a loyal sir To him thou follow'st, I will pay thy graces Home, both in word and deed. Most cruelly Didst thou, Alonso, use me and my daughter: Thy brother was a furtherer in the act; Thou'rt pinch'd for't now, Sebastian. Flesh and blood, You, brother mine, that entertain'd ambition, Expell'd remorse and nature; who, with Sebastian, Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong, Would here have kill'd your king; I do forgive thee, Unnatural though thou art! Their understanding Begins to swell, and the approaching tide Will shortly fill the reasonable shores That now lie foul and muddy. Not one of them That yet looks on me, or would know me. Ariel, Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell: I will discase me, and myself present, As I was sometime Milan. Quickly, spirit; Thou shalt ere long be free. Where the bee sucks, there suck I In a cowslip's bell I he: There I couch when owls do cry.
On the bat's back I do fly After summer merrily Merrily, merrily shall I live now Under the blossom that hangs on the bough Why, that's my dainty Ariel! I shall miss thee; But yet thou shalt have freedom; so, so, so. To the king's ship, invisible as thou art: There shalt thou find the mariners asleep Under the hatches; the master and the boatswain Being awake, enforce them to this place, And presently, I prithee. I drink the air before me, and return Or e'er your pulse twice beat. All torment, trouble, wonder, and amazement Inhabits here: some heavenly power guide us Out of this fearful country! Behold, sir king, The wronged Duke of Milan, Prospero. For more assurance that a living prince Does now speak to thee, I embrace thy body; And to thee and thy company I bid A hearty welcome. Whe'r thou beest he or no, Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me, As late I have been, I not know: thy pulse Beats, as of flesh and blood; and, since I saw thee, Th' affliction of my mind amends, with which, I fear, a madness held me: this must crave, An if this be at all a most strange story. Thy dukedom I resign, and do entreat Thou pardon me my wrongs. But how should Prospero Be living, and be here?
First, noble friend, Let me embrace thine age; whose honour cannot Be measur'd, or confin'd. Whether this be, Or be not, I'll not swear. You do yet taste Some subtilties o' the isle, that will not let you Believe things certain. Welcome! my friends all: But you, my brace of lords, were I so minded, I here could pluck his highness' frown upon you, And justify you traitors: at this time I will tell no tales. The devil speaks in him. No. For you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother Would even infect my mouth, I do forgive Thy rankest fault; all of them; and require My dukedom of thee, which, perforce, I know, Thou must restore. If thou beest Prospero, Give us particulars of thy preservation; How thou hast met us here, who three hours since Were wrack'd upon this shore; where I have lost, How sharp the point of this remembrance is! My dear son Ferdinand. I am woe for't, sir. Irreparable is the loss, and patience Says it is past her cure. I rather think You have not sought her help; of whose soft grace, For the like loss I have her sovereign aid, And rest myself content. You the like loss! As great to me, as late; and, supportable To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker Than you may call to comfort you, for I Have lost my daughter. A daughter? O heavens!
that they were living both in Naples, The king and queen there! that they were, I wish Myself were mudded in that oozy bed Where my son lies. When did you lose your daughter? In this last tempest. I perceive, these lords At this encounter do so much admire That they devour their reason, and scarce think Their eyes do offices of truth, their words Are natural breath: but, howsoe'er you have Been justled from your senses, know for certain That I am Prospero and that very duke Which was thrust forth of Milan; who most strangely Upon this shore, where you were wrack'd, was landed, To be the lord on't. No more yet of this; For 'tis a chronicle of day by day, Not a relation for a breakfast nor Befitting this first meeting. Welcome, sir; This cell's my court: here have I few attendants And subjects none abroad: pray you, look in. My dukedom since you have given me again, I will requite you with as good a thing; At least bring forth a wonder, to content ye As much as me my dukedom. Sweet lord, you play me false. No, my dearest love, I would not for the world. Yes, for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle, And I would call it fair play. If this prove A vision of the island, one dear son Shall I twice lose. A most high miracle!
Though the seas threaten, they are merciful: I have curs'd them without cause. Now, all the blessings Of a glad father compass thee about! Arise, and say how thou cam'st here. O, wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world, That has such people in't! 'Tis new to thee. What is this maid, with whom thou wast at play? Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours: Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us, And brought us thus together? Sir, she is mortal; But by immortal Providence she's mine; I chose her when I could not ask my father For his advice, nor thought I had one. She Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan, Of whom so often I have heard renown, But never saw before; of whom I have Receiv'd a second life; and second father This lady makes him to me. I am hers: But O! how oddly will it sound that I Must ask my child forgiveness! There, sir, stop: Let us not burden our remembrances With a heaviness that's gone. I have inly wept, Or should have spoke ere this. Look down, you gods, And on this couple drop a blessed crown; For it is you that have chalk'd forth the way Which brought us hither! I say, Amen, Gonzalo! Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue Should become kings of Naples?
O, rejoice Beyond a common joy, and set it down With gold on lasting pillars. In one voyage Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis, And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife Where he himself was lost; Prospero his dukedom In a poor isle; and all of us ourselves, When no man was his own. Give me your hands: Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart That doth not wish you joy! Be it so: Amen! O look, sir! look, sir! here are more of us. I prophesied, if a gallows were on land, This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy, That swear'st grace o'erboard, not an oath on shore? Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news? The best news is that we have safely found Our king and company: the next, our ship, Which but three glasses since we gave out split, Is tight and yare and bravely rigg'd as when We first put out to sea. Sir, all this service Have I done since I went. My tricksy spirit! These are not natural events; they strengthen From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither? If I did think, sir, I were well awake, I'd strive to tell you.
We were dead of sleep, And, how we know not, all clapp'd under hatches, Where, but even now, with strange and several noises Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains, And mo diversity of sounds, all horrible, We were awak'd; straightway, at liberty: Where we, in all her trim, freshly beheld Our royal, good, and gallant ship; our master Capering to eye her: on a trice, so please you, Even in a dream, were we divided from them, And were brought moping hither. Was't well done? Bravely, my diligence! Thou shalt be free. This is as strange a maze as e'er men trod; And there is in this business more than nature Was ever conduct of: some oracle Must rectify our knowledge. Sir, my liege, Do not infest your mind with beating on The strangeness of this business: at pick'd leisure Which shall be shortly, single I'll resolve you, Which to you shall seem probable, of every These happen'd accidents; till when, be cheerful, And think of each thing well. Come hither, spirit; Set Caliban and his companions free; Untie the spell. How fares my gracious sir? There are yet missing of your company Some few odd lads that you remember not. Every man shift for all the rest, and let no man take care for himself, for all is but fortune. Coragio! bully-monster, Coragio! If these be true spies which I wear in my head, here's a goodly sight. O Setebos! these be brave spirits, indeed.
How fine my master is! I am afraid He will chastise me. Ha, ha! What things are these, my lord Antonio? Will money buy them? Very like; one of them Is a plain fish, and, no doubt, marketable. Mark but the badges of these men, my lords, Then say, if they be true. This mis-shapen knave, His mother was a witch; and one so strong That could control the moon, make flows and ebbs, And deal in her command without her power. These three have robb'd me; and this demidevil, For he's a bastard one, had plotted with them To take my life: two of these fellows you Must know and own; this thing of darkness I Acknowledge mine. I shall be pinch'd to death Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler? He is drunk now: where had he wine? And Trinculo is reeling-ripe: where should they Find this grand liquor that hath gilded them? How cam'st thou in this pickle? I have been in such a pickle since I saw you last that, I fear me, will never out of my bones: I shall not fear fly-blowing. Why, how now, Stephano! O! touch me not: I am not Stephano, but a cramp. You'd be king of the isle, sirrah? I should have been a sore one then. This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on. He is as disproportion'd in his manners As in his shape.
Go, sirrah, to my cell; Take with you your companions: as you look To have my pardon, trim it handsomely. Ay, that I will; and I'll be wise hereafter, And seek for grace. What a thrice-double ass Was I, to take this drunkard for a god, And worship this dull fool! Go to; away! Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it. Or stole it, rather. Sir, I invite your highness and your train To my poor cell, where you shall take your rest For this one night; which part of it I'll waste With such discourse as, I not doubt, shall make it Go quick away; the story of my life And the particular accidents gone by Since I came to this isle: and in the morn I'll bring you to your ship, and so to Naples, Where I have hope to see the nuptial Of these our dear-beloved solemniz'd; And thence retire me to my Milan, where Every third thought shall be my grave. I long To hear the story of your life, which must Take the ear strangely. I'll deliver all; And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales And sail so expeditious that shall catch Your royal fleet far off. My Ariel, chick, That is thy charge: then to the elements Be free, and fare thou well! Please you, draw near.
Now my charms are all o'erthrown, And what strength I have's mine own; Which is most faint: now, 'tis true, I must be here confin'd by you, Or sent to Naples Let me not, Since I have my dukedom got And pardon'd the deceiver, dwell In this bare island by your spell; But release me from my bands With the help of your good hands. Gentle breath of yours my sails Must fill, or else my project fails, Which was to please. Now I want Spirits to enforce, art to enchant; And my ending is despair, Unless I be reliev'd by prayer, Which pierces so that it assaults Mercy itself and frees all faults. As you from crimes would pardon'd be, Let your indulgence set me free.
In sooth, I know not why I am so sad: It wearies me; you say it wearies you; But how I caught it, found it, or came by it, What stuff 'tis made of, whereof it is born, I am to learn; And such a want-wit sadness makes of me, That I have much ado to know myself. Your mind is tossing on the ocean; There, where your argosies with portly sail, Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood, Or, as it were, the pageants of the sea, Do overpeer the petty traffickers, That curtsy to them, do them reverence, As they fly by them with their woven wings. Believe me, sir, had I such venture forth, The better part of my affections would Be with my hopes abroad. I should be still Plucking the grass to know where sits the wind; Peering in maps for ports, and piers, and roads; And every object that might make me fear Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt Would make me sad. My wind, cooling my broth, Would blow me to an ague, when I thought What harm a wind too great might do at sea. I should not see the sandy hour-glass run But I should think of shallows and of flats, And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand Vailing her high-top lower than her ribs To kiss her burial.
Should I go to church And see the holy edifice of stone, And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks, Which touching but my gentle vessel's side Would scatter all her spices on the stream, Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks; And, in a word, but even now worth this, And now worth nothing? Shall I have the thought To think on this, and shall I lack the thought That such a thing bechanc'd would make me sad? But tell not me: I know Antonio Is sad to think upon his merchandise. Believe me, no: I thank my fortune for it, My ventures are not in one bottom trusted, Nor to one place; nor is my whole estate Upon the fortune of this present year: Therefore, my merchandise makes me not sad. Why, then you are in love. Fie, fie! Not in love neither? Then let's say you are sad, Because you are not merry: and 'twere as easy For you to laugh and leap, and say you are merry, Because you are not sad. Now, by two-headed Janus, Nature hath fram'd strange fellows in her time: Some that will evermore peep through their eyes And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper, And other of such vinegar aspect That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile, Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable. Here comes Bassanio, your most noble kinsman, Gratiano, and Lorenzo. Fare ye well: We leave you now with better company.
I would have stay'd till I had made you merry, If worthier friends had not prevented me. Your worth is very dear in my regard. I take it, your own business calls on you, And you embrace the occasion to depart. Good morrow, my good lords. Good signiors both, when shall we laugh? say when? You grow exceeding strange: must it be so? We'll make our leisures to attend on yours. My Lord Bassanio, since you have found Antonio, We too will leave you; but, at dinner-time, I pray you, have in mind where we must meet. I will not fail you. You look not well, Signior Antonio; You have too much respect upon the world: They lose it that do buy it with much care: Believe me, you are marvellously chang'd. I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano; A stage where every man must play a part, And mine a sad one. Let me play the fool: With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come, And let my liver rather heat with wine Than my heart cool with mortifying groans. Why should a man, whose blood is warm within, Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster? Sleep when he wakes, and creep into the jaundice By being peevish?
I tell thee what, Antonio I love thee, and it is my love that speaks There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like a standing pond, And do a wilful stillness entertain, With purpose to be dress'd in an opinion Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit; As who should say, 'I am Sir Oracle, And when I ope my lips let no dog bark!' O, my Antonio, I do know of these, That therefore only are reputed wise For saying nothing; when, I am very sure, If they should speak, would almost damn those ears Which, hearing them, would call their brothers fools. I'll tell thee more of this another time: But fish not, with this melancholy bait, For this fool-gudgeon, this opinion. Come, good Lorenzo. Fare ye well awhile: I'll end my exhortation after dinner. Well, we will leave you then till dinner-time. I must be one of these same dumb-wise men, For Gratiano never lets me speak. Well, keep me company but two years moe, Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue. Farewell: I'll grow a talker for this gear. Thanks, i' faith; for silence is only commendable In a neat's tongue dried and a maid not vendible. Is that anything now? Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more than any man in all Venice.
His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find them, and, when you have them, they are not worth the search. Well, tell me now, what lady is the same To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage, That you to-day promis'd to tell me of? 'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio, How much I have disabled mine estate, By something showing a more swelling port Than my faint means would grant continuance: Nor do I now make moan to be abridg'd From such a noble rate; but my chief care Is, to come fairly off from the great debts Wherein my time, something too prodigal, Hath left me gag'd. To you, Antonio, I owe the most, in money and in love; And from your love I have a warranty To unburthen all my plots and purposes How to get clear of all the debts I owe. I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it; And if it stand, as you yourself still do, Within the eye of honour, be assur'd, My purse, my person, my extremest means, Lie all unlock'd to your occasions. In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft, I shot his fellow of the self-same flight The self-same way with more advised watch, To find the other forth, and by adventuring both, I oft found both. I urge this childhood proof, Because what follows is pure innocence.
I owe you much, and, like a wilful youth, That which I owe is lost; but if you please To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first, I do not doubt, As I will watch the aim, or to find both, Or bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully rest debtor for the first. You know me well, and herein spend but time To wind about my love with circumstance; And out of doubt you do me now more wrong In making question of my uttermost Than if you had made waste of all I have: Then do but say to me what I should do That in your knowledge may by me be done, And I am prest unto it: therefore speak.
In Belmont is a lady richly left, And she is fair, and, fairer than that word, Of wondrous virtues: sometimes from her eyes I did receive fair speechless messages: Her name is Portia; nothing undervalu'd To Cato's daughter, Brutus' Portia: Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth, For the four winds blow in from every coast Renowned suitors; and her sunny locks Hang on her temples like a golden fleece; Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos' strond, And many Jasons come in quest of her. O my Antonio! had I but the means To hold a rival place with one of them, I have a mind presages me such thrift, That I should questionless be fortunate. Thou knowest that all my fortunes are at sea; Neither have I money, nor commodity To raise a present sum: therefore go forth; Try what my credit can in Venice do: That shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost, To furnish thee to Belmont, to fair Portia. Go, presently inquire, and so will I, Where money is, and I no question make To have it of my trust or for my sake. By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of this great world.
You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in the same abundance as your good fortunes are: and yet, for aught I see, they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with nothing. It is no mean happiness therefore, to be seated in the mean: superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but competency lives longer. Good sentences and well pronounced. They would be better if well followed. If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches, and poor men's cottages princes' palaces. It is a good divine that follows his own instructions: I can easier teach twenty what were good to be done, than be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold decree: such a hare is madness the youth, to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the cripple. But this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband. O me, the word 'choose!' I may neither choose whom I would nor refuse whom I dislike; so is the will of a living daughter curbed by the will of a dead father. Is it not hard, Nerissa, that I cannot choose one nor refuse none?
Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at their death have good inspirations; therefore, the lottery that he hath devised in these three chests of gold, silver, and lead, whereof who chooses his meaning chooses you, will, no doubt, never be chosen by any rightly but one who you shall rightly love. But what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these princely suitors that are already come? I pray thee, over-name them, and as thou namest them, I will describe them; and, according to my description, level at my affection. First, there is the Neapolitan prince. Ay, that's a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but talk of his horse; and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts that he can shoe him himself. I am much afeard my lady his mother played false with a smith. Then is there the County Palatine. He doth nothing but frown, as who should say, 'An you will not have me, choose.' He hears merry tales, and smiles not: I fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old, being so full of unmannerly sadness in his youth. I had rather be married to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth than to either of these. God defend me from these two! How say you by the French lord, Monsieur Le Bon? God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man.
In truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker; but, he! why, he hath a horse better than the Neapolitan's, a better bad habit of frowning than the Count Palatine; he is every man in no man; if a throstle sing, he falls straight a-capering; he will fence with his own shadow: if I should marry him, I should marry twenty husbands. If he would despise me, I would forgive him, for if he love me to madness, I shall never requite him. What say you, then, to Falconbridge, the young baron of England? You know I say nothing to him, for he understands not me, nor I him: he hath neither Latin, French, nor Italian; and you will come into the court and swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English. He is a proper man's picture, but, alas! who can converse with a dumb-show? How oddly he is suited! I think he bought his doublet in Italy, his round hose in France, his bonnet in Germany, and his behaviour every where. What think you of the Scottish lord, his neighbour? That he hath a neighbourly charity in him, for he borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman, and swore he would pay him again when he was able: I think the Frenchman became his surety and sealed under for another. How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony's nephew?
Very vilely in the morning, when he is sober, and most vilely in the afternoon, when he is drunk: when he is best, he is a little worse than a man, and when he is worst, he is little better than a beast. An the worst fall that ever fell, I hope I shall make shift to go without him. If he should offer to choose, and choose the right casket, you should refuse to perform your father's will, if you should refuse to accept him. Therefore, for fear of the worst, I pray thee, set a deep glass of Rhenish wine on the contrary casket, for, if the devil be within and that temptation without, I know he will choose it. I will do anything, Nerissa, ere I will be married to a sponge. You need not fear, lady, the having any of these lords: they have acquainted me with their determinations; which is, indeed, to return to their home and to trouble you with no more suit, unless you may be won by some other sort than your father's imposition depending on the caskets. If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die as chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the manner of my father's will.
I am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable, for there is not one among them but I dote on his very absence, and I pray God grant them a fair departure. Do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a Venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came hither in the company of the Marquis of Montferrat? Yes, yes: it was Bassanio; as I think, he was so called. True, madam: he, of all the men that ever my foolish eyes looked upon, was the best deserving a fair lady. I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of thy praise. How now! what news? The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take their leave; and there is a forerunner come from a fifth, the Prince of Morocco, who brings word the prince his master will be here to-night. If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good heart as I can bid the other four farewell, I should be glad of his approach: if he have the condition of a saint and the complexion of a devil, I had rather he should shrive me than wive me. Come, Nerissa. Sirrah, go before. Whiles we shut the gate upon one wooer, another knocks at the door. Three thousand ducats; well? Ay, sir, for three months. For three months; well? For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound. Antonio shall become bound; well? May you stead me? Will you pleasure me?
Shall I know your answer? Three thousand ducats, for three months, and Antonio bound. Your answer to that. Antonio is a good man. Have you heard any imputation to the contrary? Ho, no, no, no, no: my meaning in saying he is a good man is to have you understand me that he is sufficient. Yet his means are in supposition: he hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, another to the Indies; I understand moreover upon the Rialto, he hath a third at Mexico, a fourth for England, and other ventures he hath, squandered abroad. But ships are but boards, sailors but men: there be land-rats and water-rats, land-thieves, and water-thieves, I mean pirates, and then there is the peril of waters, winds, and rocks. The man is, notwithstanding, sufficient. Three thousand ducats; I think, I may take his bond. Be assured you may. I will be assured I may; and, that I may be assured, I will bethink me. May I speak with Antonio? If it please you to dine with us. Yes, to smell pork: to eat of the habitation which your prophet the Nazarite conjured the devil into. I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so following; but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray with you. What news on the Rialto? Who is he comes here? This is Signior Antonio. How like a fawning publican he looks!
I hate him for he is a Christian; But more for that in low simplicity He lends out money gratis, and brings down The rate of usance here with us in Venice. If I can catch him once upon the hip, I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him. He hates our sacred nation, and he rails, Even there where merchants most do congregate, On me, my bargains, and my well-won thrift, Which he calls interest. Cursed be my tribe, If I forgive him! Shylock, do you hear? I am debating of my present store, And, by the near guess of my memory, I cannot instantly raise up the gross Of full three thousand ducats. What of that? Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe, Will furnish me. But soft! how many months Do you desire? Rest you fair, good signior; Your worship was the last man in our mouths. Shylock, albeit I neither lend nor borrow By taking nor by giving of excess, Yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend, I'll break a custom. Is he yet possess'd How much ye would? Ay, ay, three thousand ducats. And for three months. I had forgot; three months; you told me so. Well then, your bond; and let me see. But hear you; Methought you said you neither lend nor borrow Upon advantage. I do never use it.
When Jacob graz'd his uncle Laban's sheep, This Jacob from our holy Abram was, As his wise mother wrought in his behalf, The third possessor: ay, he was the third, And what of him? did he take interest? No; not take interest; not, as you would say, Directly interest: mark what Jacob did. When Laban and himself were compromis'd, That all the eanlings that were streak'd and pied Should fall as Jacob's hire, the ewes, being rank, In end of autumn turned to the rams; And, when the work of generation was Between these woolly breeders in the act, The skilful shepherd peel'd me certain wands, And, in the doing of the deed of kind, He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes, Who, then conceiving, did in eaning time Fall parti-colour'd lambs, and those were Jacob's. This was a way to thrive, and he was blest: And thrift is blessing, if men steal it not. This was a venture, sir, that Jacob serv'd for; A thing not in his power to bring to pass, But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven. Was this inserted to make interest good? Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams? I cannot tell; I make it breed as fast: But note me, signior. Mark you this, Bassanio, The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
An evil soul, producing holy witness, Is like a villain with a smiling cheek, A goodly apple rotten at the heart. O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath! Three thousand ducats; 'tis a good round sum. Three months from twelve, then let me see the rate. Well, Shylock, shall we be beholding to you? Signior Antonio, many a time and oft In the Rialto you have rated me About my moneys and my usances: Still have I borne it with a patient shrug, For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe. You call me misbeliever, cut-throat dog, And spet upon my Jewish gaberdine, And all for use of that which is mine own. Well then, it now appears you need my help: Go to then; you come to me, and you say, 'Shylock, we would have moneys:' you say so; You, that did void your rheum upon my beard, And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur Over your threshold: moneys is your suit. What should I say to you? Should I not say, 'Hath a dog money? Is it possible A cur can lend three thousand ducats?'
or Shall I bend low, and in a bondman's key, With bated breath, and whispering humbleness, Say this: 'Fair sir, you spet on me on Wednesday last; You spurn'd me such a day; another time You call'd me dog; and for these courtesies I'll lend you thus much moneys?' I am as like to call thee so again, To spet on thee again, to spurn thee too. If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not As to thy friends, for when did friendship take A breed for barren metal of his friend? But lend it rather to thine enemy; Who if he break, thou mayst with better face Exact the penalty. Why, look you, how you storm! I would be friends with you, and have your love, Forget the shames that you have stain'd me with, Supply your present wants, and take no doit Of usance for my moneys, and you'll not hear me: This is kind I offer. This were kindness. This kindness will I show. Go with me to a notary, seal me there Your single bond; and, in a merry sport, If you repay me not on such a day, In such a place, such sum or sums as are Express'd in the condition, let the forfeit Be nominated for an equal pound Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken In what part of your body pleaseth me.
Content, i' faith: I'll seal to such a bond, And say there is much kindness in the Jew. You shall not seal to such a bond for me: I'll rather dwell in my necessity. Why, fear not, man; I will not forfeit it: Within these two months, that's a month before This bond expires, I do expect return Of thrice three times the value of this bond. O father Abram! what these Christians are, Whose own hard dealing teaches them suspect The thoughts of others. Pray you, tell me this; If he should break his day, what should I gain By the exaction of the forfeiture? A pound of man's flesh, taken from a man, Is not so estimable, profitable neither, As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats. I say, To buy his favour, I extend this friendship: If he will take it, so; if not, adieu; And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not. Yes, Shylock, I will seal unto this bond. Then meet me forthwith at the notary's; Give him direction for this merry bond, And I will go and purse the ducats straight, See to my house, left in the fearful guard Of an unthrifty knave, and presently I will be with you. Hie thee, gentle Jew. This Hebrew will turn Christian: he grows kind. I like not fair terms and a villain's mind. Come on: in this there can be no dismay; My ships come home a month before the day.
Mislike me not for my complexion, The shadow'd livery of the burnish'd sun, To whom I am a neighbour and near bred. Bring me the fairest creature northward born, Where Phœbus' fire scarce thaws the icicles, And let us make incision for your love, To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine. I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine Hath fear'd the valiant: by my love, I swear The best regarded virgins of our clime Have lov'd it too: I would not change this hue, Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen. In terms of choice I am not solely led By nice direction of a maiden's eyes; Besides, the lottery of my destiny Bars me the right of voluntary choosing: But if my father had not scanted me And hedg'd me by his wit, to yield myself His wife who wins me by that means I told you, Yourself, renowned prince, then stood as fair As any comer I have look'd on yet For my affection. Even for that I thank you: Therefore, I pray you, lead me to the caskets To try my fortune.
By this scimitar, That slew the Sophy, and a Persian prince That won three fields of Sultan Solyman, I would outstare the sternest eyes that look, Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth, Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear, Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey, To win thee, lady. But, alas the while! If Hercules and Lichas play at dice Which is the better man, the greater throw May turn by fortune from the weaker hand: So is Alcides beaten by his page; And so may I, blind fortune leading me, Miss that which one unworthier may attain, And die with grieving. You must take your chance; And either not attempt to choose at all, Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong, Never to speak to lady afterward In way of marriage: therefore be advis'd. Nor will not: come, bring me unto my chance. First, forward to the temple: after dinner Your hazard shall be made. Good fortune then! To make me blest or cursed'st among men! Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew my master. The fiend is at mine elbow, and tempts me, saying to me, 'Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good Launcelot,' or 'good Gobbo,' or 'good Launcelot Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away.'
My conscience says, 'No; take heed, honest Launcelot; take heed, honest Gobbo;' or, as aforesaid, 'honest Launcelot Gobbo; do not run; scorn running with thy heels.' Well, the most courageous fiend bids me pack: 'Via!' says the fiend; 'away!' says the fiend; 'for the heavens, rouse up a brave mind,' says the fiend, 'and run.' Well, my conscience, hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely to me, 'My honest friend Launcelot, being an honest man's son,' or rather an honest woman's son; for, indeed, my father did something smack, something grow to, he had a kind of taste; well, my conscience says, 'Launcelot, budge not.' 'Budge,' says the fiend. 'Budge not,' says my conscience. 'Conscience,' say I, 'you counsel well;' 'fiend,' say I, 'you counsel well:' to be ruled by my conscience, I should stay with the Jew my master, who, God bless the mark! is a kind of devil; and, to run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the fiend, who, saving your reverence, is the devil himself. Certainly, the Jew is the very devil incarnal; and, in my conscience, my conscience is but a kind of hard conscience, to offer to counsel me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more friendly counsel: I will run, fiend; my heels are at your commandment; I will run. Master young man, you; I pray you, which is the way to Master Jew's? O heavens!
this is my truebegotten father, who, being more than sandblind, high-gravel blind, knows me not: I will try confusions with him. Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way to Master Jew's? Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but, at the next turning of all, on your left; marry, at the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the Jew's house. By God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit. Can you tell me whether one Launcelot, that dwells with him, dwell with him or no? Talk you of young Master Launcelot? Mark me now; now will I raise the waters. Talk you of young Master Launcelot? No master, sir, but a poor man's son: his father, though I say it, is an honest, exceeding poor man, and, God be thanked, well to live. Well, let his father be what a' will, we talk of young Master Launcelot. Your worship's friend, and Launcelot, sir. But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you, talk you of young Master Launcelot? Of Launcelot, an't please your mastership. Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master Launcelot, father; for the young gentleman, according to Fates and Destinies and such odd sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of learning, is, indeed, deceased; or, as you would say in plain terms, gone to heaven. Marry, God forbid! the boy was the very staff of my age, my very prop.
Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or a prop? Do you know me, father? Alack the day! I know you not, young gentleman: but I pray you, tell me, is my boy, God rest his soul! alive or dead? Do you not know me, father? Alack, sir, I am sand-blind; I know you not. Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his own child. Well, old man, I will tell you news of your son. Give me your blessing; truth will come to light; murder cannot be hid long; a man's son may, but, in the end, truth will out. Pray you, sir, stand up. I am sure you are not Launcelot, my boy. Pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but give me your blessing: I am Launcelot, your boy that was, your son that is, your child that shall be. I cannot think you are my son. I know not what I shall think of that; but I am Launcelot, the Jew's man, and I am sure Margery your wife is my mother. Her name is Margery, indeed: I'll be sworn, if thou be Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood. Lord worshipped might he be! what a beard hast thou got! thou hast got more hair on thy chin than Dobbin my thill-horse has on his tail.
It should seem then that Dobbin's tail grows backward: I am sure he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face, when I last saw him. Lord! how art thou changed. How dost thou and thy master agree? I have brought him a present. How 'gree you now? Well, well: but, for mine own part, as I have set up my rest to run away, so I will not rest till I have run some ground. My master's a very Jew: give him a present! give him a halter: I am farnished in his service; you may tell every finger I have with my ribs. Father, I am glad you are come: give me your present to one Master Bassanio, who, indeed, gives rare new liveries. If I serve not him, I will run as far as God has any ground. O rare fortune! here comes the man: to him, father; for I am a Jew, if I serve the Jew any longer. You may do so; but let it be so hasted that supper be ready at the very furthest by five of the clock. See these letters delivered; put the liveries to making; and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging. To him, father. God bless your worship! Gramercy! wouldst thou aught with me?
Here's my son, sir, a poor boy, Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man; that would, sir, as my father shall specify, He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve Indeed, the short and the long is, I serve the Jew, and have a desire, as my father shall specify, His master and he, saving your worship's reverence, are scarce cater-cousins, To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew having done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father, being, I hope, an old man, shall frutify unto you, I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon your worship, and my suit is, In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as your worship shall know by this honest old man; and, though I say it, though old man, yet poor man, my father. One speak for both. What would you? Serve you, sir. That is the very defect of the matter, sir. I know thee well; thou hast obtain'd thy suit: Shylock thy master spoke with me this day, And hath preferr'd thee, if it be preferment To leave a rich Jew's service, to become The follower of so poor a gentleman. The old proverb is very well parted between my master Shylock and you, sir: you have the grace of God, sir, and he hath enough. Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.
Take leave of thy old master, and inquire My lodging out. Give him a livery More guarded than his fellows': see it done. Father, in. I cannot get a service, no; I have ne'er a tongue in my head. Well, if any man in Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear upon a book, I shall have good fortune. Go to; here's a simple line of life: here's a small trifle of wives: alas! fifteen wives is nothing: a 'leven widows and nine maids is a simple coming-in for one man; and then to 'scape drowning thrice, and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a feather-bed; here are simple 'scapes. Well, if Fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear. Father, come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling of an eye. I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this: These things being bought, and orderly bestow'd, Return in haste, for I do feast to-night My best-esteem'd acquaintance: hie thee, go. My best endeavours shall be done herein. Where is your master? Yonder, sir, he walks. Signior Bassanio! Gratiano! I have a suit to you. You have obtain'd it. You must not deny me: I must go with you to Belmont. Why, then you must.
But hear thee, Gratiano; Thou art too wild, too rude and bold of voice; Parts that become thee happily enough, And in such eyes as ours appear not faults; But where thou art not known, why, there they show Something too liberal. Pray thee, take pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit, lest, through thy wild behaviour, I be misconstru'd in the place I go to, And lose my hopes. Signior Bassanio, hear me: If I do not put on a sober habit, Talk with respect, and swear but now and then, Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely, Nay more, while grace is saying, hood mine eyes Thus with my hat, and sigh, and say 'amen;' Use all the observance of civility, Like one well studied in a sad ostent To please his grandam, never trust me more. Well, we shall see your bearing. Nay, but I bar to-night; you shall not gauge me By what we do to-night. No, that were pity: I would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends That purpose merriment. But fare you well: I have some business. And I must to Lorenzo and the rest; But we will visit you at supper-time. I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so: Our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil, Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
But fare thee well; there is a ducat for thee: And, Launcelot, soon at supper shalt thou see Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest: Give him this letter; do it secretly; And so farewell: I would not have my father See me in talk with thee. Adieu! tears exhibit my tongue. Most beautiful pagan, most sweet Jew! If a Christian did not play the knave and get thee, I am much deceived. But, adieu! these foolish drops do somewhat drown my manly spirit: adieu! Farewell, good Launcelot. Alack, what heinous sin is it in me To be asham'd to be my father's child! But though I am a daughter to his blood, I am not to his manners. O Lorenzo! If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife, Become a Christian, and thy loving wife. Nay, we will slink away in supper-time, Disguise us at my lodging, and return All in an hour. We have not made good preparation. We have not spoke us yet of torch-bearers. 'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly order'd, And better, in my mind, not undertook. 'Tis now but four o'clock: we have two hours To furnish us. Friend Launcelot, what's the news? An it shall please you to break up this, it shall seem to signify. I know the hand: in faith, 'tis a fair hand; And whiter than the paper it writ on Is the fair hand that writ. Love news, in faith. By your leave, sir.
Whither goest thou? Marry, sir, to bid my old master, the Jew, to sup to-night with my new master, the Christian. Hold here, take this: tell gentle Jessica I will not fail her; speak it privately. Go, gentlemen, Will you prepare you for this masque to-night? I am provided of a torch-bearer. Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight. And so will I. Meet me and Gratiano At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence. 'Tis good we do so. Was not that letter from fair Jessica? I must needs tell thee all. She hath directed How I shall take her from her father's house; What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with; What page's suit she hath in readiness. If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven, It will be for his gentle daughter's sake; And never dare misfortune cross her foot, Unless she do it under this excuse, That she is issue to a faithless Jew. Come, go with me: peruse this as thou goest. Fair Jessica shall be my torch-bearer. Well, thou shalt see, thy eyes shall be thy judge, The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio: What, Jessical thou shalt not gormandize, As thou hast done with me; What, Jessical And sleep and snore, and rend apparel out Why, Jessica, I say! Why, Jessica! Who bids thee call? I do not bid thee call. Your worship was wont to tell me that I could do nothing without bidding. Call you? What is your will?
I am bid forth to supper, Jessica: There are my keys. But wherefore should I go? I am not bid for love; they flatter me: But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon The prodigal Christian. Jessica, my girl, Look to my house. I am right loath to go: There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest, For I did dream of money-bags to-night. I beseech you, sir, go: my young master doth expect your reproach. So do I his. And they have conspired together: I will not say you shall see a masque; but if you do, then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on Black-Monday last, at six o'clock i' the morning, falling out that year on Ash-Wednesday was four year in the afternoon. What! are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica: Lock up my doors; and when you hear the drum, And the vile squealing of the wry-neck'd fife, Clamber not you up to the casements then, Nor thrust your head into the public street To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces, But stop my house's ears, I mean my casements; Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter My sober house. By Jacob's staff I swear I have no mind of feasting forth to-night; But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah; Say I will come. I will go before, air.
Mistress, look out at window, for all this; There will come a Christian by, Will be worth a Jewess' eye. What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha? His words were, 'Farewell, mistress;' nothing else. The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder; Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day More than the wild cat: drones hive not with me; Therefore I part with him, and part with him To one that I would have him help to waste His borrow'd purse. Well, Jessica, go in: Perhaps I will return immediately: Do as I bid you; shut doors after you: 'Fast bind, fast find,' A proverb never stale in thrifty mind. Farewell; and if my fortune be not crost, I have a father, you a daughter, lost. This is the penthouse under which Lorenzo Desir'd us to make stand. His hour is almost past. And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour, For lovers ever run before the clock. O! ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly To seal love's bonds new-made, than they are wont To keep obliged faith unforfeited! That ever holds: who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite that he sits down? Where is the horse that doth untread again His tedious measures with the unbated fire That he did pace them first? All things that are, Are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd.
How like a younker or a prodigal The scarfed bark puts from her native bay, Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind! How like the prodigal doth she return, With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails, Lean, rent, and beggar'd by the strumpet wind! Here comes Lorenzo: more of this hereafter. Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode; Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait: When you shall please to play the thieves for wives, I'll watch as long for you then. Approach; Here dwells my father Jew. Ho! who's within? Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty, Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue. Lorenzo, and thy love. Lorenzo, certain; and my love indeed, For whom love I so much? And now who knows But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours? Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art. Here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains. I am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me, For I am much asham'd of my exchange; But love is blind, and lovers cannot see The pretty follies that themselves commit; For if they could, Cupid himself would blush To see me thus transformed to a boy. Descend, for you must be my torch-bearer. What! must I hold a candle to my shames? They in themselves, good sooth, are too-too light. Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love, And I should be obscur'd.
So are you, sweet, Even in the lovely garnish of a boy. But come at once; For the close night doth play the runaway, And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast. I will make fast the doors, and gild myself With some more ducats, and be with you straight. Now, by my hood, a Gentile, and no Jew. Beshrew me, but I love her heartily; For she is wise, if I can judge of her, And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true, And true she is, as she hath prov'd herself; And therefore, like herself, wise, fair, and true, Shall she be placed in my constant soul. What, art thou come? On, gentlemen; away! Our masquing mates by this time for us stay. Who's there? Signior Antonio! Fie, fie, Gratiano! where are all the rest? 'Tis nine o'clock; our friends all stay for you. No masque to-night: the wind is come about; Bassanio presently will go aboard: I have sent twenty out to seek for you. I am glad on't: I desire no more delight Than to be under sail and gone to-night. Go, draw aside the curtains, and discover The several caskets to this noble prince. Now make your choice. The first, of gold, which this inscription bears: Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire. The second, silver, which this promise carries: Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.
This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt: Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath. How shall I know if I do choose the right? The one of them contains my picture, prince: If you choose that, then I am yours withal. Some god direct my judgment! Let me see: I will survey the inscriptions back again: What says this leaden casket? Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath. Must give: For what? for lead? hazard for lead? This casket threatens. Men that hazard all Do it in hope of fair advantages: A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross; I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead. What says the silver with her virgin hue? Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves. As much as he deserves! Pause there, Morocco, And weigh thy value with an even hand. If thou be'st rated by thy estimation, Thou dost deserve enough; and yet enough May not extend so far as to the lady: And yet to be afeard of my deserving Were but a weak disabling of myself. As much as I deserve! Why, that's the lady: I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes, In graces, and in qualities of breeding; But more than these, in love I do deserve. What if I stray'd no further, but chose here?
Let's see once more this saying grav'd in gold: Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire. Why, that's the lady: all the world desires her; From the four corners of the earth they come, To kiss this shrine, this mortal-breathing saint: The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds Of wide Arabia are as throughfares now For princes to come view fair Portia: The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head Spits in the face of heaven, is no bar To stop the foreign spirits, but they come, As o'er a brook, to see fair Portia. One of these three contains her heavenly picture. Is't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation To think so base a thought: it were too gross To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave. Or shall I think in silver she's immur'd, Being ten times undervalu'd to tried gold? O sinful thought! Never so rich a gem Was set in worse than gold. They have in England A coin that bears the figure of an angel Stamped in gold, but that's insculp'd upon; But here an angel in a golden bed Lies all within. Deliver me the key: Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may! There, take it, prince; and if my form lie there, Then I am yours. O hell! what have we here? A carrion Death, within whose empty eye There is a written scroll. I'll read the writing.
All that glisters is not gold; Often have you heard that told: Many a man his life hath sold But my outside to behold: Gilded tombs do worms infold. Had you been as wise as bold, Young in limbs, in judgment old, Your answer had not been inscroll'd: Fare you well; your suit is cold. Cold, indeed; and labour lost: Then, farewell, heat, and welcome, frost! Portia, adieu. I have too griev'd a heart To take a tedious leave: thus losers part. A gentle riddance. Draw the curtains: go. Let all of his complexion choose me so. Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail: With him is Gratiano gone along; And in their ship I'm sure Lorenzo is not. The villain Jew with outcries rais'd the duke, Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship. He came too late, the ship was under sail: But there the duke was given to understand That in a gondola were seen together Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica. Besides, Antonio certified the duke They were not with Bassanio in his ship. I never heard a passion so confus'd, So strange, outrageous, and so variable, As the dog Jew did utter in the streets: 'My daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter! Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats! Justice! the law! my ducats, and my daughter!
A sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats, Of double ducats, stol'n from me by my daughter! And jewels! two stones, two rich and precious stones, Stol'n by my daughter! Justice! find the girl! She hath the stones upon her, and the ducats.' Why, all the boys in Venice follow him, Crying, his stones, his daughter, and his ducats. Let good Antonio look he keep his day, Or he shall pay for this. Marry, well remember'd. I reason'd with a Frenchman yesterday, Who told me, in the narrow seas that part The French and English, there miscarried A vessel of our country richly fraught. I thought upon Antonio when he told me, And wish'd in silence that it were not his. You were best to tell Antonio what you hear; Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him. A kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part: Bassanio told him he would make some speed Of his return: he answer'd 'Do not so; Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio, But stay the very riping of the time; And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me, Let it not enter in your mind of love: Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts To courtship and such fair ostents of love As shall conveniently become you there:' And even there, his eye being big with tears, Turning his face, he put his hand behind him, And with affection wondrous sensible He wrung Bassanio's hand; and so they parted. I think he only loves the world for him. I pray thee, let us go and find him out, And quicken his embraced heaviness With some delight or other. Do we so. Quick, quick, I pray thee; draw the curtain straight: The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath, And comes to his election presently. Behold, there stands the caskets, noble prince: If you choose that wherein I am contain'd, Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemniz'd; But if you fail, without more speech, my lord, You must be gone from hence immediately.
I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things: First, never to unfold to any one Which casket 'twas I chose; next, if I fail Of the right casket, never in my life To woo a maid in way of marriage; Lastly, If I do fail in fortune of my choice, Immediately to leave you and be gone. To these injunctions every one doth swear That comes to hazard for my worthless self. And so have I address'd me. Fortune now To my heart's hope! Gold, silver, and base lead. Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath: You shall look fairer, ere I give or hazard. What says the golden chest? ha! let me see: Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire. What many men desire! that 'many' may be meant By the fool multitude, that choose by show, Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach; Which pries not to the interior, but, like the martlet, Builds in the weather on the outward wall, Even in the force and road of casualty. I will not choose what many men desire, Because I will not jump with common spirits And rank me with the barbarous multitude. Why, then to thee, thou silver treasure-house; Tell me once more what title thou dost bear: Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.
And well said too; for who shall go about To cozen fortune and be honourable Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume To wear an undeserved dignity. O! that estates, degrees, and offices Were not deriv'd corruptly, and that clear honour Were purchas'd by the merit of the wearer. How many then should cover that stand bare; How many be commanded that command; How much low peasantry would then be glean'd From the true seed of honour; and how much honour Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times To be new varnish'd! Well, but to my choice: Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves. I will assume desert. Give me a key for this, And instantly unlock my fortunes here. Too long a pause for that which you find there. What's here? the portrait of a blinking idiot, Presenting me a schedule! I will read it. How much unlike art thou to Portia! How much unlike my hopes and my deservings! Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves. Did I deserve no more than a fool's head? Is that my prize? are my deserts no better? To offend, and judge, are distinct offices, And of opposed natures. What is here? The fire seven times tried this: Seven times tried that judgment is That did never choose amiss.
Some there be that shadows kiss; Such have but a shadow's bliss: There be fools alive, I wis, Silver'd o'er; and so was this. Take what wife you will to bed, I will ever be your head: So be gone, sir: you are sped. Still more fool I shall appear By the time I linger here: With one fool's head I came to woo, But I go away with two. Sweet, adieu. I'll keep my oath, Patiently to bear my wroth. Thus hath the candle sing'd the moth. O, these deliberate fools! when they do choose, They have the wisdom by their wit to lose. The ancient saying is no heresy: 'Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.' Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa. Where is my lady? Here; what would my lord? Madam, there is alighted at your gate A young Venetian, one that comes before To signify the approaching of his lord; From whom he bringeth sensible regreets, To wit, besides commends and courteous breath, Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen So likely an embassador of love. A day in April never came so sweet, To show how costly summer was at hand, As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord. No more, I pray thee: I am half afeard Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee, Thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him.
Come, come, Nerissa; for I long to see Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly. Bassanio, lord Love, if thy will it be! Now, what news on the Rialto? Why, yet it lives there unchecked that Antonio hath a ship of rich lading wracked on the narrow seas; the Goodwins, I think they call the place; a very dangerous flat, and fatal, where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip Report be an honest woman of her word. I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger, or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a third husband. But it is true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the honest Antonio, O, that I had a title good enough to keep his name company! Come, the full stop. Ha! what sayst thou? Why, the end is, he hath lost a ship. I would it might prove the end of his losses. Let me say 'amen' betimes, lest the devil cross my prayer, for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew. How now, Shylock! what news among the merchants? You knew, none so well, none so well as you, of my daughter's flight. That's certain: I, for my part, knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal.
And Shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was fledged; and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam. She is damned for it. That's certain, if the devil may be her judge. My own flesh and blood to rebel! Out upon it, old carrion! rebels it at these years? I say my daughter is my flesh and blood. There is more difference between thy flesh and hers than between jet and ivory; more between your bloods than there is between red wine and Rhenish. But tell us, do you hear whether Antonio have had any loss at sea or no? There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a prodigal, who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto; a beggar, that used to come so smug upon the mart; let him look to his bond: he was wont to call me usurer; let him look to his bond: he was wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him look to his bond. Why, I am sure, if he forfeit thou wilt not take his flesh: what's that good for? To bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else, it will feed my revenge. He hath disgraced me, and hindered me half a million, laughed at my losses, mocked at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine enemies; and what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew eyes?
hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions? fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer, as a Christian is? If you prick us, do we not bleed? if you tickle us, do we not laugh? if you poison us, do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall we not revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility? Revenge. If a Christian wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be by Christian example? Why, revenge. The villany you teach me I will execute, and it shall go hard but I will better the instruction. Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house, and desires to speak with you both. We have been up and down to seek him. Here comes another of the tribe: a third cannot be matched, unless the devil himself turn Jew. How now, Tubal! what news from Genoa? Hast thou found my daughter? I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her. Why there, there, there! a diamond gone, cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse never fell upon our nation till now; I never felt it till now: two thousand ducats in that; and other precious, precious jewels.
I would my daughter were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear! would she were hearsed at my foot, and the ducats in her coffin! No news of them? Why, so: and I know not what's spent in the search: Why thou loss upon loss! the thief gone with so much, and so much to find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge: nor no ill luck stirring but what lights on my shoulders; no sighs but of my breathing; no tears but of my shedding. Yes, other men have ill luck too. Antonio, as I heard in Genoa, What, what, what? ill luck, ill luck? hath an argosy cast away, coming from Tripolis. I thank God! I thank God! Is it true? is it true? I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack. I thank thee, good Tubal. Good news, good news! ha, ha! Where? in Genoa? Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, one night, fourscore ducats. Thou stick'st a dagger in me: I shall never see my gold again: fourscore ducats at a sitting! fourscore ducats! There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my company to Venice, that swear he cannot choose but break. I am very glad of it: I'll plague him; I'll torture him: I am glad of it. One of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey. Out upon her!
Thou torturest me, Tubal: it was my turquoise; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor: I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys. But Antonio is certainly undone. Nay, that's true, that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee me an officer; bespeak him a fortnight before. I will have the heart of him, if he forfeit; for, were he out of Venice, I can make what merchandise I will. Go, go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue; go, good Tubal; at our synagogue, Tubal. I pray you, tarry: pause a day or two Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong. I lose your company: therefore, forbear awhile. There's something tells me, but it is not love, I would not lose you; and you know yourself, Hate counsels not in such a quality. But lest you should not understand me well, And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought, I would detain you here some month or two Before you venture for me. I could teach you How to choose right, but then I am forsworn; So will I never be: so may you miss me; But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin, That I had been forsworn.
Beshrew your eyes, They have o'erlook'd me and divided me: One half of me is yours, the other half yours, Mine own, I would say; but if mine, then yours, And so all yours. O! these naughty times Put bars between the owners and their rights; And so, though yours, not yours. Prove it so, Let fortune go to hell for it, not I. I speak too long; but 'tis to peise the time, To eke it and to draw it out in length, To stay you from election. Let me choose; For as I am, I live upon the rack. Upon the rack, Bassanio! then confess What treason there is mingled with your love. None but that ugly treason of mistrust, Which makes me fear th' enjoying of my love: There may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire, as treason and my love. Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack, Where men enforced do speak anything. Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth. Well then, confess, and live. 'Confess' and 'love' Had been the very sum of my confession: O happy torment, when my torturer Doth teach me answers for deliverance! But let me to my fortune and the caskets. Away then! I am lock'd in one of them: If you do love me, you will find me out. Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof.
Let music sound while he doth make his choice; Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end, Fading in music: that the comparison May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream And watery death-bed for him. He may win; And what is music then? then music is Even as the flourish when true subjects bow To a new-crowned monarch: such it is As are those dulcet sounds in break of day That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear, And summon him to marriage. Now he goes, With no less presence, but with much more love, Than young Alcides, when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy To the sea-monster: I stand for sacrifice; The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives, With bleared visages, come forth to view The issue of the exploit. Go, Hercules! Live thou, I live: with much, much more dismay I view the fight than thou that mak'st the fray. Tell me where is fancy bred, Or in the heart or in the head? How begot, how nourished? Reply, reply. It is engender'd in the eyes, With gazing fed; and fancy dies In the cradle where it lies Let us all ring fancy's knell; I'll begin it, Ding, dong, bell. Ding, dong, bell. So may the outward shows be least themselves: The world is still deceiv'd with ornament.
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt But, being season'd with a gracious voice, Obscures the show of evil? In religion, What damned error, but some sober brow Will bless it and approve it with a text, Hiding the grossness with fair ornament? There is no vice so simple but assumes Some mark of virtue on his outward parts. How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars, Who, inward search'd, have livers white as milk; And these assume but valour's excrement To render them redoubted! Look on beauty, And you shall see 'tis purchas'd by the weight; Which therein works a miracle in nature, Making them lightest that wear most of it: So are those crisped snaky golden locks Which make such wanton gambols with the wind, Upon supposed fairness, often known To be the dowry of a second head, The skull that bred them, in the sepulchre. Thus ornament is but the guiled shore To a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word, The seeming truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest.
Therefore, thou gaudy gold, Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee; Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge 'Tween man and man: but thou, thou meagre lead, Which rather threat'nest than dost promise aught, Thy plainness moves me more than eloquence, And here choose I: joy be the consequence! How all the other passions fleet to air, As doubtful thoughts, and rash-embrac'd despair, And shuddering fear, and green-ey'd jealousy. O love! be moderate; allay thy ecstasy; In measure rain thy joy; scant this excess; I feel too much thy blessing; make it less, For fear I surfeit! What find I here? Fair Portia's counterfeit! What demi-god Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes? Or whether, riding on the balls of mine, Seem they in motion? Here are sever'd lips, Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar Should sunder such sweet friends. Here, in her hairs The painter plays the spider, and hath woven A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men Faster than gnats in cobwebs: but her eyes! How could he see to do them? having made one, Methinks it should have power to steal both his And leave itself unfurnish'd: yet look, how far The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow In underprizing it, so far this shadow Doth limp behind the substance. Here's the scroll, The continent and summary of my fortune. You that choose not by the view, Chance as fair and choose as true!
Since this fortune falls to you, Be content and seek no new. If you be well pleas'd with this And hold your fortune for your bliss, Turn you where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss. A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave; I come by note, to give and to receive. Like one of two contending in a prize, That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes, Hearing applause and universal shout, Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals of praise be his or no; So, thrice-fair lady, stand I, even so, As doubtful whether what I see be true, Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand, Such as I am: though for myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish, To wish myself much better; yet, for you I would be trebled twenty times myself; A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times More rich; That only to stand high in your account, I might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends, Exceed account: but the full sum of me Is sum of nothing; which, to term in gross, Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractis'd; Happy in this, she is not yet so old But she may learn; happier than this, She is not bred so dull but she can learn; Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed, As from her lord, her governor, her king. Myself and what is mine to you and yours Is now converted: but now I was the lord Of this fair mansion, master of my servants, Queen o'er myself; and even now, but now, This house, these servants, and this same myself Are yours, my lord. I give them with this ring; Which when you part from, lose, or give away, Let it presage the ruin of your love, And be my vantage to exclaim on you.
Madam, you have bereft me of all words, Only my blood speaks to you in my veins; And there is such confusion in my powers, As, after some oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince, there doth appear Among the buzzing pleased multitude; Where every something, being blent together, Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy, Express'd and not express'd. But when this ring Parts from this finger, then parts life from hence: O! then be bold to say Bassanio's dead. My lord and lady, it is now our time, That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper, To cry, good joy. Good joy, my lord and lady! My Lord Bassanio and my gentle lady, I wish you all the joy that you can wish; For I am sure you can wish none from me: And when your honours mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you, Even at that time I may be married too. With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife. I thank your lordship, you have got me one. My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours: You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid; You lov'd, I lov'd for intermission. No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
Your fortune stood upon the caskets there, And so did mine too, as the matter falls; For wooing here until I sweat again, And swearing till my very roof was dry With oaths of love, at last, if promise last, I got a promise of this fair one here To have her love, provided that your fortune Achiev'd her mistress. Is this true, Nerissa? Madam, it is, so you stand pleas'd withal. And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith? Yes, faith, my lord. Our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage. We'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats. What! and stake down? No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down. But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel? What! and my old Venetian friend, Salanio? Lorenzo, and Salanio, welcome hither, If that the youth of my new interest here Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave, I bid my very friends and countrymen, Sweet Portia, welcome. So do I, my lord: They are entirely welcome. I thank your honour. For my part, my lord, My purpose was not to have seen you here; But meeting with Salanio by the way, He did entreat me, past all saying nay, To come with him along. I did, my lord, And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio Commends him to you. Ere I ope his letter, I pray you, tell me how my good friend doth.
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind; Nor well, unless in mind: his letter there Will show you his estate. Nerissa, cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome. Your hand, Salanio. What's the news from Venice? How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio? I know he will be glad of our success; We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece. I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost. There are some shrewd contents in yon same paper, That steal the colour from Bassanio's cheek: Some dear friend dead, else nothing in the world Could turn so much the constitution Of any constant man. What, worse and worse! With leave, Bassanio; I am half yourself, And I must freely have the half of anything That this same paper brings you. O sweet Portia! Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words That ever blotted paper. Gentle lady, When I did first impart my love to you, I freely told you all the wealth I had Ran in my veins, I was a gentleman: And then I told you true; and yet, dear lady, Rating myself at nothing, you shall see How much I was a braggart.
When I told you My state was nothing, I should then have told you That I was worse than nothing; for, indeed, I have engag'd myself to a dear friend, Engag'd my friend to his mere enemy, To feed my means. Here is a letter, lady; The paper as the body of my friend, And every word in it a gaping wound, Issuing life-blood. But is it true, Salanio? Hath all his ventures fail'd? What, not one hit? From Tripolis, from Mexico, and England, From Lisbon, Barbary, and India? And not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch Of merchant-marring rocks? Not one, my lord. Besides, it should appear, that if he had The present money to discharge the Jew, He would not take it. Never did I know A creature, that did bear the shape of man, So keen and greedy to confound a man. He plies the duke at morning and at night, And doth impeach the freedom of the state, If they deny him justice: twenty merchants, The duke himself, and the magnificoes Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him; But none can drive him from the envious plea Of forfeiture, of justice, and his bond.
When I was with him, I have heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen, That he would rather have Antonio's flesh Than twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him; and I know, my lord, If law, authority, and power deny not, It will go hard with poor Antonio. Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble? The dearest friend to me, the kindest man, The best-condition'd and unwearied spirit In doing courtesies, and one in whom The ancient Roman honour more appears Than any that draws breath in Italy. What sum owes he the Jew? For me, three thousand ducats. What, no more? Pay him six thousand, and deface the bond; Double six thousand, and then treble that, Before a friend of this description Shall lose a hair thorough Bassanio's fault. First go with me to church and call me wife, And then away to Venice to your friend; For never shall you lie by Portia's side With an unquiet soul. You shall have gold To pay the petty debt twenty times over: When it is paid, bring your true friend along. My maid Nerissa and myself meantime, Will live as maids and widows. Come, away! For you shall hence upon your wedding-day. Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer; Since you are dear bought, I will love you dear. But let me hear the letter of your friend.
Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all miscarried, my creditors grow cruel, my estate is very low, my bond to the Jew is forfeit; and since, in paying it, it is impossible I should live, all debts are cleared between you and I, if I might but see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter. O love, dispatch all business, and be gone! Since I have your good leave to go away, I will make haste; but, till I come again, No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay, Nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain. Gaoler, look to him: tell not me of mercy; This is the fool that lent out money gratis: Gaoler, look to him. Hear me yet, good Shylock. I'll have my bond; speak not against my bond: I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond. Thou call'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause, But, since I am a dog, beware my fangs: The duke shall grant me justice. I do wonder, Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond To come abroad with him at his request. I pray thee, hear me speak. I'll have my bond; I will not hear thee speak: I'll have my bond, and therefore speak no more.
I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool, To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield To Christian intercessors. Follow not; I'll have no speaking; I will have my bond. It is the most impenetrable cur That ever kept with men. Let him alone: I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers. He seeks my life; his reason well I know. I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures Many that have at times made moan to me; Therefore he hates me. I am sure the duke Will never grant this forfeiture to hold. The duke cannot deny the course of law: For the commodity that strangers have With us in Venice, if it be denied, 'Twill much impeach the justice of the state; Since that the trade and profit of the city Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go: These griefs and losses have so bated me, That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh To-morrow to my bloody creditor. Well, gaoler, on. Pray God, Bassanio come To see me pay his debt, and then I care not! Madam, although I speak it in your presence, You have a noble and a true conceit Of god-like amity; which appears most strongly In bearing thus the absence of your lord.
But if you knew to whom you show this honour, How true a gentleman you send relief, How dear a lover of my lord your husband, I know you would be prouder of the work Than customary bounty can enforce you. I never did repent for doing good, Nor shall not now: for in companions That do converse and waste the time together, Whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love, There must be needs a like proportion Of lineaments, of manners, and of spirit; Which makes me think that this Antonio, Being the bosom lover of my lord, Must needs be like my lord. If it be so, How little is the cost I have bestow'd In purchasing the semblance of my soul From out the state of hellish cruelty! This comes too near the praising of myself; Therefore, no more of it: hear other things. Lorenzo, I commit into your hands The husbandry and manage of my house Until my lord's return: for mine own part, I have toward heaven breath'd a secret vow To live in prayer and contemplation, Only attended by Nerissa here, Until her husband and my lord's return. There is a monastery two miles off, And there will we abide. I do desire you Not to deny this imposition, The which my love and some necessity Now lays upon you. Madam, with all my heart: I shall obey you in all fair commands.
My people do already know my mind, And will acknowledge you and Jessica In place of Lord Bassanio and myself. So fare you well till we shall meet again. Fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you! I wish your ladyship all heart's content. I thank you for your wish, and am well pleas'd To wish it back on you: fare you well, Jessica. Now, Balthazar, As I have ever found thee honest-true, So let me find thee still. Take this same letter, And use thou all the endeavour of a man In speed to Padua: see thou render this Into my cousin's hand, Doctor Bellario; And, look, what notes and garments he doth give thee, Bring them, I pray thee, with imagin'd speed Unto the traject, to the common ferry Which trades to Venice. Waste no time in words, But get thee gone: I shall be there before thee. Madam, I go with all convenient speed. Come on, Nerissa: I have work in hand That you yet know not of: we'll see our husbands Before they think of us. Shall they see us? They shall, Nerissa; but in such a habit That they shall think we are accomplished With that we lack.
I'll hold thee any wager, When we are both accoutred like young men, I'll prove the prettier fellow of the two, And wear my dagger with the braver grace, And speak between the change of man and boy With a reed voice, and turn two mincing steps Into a manly stride, and speak of frays Like a fine bragging youth, and tell quaint lies, How honourable ladies sought my love, Which I denying, they fell sick and died: I could not do withal; then I'll repent, And wish, for all that, that I had not kill'd them: And twenty of these puny lies I'll tell, That men shall swear I have discontinu'd school Above a twelvemonth. I have within my mind A thousand raw tricks of these bragging Jacks, Which I will practise. Why, shall we turn to men? Fie, what a question's that, If thou wert near a lewd interpreter! But come: I'll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach, which stays for us At the park gate; and therefore haste away, For we must measure twenty miles to-day. Yes, truly; for, look you, the sins of the father are to be laid upon the children; therefore, I promise you, I fear you. I was always plain with you, and so now I speak my agitation of the matter: therefore be of good cheer; for, truly, I think you are damned.
There is but one hope in it that can do you any good, and that is but a kind of bastard hope neither. And what hope is that, I pray thee? Marry, you may partly hope that your father got you not, that you are not the Jew's daughter. That were a kind of bastard hope, indeed: so the sins of my mother should be visited upon me. Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and mother: thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I fall into Charybdis, your mother: well, you are gone both ways. I shall be saved by my husband; he hath made me a Christian. Truly the more to blame he: we were Christians enow before; e'en as many as could well live one by another. This making of Christians will raise the price of hogs: if we grow all to be pork-eaters, we shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money. I'll tell my husband, Launcelot, what you say: here he comes. I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if you thus get my wife into corners. Nay, you need not fear us, Lorenzo: Launcelot and I are out.
He tells me flatly, there is no mercy for me in heaven, because I am a Jew's daughter: and he says you are no good member of the commonwealth, for, in converting Jews to Christians, you raise the price of pork. I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you can the getting up of the negro's belly: the Moor is with child by you, Launcelot. It is much that the Moor should be more than reason; but if she be less than an honest woman, she is indeed more than I took her for. How every fool can play upon the word! I think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence, and discourse grow commendable in none only but parrots. Go in, sirrah: bid them prepare for dinner. That is done, sir; they have all stomachs. Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you! then bid them prepare dinner. That is done too, sir; only, 'cover' is the word. Will you cover, then, sir? Not so, sir, neither; I know my duty. Yet more quarrelling with occasion! Wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant? I pray thee, understand a plain man in his plain meaning: go to thy fellows; bid them cover the table, serve in the meat, and we will come in to dinner.
For the table, sir, it shall be served in; for the meat, sir, it shall be covered; for your coming in to dinner, sir, why, let it be as humours and conceits shall govern. O dear discretion, how his words are suited! The fool hath planted in his memory An army of good words: and I do know A many fools, that stand in better place, Garnish'd like him, that for a tricksy word Defy the matter. How cheer'st thou, Jessica? And now, good sweet, say thy opinion; How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife? Past all expressing. It is very meet, The Lord Bassanio live an upright life, For, having such a blessing in his lady, He finds the joys of heaven here on earth; And if on earth he do not mean it, then In reason he should never come to heaven. Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match, And on the wager lay two earthly women, And Portia one, there must be something else Pawn'd with the other, for the poor rude world Hath not her fellow. Even such a husband Hast thou of me as she is for a wife. Nay, but ask my opinion too of that. I will anon; first, let us go to dinner. Nay, let me praise you while I have a stomach.
No, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk; Then howsoe'er thou speak'st, 'mong other things I shall digest it. Well, I'll set you forth. What, is Antonio here? Ready, so please your Grace. I am sorry for thee: thou art come to answer A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch Uncapable of pity, void and empty From any dram of mercy. I have heard Your Grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify His rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate, And that no lawful means can carry me Out of his envy's reach, I do oppose My patience to his fury, and am arm'd To suffer with a quietness of spirit The very tyranny and rage of his. Go one, and call the Jew into the court. He's ready at the door: he comes, my lord. Make room, and let him stand before our face.
Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too, That thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice To the last hour of act; and then 'tis thought Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse more strange Than is thy strange-apparent cruelty; And where thou now exact'st the penalty, Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh, Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture, But, touch'd with human gentleness and love, Forgive a moiety of the principal; Glancing an eye of pity on his losses, That have of late so huddled on his back, Enow to press a royal merchant down, And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint, From stubborn Turks and Tartars, never train'd To offices of tender courtesy. We all expect a gentle answer, Jew. I have possess'd your Grace of what I purpose; And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn To have the due and forfeit of my bond: If you deny it, let the danger light Upon your charter and your city's freedom. You'll ask me, why I rather choose to have A weight of carrion flesh than to receive Three thousand ducats: I'll not answer that: But say it is my humour: is it answer'd? What if my house be troubled with a rat, And I be pleas'd to give ten thousand ducats To have it ban'd? What, are you answer'd yet?
Some men there are love not a gaping pig; Some, that are mad if they behold a cat; And others, when the bagpipe sings i' the nose, Cannot contain their urine: for affection, Mistress of passion, sways it to the mood Of what it likes, or loathes. Now, for your answer: As there is no firm reason to be render'd, Why he cannot abide a gaping pig; Why he, a harmless necessary cat; Why he, a wauling bagpipe; but of force Must yield to such inevitable shame As to offend, himself being offended; So can I give no reason, nor I will not, More than a lodg'd hate and a certain loathing I bear Antonio, that I follow thus A losing suit against him. Are you answer'd? This is no answer, thou unfeeling man, To excuse the current of thy cruelty. I am not bound to please thee with my answer. Do all men kill the things they do not love? Hates any man the thing he would not kill? Every offence is not a hate at first. What! wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?
I pray you, think you question with the Jew: You may as well go stand upon the beach, And bid the main flood bate his usual height; You may as well use question with the wolf, Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb; You may as well forbid the mountain pines To wag their high tops, and to make no noise When they are fretted with the gusts of heaven; You may as well do anything most hard, As seek to soften that than which what's harder? His Jewish heart: therefore, I do beseech you, Make no more offers, use no further means; But with all brief and plain conveniency, Let me have judgment, and the Jew his will. For thy three thousand ducats here is six. If every ducat in six thousand ducats Were in six parts and every part a ducat, I would not draw them; I would have my bond. How shalt thou hope for mercy, rendering none? What judgment shall I dread, doing no wrong? You have among you many a purchas'd slave, Which, like your asses and your dogs and mules, You use in abject and in slavish parts, Because you bought them: shall I say to you, Let them be free, marry them to your heirs? Why sweat they under burdens? let their beds Be made as soft as yours, and let their palates Be season'd with such viands?
You will answer: 'The slaves are ours:' so do I answer you: The pound of flesh which I demand of him, Is dearly bought; 'tis mine and I will have it. If you deny me, fie upon your law! There is no force in the decrees of Venice. I stand for judgment: answer; shall I have it? Upon my power I may dismiss this court, Unless Bellario, a learned doctor, Whom I have sent for to determine this, Come here to-day. My lord, here stays without A messenger with letters from the doctor, New come from Padua. Bring us the letters: call the messenger. Good cheer, Antonio! What, man, courage yet! The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones, and all, Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood. I am a tainted wether of the flock, Meetest for death: the weakest kind of fruit Drops earliest to the ground; and so let me: You cannot better be employ'd, Bassanio, Than to live still, and write mine epitaph. Came you from Padua, from Bellario? From both, my lord. Bellario greets your Grace. Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly? To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there. Not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh Jew, Thou mak'st thy knife keen; but no metal can, No, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee? No, none that thou hast wit enough to make.
O, be thou damn'd, inexecrable dog! And for thy life let justice be accus'd. Thou almost mak'st me waver in my faith To hold opinion with Pythagoras, That souls of animals infuse themselves Into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit Govern'd a wolf, who, hang'd for human slaughter, Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet, And whilst thou lay'st in thy unhallow'd dam, Infus'd itself in thee; for thy desires Are wolfish, bloody, starv'd, and ravenous. Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond, Thou but offend'st thy lungs to speak so loud: Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall To cureless ruin. I stand here for law. This letter from Bellario doth commend A young and learned doctor to our court. Where is he? He attendeth here hard by, To know your answer, whether you'll admit him. With all my heart: some three or four of you Go give him courteous conduct to this place. Meantime, the court shall hear Bellario's letter. Your Grace shall understand that at the receipt of your letter I am very sick; but in the instant that your messenger came, in loving visitation was with me a young doctor of Rome; his name is Balthazar.
I acquainted him with the cause in controversy between the Jew and Antonio the merchant: we turned o'er many books together: he is furnished with my opinion; which, bettered with his own learning, the greatness whereof I cannot enough commend, comes with him, at my importunity, to fill up your Grace's request in my stead I beseech you, let his lack of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation, for I never knew so young a body with so old a head. I leave him to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his commendation. You hear the learn'd Bellario, what he writes: And here, I take it, is the doctor come. Give me your hand. Came you from old Bellario? I did, my lord. You are welcome: take your place. Are you acquainted with the difference That holds this present question in the court? I am informed throughly of the cause. Which is the merchant here, and which the Jew? Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth. Is your name Shylock? Shylock is my name. Of a strange nature is the suit you follow; Yet in such rule that the Venetian law Cannot impugn you as you do proceed. You stand within his danger, do you not? Ay, so he says. Do you confess the bond? I do. Then must the Jew be merciful. On what compulsion must I? tell me that.
The quality of mercy is not strain'd, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath: it is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives and him that takes: 'Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes The throned monarch better than his crown; His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty, Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway, It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to God himself, And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew, Though justice be thy plea, consider this, That in the course of justice none of us Should see salvation: we do pray for mercy, And that same prayer doth teach us all to render The deeds of mercy. I have spoke thus much To mitigate the justice of thy plea, Which if thou follow, this strict court of Venice Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there. My deeds upon my head! I crave the law, The penalty and forfeit of my bond. Is he not able to discharge the money? Yes, here I tender it for him in the court; Yea, twice the sum: if that will not suffice, I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er, On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart. If this will not suffice, it must appear That malice bears down truth.
And, I beseech you, Wrest once the law to your authority: To do a great right, do a little wrong, And curb this cruel devil of his will. It must not be. There is no power in Venice Can alter a decree established: 'Twill be recorded for a precedent, And many an error by the same example Will rush into the state. It cannot be. A Daniel come to judgment! yea, a Daniel! O wise young judge, how I do honour thee! I pray you, let me look upon the bond. Here 'tis, most reverend doctor; here it is. Shylock, there's thrice thy money offer'd thee. An oath, an oath, I have an oath in heaven: Shall I lay perjury upon my soul? No, not for Venice. Why, this bond is forfeit; And lawfully by this the Jew may claim A pound of flesh, to be by him cut off Nearest the merchant's heart. Be merciful: Take thrice thy money; bid me tear the bond. When it is paid according to the tenour. It doth appear you are a worthy judge; You know the law, your exposition Hath been most sound: I charge you by the law, Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar, Proceed to judgment: by my soul I swear There is no power in the tongue of man To alter me. I stay here on my bond. Most heartily I do beseech the court To give the judgment.
Why then, thus it is: You must prepare your bosom for his knife. O noble judge! O excellent young man! For, the intent and purpose of the law Hath full relation to the penalty, Which here appeareth due upon the bond. 'Tis very true! O wise and upright judge! How much more elder art thou than thy looks! Therefore lay bare your bosom. Ay, 'his breast:' So says the bond: doth it not, noble judge? 'Nearest his heart:' those are the very words. It is so. Are there balance here to weigh The flesh? I have them ready. Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge, To stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death. Is it so nominated in the bond? It is not so express'd; but what of that? 'Twere good you do so much for charity. I cannot find it: 'tis not in the bond. You, merchant, have you anything to say? But little: I am arm'd and well prepar'd. Give me your hand, Bassanio: fare you well! Grieve not that I am fallen to this for you; For herein Fortune shows herself more kind Than is her custom: it is still her use To let the wretched man outlive his wealth, To view with hollow eye and wrinkled brow An age of poverty; from which lingering penance Of such a misery doth she cut me off.
Commend me to your honourable wife: Tell her the process of Antonio's end; Say how I lov'd you, speak me fair in death; And, when the tale is told, bid her be judge Whether Bassanio had not once a love. Repent not you that you shall lose your friend, And he repents not that he pays your debt; For if the Jew do cut but deep enough, I'll pay it instantly with all my heart. Antonio, I am married to a wife Which is as dear to me as life itself; But life itself, my wife, and all the world, Are not with me esteem'd above thy life: I would lose all, ay, sacrifice them all, Here to this devil, to deliver you. Your wife would give you little thanks for that, If she were by to hear you make the offer. I have a wife, whom, I protest, I love: I would she were in heaven, so she could Entreat some power to change this currish Jew. 'Tis well you offer it behind her back; The wish would make else an unquiet house. These be the Christian husbands! I have a daughter; Would any of the stock of Barabbas Had been her husband rather than a Christian! We trifle time; I pray thee, pursue sentence. A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine: The court awards it, and the law doth give it. Most rightful judge!
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast: The law allows it, and the court awards it. Most learned judge! A sentence! come, prepare! Tarry a little: there is something else. This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood; The words expressly are 'a pound of flesh:' Then take thy bond, take thou thy pound of flesh; But, in the cutting it, if thou dost shed One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate Unto the state of Venice. O upright judge! Mark, Jew: O learned judge! Is that the law? Thyself shalt see the act; For, as thou urgest justice, be assur'd Thou shalt have justice, more than thou desir'st. O learned judge! Mark, Jew: a learned judge! I take this offer then: pay the bond thrice, And let the Christian go. Here is the money. Soft! The Jew shall have all justice; soft! no haste: He shall have nothing but the penalty. O Jew! an upright judge, a learned judge! Therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
Shed thou no blood; nor cut thou less, nor more, But just a pound of flesh: if thou tak'st more, Or less, than a just pound, be it but so much As makes it light or heavy in the substance, Or the division of the twentieth part Of one poor scruple, nay, if the scale do turn But in the estimation of a hair, Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate. A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew! Now, infidel, I have thee on the hip. Why doth the Jew pause? take thy forfeiture. Give me my principal, and let me go. I have it ready for thee; here it is. He hath refus'd it in the open court: He shall have merely justice, and his bond. A Daniel, still say I; a second Daniel! I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word. Shall I not have barely my principal? Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture, To be so taken at thy peril, Jew. Why, then the devil give him good of it! I'll stay no longer question. Tarry, Jew: The law hath yet another hold on you.
It is enacted in the laws of Venice, If it be prov'd against an alien That by direct or indirect attempts He seek the life of any citizen, The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive Shall seize one half his goods; the other half Comes to the privy coffer of the state; And the offender's life lies in the mercy Of the duke only, 'gainst all other voice. In which predicament, I say, thou stand'st; For it appears by manifest proceeding, That indirectly and directly too Thou hast contriv'd against the very life Of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd The danger formerly by me rehears'd. Down therefore and beg mercy of the duke. Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself: And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the state, Thou hast not left the value of a cord; Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge. That thou shalt see the difference of our spirits, I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it. For half thy wealth, it is Antonio's; The other half comes to the general state, Which humbleness may drive into a fine. Ay, for the state; not for Antonio. Nay, take my life and all; pardon not that: You take my house when you do take the prop That doth sustain my house; you take my life When you do take the means whereby I live. What mercy can you render him, Antonio?
A halter gratis; nothing else, for God's sake! So please my lord the duke, and all the court, To quit the fine for one half of his goods, I am content; so he will let me have The other half in use, to render it, Upon his death, unto the gentleman That lately stole his daughter: Two things provided more, that, for this favour, He presently become a Christian; The other, that he do record a gift, Here in the court, of all he dies possess'd, Unto his son Lorenzo, and his daughter. He shall do this, or else I do recant The pardon that I late pronounced here. Art thou contented, Jew? what dost thou say? I am content. Clerk, draw a deed of gift. I pray you give me leave to go from hence: I am not well. Send the deed after me, And I will sign it. Get thee gone, but do it. In christening thou shalt have two godfathers; Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more, To bring thee to the gallows, not the font. Sir, I entreat you home with me to dinner. I humbly do desire your Grace of pardon: I must away this night toward Padua, And it is meet I presently set forth. I am sorry that your leisure serves you not. Antonio, gratify this gentleman, For, in my mind, you are much bound to him.
Most worthy gentleman, I and my friend Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted Of grievous penalties; in lieu whereof, Three thousand ducats, due unto the Jew, We freely cope your courteous pains withal. And stand indebted, over and above, In love and service to you evermore. He is well paid that is well satisfied; And I, delivering you, am satisfied, And therein do account myself well paid: My mind was never yet more mercenary. I pray you, know me when we meet again: I wish you well, and so I take my leave. Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further: Take some remembrance of us, as a tribute, Not as a fee. Grant me two things, I pray you, Not to deny me, and to pardon me. You press me far, and therefore I will yield. Give me your gloves, I'll wear them for your sake; And, for your love, I'll take this ring from you. Do not draw back your hand; I'll take no more; And you in love shall not deny me this. This ring, good sir? alas! it is a trifle; I will not shame myself to give you this. I will have nothing else but only this; And now methinks I have a mind to it. There's more depends on this than on the value.
The dearest ring in Venice will I give you, And find it out by proclamation: Only for this, I pray you, pardon me. I see, sir, you are liberal in offers: You taught me first to beg, and now methinks You teach me how a beggar should be answer'd. Good sir, this ring was given me by my wife; And, when she put it on, she made me vow That I should never sell nor give nor lose it. That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts. An if your wife be not a mad-woman, And know how well I have deserv'd the ring, She would not hold out enemy for ever, For giving it to me. Well, peace be with you. My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring: Let his deservings and my love withal Be valu'd 'gainst your wife's commandment. Go, Gratiano; run and overtake him; Give him the ring, and bring him, if thou canst, Unto Antonio's house. Away! make haste. Come, you and I will thither presently, And in the morning early will we both Fly toward Belmont. Come, Antonio. Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed, And let him sign it. We'll away to-night, And be a day before our husbands home: This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo. Fair sir, you are well o'erta'en. My Lord Bassanio upon more advice Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat Your company at dinner.
That cannot be: His ring I do accept most thankfully; And so, I pray you, tell him: furthermore, I pray you, show my youth old Shylock's house. That will I do. Sir, I would speak with you. I'll see if I can get my husband's ring, Which I did make him swear to keep for ever. Thou mayst, I warrant. We shall have old swearing That they did give the rings away to men; But we'll outface them, and outswear them too. Away! make haste: thou know'st where I will tarry. Come, good sir, will you show me to this house? The moon shines bright: in such a night as this, When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees And they did make no noise, in such a night Troilus methinks mounted the Troyan walls, And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents, Where Cressid lay that night. In such a night Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew, And saw the lion's shadow ere himself, And ran dismay'd away. In such a night Stood Dido with a willow in her hand Upon the wild sea-banks, and waft her love To come again to Carthage. In such a night Medea gather'd the enchanted herbs That did renew old Æson. In such a night Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew, And with an unthrift love did run from Venice, As far as Belmont.
In such a night Did young Lorenzo swear he lov'd her well, Stealing her soul with many vows of faith, And ne'er a true one. In such a night Did pretty Jessica, like a little shrew, Slander her love, and he forgave it her. I would out-night you, did no body come; But, hark! I hear the footing of a man. Who comes so fast in silence of the night? A friend. A friend! what friend? your name, I pray you, friend. Stephano is my name; and I bring word My mistress will before the break of day Be here at Belmont: she doth stray about By holy crosses, where she kneels and prays For happy wedlock hours. Who comes with her? None, but a holy hermit and her maid. I pray you, is my master yet return'd? He is not, nor we have not heard from him. But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica, And ceremoniously let us prepare Some welcome for the mistress of the house. Sola, sola! wo ha, ho! sola, sola! Who calls? Sola! did you see Master Lorenzo? Master Lorenzo! sola, sola! Leave hollaing, man; here. Sola! where? where? Here. Tell him there's a post come from my master, with his horn full of good news: my master will be here ere morning. Sweet soul, let's in, and there expect their coming. And yet no matter; why should we go in?
My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you, Within the house, your mistress is at hand; And bring your music forth into the air. How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank! Here will we sit, and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears: soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony. Sit, Jessica: look, how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold: There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st But in his motion like an angel sings, Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins; Such harmony is in immortal souls; But, whilst this muddy vesture of decay Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it. Come, ho! and wake Diana with a hymn: With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear, And draw her home with music. I am never merry when I hear sweet music.
The reason is, your spirits are attentive: For do but note a wild and wanton herd, Or race of youthful and unhandled colts, Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud, Which is the hot condition of their blood; If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound, Or any air of music touch their ears, You shall perceive them make a mutual stand, Their savage eyes turn'd to a modest gaze By the sweet power of music: therefore the poet Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones, and floods; Since nought so stockish, hard, and full of rage, But music for the time doth change his nature. The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils; The motions of his spirit are dull as night, And his affections dark as Erebus: Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music. That light we see is burning in my hall. How far that little candle throws his beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world. When the moon shone, we did not see the candle. So doth the greater glory dim the less: A substitute shines brightly as a king Until a king be by, and then his state Empties itself, as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters. Music! hark! It is your music, madam, of the house.
Nothing is good, I see, without respect: Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day. Silence bestows that virtue on it, madam. The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark When neither is attended, and I think The nightingale, if she should sing by day, When every goose is cackling, would be thought No better a musician than the wren. How many things by season season'd are To their right praise and true perfection! Peace, ho! the moon sleeps with Endymion, And would not be awak'd! That is the voice, Or I am much deceiv'd, of Portia. He knows me, as the blind man knows the cuckoo, By the bad voice. Dear lady, welcome home. We have been praying for our husbands' welfare, Which speed, we hope, the better for our words. Are they return'd? Madam, they are not yet; But there is come a messenger before, To signify their coming. Go in, Nerissa: Give order to my servants that they take No note at all of our being absent hence; Nor you, Lorenzo; Jessica, nor you. Your husband is at hand; I hear his trumpet: We are no tell-tales, madam; fear you not. This night methinks is but the daylight sick; It looks a little paler: 'tis a day, Such as the day is when the sun is hid. We should hold day with the Antipodes, If you would walk in absence of the sun.
Let me give light, but let me not be light; For a light wife doth make a heavy husband, And never be Bassanio so for me: But God sort all! You are welcome home, my lord. I thank you, madam. Give welcome to my friend: This is the man, this is Antonio, To whom I am so infinitely bound. You should in all sense be much bound to him, For, as I hear, he was much bound for you. No more than I am well acquitted of. Sir, you are very welcome to our house: It must appear in other ways than words, Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy. By yonder moon I swear you do me wrong; In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk: Would he were gelt that had it, for my part, Since you do take it, love, so much at heart. A quarrel, ho, already! what's the matter? About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring That she did give me, whose poesy was For all the world like cutlers' poetry Upon a knife, 'Love me, and leave me not.' What talk you of the posy, or the value?
You swore to me, when I did give it you, That you would wear it till your hour of death, And that it should lie with you in your grave: Though not for me, yet for your vehement oaths, You should have been respective and have kept it. Gave it a judge's clerk! no, God's my judge, The clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it. He will, an if he live to be a man. Ay, if a woman live to be a man. Now, by this hand, I gave it to a youth, A kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy, No higher than thyself, the judge's clerk. A prating boy, that begg'd it as a fee: I could not for my heart deny it him. You were to blame, I must be plain with you, To part so slightly with your wife's first gift; A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger, And riveted so with faith unto your flesh. I gave my love a ring and made him swear Never to part with it; and here he stands, I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it Nor pluck it from his finger for the wealth That the world masters. Now, in faith, Gratiano, You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief: An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.
Why, I were best to cut my left hand off, And swear I lost the ring defending it. My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away Unto the judge that begg'd it, and indeed Deserv'd it too; and then the boy, his clerk, That took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine; And neither man nor master would take aught But the two rings. What ring gave you, my lord? Not that, I hope, that you receiv'd of me. If I could add a lie unto a fault, I would deny it; but you see my finger Hath not the ring upon it; it is gone. Even so void is your false heart of truth. By heaven, I will ne'er come in your bed Until I see the ring. Nor I in yours, Till I again see mine. Sweet Portia, If you did know to whom I gave the ring, If you did know for whom I gave the ring, And would conceive for what I gave the ring, And how unwillingly I left the ring, When naught would be accepted but the ring, You would abate the strength of your displeasure. If you had known the virtue of the ring, Or half her worthiness that gave the ring, Or your own honour to contain the ring, You would not then have parted with the ring.
What man is there so much unreasonable, If you had pleas'd to have defended it With any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty To urge the thing held as a ceremony? Nerissa teaches me what to believe: I'll die for't but some woman had the ring. No, by my honour, madam, by my soul, No woman had it; but a civil doctor, Which did refuse three thousand ducats of me, And begg'd the ring, the which I did deny him, And suffer'd him to go displeas'd away; Even he that did uphold the very life Of my dear friend. What should I say, sweet lady? I was enforc'd to send it after him; I was beset with shame and courtesy; My honour would not let ingratitude So much besmear it. Pardon me, good lady, For, by these blessed candles of the night, Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd The ring of me to give the worthy doctor. Let not that doctor e'er come near my house. Since he hath got the jewel that I lov'd, And that which you did swear to keep for me, I will become as liberal as you; I'll not deny him anything I have; No, not my body, nor my husband's bed.
Know him I shall, I am well sure of it: Lie not a night from home; watch me like Argus: If you do not, if I be left alone, Now by mine honour, which is yet mine own, I'll have that doctor for my bedfellow. And I his clerk; therefore be well advis'd How you do leave me to mine own protection. Well, do you so: let me not take him, then; For if I do, I'll mar the young clerk's pen. I am the unhappy subject of these quarrels. Sir, grieve not you; you are welcome notwithstanding. Portia, forgive me this enforced wrong; And in the hearing of these many friends, I swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes, Wherein I see myself, Mark you but that! In both my eyes he doubly sees himself; In each eye, one: swear by your double self, And there's an oath of credit. Nay, but hear me: Pardon this fault, and by my soul I swear I never more will break an oath with thee. I once did lend my body for his wealth, Which, but for him that had your husband's ring, Had quite miscarried: I dare be bound again, My soul upon the forfeit, that your lord Will never more break faith advisedly. Then you shall be his surety. Give him this, And bid him keep it better than the other. Here, Lord Bassanio; swear to keep this ring. By heaven!
it is the same I gave the doctor! I had it of him: pardon me, Bassanio, For, by this ring, the doctor lay with me. And pardon me, my gentle Gratiano; For that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk, In lieu of this last night did lie with me. Why, this is like the mending of highways In summer, where the ways are fair enough. What! are we cuckolds ere we have deserv'd it? Speak not so grossly. You are all amaz'd: Here is a letter; read it at your leisure; It comes from Padus, from Bellario: There you shall find that Portia was the doctor, Nerissa, there, her clerk: Lorenzo here Shall witness I set forth as soon as you And even but now return'd; I have not yet Enter'd my house. Antonio, you are welcome; And I have better news in store for you Than you expect: unseal this letter soon; There you shall find three of your argosies Are richly come to harbour suddenly. You shall not know by what strange accident I chanced on this letter. I am dumb. Were you the doctor and I knew you not? Were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold? Ay; but the clerk that never means to do it, Unless he live until he be a man. Sweet doctor, you shall be my bedfellow: When I am absent, then, lie with my wife.
Sweet lady, you have given me life and living; For here I read for certain that my ships Are safely come to road. How now, Lorenzo! My clerk hath some good comforts too for you. Ay, and I'll give them him without a fee. There do I give to you and Jessica, From the rich Jew, a special deed of gift, After his death, of all he dies possess'd of. Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way Of starved people. It is almost morning, And yet I am sure you are not satisfied Of these events at full. Let us go in; And charge us there upon inter'gatories, And we will answer all things faithfully. Let it be so: the first inter'gatory That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is, Whe'r till the next night she had rather stay, Or go to bed now, being two hours to day: But were the day come, I should wish it dark, That I were couching with the doctor's clerk. Well, while I live I'll fear no other thing So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.
You do not meet a man but frowns; our bloods No more obey the heavens than our courtiers Still seem as does the king. But what's the matter? His daughter, and the heir of 's kingdom, whom He purpos'd to his wife's sole son, a widow That late he married, hath referr'd herself Unto a poor but worthy gentleman. She's wedded; Her husband banish'd, she imprison'd: all Is outward sorrow, though I think the king Be touch'd at very heart. None but the king? He that hath lost her too; so is the queen, That most desir'd the match; but not a courtier, Although they wear their faces to the bent Of the king's looks, hath a heart that is not Glad at the thing they scowl at. And why so? He that hath miss'd the princess is a thing Too bad for bad report; and he that hath her, I mean that married her, alack! good man! And therefore banish'd is a creature such As, to seek through the regions of the earth For one his like, there would be something failing In him that should compare. I do not think So fair an outward and such stuff within Endows a man but he. You speak him far. I do extend him, sir, within himself, Crush him together rather than unfold His measure duly. What's his name and birth?
I cannot delve him to the root: his father Was called Sicilius, who did join his honour Against the Romans with Cassibelan, But had his titles by Tenantius whom He serv'd with glory and admir'd success, So gain'd the sur-addition Leonatus; And had, besides this gentleman in question, Two other sons, who in the wars o' the time Died with their swords in hand; for which their father Then old and fond of issue took such sorrow That he quit being, and his gentle lady, Big of this gentleman, our theme, deceas'd As he was born.
The king, he takes the babe To his protection; calls him Posthumus Leonatus; Breeds him and makes him of his bedchamber, Puts to him all the learnings that his time Could make him the receiver of; which he took, As we do air, fast as 'twas minister'd, And in's spring became a harvest; liv'd in court, Which rare it is to do most prais'd, most lov'd; A sample to the youngest, to the more mature A glass that feated them, and to the graver A child that guided dotards; to his mistress, For whom he now is banish'd, her own price Proclaims how she esteem'd him and his virtue; By her election may be truly read What kind of man he is. I honour him, Even out of your report. But pray you, tell me, Is she sole child to the king? His only child. He had twosons, if this be worth your hearing, Mark it, the eldest of them at three years old, I' the swathing clothes the other, from their nursery Were stol'n; and to this hour no guess in knowledge Which way they went. How long is this ago? Some twenty years. That a king's children should be so convey'd, So slackly guarded, and the search so slow, That could not trace them! Howsoe'er 'tis strange, Or that the negligence may well be laugh'd at, Yet is it true, sir. I do well believe you. We must forbear.
Here comes the gentleman, The queen, and princess. No, be assur'd you shall not find me, daughter, After the slander of most step-mothers, Evil-ey'd unto you; you're my prisoner, but Your gaoler shall deliver you the keys That lock up your restraint. For you, Posthumus, So soon as I can win the offended king, I will be known your advocate; marry, yet The fire of rage is in him, and 'twere good You lean'd unto his sentence with what patience Your wisdom may inform you. Please your highness, I will from hence to-day. You know the peril: I'll fetch a turn about the garden, pitying The pangs of barr'd affections, though the king Hath charg'd you should not speak together. O! Dissembling courtesy. How fine this tyrant Can tickle where she wounds! My dearest husband, I something fear my father's wrath; but nothing, Always reserv'd my holy duty, what His rage can do on me. You must be gone; And I shall here abide the hourly shot Of angry eyes, not comforted to live, But that there is this jewel in the world That I may see again. My queen! my mistress! O lady, weep no more, lest I give cause To be suspected of more tenderness Than doth become a man. I will remain The loyal'st husband that did e'er plight troth.
My residence in Rome at one Philario's, Who to my father was a friend, to me Known but by letter; thither write, my queen, And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send, Though ink be made of gall. Be brief, I pray you; If the king come, I shall incur I know not How much of his displeasure. Yet I'll move him To walk this way. I never do him wrong, But he does buy my injuries to be friends, Pays dear for my offences. Should we be taking leave As long a term as yet we have to live, The loathness to depart would grow. Adieu! Nay, stay a little: Were you but riding forth to air yourself Such parting were too petty. Look here, love; This diamond was my mother's; take it, heart; But keep it till you woo another wife, When Imogen is dead. How! how! another? You gentle gods, give me but this I have, And sear up my embracements from a next With bonds of death! Remain, remain thou here While sense can keep it on! And, sweetest, fairest, As I my poor self did exchange for you, To your so infinite loss, so in our trifles I still win of you; for my sake wear this; It is a manacle of love; I'll place it Upon this fairest prisoner. O the gods! When shall we see again? Alack! the king! Thou basest thing, avoid! hence, from my sight!
If after this command thou fraught the court With thy unworthiness, thou diest. Away! Thou'rt poison to my blood. The gods protect you And bless the good remainders of the court! I am gone. There cannot be a pinch in death More sharp than this is. O disloyal thing, That shouldst repair my youth, thou heap'st instead A year's age on me. I beseech you, sir, Harm not yourself with your vexation; I am senseless of your wrath; a touch more rare Subdues all pangs, all fears. Past grace? obedience? Past hope, and in despair; that way, past grace. That mightst have had the sole son of my queen! O bless'd, that I might not! I chose an eagle And did avoid a puttock. Thou took'st a beggar; wouldst have made my throne A seat for baseness. No; I rather added A lustre to it. O thou vile one! Sir, It is your fault that I have lov'd Posthumus; You bred him as my playfellow, and he is A man worth any woman, overbuys me Almost the sum he pays. What! art thou mad? Almost, sir; heaven restore me! Would I were A neat-herd's daughter, and my Leonatus Our neighbour shepherd's son! Thou foolish thing! They were again together; you have done Not after our command. Away with her, And pen her up. Beseech your patience. Peace! Dear lady daughter, peace! Sweet sovereign, Leave us to ourselves, and make yourself some comfort Out of your best advice.
Nay, let her languish A drop of blood a day; and, being aged, Die of this folly! Fie! you must give way: Here is your servant. How now, sir! What news? My lord your son drew on my master. Ha! No harm, I trust, is done? There might have been, But that my master rather play'd than fought, And had no help of anger; they were parted By gentlemen at hand. I am very glad on 't. Your son's my father's friend; he takes his part. To draw upon an exile! O brave sir! I would they were in Afric both together, Myself by with a needle, that I might prick The goer-back. Why came you from your master? On his command: he would not suffer me To bring him to the haven; left these notes Of what commands I should be subject to, When 't pleas'd you to employ me. This hath been Your faithful servant; I dare lay mine honour He will remain so. I humbly thank your highness. Pray, walk awhile. About some half-hour hence, I pray you, speak with me. You shall at least Go see my lord aboard; for this time leave me. Sir, I would advise you to shift a shirt; the violence of action hath made you reek as a sacrifice. Where air comes out, air comes in; there's none abroad so wholesome as that you vent. If my shirt were bloody, them to shift it. Have I hurt him?
No faith; not so much as his patience. Hurt him! his body's a passable carcass if he be not hurt; it is a throughfare for steel if it be not hurt. His steel was in debt; it went o' the backside the town. The villain would not stand me. No; but he fled forward still, toward your face. Stand you! You have land enough of your own; but he added to your having, gave you some ground. As many inches as you have oceans. Puppies! I would they had not come between us. So would I till you had measured how long a fool you were upon the ground. And that she should love this fellow and refuse me! If it be a sin to make a true election, she is damned. Sir, as I told you always, her beauty and her brain go not together; she's a good sign, but I have seen small reflection of her wit. She shines not upon fools, lest the reflection should hurt her. Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some hurt done! I wish not so; unless it had been the fall of an ass, which is no great hurt. You'll go with us? I'll attend your lordship. Nay, come, let's go together. Well, my lord.
I would thou grew'st unto the shores of the haven, And question'dst every sail: if he should write, And I not have it, 'twere a paper lost, As offer'd mercy is. What was the last That he spake to thee? It was his queen, his queen! Then wav'd his handkerchief? And kiss'd it, madam. Senseless linen, happier therein than I! And that was all? No, madam; for so long As he could make me with this eye or ear Distinguish him from others, he did keep The deck, with glove, or hat, or handkerchief, Still waving, as the fits and stirs of 's mind Could best express how slow his soul sail'd on, How swift his ship. Thou shouldst have made him As little as a crow, or less, ere left To after-eye him. Madam, so I did. I would have broke mine eye-strings, crack'd them, but To look upon him, till the diminution Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle, Nay, follow'd him, till he had melted from The smallness of a gnat to air, and then Have turn'd mine eye, and wept. But, good Pisanio, When shall we hear from him? Be assur'd, madam, With his next vantage.
I did not take my leave of him, but had Most pretty things to say; ere I could tell him How I would think on him at certain hours Such thoughts and such, or I could make him swear The shes of Italy should not betray Mine interest and his honour, or have charg'd him, At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at mid-night, To encounter me with orisons, for then I am in heaven for him; or ere I could Give him that parting kiss which I had set Betwixt two charming words, comes in my father, And like the tyrannous breathing of the north Shakes all our buds from growing. The queen, madam, Desires your highness' company. Those things I bid you do, get them dispatch'd. I will attend the queen. Madam, I shall. Believe it, sir, I have seen him in Britain; he was then of a crescent note, expected to prove so worthy as since he hath been allowed the name of; but I could then have looked on him without the help of admiration, though the catalogue of his endowments had been tabled by his side and I to peruse him by items. You speak of him when he was less furnished than now he is with that which makes him both without and within. I have seen him in France: we had very many there could behold the sun with as firm eyes as he.
This matter of marrying his king's daughter, wherein he must be weighed rather by her value than his own, words him, I doubt not, a great deal from the matter. And then, his banishment. Ay, and the approbation of those that weep this lamentable divorce under her colours are wonderfully to extend him; be it but to fortify her judgment, which else an easy battery might lay flat, for taking a beggar without less quality. But how comes it, he is to sojourn with you? How creeps acquaintance? His father and I were soldiers together; to whom I have been often bound for no less than my life. Here comes the Briton: let him be so entertained amongst you as suits, with gentlemen of your knowing, to a stranger of his quality. I beseech you all, be better known to this gentleman, whom I commend to you, as a noble friend of mine; how worthy he is I will leave to appear hereafter, rather than story him in his own hearing. Sir, we have known together in Orleans. Since when I have been debtor to you for courtesies, which I will be ever to pay and yet pay still. Sir, you o'er-rate my poor kindness. I was glad I did atone my countryman and you; it had been pity you should have been put together with so mortal a purpose as then each bore, upon importance of so slight and trivial a nature.
By your pardon, sir, I was then a young traveller; rather shunned to go even with what I heard than in my every action to be guided by others' experiences; but, upon my mended judgment, if I offend not to say it is mended, my quarrel was not altogether slight. Faith, yes, to be put to the arbitrement of swords, and by such two that would by all likelihood have confounded one the other, or have fallen both. Can we, with manners, ask what was the difference? Safely, I think. 'Twas a contention in public, which may, without contradiction, suffer the report. It was much like an argument that fell out last night, where each of us fell in praise of our country mistresses; this gentleman at that time vouching and upon warrant of bloody affirmation his to be more fair, virtuous, wise, chaste, constant, qualified, and less attemptable, than any the rarest of our ladies in France. That lady is not now living, or this gentleman's opinion by this worn out. She holds her virtue still and I my mind. You must not so far prefer her 'fore ours of Italy. Being so far provoked as I was in France, I would abate her nothing, though I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. As fair and as good a kind of hand-in-hand comparison had been something too fair and too good for any lady in Britain.
If she went before others I have seen, as that diamond of yours outlustres many I have beheld, I could not but believe she excelled many; but I have not seen the most precious diamond that is, nor you the lady. I praised her as I rated her; so do I my stone. What do you esteem it at? More than the world enjoys. Either your unparagoned mistress is dead, or she's outprized by a trifle. You are mistaken; the one may be sold, or given; or if there were wealth enough for the purchase, or merit for the gift; the other is not a thing for sale, and only the gift of the gods. Which the gods have given you? Which, by their graces, I will keep. You may wear her in little yours, but, you know, strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds. Your ring may be stolen, too; so your brace of unprizeable estimations, the one is but frail and the other causal; a cunning thief, or a that way accomplished courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last. Your Italy contains none so accomplished a courtier to convince the honour of my mistress, if, in the holding or loss of that, you term her frail. I do nothing doubt you have store of thieves; notwithstanding I fear not my ring. Let us leave here, gentlemen. Sir, with all my heart.
This worthy signior, I thank him, makes no stranger of me; we are familiar at first. With five times so much conversation I should get ground of your fair mistress, make her go back, even to the yielding, had I admittance and opportunity to friend. No, no. I dare thereupon pawn the moiety of my estate to your ring, which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it something; but I make my wager rather against your confidence than her reputation; and, to bar your offence herein too, I durst attempt it against any lady in the world. You are a great deal abused in too bold a persuasion; and I doubt not you sustain what you're worthy of by your attempt. What's that? A repulse; though your attempt, as you call it, deserves more, a punishment too. Gentlemen, enough of this; it came in too suddenly; let it die as it was born, and, I pray you, be better acquainted. Would I had put my estate and my neighbour's on the approbation of what I have spoke! What lady would you choose to assail? Yours; whom in constancy you think stands so safe. I will lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring, that, commend me to the court where your lady is, with no more advantage than the opportunity of a second conference, and I will bring from thence that honour of hers which you imagine so reserved.
I will wage against your gold, gold to it: my ring I hold dear as my finger; 'tis part of it. You are afraid, and therein the wiser. If you buy ladies' flesh at a million a dram, you cannot preserve it from tainting. But I see you have some religion in you, that you fear. This is but a custom in your tongue; you bear a graver purpose, I hope. I am the master of my speeches, and would undergo what's spoken, I swear. Will you? I shall but lend my diamond till your return. Let there be covenants drawn between 's: my mistress exceeds in goodness the hugeness of your unworthy thinking; I dare you to this match. Here's my ring. I will have it no lay. By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no sufficient testimony that I have enjoyed the dearest bodily part of your mistress, my ten thousand ducats are yours; so is your diamond too: if I come off, and leave her in such honour as you have trust in, she your jewel, this your jewel, and my gold are yours; provided I have your commendation for my more free entertainment. I embrace these conditions; let us have articles betwixt us.
Only, thus far you shall answer: if you make your voyage upon her and give me directly to understand that you have prevailed, I am no further your enemy; she is not worth our debate: if she remain unseduced, you not making it appear otherwise, for your ill opinion, and the assault you have made to her chastity, you shall answer me with your sword. Your hand; a covenant. We will have these things set down by lawful counsel, and straight away for Britain, lest the bargain should catch cold and starve. I will fetch my gold and have our two wagers recorded. Agreed. Will this hold, think you? Signior Iachimo will not from it. Pray, let us follow 'em. Whiles yet the dew 's on ground, gather those flowers: Make haste; who has the note of them? I, madam. Dispatch. Now, Master doctor, have you brought those drugs? Pleaseth your highness, ay; here they are, madam: But I beseech your Grace, without offence, My conscience bids me ask, wherefore you have Commanded of me these most poisonous compounds, Which are the movers of a languishing death, But though slow, deadly? I wonder, doctor, Thou ask'st me such a question: have I not been Thy pupil long? Hast thou not learn'd me how To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so That our great king himself doth woo me oft For my confections?
Having thus far proceeded, Unless thou think'st me devilish, is 't not meet That I did amplify my judgment in Other conclusions? I will try the forces Of these thy compounds on such creatures as We count not worth the hanging, but none human, To try the vigour of them and apply Allayments to their act, and by them gather Their several virtues and effects. Your highness Shall from this practice but make hard your heart; Besides, the seeing these effects will be Both noisome and infectious. O! content thee. Here comes a flattering rascal; upon him Will I first work: he's for his master, And enemy to my son. How now, Pisanio: Doctor, your service for this time is ended; Take your own way. I do suspect you, madam; But you shall do no harm. Hark thee, a word. I do not like her. She doth think she has Strange lingering poisons; I do know her spirit, And will not trust one of her malice with A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has Will stupify and dull the sense awhile; Which first, perchance, she'll prove on cats and dogs, Then afterward up higher; but there is No danger in what show of death it makes, More than the locking-up the spirits a time, To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd With a most false effect; and I the truer, So to be false with her.
No further service, doctor, Until I send for thee. I humbly take my leave. Weeps she still, sayst thou? Dost thou think in time She will not quench, and let instructions enter Where folly now possesses? Do thou work: When thou shalt bring me word she loves my son, I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then As great as is thy master; greater, for His fortunes all lie speechless, and his name Is at last gasp; return he cannot, nor Continue where he is; to shift his being Is to exchange one misery with another, And every day that comes comes to decay A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect, To be depender on a thing that leans, Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends, So much as but to prop him? Thou tak'st up Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour: It is a thing I made, which hath the king Five times redeem'd from death; I do not know What is more cordial: nay, I prithee, take it; It is an earnest of a further good That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how The case stands with her; do 't as from thyself. Think what a chance thou changest on, but think Thou hast thy mistress still, to boot, my son, Who shall take notice of thee.
I'll move the king To any shape of thy preferment such As thou'lt desire; and then myself, I chiefly, That set thee on to this desert, am bound To load thy merit richly. Call my women; Think on my words. A sly and constant knave, Not to be shak'd; the agent for his master, And the remembrancer of her to hold The hand-fast to her lord. I have given him that Which, if he take, shall quite unpeople her Of leigers for her sweet, and which she after, Except she bend her humour, shall be assur'd To taste of too. So, so; well done, well done. The violets, cowslips, and the prime-roses Bear to my closet. Fare thee well, Pisanio: Think on my words. And shall do: But when to my good lord I prove untrue, I'll choke myself; there's all I'll do for you. A father cruel, and a step-dame false; A foolish suitor to a wedded lady, That hath her husband banish'd: O! that husband, My supreme crown of grief! and those repeated Vexations of it! Had I been thief-stol'n, As my two brothers, happy! but most miserable Is the desire that's glorious: bless'd be those, How mean so'er, that have their honest wills, Which seasons comfort. Who may this be? Fie! Madam, a noble gentleman of Rome, Comes from my lord with letters. Change you, madam? The worthy Leonatus is in safety, And greets your highness dearly. Thanks, good sir: You are kindly welcome.
All of her that is out of door most rich! If she be furnish'd with a mind so rare, She is alone the Arabian bird, and I Have lost the wager. Boldness be my friend! Arm me, audacity, from head to foot! Or, like the Parthian, I shall flying fight; Rather, directly fly. He is one of the noblest note, to whose kindnesses I am most infinitely tied. Reflect upon him accordingly, as you value your truest LEONATUS. So far I read aloud; But even the very middle of my heart Is warm'd by the rest, and takes it thankfully. You are as welcome, worthy sir, as I Have words to bid you; and shall find it so In all that I can do. Thanks, fairest lady. What! are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes To see this vaulted arch, and the rich crop Of sea and land, which can distinguish 'twixt The fiery orbs above and the twinn'd stones Upon the number'd beach? and can we not Partition make with spectacles so precious 'Twixt fair and foul? What makes your admiration?
It cannot be i' the eye; for apes and monkeys 'Twixt two such shes would chatter this way and Contemn with mows the other; nor i' the judgment, For idiots in this case of favour would Be wisely definite; nor i' the appetite; Sluttery to such neat excellence oppos'd Should make desire vomit emptiness, Not so allur'd to feed. What is the matter, trow? The cloyed will, That satiate yet unsatisfied desire, that tub Both fill'd and running, ravening first the lamb, Longs after for the garbage. What, dear sir, Thus raps you? are you well? Thanks, madam, well. Beseech you, sir, Desire my man's abode where I did leave him; He's strange and peevish. I was going, sir, To give him welcome. Continues well my lord his health, beseech you? Well, madam. Is he dispos'd to mirth? I hope he is. Exceeding pleasant; none a stranger there So merry and so gamesome: he is call'd The Briton reveller. When he was here He did incline to sadness, and oft-times Not knowing why. I never saw him sad. There is a Frenchman his companion, one, An eminent monsieur, that, it seems, much loves A Gallian girl at home; he furnaces The thick sighs from him, whiles the jolly Briton Your lord, I mean laughs from 's free lungs, cries, 'O!
Can my sides hold, to think that man, who knows By history, report, or his own proof, What woman is, yea, what she cannot choose But must be, will his free hours languish for Assured bondage?' Will my lord say so? Ay, madam, with his eyes in flood with laughter: It is a recreation to be by And hear him mock the Frenchman; but, heavens know, Some men are much to blame. Not he, I hope. Not he; but yet heaven's bounty towards him might Be us'd more thankfully. In himself, 'tis much; In you, which I account his beyond all talents, Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound To pity too. What do you pity, sir? Two creatures, heartily. Am I one, sir? You look on me: what wrack discern you in me Deserves your pity? Lamentable! What! To hide me from the radiant sun and solace I' the dungeon by a snuff! I pray you, sir, Deliver with more openness your answers To my demands. Why do you pity me? That others do, I was about to say, enjoy your But It is an office of the gods to venge it, Not mine to speak on 't.
You do seem to know Something of me, or what concerns me; pray you, Since doubting things go ill often hurts more Than to be sure they do; for certainties Either are past remedies, or, timely knowing, The remedy then born, discover to me What both you spur and stop. Had I this cheek To bathe my lips upon; this hand, whose touch, Whose every touch, would force the feeler's soul To the oath of loyalty; this object, which Takes prisoner the wild motion of mine eye, Firing it only here; should I damn'd then Slaver with lips as common as the stairs That mount the Capitol; join gripes with hands Made hard with hourly falsehood, falsehood, as With labour; then by-peeping in an eye, Base and illustrous as the smoky light That's fed with stinking tallow; it were fit That all the plagues of hell should at one time Encounter such revolt. My lord, I fear, Has forgot Britain. And himself. Not I, Inclin'd to this intelligence, pronounce The beggary of his change; but 'tis your graces That from my mutest conscience to my tongue Charms this report out. Let me hear no more. O dearest soul! your cause doth strike my heart With pity, that doth make me sick.
A lady So fair, and fasten'd to an empery Would make the great'st king double, to be partner'd With tom-boys hir'd with that self-exhibition Which your own coffers yield! with diseas'd ventures That play with all infirmities for gold Which rottenness can lend nature! such boil'd stuff As well might poison poison! Be reveng'd; Or she that bore you was no queen, and you Recoil from your great stock. Reveng'd! How should I be reveng'd? If this be true, As I have such a heart, that both mine ears Must not in haste abuse, if it be true, How should I be reveng'd? Should be make me Live like Diana's priest, betwixt cold sheets, Whiles he is vaulting variable ramps, In your despite, upon your purse? Revenge it. I dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure, More noble than that runagate to your bed, And will continue fast to your affection, Still close as sure. What ho, Pisanio! Let me my service tender on your lips. Away! I do condemn mine ears that have So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable, Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue, not For such an end thou seek'st; as base as strange. Thou wrong'st a gentleman, who is as far From thy report as thou from honour, and Solicit'st here a lady that disdains Thee and the devil alike. What ho, Pisanio!
The king my father shall be made acquainted Of thy assault; if he shall think it fit, A saucy stranger in his court to mart As in a Romish stew and to expound His beastly mind to us, he hath a court He little cares for and a daughter who He not respects at all. What ho, Pisanio! O happy Leonatus! I may say: The credit that thy lady hath of thee Deserves thy trust, and thy most perfect goodness Her assur'd credit. Blessed live you long! A lady to the worthiest sir that ever Country call'd his; and you his mistress, only For the most worthiest fit. Give me your pardon. I have spoken this, to know if your affiance Were deeply rooted, and shall make your lord That which he is, new o'er; and he is one The truest manner'd; such a holy witch That he enchants societies into him; Half all men's hearts are his. You make amends. He sits 'mongst men like a descended god: He hath a kind of honour sets him off, More than a mortal seeming. Be not angry, Most mighty princess, that I have adventur'd To try your taking of a false report; which hath Honour'd with confirmation your great judgment In the election of a sir so rare, Which you know cannot err. The love I bear him Made me to fan you thus; but the gods made you, Unlike all others, chaffless. Pray, your pardon.
All's well, sir. Take my power i' the court for yours. My humble thanks. I had almost forget To entreat your Grace but in a small request, And yet of moment too, for it concerns Your lord, myself, and other noble friends, Are partners in the business. Pray, what is 't? Some dozen Romans of us and your lord, The best feather of our wing, have mingled sums To buy a present for the emperor; Which I, the factor for the rest, have done In France; 'tis plate of rare device, and jewels Of rich and exquisite form; their values great; And I am something curious, being strange, To have them in safe stowage. May it please you To take them in protection? Willingly; And pawn mine honour for their safety: since My lord hath interest in them, I will keep them In my bedchamber. They are in a trunk, Attended by my men; I will make bold To send them to you, only for this night; I must aboard to-morrow. O! no, no. Yes, I beseech, or I shall short my word By lengthening my return. From Gallia I cross'd the seas on purpose and on promise To see your Grace. I thank you for your pains; But not away to-morrow! O!
I must, madam: Therefore I shall beseech you, if you please To greet your lord with writing, do 't to-night: I have outstood my time, which is material To the tender of our present. I will write. Send your trunk to me; it shall safe be kept, And truly yielded you. You're very welcome. Was there ever man had such luck! when I kissed the jack, upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a hundred pound on 't; and then a whoreson jackanapes must take me up for swearing, as if I borrowed mine oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure. What got he by that? You have broke his pate with your bowl. If his wit had been like him that broke it, it would have run all out. When a gentleman is disposed to swear, it is not for any standers-by to curtail his oaths, ha? No, my lord; nor crop the ears of them. Whoreson dog! I give him satisfaction! Would he had been one of my rank! To have smelt like a fool. I am not vexed more at any thing in the earth. A pox on 't! I had rather not be so noble as I am. They dare not fight with me because of the queen my mother. Every Jack-slave hath his bellyful of fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that nobody can match.
You are cock and capon too; and you crow, cock, with your comb on. Sayest thou? It is not fit your lordship should undertake every companion that you give offence to. No, I know that; but it is fit I should commit offence to my inferiors. Ay, it is fit for your lordship only. Why, so I say. Did you hear of a stranger that's come to court to-night? A stranger, and I not know on 't! He's a strange fellow himself, and knows it not. There's an Italian come; and 'tis thought, one of Leonatus' friends. Leonatus! a banished rascal; and he's another, whatsoever he be. Who told you of this stranger? One of your lordship's pages. Is it fit I went to look upon him? Is there no derogation in 't? You cannot derogate, my lord. Not easily, I think. You are a fool, granted; therefore your issues, being foolish, do not derogate. Come, I'll go see this Italian. What I have lost to-day at bowls I'll win to-night of him. Come, go. I'll attend your lordship. That such a crafty devil as is his mother Should yield the world this ass! a woman that Bears all down with her brain, and this her son Cannot take two from twenty for his heart And leave eighteen. Alas!
poor princess, Thou divine Imogen, what thou endur'st Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern'd, A mother hourly coining plots, a wooer More hateful than the foul expulsion is Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act Of the divorce he'd make. The heavens hold firm The walls of thy dear honour; keep unshak'd That temple, thy fair mind; that thou mayst stand, To enjoy thy banish'd lord and this great land! Who's there? my woman Helen? Please you, madam. What hour is it? Almost midnight, madam. I have read three hours then; mine eyes are weak; Fold down the leaf where I have left; to bed: Take not away the taper, leave it burning, And if thou canst awake by four o' the clock, I prithee, call me. Sleep has seized me wholly. To your protection I commend me, gods! From fairies and the tempters of the night Guard me, beseech ye! The crickets sing, and man's o'erlabour'd sense Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus Did softly press the rushes ere he waken'd The chastity he wounded. Cytherea, How bravely thou becom'st thy bed! freshlily, And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch! But kiss: one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd, How dearly they do 't!
'Tis her breathing that Perfumes the chamber thus; the flame of the taper Bows toward her, and would under-peep her lids, To see the enclosed lights, now canopied Under these windows, white and azure lac'd With blue of heaven's own tinct. But my design, To note the chamber: I will write all down: Such and such pictures; there the window; such Th' adornment of her bed; the arras, figures, Why, such and such; and the contents o' the story. Ah! but some natural notes about her body, Above ten thousand meaner moveables Would testify, to enrich mine inventory. O sleep! thou ape of death, lie dull upon her; And be her senses but as a monument Thus in a chapel lying. Come off, come off; As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard! 'Tis mine; and this will witness outwardly, As strongly as the conscience does within, To the madding of her lord. On her left breast A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops I' the bottom of a cowslip: here's a voucher; Stronger than ever law could make: this secret Will force him think I have pick'd the lock and ta'en The treasure of her honour. No more. To what end? Why should I write this down, that's riveted, Screw'd to my memory? She hath been reading late The tale of Tereus; here the leaf's turn'd down Where Philomel gave up. I have enough: To the trunk again, and shut the spring of it.
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning May bare the raven's eye! I lodge in fear; Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here. One, two, three: time, time! Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the most coldest that ever turned up ace. It would make any man cold to lose. But not every man patient after the noble temper of your lordship. You are most hot and furious when you win. Winning will put any man into courage. If I could get this foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough. It's almost morning, is 't not? Day, my lord. I would this music would come. I am advised to give her music o' mornings; they say it will penetrate. Come on; tune. If you can penetrate her with your fingering, so; we'll try with tongue too: if none will do, let her remain; but I'll never give o'er. First, a very excellent good-conceited thing; after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich words to it: and then let her consider. Hark! hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings, And Phœbus 'gins arise, His steeds to water at those springs On chalic'd flowers that lies, And winking Mary-buds begin To ope their golden eyes: With every thing that pretty is, My lady sweet, arise. Arise, arise! So, get you gone.
If this penetrate, I will consider your music the better; if it do not, it is a vice in her ears, which horse-hairs and calves'-guts, nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to boot, can never amend. Here comes the king. I am glad I was up so late, for that's the reason I was up so early; he cannot choose but take this service I have done fatherly. Good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother. Attend you here the door of our stern daughter? Will she not forth? I have assail'd her with musics, but she vouchsafes no notice. The exile of her minion is too new, She hath not yet forgot him; some more time Must wear the print of his remembrance out, And then she's yours. You are most bound to the king, Who lets go by no vantages that may Prefer you to his daughter. Frame yourself To orderly soliciting, and be friended With aptness of the season; make denials Increase your services; so seem as if You were inspir'd to do those duties which You tender to her; that you in all obey her Save when command to your dismission tends, And therein you are senseless. Senseless! not so. So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome; The one is Caius Lucius.
A worthy fellow, Albeit he comes on angry purpose now; But that's no fault of his: we must receive him According to the honour of his sender; And towards himself, his goodness forespent on us, We must extend our notice. Our dear son, When you have given good morning to your mistress, Attend the queen and us; we shall have need To employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen. If she be up, I'll speak with her; if not, Let her lie still, and dream. By your leave, ho! I know her women are about her. What If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold Which buys admittance; oft it doth; yea, and makes Diana's rangers false themselves, yield up Their deer to the stand o' the stealer; and 'tis gold Which makes the true man kill'd and saves the thief; Nay, sometime hangs both thief and true man. What Can it not do and undo? I will make One of her women lawyer to me, for I yet not understand the case myself. By your leave. Who's there, that knocks? A gentleman. No more? Yes, and a gentlewoman's son. That's more Than some whose tailors are as dear as yours Can justly boast of. What's your lordship's pleasure? Your lady's person: is she ready? Ay, To keep her chamber. There's gold for you; sell me your good report. How! my good name? or to report of you What I shall think is good? The princess!
Good morrow, fairest; sister, your sweet hand. Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains For purchasing but trouble; the thanks I give Is telling you that I am poor of thanks And scarce can spare them. Still, I swear I love you. If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me: If you swear still, your recompense is still That I regard it not. This is no answer. But that you shall not say I yield being silent I would not speak. I pray you, spare me: faith, I shall unfold equal discourtesy To your best kindness. One of your great knowing Should learn, being taught, forbearance. To leave you in your madness, 'twere my sin: I will not. Fools cure not mad folks. Do you call me fool? As I am mad, I do: If you'll be patient, I'll no more be mad; That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir, You put me to forget a lady's manners, By being so verbal; and learn now, for all, That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce By the very truth of it, I care not for you; And am so near the lack of charity, To accuse myself, I hate you; which I had rather You felt than make 't my boast. You sin against Obedience, which you owe your father.
For The contract you pretend with that base wretch, One bred of alms and foster'd with cold dishes, With scraps o' the court, it is no contract, none; And though it be allow'd in meaner parties Yet who than he more mean? to knit their souls On whom there is no more dependancy But brats and beggary in self-figur'd knot; Yet you are curb'd from that enlargement by The consequence o' the crown, and must not soil The precious note of it with a base slave, A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth, A pantler, not so eminent. Profane fellow! Wert thou the son of Jupiter, and no more But what thou art besides, thou wert too base To be his groom; thou wert dignified enough, Even to the point of envy, if 'twere made Comparative for your virtues, to be styl'd The under-hangman of his kingdom, and hated For being preferr'd so well. The south-fog rot him! He never can meet more mischance than come To be but nam'd of thee. His meanest garment That ever hath but clipp'd his body, is dearer In my respect than all the hairs above thee, Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio! 'His garment!' Now, the devil To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently, 'His garment!' I am sprighted with a fool, Frighted, and anger'd worse.
Go, bid my woman Search for a jewel that too casually Hath left mine arm; it was thy master's, 'shrew me If I would lose it for a revenue Of any king's in Europe. I do think I saw 't this morning; confident I am Last night 'twas on mine arm, I kiss'd it; I hope it be not gone to tell my lord That I kiss aught but he. 'Twill not be lost. I hope so; go, and search. You have abus'd me: 'His meanest garment!' Ay, I said so, sir: If you will make 't an action, call witness to 't. I will inform your father. Your mother too: She's my good lady, and will conceive, I hope, But the worst of me. So I leave you, sir, To the worst of discontent. I'll be reveng'd. 'His meanest garment!' Well. Fear it not, sir; I would I were so sure To win the king as I am bold her honour Will remain hers. What means do you make to him? Not any, but abide the change of time, Quake in the present winter's state and wish That warmer days would come; in these sear'd hopes, I barely gratify your love; they failing, I must die much your debtor. Your very goodness and your company O'erpays all I can do.
By this, your king Hath heard of great Augustus; Caius Lucius Will do 's commission throughly, and I think He'll grant the tribute, send the arrearages, Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance Is yet fresh in their grief. I do believe Statist though I am none, nor like to be That this will prove a war; and you shall hear The legions now in Gallia sooner landed In our not-fearing Britain, than have tidings Of any penny tribute paid. Our countrymen Are men more order'd than when Julius Cæsar Smil'd at their lack of skill, but found their courage Worthy his frowning at: their discipline, Now winged, with their courage will make known To their approvers they are people such That mend upon the world. See! Iachimo! The swiftest harts have posted you by land, And winds of all the corners kiss'd your sails, To make your vessel nimble. Welcome, sir. I hope the briefness of your answer made The speediness of your return. Your lady Is one of the fairest that I have look'd upon. And therewithal the best; or let her beauty Look through a casement to allure false hearts And be false with them. Here are letters for you. Their tenour good, I trust. 'Tis very like. Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court When you were there? He was expected then, But not approach'd. All is well yet. Sparkles this stone as it was wont?
or is't not Too dull for your good wearing? If I have lost it, I should have lost the worth of it in gold. I'll make a journey twice as far to enjoy A second night of such sweet shortness which Was mine in Britain; for the ring is won. The stone's too hard to come by. Not a whit, Your lady being so easy. Make not, sir, Your loss your sport: I hope you know that we Must not continue friends. Good sir, we must, If you keep covenant. Had I not brought The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant We were to question further, but I now Profess myself the winner of her honour, Together with your ring; and not the wronger Of her or you, having proceeded but By both your wills. If you can make 't apparent That you have tasted her in bed, my hand And ring is yours; if not, the foul opinion You had of her pure honour gains or loses Your sword or mine or masterless leaves both To who shall find them. Sir, my circumstances Being so near the truth as I will make them, Must first induce you to believe: whose strength I will confirm with oath; which, I doubt not, You'll give me leave to spare, when you shall find You need it not. Proceed.
First, her bedchamber, Where I confess I slept not, but profess Had that was well worth watching, it was hang'd With tapestry of silk and silver; the story Proud Cleopatra, when she met her Roman, And Cydnus swell'd above the banks, or for The press of boats or pride; a piece of work So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive In workmanship and value; which I wonder'd Could be rarely and exactly wrought, Since the true life on 't was This is true; And this you might have heard of here, by me, Or by some other. More particulars Must justify my knowledge. So they must, Or do your honour injury. The chimney Is south the chamber, and the chimney-piece Chaste Dian bathing; never saw I figures So likely to report themselves; the cutter Was as another nature, dumb; outwent her, Motion and breath left out. This is a thing Which you might from relation likewise reap, Being, as it is, much spoke of. The roof o' the chamber With golden cherubins is fretted; her andirons I had forgot them were two winking Cupids Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely Depending on their brands. This is her honour! Let it be granted you have seen all this, and praise Be given to your remembrance, the description Of what is in her chamber nothing saves The wager you have laid.
Then, if you can, Be pale: I beg but leave to air this jewel; see! And now 'tis up again; it must be married To that your diamond; I'll keep them. Jove! Once more let me behold it. Is it that Which I left with her? Sir, I thank her, that: She stripp'd it from her arm; I see her yet; Her pretty action did outsell her gift, And yet enrich'd it too. She gave it me, and said She priz'd it once. May be she pluck'd it off To send it me. She writes so to you, doth she? O! no, no, no, 'tis true. Here, take this too; It is a basilisk unto mine eye, Kills me to look on 't. Let there be no honour Where there is beauty; truth where semblance; love Where there's another man; the vows of women Of no more bondage be to where they are made Than they are to their virtues, which is nothing. O! above measure false. Have patience, sir, And take your ring again; 'tis not yet won: It may be probable she lost it; or Who knows if one of her women, being corrupted, Hath stol'n it from her? Very true; And so I hope he came by 't. Back my ring. Render to me some corporal sign about her, More evident than this; for this was stol'n. By Jupiter, I had it from her arm.
Hark you, he swears; by Jupiter he swears. 'Tis true; nay, keep the ring; 'tis true: I am sure She would not lose it; her attendants are All sworn and honourable; they induc'd to steal it! And by a stranger! No, he hath enjoy'd her; The cognizance of her incontinency Is this; she hath bought the name of whore thus dearly. There, take thy hire; and all the fiends of hell Divide themselves between you! Sir, be patient: This is not strong enough to be believ'd Of one persuaded well of Never talk on 't; She hath been colted by him. If you seek For further satisfying, under her breast, Worthy the pressing, lies a mole, right proud Of that most delicate lodging: by my life, I kiss'd it, and it gave me present hunger To feed again, though full. You do remember This stain upon her? Ay, and it doth confirm Another stain, as big as hell can hold, Were there no more but it. Will you hear more? Spare your arithmetic; never count the turns; Once, and a million! I'll be sworn, No swearing. If you will swear you have not done 't, you lie; And I will kill thee if thou dost deny Thou'st made me cuckold. I'll deny nothing. O! that I had her here, to tear her limb-meal. I will go there and do 't, i' the court, before Her father. I'll do something Quite besides The government of patience!
You have won: Let's follow him, and pervert the present wrath He hath against himself. With all my heart. Is there no way for men to be, but women Must be half-workers? We are all bastards; all, And that most venerable man which I Did call my father was I know not where When I was stamp'd; some coiner with his tools Made me a counterfeit; yet my mother seem'd The Dian of that time; so doth my wife The nonpareil of this. O! vengeance, vengeance; Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain'd And pray'd me oft forbearance; did it with A pudency so rosy the sweet view on 't Might well have warm'd old Saturn; that I thought her As chaste as unsunn'd snow. O! all the devils! This yellow Iachimo, in an hour, was 't not? Or less at first? perchance he spoke not, but Like a full-acorn'd boar, a German one, Cried 'O!' and mounted; found no opposition But what he look'd for should oppose and she Should from encounter guard. Could I find out The woman's part in me!
For there's no motion That tends to vice in man but I affirm It is the woman's part; be it lying, note it, The woman's; flattering, hers; deceiving, hers; Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers; Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain, Nice longing, slanders, mutability, All faults that man may name, nay, that hell knows, Why, hers, in part, or all; but rather, all; For even to vice They are not constant, but are changing still One vice but of a minute old for one Not half so old as that. I'll write against them, Detest them, curse them. Yet 'tis greater skill In a true hate to pray they have their will: The very devils cannot plague them better. Now say what would Augustus Cæsar with us? When Julius Cæsar whose remembrance yet Lives in men's eyes, and will to ears and tongues Be theme and hearing ever was in this Britain, And conquer'd it, Cassibelan, thine uncle, Famous in Cæsar's praises, no whit less Than in his feats deserving it, for him And his succession, granted Rome a tribute, Yearly three thousand pounds, which by thee lately Is left untender'd. And, to kill the marvel, Shall be so ever. There be many Cæsars Ere such another Julius. Britain is A world by itself, and we will nothing pay For wearing our own noses. That opportunity, Which then they had to take from 's, to resume, We have again.
Remember, sir, my liege, The kings your ancestors, together with The natural bravery of your isle, which stands As Neptune's park, ribbed and paled in With rocks unscaleable and roaring waters, With sands, that will not bear your enemies' boats, But suck them up to the topmast. A kind of conquest Cæsar made here, but made not here his brag Of 'came, and saw, and overcame:' with shame The first that ever touch'd him he was carried From off our coast, twice beaten; and his shipping Poor ignorant baubles! on our terrible seas, Like egg-shells mov'd upon their surges, crack'd As easily 'gainst our rocks: for joy whereof The fam'd Cassibelan, who was once at point O giglot fortune! to master Cæsar's sword, Made Lud's town with rejoicing-fires bright, And Britons stiut with courage. Come, there's no more tribute to be paid. Our kingdom is stronger than it was at that time; and, as I said, there is no moe such Cæsars; other of them may have crooked noses, but to owe such straight arms, none. Son, let your mother end. We have yet many among us can gripe as hard as Cassibelan; I do not say I am one, but I have a hand. Why tribute? why should we pay tribute?
If Cæsar can hide the sun from us with a blanket, or put the moon in his pocket, we will pay him tribute for light; else, sir, no more tribute, pray you now. You must know, Till the injurious Romans did extort This tribute from us, we were free; Cæsar's ambition Which swell'd so much that it did almost stretch The sides o' the world against all colour here Did put the yoke upon 's; which to shake off Becomes a war-like people, whom we reckon Ourselves to be. We do say then to Cæsar Our ancestor was that Mulmutius which Ordain'd our laws, whose use the sword of Cæsar Hath too much mangled; whose repair and franchise Shall, by the power we hold, be our good deed, Though Rome be therefore angry. Mulmutius made our laws, Who was the first of Britain which did put His brows within a golden crown, and call'd Himself a king. I am sorry, Cymbeline, That I am to pronounce Augustus Cæsar Cæsar, that hath more kings his servants than Thyself domestic officers thine enemy. Receive it from me, then: war and confusion In Cæsar's name pronounce I 'gainst thee: look For fury not to be resisted. Thus defied, I thank thee for myself. Thou art welcome, Caius.
Thy Cæsar knighted me; my youth I spent Much under him; of him I gather'd honour; Which he, to seek of me again, perforce, Behoves me keep at utterance. I am perfect That the Pannonians and Dalmatians for Their liberties are now in arms; a precedent Which not to read would show the Britons cold: So Cæsar shall not find them. Let proof speak. His majesty bids you welcome. Make pastime with us a day or two, or longer; if you seek us afterwards in other terms, you shall find us in our salt-water girdle; if you beat us out of it, it is yours; if you fall in the adventure, our crows shall fare the better for you; and there's an end. So, sir. I know your master's pleasure and he mine: All the remain is 'Welcome!' How! of adultery! Wherefore write you not What monster's her accuser? Leonatus! O master! what a strange infection Is fall'n into thy ear! What false Italian As poisonous-tongu'd as handed hath prevail'd On thy too ready hearing? Disloyal! No: She's punish'd for her truth, and undergoes, More goddess-like than wife-like, such assaults As would take in some virtue. O my master! Thy mind to her is now as low as were Thy fortunes. How! that I should murder her? Upon the love and truth and vows which I Have made to thy command? I, her? her blood?
If it be so to do good service, never Let me be counted serviceable. How look I, That I should seem to lack humanity So much as this fact comes to? Do't: the letter That I have sent her by her own command Shall give thee opportunity: O damn'd paper! Black as the ink that's on thee. Senseless bauble, Art thou a feodary for this act, and look'st So virgin-like without? Lo! here she comes. I am ignorant in what I am commanded. How now, Pisanio! Madam, here is a letter from my lord. Who? thy lord? that is my lord, Leonatus. O! learn'd indeed were that astronomer That knew the stars as I his characters; He'd lay the future open. You good gods, Let what is here contain'd relish of love, Of my lord's health, of his content, yet not That we two are asunder; let that grieve him, Some griefs are med'cinable; that is one of them, For it doth physic love, of his content, All but in that! Good wax, thy leave. Bless'd be You bees that make these locks of counsel! Lovers And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike; Though forfeiters you cast in prison, yet You clasp young Cupid's tables. Good news, gods!
Justice, and your father's wrath, should he take me in his dominion, could not be so cruel to me, as you, O the dearest of creatures, would not even renew me with your eyes. Take notice that I am in Cambria, at Milford-Haven; what your own love will out of this advise you, follow. So, he wishes you all happiness, that remains loyal to his vow, and your, increasing in love, LEONATUS POSTHUMUS. O! for a horse with wings! Hear'st thou, Pisanio? He is at Milford-Haven; read, and tell me How far 'tis thither. If one of mean affairs May plod it in a week, why may not I Glide thither in a day? Then, true Pisanio, Who long'st, like me, to see thy lord; who long'st, O! let me 'bate, but not like me; yet long'st, But in a fainter kind: O!
not like me, For mine's beyond beyond; say, and speak thick; Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing, To the smothering of the sense, how far it is To this same blessed Milford; and, by the way, Tell me how Wales was made so happy as T' inherit such a haven; but, first of all, How we may steal from hence, and, for the gap That we shall make in time, from our hencegoing And our return, to excuse; but first, how get hence. Why should excuse be born or ere begot? We'll talk of that hereafter. Prithee, speak, How many score of miles may we well ride 'Twixt hour and hour? One score 'twixt sun and sun, Madam, 's enough for you, and too much too. Why, one that rode to 's execution, man, Could never go so slow: I have heard of riding wagers, Where horses have been nimbler than the sands That run i' the clock's behalf. But this is foolery; Go bid my woman feign a sickness; say She'll home to her father; and provide me presently A riding-suit, no costlier than would fit A franklin's housewife. Madam, you're best consider. I see before me, man; nor here, nor here, Nor what ensues, but have a fog in them, That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee; Do as I bid thee. There's no more to say; Accessible is none but Milford way.
A goodly day not to keep house, with such Whose roof's as low as ours! Stoop, boys; this gate Instructs you how to adore the heavens, and bows you To a morning's holy office; the gates of monarchs Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through And keep their impious turbans on, without Good morrow to the sun. Hail, thou fair heaven! We house i' the rock, yet use thee not so hardly As prouder livers do. Hail, heaven! Hail, heaven! Now for our mountain sport. Up to yond hill; Your legs are young; I'll tread these flats. Consider, When you above perceive me like a crow, That it is place which lessens and sets off; And you may then revolve what tales I have told you Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war; This service is not service, so being done, But being so allow'd; to apprehend thus Draws us a profit from all things we see, And often, to our comfort, shall we find The sharded beetle in a safer hold Than is the full wing'd eagle. O! this life Is nobler than attending for a check, Richer than doing nothing for a bribe, Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk; Such gain the cap of him that makes 'em fine, Yet keeps his book uncross'd; no life to ours.
Out of your proof you speak; we, poor unfledg'd, Have never wing'd from view o' the nest, nor know not What air's from home. Haply this life is best, If quiet life be best; sweeter to you That have a sharper known, well corresponding With your stiff age; but unto us it is A cell of ignorance, travelling a-bed, A prison for a debtor, that not dares To stride a limit. What should we speak of When we are old as you? when we shall hear The rain and wind beat dark December, how In this our pinching cave shall we discourse The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing; We are beastly, subtle as the fox for prey, Like war-like as the wolf for what we eat; Our valour is to chase what flies; our cage We make a quire, as doth the prison'd bird, And sing our bondage freely. How you speak!
Did you but know the city's usuries And felt them knowingly; the art o' the court, As hard to leave as keep, whose top to climb Is certain falling, or so slippery that The fear's as bad as falling; the toil of the war, A pain that only seems to seek out danger I' the name of fame and honour; which dies i' the search, And hath as oft a slanderous epitaph As record of fair act; nay, many times, Doth ill deserve by doing well; what's worse, Must curtsy at the censure: O boys! this story The world may read in me; my body's mark'd With Roman swords, and my report was once First with the best of note; Cymbeline lov'd me, And when a soldier was the theme, my name Was not far off; then was I as a tree Whose boughs did bend with fruit, but, in one night, A storm or robbery, call it what you will, Shook down my mellow hangings, nay, my leaves, And left me bare to weather. Uncertain favour!
My fault being nothing, as I have told you oft, But that two villains, whose false oaths prevail'd Before my perfect honour, swore to Cymbeline I was confederate with the Romans; so Follow'd my banishment, and this twenty years This rock and these demesnes have been my world, Where I have liv'd at honest freedom, paid More pious debts to heaven than in all The fore-end of my time. But, up to the mountains! This is not hunter's language. He that strikes The venison first shall be the lord o' the feast; To him the other two shall minister; And we will fear no poison which attends In place of greater state. I'll meet you in the valleys. How hard it is to hide the sparks of nature! These boys know little they are sons to the king; Nor Cymbeline dreams that they are alive. They think they are mine; and, though train'd up thus meanly I' the cave wherein they bow, their thoughts do hit The roofs of palaces, and nature prompts them In simple and low things to prince it much Beyond the trick of others. This Polydore, The heir of Cymbeline and Britain, who The king his father call'd Guiderius, Jove!
When on my three-foot stool I sit and tell The war-like feats I have done, his spirits fly out Into my story: say, 'Thus mine enemy fell, And thus I set my foot on 's neck;' even then The princely blood flows in his cheek, he sweats, Strains his young nerves, and puts himself in posture That acts my words. The younger brother, Cadwal, Once Arviragus, in as like a figure, Strikes life into my speech and shows much more His own conceiving. Hark! the game is rous'd. O Cymbeline! heaven and my conscience knows Thou didst unjustly banish me; whereon, At three and two years old, I stole these babes, Thinking to bar thee of succession, as Thou reft'st me of my lands. Euriphile, Thou wast their nurse; they took thee for their mother, And every day do honour to her grave: Myself, Belarius, that am Morgan call'd, They take for natural father. The game is up. Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place Was near at hand: ne'er long'd my mother so To see me first, as I have now. Pisanio! man! Where is Posthumus? What is in thy mind, That makes thee stare thus? Wherefore breaks that sigh From the inward of thee?
One, but painted thus, Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd Beyond self-explication; put thyself Into a haviour of less fear, ere wildness Vanquish my staider senses. What's the matter? Why tender'st thou that paper to me with A look untender? If 't be summer news, Smile to 't before; if winterly, thou need'st But keep that count'nance still. My husband's hand! That drug-damn'd Italy hath out-craftied him, And he's at some hard point. Speak, man; thy tongue May take off some extremity, which to read Would be even mortal to me. Please you, read; And you shall find me, wretched man, a thing The most disdain'd of fortune. Thy mistress, Pisanio, hath played the strumpet in my bed; the testimonies whereof lie bleeding in me. I speak not out of weak surmises, but from proof as strong as my grief and as certain as I expect my revenge. That part thou, Pisanio, must act for me, if thy faith be not tainted with the breach of hers. Let thine own hands take away her life; I shall give thee opportunity at Milford-Haven; she hath my letter for the purpose; where, if thou fear to strike, and to make me certain it is done, thou art the pandar to her dishonour and equally to me disloyal. What shall I need to draw my sword? the paper Hath cut her throat already.
No, 'tis slander, Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue Outvenoms all the worms of Nile, whose breath Rides on the posting winds and doth belie All corners of the world; kings, queens, and states, Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave This viperous slander enters. What cheer, madam? False to his bed! What is it to be false? To lie in watch there and to think on him? To weep 'twixt clock and clock? if sleep charge nature, To break it with a fearful dream of him, And cry myself awake? that's false to 's bed, is it? Alas! good lady. I false! Thy conscience witness! Iachimo, Thou didst accuse him of incontinency; Thou then look'dst like a villain; now methinks Thy favour's good enough. Some jay of Italy, Whose mother was her painting, hath betray'd him: Poor I am stale, a garment out of fashion, And, for I am richer than to hang by the walls, I must be ripp'd; to pieces with me! O! Men's vows are women's traitors! All good seeming, By thy revolt, O husband! shall be thought Put on for villany; not born where 't grows, But worn a bait for ladies. Good madam, hear me.
True honest men being heard, like false Æneas, Were in his time thought false, and Sinon's weeping Did scandal many a holy tear, took pity From most true wretchedness; so thou, Posthumus, Wilt lay the leaven on all proper men; Goodly and gallant shall be false and perjur'd From thy great fail. Come, fellow, be thou honest; Do thou thy master's bidding. When thou seest him, A little witness my obedience; look! I draw the sword myself; take it, and hit The innocent mansion of my love, my heart. Fear not, 'tis empty of all things but grief; Thy master is not there, who was indeed The riches of it: do his bidding; strike. Thou mayst be valiant in a better cause, But now thou seem'st a coward. Hence, vile instrument! Thou shalt not damn my hand. Why, I must die; And if I do not by thy hand, thou art No servant of thy master's. Against self-slaughter There is a prohibition so divine That cravens my weak hand. Come, here's my heart. Something's afore 't; soft, soft! we'll no defence; Obedient as the scabbard. What is here? The scriptures of the loyal Leonatus All turn'd to heresy! Away, away! Corrupters of my faith; you shall no more Be stomachers to my heart. Thus may poor fools Believe false teachers; though those that are betray'd Do feel the treason sharply, yet the traitor Stands in worse case of woe.
And thou, Posthumus, thou that didst set up My disobedience 'gainst the king my father, And make me put into contempt the suits Of princely fellows, shalt hereafter find It is no act of common passage, but A strain of rareness; and I grieve myself To think, when thou shalt be disedg'd by her That now thou tir'st on, how thy memory Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee, dispatch; The lamb entreats the butcher; where's thy knife? Thou art too slow to do thy master's bidding, When I desire it too. O, gracious lady! Since I receiv'd command to do this business I have not slept one wink. Do 't, and to bed then. I'll wake mine eyeballs blind first. Wherefore then Didst undertake it? Why hast thou abus'd So many miles with a pretence? this place? Mine action and thine own? our horses' labour? The time inviting thee? the perturb'd court, For my being absent? whereunto I never Purpose return. Why hast thou gone so far, To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand, The elected deer before thee? But to win time To lose so bad employment, in the which I have consider'd of a course. Good lady, Hear me with patience. Talk thy tongue weary; speak: I have heard I am a strumpet, and mine ear, Therein false struck, can take no greater wound, Nor tent to bottom that. But speak. Then, madam, I thought you would not back again.
Most like, Bringing me here to kill me. Not so, neither; But if I were as wise as honest, then My purpose would prove well. It cannot be But that my master is abus'd; some villain, Some villain, ay, and singular in his art, Hath done you both this cursed injury. Some Roman courtezan. No, on my life. I'll give but notice you are dead and send him Some bloody sign of it; for 'tis commanded I should do so: you shall be miss'd at court, And that will well confirm it. Why, good fellow, What shall I do the while? where bide? how live? Or in my life what comfort, when I am Dead to my husband? If you'll back to the court, No court, no father; nor no more ado With that harsh, noble, simple nothing Cloten! That Cloten, whose love-suit hath been to me As fearful as a siege. If not at court, Then not in Britain must you bide. Where then? Hath Britain all the sun that shines? Day, night, Are they not but in Britain? I' the world's volume Our Britain seems as of it, but not in 't; In a great pool a swan's nest: prithee, think There's livers out of Britain. I am most glad You think of other place.
The ambassador, Lucius the Roman, comes to Milford-Haven To-morrow; now, if you could wear a mind Dark as your fortune is, and but disguise That which, t' appear itself, must not yet be But by self-danger, you should tread a course Pretty, and full of view; yea, haply, near The residence of Posthumus; so nigh at least That though his actions were not visible, yet Report should render him hourly to your ear As truly as he moves. O! for such means: Though peril to my modesty, not death on 't, I would adventure. Well, then, here's the point: You must forget to be a woman; change Command into obedience; fear and niceness The handmaids of all women, or more truly Woman it pretty self into a waggish courage; Ready in gibes, quick-answer'd, saucy, and As quarrelous as the weasel; nay, you must Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek, Exposing it but, O! the harder heart, Alack! no remedy to the greedy touch Of common-kissing Titan, and forget Your laboursome and dainty trims, wherein You made great Juno angry. Nay, be brief: I see into thy end, and am almost A man already. First, make yourself but like one.
Forethinking this, I have already fit 'Tis in my cloak-bag doublet, hat, hose, all That answer to them; would you in their serving, And with what imitation you can borrow From youth of such a season, 'fore noble Lucius Present yourself, desire his service, tell him Wherein you are happy, which you'll make him know, If that his head have ear in music, doubtless With joy he will embrace you, for he's honourable, And, doubling that, most holy. Your means abroad, You have me, rich; and I will never fail Beginning nor supplyment. Thou art all the comfort The gods will diet me with. Prithee, away; There's more to be consider'd, but we'll even All that good time will give us; this attempt I'm soldier to, and will abide it with A prince's courage. Away, I prithee. Well, madam, we must take a short farewell, Lest, being miss'd, I be suspected of Your carriage from the court. My noble mistress, Here is a box, I had it from the queen, What's in 't is precious; if you are sick at sea, Or stomach-qualm'd at land, a dram of this Will drive away distemper. To some shade, And fit you to your manhood. May the gods Direct you to the best! Amen. I thank thee Thus far; and so farewell. Thanks, royal sir. My emperor hath wrote, I must from hence; And am right sorry that I must report ye My master's enemy.
Our subjects, sir, Will not endure his yoke; and for ourself To show less sovereignty than they, must needs Appear unking-like. So, sir: I desire of you A conduct over land to Milford-Haven. Madam, all joy befall your Grace. And you! My lords, you are appointed for that office; The due of honour in no point omit. So, farewell, noble Lucius. Your hand, my lord. Receive it friendly; but from this time forth I wear it as your enemy. Sir, the event Is yet to name the winner. Fare you well. Leave not the worthy Lucius, good my lords, Till he have cross'd the Severn. Happiness! He goes hence frowning; but it honours us That we have given him cause. 'Tis all the better; Your valiant Britons have their wishes in it. Lucius hath wrote already to the emperor How it goes here. It fits us therefore ripely Our chariots and horsemen be in readiness; The powers that he already hath in Gallia Will soon be drawn to head, from whence he moves His war for Britain. 'Tis not sleepy business; But must be look'd to speedily and strongly. Our expectation that it would be thus Hath made us forward. But, my gentle queen, Where is our daughter? She hath not appear'd Before the Roman, nor to us hath tender'd The duty of the day; she looks us like A thing more made of malice than of duty: We have noted it.
Call her before us, for We have been too slight in sufferance. Royal sir. Since the exile of Posthumus, most retir'd Hath her life been; the cure whereof, my lord, 'Tis time must do. Beseech your majesty, Forbear sharp speeches to her; she's a lady So tender of rebukes that words are strokes, And strokes death to her. Where is she, sir? How Can her contempt be answer'd? Please you, sir, Her chambers are all lock'd, and there's no answer That will be given to the loudest noise we make. My lord, when last I went to visit her, She pray'd me to excuse her keeping close, Whereto constrain'd by her infirmity, She should that duty leave unpaid to you, Which daily she was bound to proffer; this She wish'd me to make known, but our great court Made me to blame in memory. Her doors lock'd! Not seen of late! Grant, heavens, that which I fear Prove false! Son, I say, follow the king. That man of hers, Pisanio, her old servant, I have not seen these two days. Go, look after. Pisanio, thou that stand'st so for Posthumus! He hath a drug of mine; I pray his absence Proceed by swallowing that, for he believes It is a thing most precious. But for her, Where is she gone?
Haply, despair hath sciz'd her, Or, wing'd with fervour of her love, she's flown To her desir'd Posthumus. Gone she is To death or to dishonour, and my end Can make good use of either; she being down, I have the placing of the British crown. How now, my son! 'Tis certain she is fled. Go in and cheer the king; he rages, none Dare come about him. All the better; may This night forestall him of the coming day! I love and hate her; for she's fair and royal, And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite Than lady, ladies, woman; from every one The best she hath, and she, of all compounded, Outsells them all. I love her therefore; but Disdaining me and throwing favours on The low Posthumus slanders so her judgment That what's else rare is chok'd, and in that point I will conclude to hate her, nay, indeed, To be reveng'd upon her. For, when fools Shall Who is here? What! are you packing, sirrah? Come hither. Ah! you precious pandar. Villain, Where is thy lady? In a word; or else Thou art straightway with the fiends. O! good my lord. Where is thy lady? or, by Jupiter I will not ask again. Close villain, I'll have this secret from thy heart, or rip Thy heart to find it. Is she with Posthumus? From whose so many weights of baseness cannot A dram of worth be drawn. Alas!
my lord, How can she be with him? When was she miss'd? He is in Rome. Where is she, sir? Come nearer, No further halting; satisfy me home What is become of her? O! my all-worthy lord. All-worthy villain! Discover where thy mistress is at once. At the next word; no more of 'worthy lord!' Speak, or thy silence on the instant is Thy condemnation and thy death. Then, sir, This paper is the history of my knowledge Touching her flight. Let's see 't. I will pursue her Even to Augustus' throne. Or this, or perish. She's far enough; and what he learns by this May prove his travel, not her danger. Hum! I'll write to my lord she's dead. O Imogen! Safe mayst thou wander, safe return agen! Sirrah, is this letter true? Sir, as I think. It is Posthumus' hand; I know 't. Sirrah, if thou wouldst not be a villain, but do me true service, undergo those employments wherein I should have cause to use thee with a serious industry, that is, what villany soe'er I bid thee do, to perform it directly and truly, I would think thee an honest man; thou shouldst neither want my means for thy relief nor my voice for thy preferment. Well, my good lord. Wilt thou serve me?
For since patiently and constantly thou hast stuck to the bare fortune of that beggar Posthumus, thou canst not, in the course of gratitude, but be a diligent follower of mine. Wilt thou serve me? Sir, I will. Give me thy hand; here's my purse. Hast any of thy late master's garments in thy possession? I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he wore when he took leave of my lady and mistress. The first service thou dost me, fetch that suit hither: let it be thy first service; go. I shall, my lord. Meet thee at Milford-Haven! I forgot to ask him one thing; I'll remember 't anon, even there, thou villain Posthumus, will I kill thee. I would these garments were come. She said upon a time, the bitterness of it I now belch from my heart, that she held the very garment of Posthumus in more respect than my noble and natural person, together with the adornment of my qualities. With that suit upon my back will I ravish her: first kill him, and in her eyes; there shall she see my valour, which will then be a torment to her contempt.
He on the ground, my speech of insultment ended on his dead body, and when my lust hath dined, which, as I say, to vex her, I will execute in the clothes that she so praised, to the court I'll knock her back, foot her home again. She hath despised me rejoicingly, and I'll be merry in my revenge. Be those the garments? Ay, my noble lord. How long is 't since she went to Milford-Haven? She can scarce be there yet. Bring this apparel to my chamber; that is the second thing that I have commanded thee: the third is, that thou wilt be a voluntary mute to my design. Be but duteous, and true preferment shall tender itself to thee. My revenge is now at Milford; would I had wings to follow it! Come, and be true. Thou bidd'st me to my loss; for true to thee Were to prove false, which I will never be, To him that is most true. To Milford go, And find not her whom thou pursu'st. Flow, flow, You heavenly blessings, on her! This fool's speed Be cross'd with slowness; labour be his meed! I see a man's life is a tedious one; I have tir'd myself, and for two nights together Have made the ground my bed; I should be sick But that my resolution helps me. Milford, When from the mountain-top Pisanio show'd thee, Thou wast within a ken. O Jove!
I think Foundations fly the wretched; such, I mean, Where they should be reliev'd. Two beggars told me I could not miss my way; will poor folks lie, That have afflictions on them, knowing 'tis A punishment or trial? Yes; no wonder, When rich ones scarce tell true. To lapse in fulness Is sorer than to lie for need, and falsehood Is worse in kings than beggars. My dear lord! Thou art one o' the false ones. Now I think on thee, My hunger's gone, but even before I was At point to sink for food. But what is this? Here is a path to 't; 'tis some savage hold; I were best not call, I dare not call, yet famine, Ere clean it o'erthrow nature, makes it valiant. Plenty and peace breeds cowards, hardness ever Of hardiness is mother. Ho! Who's here? If any thing that's civil, speak; if savage, Take or lend. Ho! No answer? Then I'll enter. Best draw my sword; and if mine enemy But fear the sword like me, he'll scarcely look on 't. Such a foe, good heavens! You, Polydore, have prov'd best woodman, and Are master of the feast; Cadwal and I Will play the cook and servant, 'tis our match; The sweat of industry would dry and die But for the end it works to.
Come; our stomachs Will make what's homely savoury; weariness Can snore upon the flint when resty sloth Finds the down pillow hard. Now, peace be here, Poor house, that keep'st thyself! I am throughly weary. I am weak with toil, yet strong in appetite. There is cold meat i' the cave; we'll browse on that, Whilst what we have kill'd be cook'd. Stay; come not in; But that it eats our victuals, I should think Here were a fairy. What's the matter, sir? By Jupiter, an angel! or, if not, An earthly paragon! Behold divineness No elder than a boy! Good masters, harm me not: Before I enter'd here, I call'd; and thought To have begg'd or bought what I have took. Good troth, I have stol'n nought, nor would not, though I had found Gold strew'd i' the floor. Here's money for my meat; I would have left it on the board so soon As I had made my meal, and parted With prayers for the provider. Money, youth? All gold and silver rather turn to dirt! As 'tis no better reckon'd but of those Who worship dirty gods. I see you're angry. Know, if you kill me for my fault, I should Have died had I not made it. Whither bound? To Milford-Haven. What's your name? Fidele, sir.
I have a kinsman who Is bound for Italy; he embark'd at Milford: To whom being going, almost spent with hunger, I am fall'n in this offence. Prithee, fair youth, Think us no churis, nor measure our good minds By this rude place we live in. Well encounter'd! 'Tis almost night; you shall have better cheer Ere you depart, and thanks to stay and eat it. Boys, bid him welcome. Were you a woman, youth, I should woo hard but be your groom. In honesty, I bid for you, as I do buy. I'll make 't my comfort He is a man; I'll love him as my brother; And such a welcome as I'd give to him After a long absence, such is yours: most welcome! Be sprightly, for you fall 'mongst friends. 'Mongst friends, If brothers. Would it had been so, that they Had been my father's sons; then had my prize Been less, and so more equal ballasting To thee, Posthumus. He wrings at some distress. Would I could free 't! Or I, whate'er it be, What pain it cost, what danger. Gods! Hark, boys Great men, That had a court no bigger than this cave, That did attend themselves and had the virtue Which their own conscience seal'd them, laying by That nothing-gift of differing multitudes, Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods! I'd change my sex to be companion with them, Since Leonatus' false. It shall be so.
Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in: Discourse is heavy, fasting; when we have supp'd, We'll mannerly demand thee of thy story, So far as thou wilt speak it. Pray, draw near. The night to the owl and morn to the lark less welcome. Thanks, sir. I pray, draw near. This is the tenour of the emperor's writ: That since the common men are now in action 'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians, And that the legions now in Gallia are Full weak to undertake our wars against The fall'n-off Britons, that we do incite The gentry to this business. He creates Lucius pro-consul; and to you the tribunes, For this immediate levy, he commends His absolute commission. Long live Cæsar! Is Lucius general of the forces? Ay. Remaining now in Gallia? With those legions Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy Must be supplyant; the words of your commission Will tie you to the numbers and the time Of their dispatch. We will discharge our duty. I am near to the place where they should meet, if Pisanio have mapped it truly. How fit his garments serve me! Why should his mistress, who was made by him that made the tailor, not be fit too? the rather, saving reverence of the word, for 'tis said a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must play the workman.
I dare speak it to myself, for it is not vain-glory, for a man and his glass to confer in his own chamber, I mean, the lines of my body are as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong, not beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the advantage of the time, above him in birth, alike conversant in general services, and more remarkable in single oppositions; yet this imperceiverant thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is! Posthumus, thy head, which now is growing upon thy shoulders, shall within this hour be off, thy mistress enforced, thy garments cut to pieces before thy face; and all this done, spurn her home to her father, who may haply be a little angry for my so rough usage, but my mother, having power of his testiness, shall turn all into my commendations. My horse is tied up safe; out, sword, and to a sore purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand! This is the very description of their meeting-place; and the fellow dares not deceive me. You are not well; remain here in the cave; We'll come to you after hunting. Brother, stay here; Are we not brothers? So man and man should be, But clay and clay differs in dignity, Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick. Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
So sick I am not, yet I am not well; But not so citizen a wanton as To seem to die ere sick. So please you, leave me; Stick to your journal course; the breach of custom Is breach of all. I am ill; but your being by me Cannot amend me; society is no comfort To one not sociable. I am not very sick, Since I can reason of it; pray you, trust me here, I'll rob none but myself, and let me die, Stealing so poorly. I love thee; I have spoke it; How much the quantity, the weight as much, As I do love my father. What! how! how! If it be sin to say so, sir, I yoke me In my good brother's fault: I know not why I love this youth; and I have heard you say, Love's reason's without reason: the bier at door, And a demand who is 't shall die, I'd say 'My father, not this youth.' O noble strain! O worthiness of nature! breed of greatness! Cowards father cowards, and base things sire base: Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace. I'm not their father; yet who this should be, Doth miracle itself, lov'd before me. 'Tis the ninth hour o' the morn. Brother, farewell. I wish ye sport. You health. So please you, sir. These are kind creatures. Gods, what lies I have heard! Our courtiers say all's savage but at court: Experience, O!
thou disprov'st report. The imperious seas breed monsters, for the dish Poor tributary rivers as sweet fish. I am sick still, heart-sick. Pisanio, I'll now taste of thy drug. I could not stir him; He said he was gentle, but unfortunate; Dishonestly afflicted, but yet honest. Thus did he answer me; yet said hereafter I might know more. To the field, to the field! We'll leave you for this time; go in and rest. We'll not be long away. Pray, be not sick, For you must be our housewife. Well or ill, I am bound to you. And shalt be ever. This youth, howe'er distress'd, appears he hath had Good ancestors. How angel-like he sings! But his neat cookery! he cut our roots In characters, And sauc'd our broths as Juno had been sick And he her dieter. Nobly he yokes A smiling with a sigh, as if the sigh Was that it was, for not being such a smile; The smile mocking the sigh, that it would fly From so divine a temple, to commix With winds that sailors rail at. I do note That grief and patience rooted in him, both Mingle their spurs together. Grow, patience! And let the stinking-elder, grief, untwine His perishing root with the increasing vine! It is great morning. Come, away! Who's there? I cannot find those runagates; that villain Hath mock'd me. I am faint. 'Those runagates!' Means he not us?
I partly know him; 'tis Cloten, the son o' the queen. I fear some ambush. I saw him not these many years, and yet I know 'tis he. We are held as outlaws: hence! He is but one. You and my brother search What companies are near; pray you, away; Let me alone with him. Soft! What are you That fly me thus? some villain mountainers? I have heard of such. What slave art thou? A thing More slavish did I ne'er than answering A 'slave' without a knock. Thou art a robber, A law-breaker, a villain. Yield thee, thief. To who? to thee? What art thou? Have not I An arm as big as thine? a heart as big? Thy words, I grant, are bigger, for I wear not My dagger in my mouth. Say what thou art, Why I should yield to thee? Thou villain base, Know'st me not by my clothes? No, nor thy tailor, rascal, Who is thy grandfather: he made those clothes, Which, as it seems, make thee. Thou precious varlet, My tailor made them not. Hence then, and thank The man that gave them thee. Thou art some fool; I am loath to beat thee. Thou injurious thief, Hear but my name, and tremble. What's thy name? Cloten, thou villain.
Cloten, thou double villain, be thy name, I cannot tremble at it; were it Toad, or Adder, Spider, 'Twould move me sooner. To thy further fear, Nay, to thy mere confusion, thou shalt know I am son to the queen. I'm sorry for 't, not seeming So worthy as thy birth. Art not afeard? Those that I reverence those I fear, the wise; At fools I laugh, not fear them. Die the death: When I have slain thee with my proper hand, I'll follow those that even now fled hence, And on the gates of Lud's town set your heads: Yield, rustic mountaineer. No companies abroad. None in the world. You did mistake him, sure. I cannot tell; long is it since I saw him, But time hath nothing blurr'd those lines of favour Which then he wore; the snatches in his voice, And burst of speaking, were as his. I am absolute 'Twas very Cloten. In this place we left them: I wish my brother make good time with him, You say he is so fell. Being scarce made up, I mean, to man, he had not apprehension Of roaring terrors; for defect of judgment Is oft the cease of fear. But see, thy brother. This Cloten was a fool, an empty purse, There was no money in 't.
Not Hercules Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none; Yet I not doing this, the fool had borne My head as I do his. What hast thou done? I am perfect what: cut off one Cloten's head, Son to the queen, after his own report; Who call'd me traitor, mountaineer, and swore, With his own single hand he'd take us in, Displace our heads where thank the gods! they grow, And set them on Lud's town. We are all undone. Why, worthy father, what have we to lose, But that he swore to take, our lives? The law Protects not us; then why should we be tender To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us, Play judge and executioner all himself, For we do fear the law? What company Discover you abroad? No single soul Can we set eye on; but in all safe reason He must have some attendants. Though his humour Was nothing but mutation, ay, and that From one bad thing to worse; not frenzy, not Absolute madness could so far have rav'd To bring him here alone.
Although, perhaps, It may be heard at court that such as we Cave here, hunt here, are outlaws, and in time May make some stronger head; the which he hearing, As it is like him, might break out, and swear He'd fetch us in; yet is 't not probable To come alone, either he so undertaking, Or they so suffering; then, on good ground we fear, If we do fear this body hath a tail More perilous than the head. Let ordinance Come as the gods foresay it; howsoe'er, My brother hath done well. I had no mind To hunt this day; the boy Fidele's sickness Did make my way long forth. With his own sword, Which he did wave against my throat, I have ta'en His head from him; I'll throw 't into the creek Behind our rock, and let it to the sea, And tell the fishes he's the queen's son, Cloten: That's all I reck. I fear 'twill be reveng'd. Would, Polydore, thou hadst not done 't! though valour Becomes thee well enough. Would I had done 't So the revenge alone pursu'd me! Polydore, I love thee brotherly, but envy much Thou hast robb'd me of this deed; I would revenges, That possible strength might meet, would seek us through And put us to our answer. Well, 'tis done. We'll hunt no more to-day, nor seek for danger Where there's no profit.
I prithee, to our rock; You and Fidele play the cooks; I'll stay Till hasty Polydore return, and bring him To dinner presently. Poor sick Fidele! I'll willingly to him; to gain his colour I'd let a parish of such Clotens blood, And praise myself for charity. O thou goddess! Thou divine Nature, how thyself thou blazon'st In these two princely boys. They are as gentle As zephyrs, blowing below the violet, Not wagging his sweet head; and yet as rough, Their royal blood enchaf'd, as the rud'st wind, That by the top doth take the mountain pine, And make him stoop to the vale. 'Tis wonder That an invisible instinct should frame them To royalty unlearn'd, honour untaught, Civility not seen from other, valour That wildly grows in them, but yields a crop As if it had been sow'd! Yet still it's strange What Cloten's being here to us portends, Or what his death will bring us. Where's my brother? I have sent Cloten's clotpoll down the stream, In embassy to his mother; his body's hostage For his return. My ingenious instrument! Hark! Polydore, it sounds; but what occasion Hath Cadwal now to give it motion? Hark! Is he at home? He went hence even now. What does he mean? since death of my dear'st mother It did not speak before. All solemn things Should answer solemn accidents. The matter?
Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys Is jollity for apes and grief for boys. Is Cadwal mad? Look! here he comes, And brings the dire occasion in his arms Of what we blame him for. The bird is dead That we have made so much on. I had rather Have skipp'd from sixteen years of age to sixty, To have turn'd my leaping-time into a crutch, Than have seen this. O, sweetest, fairest lily! My brother wears thee not the one half so well As when thou grew'st thyself. O melancholy! Who ever yet could sound thy bottom? find The ooze, to show what coast thy sluggish crare Might easiliest harbour in? Thou blessed thing! Jove knows what man thou mightst have made; but I, Thou diedst, a most rare boy, of melancholy. How found you him? Stark, as you see: Thus smiling, as some fly had tickled slumber, Not as death's dart, being laugh'd at; his right cheek Reposing on a cushion. Where? O' the floor, His arms thus leagu'd; I thought he slept, and put My clouted brogues from off my feet, whose rudeness Answer'd my steps too loud. Why, he but sleeps: If he be gone, he'll make his grave a bed; With female fairies will his tomb be haunted, And worms will not come to thee.
With fairest flowers While summer lasts and I live here, Fidele, I'll sweeten thy sad grave; thou shalt not lack The flower that's like thy face, pale primrose, nor The azur'd hare-bell, like thy veins, no, nor The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander, Out-sweeten'd not thy breath: the ruddock would, With charitable bill, O bill! sore-shaming Those rich-left heirs, that let their fathers lie Without a monument, bring thee all this; Yea, and furr'd moss besides, when flowers are none, To winter-ground thy corse. Prithee, have done, And do not play in wench-like words with that Which is so serious. Let us bury him, And not protract with admiration what Is now due debt. To the grave! Say, where shall 's lay him? By good Euriphile, our mother. Be 't so: And let us, Polydore, though now our voices Have got the mannish crack, sing him to the ground, As once our mother; use like note and words, Save that Euriphile must be Fidele. Cadwal, I cannot sing; I'll weep, and word it with thee; For notes of sorrow out of tune are worse Than priests and fanes that lie. We'll speak it then. Great griefs, I see, medicine the less, for Cloten Is quite forgot.
He was a queen's son, boys, And though he came our enemy, remember He was paid for that; though mean and mighty rotting Together, have one dust, yet reverence That angel of the world doth make distinction Of place 'tween high and low. Our foe was princely, And though you took his life, as being our foe, Yet bury him as a prince. Pray you, fetch him hither. Thersites' body is as good as Ajax' When neither are alive. If you'll go fetch him, We'll say our song the whilst. Brother, begin. Nay, Cadwal, we must lay his head to the east; My father hath a reason for 't. 'Tis true. Come on then, and remove him. So, begin. Fear no more the heat o' the sun, Nor the furious winter's rages; Thou thy worldly task hast done, Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages; Golden lads and girls all must, As chimney-sweepers, come to dust. Fear no more the frown o' the great, Thou art past the tyrant's stroke: Care no more to clothe and eat; To thee the reed is as the oak: The sceptre, learning, physic, must All follow this, and come to dust. Fear no more the lightning-flash, Nor the all-dreaded thunder-stone; Fear not slander, censure rash; Thou hast finish'd joy and moan All lovers young, all lovers must Consign to thee, and come to dust. No exorciser harm thee! Nor no witchcraft charm thee! Ghost unlaid forbear thee! Nothing ill come near thee!
Quiet consummation have; And renowned be thy grave! We have done our obsequies. Come, lay him down. Here's a few flowers, but 'bout mid-night, more; The herbs that have on them cold dew o' the night Are strewings fitt'st for graves. Upon their faces You were as flowers, now wither'd; even so These herblets shall, which we upon you strew. Come on, away; apart upon our knees. The ground that gave them first has them again; Their pleasures here are past, so is their pain. Yes, sir, to Milford-Haven; which is the way? I thank you. By yond bush? Pray, how far thither? 'Ods pittikins! can it be six mile yet? I have gone all night: Faith, I'll lie down and sleep. But, soft! no bed-fellow! O gods and goddesses! These flowers are like the pleasures of the world; This bloody man, the care on 't. I hope I dream; For so I thought I was a cave-keeper, And cook to honest creatures; but 'tis not so, 'Twas but a bolt of nothing, shot at nothing, Which the brain makes of fumes. Our very eyes Are sometimes like our judgments, blind. Good faith, I tremble still with fear; but if there be Yet left in heaven as small a drop of pity As a wren's eye, fear'd gods, a part of it! The dream's here still; even when I wake, it is Without me, as within me; not imagin'd, felt. A headless man! The garments of Posthumus!
I know the shape of 's leg, this is his hand, His foot Mercurial, his Martial thigh, The brawns of Hercules, but his Jovial face Murder in heaven? How! 'Tis gone. Pisanio, All curses madded Hecuba gave the Greeks, And mine to boot, be darted on thee! Thou, Conspir'd with that irregulous devil, Cloten, Hast here cut off my lord. To write and read Be henceforth treacherous! Damn'd Pisanio Hath with his forged letters, damn'd Pisanio, From this most bravest vessel of the world Struck the main-top! O Posthumus! alas! Where is thy head? where's that? Ay me! where's that? Pisanio might have kill'd thee at the heart, And left this head on. How should this be? Pisanio? 'Tis he and Cloten; malice and lucre in them Have laid this woe here. O! 'tis pregnant, pregnant! The drug he gave me, which he said was precious And cordial to me, have I not found it Murderous to the senses? That confirms it home; This is Pisanio's deed, and Cloten's: O! Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood, That we the horrider may seem to those Which chance to find us. O! my lord, my lord. To them the legions garrison'd in Gallia, After your will, have cross'd the sea, attending You here at Milford-Haven with your ships: They are in readiness. But what from Rome?
The senate hath stirr'd up the confiners And gentlemen of Italy, most willing spirits, That promise noble service; and they come Under the conduct of bold Iachimo, Sienna's brother. When expect you them? With the next benefit o' the wind. This forwardness Makes our hopes fair. Command our present numbers Be muster'd; bid the captains look to 't. Now, sir, What have you dream'd of late of this war's purpose? Last night the very gods show'd me a vision, I fast and pray'd for their intelligence, thus: I saw Jove's bird, the Roman eagle, wing'd From the spongy south to this part of the west, There vanish'd in the sunbeams; which portends, Unless my sins abuse my divination, Success to the Roman host. Dream often so, And never false. Soft, ho! what trunk is here Without his top? The ruin speaks that sometime It was a worthy building. How! a page! Or dead or sleeping on him? But dead rather, For nature doth abhor to make his bed With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead. Let's see the boy's face. He's alive, my lord. He'll, then, instruct us of this body. Young one, Inform us of thy fortunes, for it seems They crave to be demanded. Who is this Thou mak'st thy bloody pillow? Or who was he That, otherwise than noble nature did, Hath alter'd that good picture? What's thy interest In this sad wrack? How came it? Who is it? What art thou?
I am nothing; or if not, Nothing to be were better. This was my master, A very valiant Briton and a good, That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas! There are no more such masters; I may wander From east to occident, cry out for service, Try many, all good, serve truly, never Find such another master. 'Lack, good youth! Thou mov'st no less with thy complaining than Thy master in bleeding. Say his name, good friend. Richard du Champ. If I do lie and do No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope They'll pardon it. Say you, sir? Thy name? Fidele, sir. Thou dost approve thyself the very same; Thy name well fits thy faith, thy faith thy name. Wilt take thy chance with me? I will not say Thou shalt be so well master'd, but be sure No less belov'd. The Roman emperor's letters, Sent by a consul to me, should not sooner Than thine own worth prefer thee. Go with me. I'll follow, sir.
But first, an 't please the gods, I'll hide my master from the flies, as deep As these poor pickaxes can dig; and when With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha' strew'd his grave, And on it said a century of prayers, Such as I can, twice o'er, I'll weep and sigh; And, leaving so his service, follow you, So please you entertain me. Ay, good youth, And rather father thee than master thee. My friends, The boy hath taught us manly duties; let us Find out the prettiest daisied plot we can, And make him with our pikes and partisans A grave; come, arm him. Boy, he is preferr'd By thee to us, and he shall be interr'd As soldiers can. Be cheerful; wipe thine eyes: Some falls are means the happier to arise. Again; and bring me word how 'tis with her. A fever with the absence of her son, A madness, of which her life's in danger. Heavens! How deeply you at once do touch me. Imogen, The great part of my comfort, gone; my queen Upon a desperate bed, and in a time When fearful wars point at me; her son gone, So needful for this present: it strikes me, past The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow, Who needs must know of her departure and Dost seem so ignorant, we'll enforce it from thee By a sharp torture.
Sir, my life is yours, I humbly set it at your will; but, for my mistress, I nothing know where she remains, why gone, Nor when she purposes return. Beseech your highness, Hold me your loyal servant. Good my liege, The day that she was missing he was here; I dare be bound he's true and shall perform All parts of his subjection loyally. For Cloten, There wants no diligence in seeking him, And will, no doubt, be found. The time is troublesome. We'll slip you for a season; but our jealousy Does yet depend. So please-your majesty, The Roman legions, all from Gallia drawn, Are landed on your coast, with a supply Of Roman gentlemen, by the senate sent. Now for the counsel of my son and queen! I am amaz'd with matter. Good my liege, Your preparation can affront no less Than what you hear of; come more, for more you're ready: The want is, but to put those powers in motion That long to move. I thank you. Let's withdraw; And meet the time as it seeks us. We fear not What can from Italy annoy us, but We grieve at chances here. Away!
I heard no letter from my master since I wrote him Imogen was slain; 'tis strange; Nor hear I from my mistress, who did promise To yield me often tidings; neither know I What is betid to Cloten; but remain Perplex'd in all: the heavens still must work. Wherein I am false I am honest; not true to be true: These present wars shall find I love my country, Even to the note o' the king, or I'll fall in them. All other doubts, by time let them be clear'd; Fortune brings in some boats that are not steer'd. The noise is round about us. Let us from it. What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it From action and adventure? Nay, what hope Have we in hiding us? this way, the Romans Must or for Britons slay us, or receive us For barbarous and unnatural revolts During their use, and slay us after. Sons, We'll higher to the mountains; there secure us. To the king's party there's no going; newness Of Cloten's death, we being not known, not muster'd Among the bands, may drive us to a render Where we have liv'd, and so extort from 's that Which we have done, whose answer would be death Drawn on with torture. This is, sir, a doubt In such a time nothing becoming you, Nor satisfying us.
It is not likely That when they hear the Roman horses neigh, Behold their quarter'd fires, have both their eyes And ears so cloy'd importantly as now, That they will waste their time upon our note, To know from whence we are. O! I am known Of many in the army; many years, Though Cloten then but young, you see, not wore him From my remembrance. And, besides, the king Hath not deserv'd my service nor your loves Who find in my exile the want of breeding, The certainty of this hard life; aye hopeless To have the courtesy your cradle promis'd, But to be still hot summer's tanlings and The shrinking slaves of winter. Than be so Better to cease to be. Pray, sir, to the army: I and my brother are not known; yourself, So out of thought, and thereto so o'ergrown, Cannot be question'd. By this sun that shines, I'll thither: what thing is it that I never Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood But that of coward hares, hot goats, and venison! Never bestrid a horse, save one that had A rider like myself, who ne'er wore rowel Nor iron on his heel! I am asham'd To look upon the holy sun, to have The benefit of his bless'd beams, remaining So long a poor unknown. By heavens!
I'll go: If you will bless me, sir, and give me leave, I'll take the better care; but if you will not, The hazard therefore due fall on me by The hands of Romans. So say I; amen. No reason I, since of your lives you set So slight a valuation, should reserve My crack'd one to more care. Have with you, boys! If in your country wars you chance to die, That is my bed too, lads, and there I'll lie: Lead, lead. The time seems long; their blood thinks scorn, Till it fly out and show them princes born. Yea, bloody cloth, I'll keep thee, for I wish'd Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones, If each of you should take this course, how many Must murder wives much better than themselves For wrying but a little! O Pisanio! Every good servant does not all commands; No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never Had liv'd to put on this; so had you sav'd The noble Imogen to repent, and struck Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But, alack! You snatch some hence for little faults; that's love, To have them fall no more; you some permit To second ills with ills, each elder worse, And make them dread it, to the doers' thrift. But Imogen is your own; do your best wills, And make me bless'd to obey.
I am brought hither Among the Italian gentry, and to fight Against my lady's kingdom; 'tis enough That, Britain, I have kill'd thy mistress-piece! I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore good heavens, Hear patiently my purpose: I'll disrobe me Of these Italian weeds, and suit myself As does a Briton peasant; so I'll fight Against the part I come with, so I'll die For thee, O Imogen! even for whom my life Is, every breath, a death: and thus, unknown, Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know More valour in me than my habits show. Gods! put the strength o' the Leonati in me. To shame the guise o' the world, I will begin The fashion, less without and more within. The heaviness and guilt within my bosom Takes off my manhood: I have belied a lady, The princess of this country, and the air on 't Revengingly enfeebles me; or could this carl, A very drudge of nature's, have subdu'd me In my profession? Knighthoods and honours, borne As I wear mine, are titles but of scorn. If that thy gentry, Britain, go before This lout as he exceeds our lords, the odds Is that we scarce are men and you are gods. Stand, stand! We have the advantage of the ground. The lane is guarded; nothing routs us but The villany of our fears. Stand, stand, and fight! Stand, stand, and fight!
Away, boy, from the troops, and save thyself; For friends kill friends, and the disorder's such As war were hoodwink'd. 'Tis their fresh supplies. It is a day turn'd strangely: or betimes Let's re-inforce, or fly. Cam'st thou from where they made the stand? I did: Though you, it seems, come from the fliers. I did. No blame be to you, sir; for all was lost, But that the heavens fought. The king himself Of his wings destitute, the army broken, And but the backs of Britons seen, all flying Through a strait lane; the enemy full-hearted, Lolling the tongue with slaughtering, having work More plentiful than tools to do 't, struck down Some mortally, some slightly touch'd, some falling Merely through fear; that the strait pass was damm'd With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living To die with lengthen'd shame. Where was this lane?
Close by the battle, ditch'd, and wall'd with turf; Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier, An honest one, I warrant; who deserv'd So long a breeding as his white beard came to, In doing this for his country; athwart the lane, He, with two striplings, lads more like to run The country base than to commit such slaughter, With faces fit for masks, or rather fairer Than those for preservation cas'd, or shame, Made good the passage; cried to those that fled, 'Our Britain's harts die flying, not our men: To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards. Stand! Or we are Romans, and will give you that Like beasts which you shun beastly, and may save, But to look back in frown: stand, stand!' These three, Three thousand confident, in act as many, For three performers are the file when all The rest do nothing, with this word, 'Stand, stand!' Accommodated by the place, more charming With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd A distaff to a lance, gilded pale looks, Part shame, part spirit renew'd; that some, turn'd coward But by example, O! a sin of war, Damn'd in the first beginners, 'gan to look The way that they did, and to grin like lions Upon the pikes o' the hunters.
Then began A stop i' the chaser, a retire, anon, A rout, confusion thick; forthwith they fly Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles; slaves, The strides they victors made. And now our cowards Like fragments in hard voyages became The life o' the need; having found the back door open Of the unguarded hearts, Heavens! how they wound; Some slain before; some dying; some their friends O'er-borne i' the former wave; ten, chas'd by one, Are now each one the slaughter-man of twenty; Those that would die or ere resist are grown The mortal bugs o' the field. This was strange chance: A narrow lane, an old man, and two boys! Nay, do not wonder at it; you are made Rather to wonder at the things you hear Than to work any. Will you rime upon 't, And vent it for a mockery? Here is one: 'Two boys, an old man twice a boy, a lane, Preserv'd the Britons, was the Romans' bane.' Nay, be not angry, sir. 'Lack! to what end? Who dares not stand his foe, I'll be his friend; For if he'll do, as he is made to do, I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too. You have put me into rime. Farewell; you're angry. Still going? This is a lord! O noble misery! To be i' the field, and ask, 'what news?' of me! To-day how many would have given their honours To have sav'd their carcases!
took heel to do 't, And yet died too! I, in mine own woe charm'd, Could not find death where I did hear him groan, Nor feel him where he struck: being an ugly monster, 'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds, Sweet words; or hath more ministers than we That draw his knives i' the war. Well, I will find him; For being now a favourer to the Briton, No more a Briton, I have resum'd again The part I came in; fight I will no more, But yield me to the veriest hind that shall Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is Here made by the Roman; great the answer be Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death; On either side I come to spend my breath, Which neither here I'll keep nor bear agen, But end it by some means for Imogen. Great Jupiter be prais'd! Lucius is taken. 'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels. There was a fourth man, in a silly habit, That gave th' affront with them. So 'tis reported; But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who is there? A Roman, Who had not now been drooping here, if seconds Had answer'd him. Lay hands on him; a dog! A lag of Rome shall not return to tell What crows have peck'd them here. He brags his service As if he were of note: bring him to the king.
You shall not now be stol'n, you have locks upon you: So graze as you find pasture. Ay, or a stomach. Most welcome, bondage! for thou art a way, I think, to liberty. Yet am I better Than one that's sick o' the gout, since he had rather Groan so in perpetuity than be cur'd By the sure physician death; who is the key To unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd More than my shanks and wrists: you good gods, give me The penitent instrument to pick that bolt; Then, free for ever! Is 't enough I am sorry? So children temporal fathers do appease; Gods are more full of mercy. Must I repent? I cannot do it better than in gyves, Desir'd more than constrain'd; to satisfy, If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take No stricter render of me than my all.
I know you are more clement than vile men, Who of their broken debtors take a third, A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again On their abatement: that's not my desire; For Imogen's dear life take mine; and though 'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life; you coin'd it; 'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp; Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake: You rather mine, being yours; and so great powers, If you will take this audit, take this life, And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen! I'll speak to thee in silence. No more, thou thunder-master, show Thy spite on mortal flies: With Mars fall out, with Juno chide, That thy adulteries Rates and revenges. Hath my poor boy done aught but well, Whose face I never saw? I died whilst in the womb he stay'd Attending nature's law: Whose father then as men report, Thou orphans' father art Thou shouldst have been, and shielded him From this earth-vexing smart. Lucina lent not me her aid, But took me in my throes; That from me was Posthumus ript, Came crying 'mongst his foes, A thing of pity! Great nature, like his ancestry, Moulded the stuff so fair, That he deserv'd the praise o' the world, As great Sicilius' heir.
When once he was mature for man, In Britain where was he That could stand up his parallel, Or fruitful object be In eye of Imogen, that best Could deem his dignity? With marriage wherefore was he mock'd, To be exil'd, and thrown From Leonati's seat, and cast From her his dearest one, Sweet Imogen? Why did you suffer Iachimo, Slight thing of Italy, To taint his nobler heart and brain With needless jealousy; And to become the geck and scorn O' the other's villany? For this from stiller seats we came, Our parents and us twain, That striking in our country's cause Fell bravely and were slain; Our fealty and Tenantius' right With honour to maintain. Like hardiment Posthumus hath To Cymbeline perform'd: Then Jupiter, thou king of gods, Why hast thou thus adjourn'd The graces for his merits due, Being all to dolours turn'd? Thy crystal window ope; look out; No longer exercise Upon a valiant race thy harsh And potent injuries. Since, Jupiter, our son is good, Take off his miseries. Peep through thy marble mansion; help! Or we poor ghosts will cry To the shining synod of the rest Against thy deity. Help, Jupiter! or we appeal, And from thy justice fly. No more, you petty spirits of region low, Offend our hearing; hush! How dare you ghosts Accuse the thunderer, whose bolt, you know, Sky-planted, batters all rebelling coasts?
Poor shadows of Elysium, hence; and rest Upon your never-withering banks of flowers: Be not with mortal accidents opprest; No care of yours it is; you know 'tis ours. Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift, The more delay'd, delighted. Be content; Your low-laid son our godhead will uplift: His comforts thrive, his trials well are spent. Our Jovial star reign'd at his birth, and in Our temple was he married. Rise, and fade! He shall be lord of Lady Imogen, And happier much by his affliction made. This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein Our pleasure his full fortune doth confine; And so, away: no further with your din Express impatience, lest you stir up mine. Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline. He came in thunder; his celestial breath Was sulphurous to smell; the holy eagle Stoop'd, as to foot us; his ascension is More sweet than our bless'd fields; his royal bird Prunes the immortal wing and cloys his beak, As when his god is pleas'd. Thanks, Jupiter! The marble pavement closes; he is enter'd His radiant roof. Away! and, to be blest, Let us with care perform his great behest. Sleep, thou hast been a grandsire, and begot A father to me; and thou hast created A mother and two brothers. But O scorn! Gone! they went hence so soon as they were born: And so I am awake.
Poor wretches, that depend On greatness' favour dream as I have done; Wake, and find nothing. But, alas! I swerve: Many dream not to find, neither deserve, And yet are steep'd in favours; so am I, That have this golden chance and know not why. What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one! Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment Nobler than that it covers: let thy effects So follow, to be most unlike our courtiers, As good as promise. Whenas a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall be lopped branches, which, being dead many years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old stock, and freshly grow, then shall Posthumus end his miseries, Britain be fortunate, and flourish in peace and plenty. 'Tis still a dream, or else such stuff as madmen Tongue and brain not; either both or nothing; Or senseless speaking, or a speaking such As sense cannot untie. Be what it is, The action of my life is like it, which I'll keep, if but for sympathy. Come, sir, are you ready for death? Over-roasted rather; ready long ago. Hanging is the word, sir: if you be ready for that, you are well cooked. So, if I prove a good repast to the spectators, the dish pays the shot.
A heavy reckoning for you, sir; but the comfort is, you shall be called to no more payments, fear no more tavern-bills, which are often the sadness of parting, as the procuring of mirth. You come in faint for want of meat, depart reeling with too much drink, sorry that you have paid too much; and sorry that you are paid too much; purse and brain both empty; the brain the heavier for being too light, the purse too light, being drawn of heaviness of this contradiction you shall now be quit. O! the charity of a penny cord; it sums up thousands in a trice: you have no true debitor and creditor but it; of what's past, is, and to come, the discharge. Your neck, sir, is pen, book and counters; so the acquittance follows. I am merrier to die than thou art to live. Indeed, sir, he that sleeps feels not the toothache; but a man that were to sleep your sleep, and a hangman to help him to bed, I think he would change places with his officer; for look you, sir, you know not which way you shall go. Yes, indeed do I, fellow.
Your death has eyes in 's head, then; I have not seen him so pictured: you must either be directed by some that take upon them to know, or take upon yourself that which I am sure you do not know, or jump the after inquiry on your own peril: and how you shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll never return to tell one. I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to direct them the way I am going but such as wink and will not use them. What an infinite mock is this, that a man should have the best use of eyes to see the way of blindness! I am sure hanging's the way of winking. Knock off his manacles; bring your prisoner to the king. Thou bring'st good news; I am called to be made free. I'll be hang'd, then. Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler; no bolts for the dead. Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young gibbets, I never saw one so prone. Yet, on my conscience, there are verier knaves desire to live, for all he be a Roman; and there be some of them too, that die against their wills; so should I, if I were one. I would we were all of one mind, and one mind good; O! there were desolation of gaolers and gallowses.
I speak against my present profit, but my wish hath a preferment in 't. Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made Preservers of my throne. Woe is my heart That the poor soldier that so richly fought, Whose rags sham'd gilded arms, whose naked breast Stepp'd before targes of proof, cannot be found: He shall be happy that can find him, if Our grace can make him so. I never saw Such noble fury in so poor a thing; Such precious deeds in one that promis'd nought But beggary and poor looks. No tidings of him? He hath been search'd among the dead and living, But no trace of him. To my grief, I am The heir of his reward; which I will add To you, the liver, heart, and brain of Britain, By whom, I grant, she lives. 'Tis now the time To ask of whence you are: report it. Sir, In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen: Further to boast were neither true nor modest, Unless I add, we are honest. Bow your knees. Arise, my knights o' the battle: I create you Companions to our person, and will fit you With dignities becoming your estates. There's business in these faces. Why so sadly Greet you our victory? you look like Romans, And not o' the court of Britain. Hail, great king! To sour your happiness, I must report The queen is dead. Whom worse than a physician Would this report become?
But I consider, By medicine life may be prolong'd, yet death Will seize the doctor too. How ended she? With horror, madly dying, like her life; Which, being cruel to the world, concluded Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd I will report, so please you: these her women Can trip me if I err; who with wet cheeks Were present when she finish'd. Prithee, say. First, she confess'd she never lov'd you, only Affected greatness got by you, not you; Married your royalty, was wife to your place; Abhorr'd your person. She alone knew this; And, but she spoke it dying, I would not Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed. Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love With such integrity, she did confess Was as a scorpion to her sight; whose life, But that her flight prevented it, she had Ta'en off by poison. O most delicate fiend! Who is't can read a woman? Is there more? More, sir, and worse.
She did confess she had For you a mortal mineral; which, being took, Should by the minute feed on life, and ling'ring, By inches waste you; in which time she purpos'd, By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to O'ercome you with her show; yea, and in time When she had fitted you with her craft to work Her son into the adoption of the crown; But failing of her end by his strange absence, Grew shameless-desperate; open'd, in despite Of heaven and men, her purposes; repented The evils she hatch'd were not effected: so, Despairing died. Heard you all this, her women? We did, so please your highness. Mine eyes Were not in fault, for she was beautiful; Mine ears, that heard her flattery; nor my heart, That thought her like her seeming: it had been vicious To have mistrusted her: yet, O my daughter! That it was folly in me, thou mayst say, And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all! Thou com'st not, Caius, now for tribute; that The Britons have raz'd out, though with the loss Of many a bold one; whose kinsmen have made suit That their good souls may be appeas'd with slaughter Of you their captives, which ourself have granted: So, think of your estate.
Consider, sir, the chance of war: the day Was yours by accident; had it gone with us, We should not, when the blood was cool, have threaten'd Our prisoners with the sword. But since the gods Will have it thus, that nothing but our lives May be call'd ransom, let it come; sufficeth, A Roman with a Roman's heart can suffer; Augustus lives to think on 't; and so much For my peculiar care. This one thing only I will entreat; my boy, a Briton born, Let him be ransom'd; never master had A page so kind, so duteous, diligent, So tender over his occasions, true, So feat, so nurse-like. Let his virtue join With my request, which I'll make bold your highness Cannot deny; he hath done no Briton harm, Though he have serv'd a Roman. Save him, sir, And spare no blood beside. I have surely seen him; His favour is familiar to me. Boy, Thou hast look'd thyself into my grace, And art mine own. I know not why nor wherefore, To say, 'live, boy:' ne'er thank thy master; live: And ask of Cymbeline what boon thou wilt, Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it; Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner, The noblest ta'en. I humbly thank your highness. I do not bid thee beg my life, good lad; And yet I know thou wilt. No, no; alack! There's other work in hand.
I see a thing Bitter to me as death; your life, good master, Must shuffle for itself. The boy disdains me, He leaves me, scorns me; briefly die their joys That place them on the truth of girls and boys. Why stands he so perplex'd? What wouldst thou, boy? I love thee more and more; think more and more What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? speak; Wilt have him live? Is he thy kin? thy friend? He is a Roman; no more kin to me Than I to your highness; who, being born your vassal, Am something nearer. Wherefore ey'st him so? I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please To give me hearing. Ay, with all my heart, And lend my best attention. What's thy name? Fidele, sir. Thou'rt my good youth, my page; I'll be thy master: walk with me; speak freely. Is not this boy reviv'd from death? One sand another Not more resembles; that sweet rosy lad Who died, and was Fidele. What think you? The same dead thing alive. Peace, peace! see further; he eyes us not; forbear; Creatures may be alike; were 't he, I am sure He would have spoke to us. But we saw him dead. Be silent; let's see further. It is my mistress: Since she is living, let the time run on To good, or bad. Come, stand thou by our side: Make thy demand aloud.
Sir, step you forth; Give answer to this boy, and do it freely, Or, by our greatness and the grace of it, Which is our honour, bitter torture shall Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him. My boon is, that this gentleman may render Of whom he had this ring. What's that to him? That diamond upon your finger, say How came it yours? Thou'lt torture me to leave unspoken that Which, to be spoke, would torture thee. How! me? I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that Which torments me to conceal. By villany I got this ring; 'twas Leonatus' jewel, Whom thou didst banish, and which more may grieve thee, As it doth me a nobler sir ne'er liv'd 'Twixt sky and ground. Wilt thou hear more, my lord? All that belongs to this. That paragon, thy daughter, For whom my heart drops blood, and my false spirits Quail to remember, Give me leave; I faint. My daughter! what of her? Renew thy strength; I had rather thou shouldst live while nature will Than die ere I hear more. Strive, man, and speak. Upon a time, unhappy was the clock That struck the hour! it was in Rome, accurs'd The mansion where! 'twas at a feast O, would Our viands had been poison'd, or at least Those which I heav'd to head! the good Posthumus, What should I say?
he was too good to be Where ill men were; and was the best of all Amongst the rar'st of good ones; sitting sadly Hearing us praise our loves of Italy For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast Of him that best could speak; for feature laming The shrine of Venus, or straight-pight Minerva, Postures beyond brief nature; for condition, A shop of all the qualities that man Loves woman for; besides that hook of wiving, Fairness which strikes the eye. I stand on fire. Come to the matter. All too soon I shall, Unless thou wouldst grieve quickly. This Posthumus Most like a noble lord in love, and one That had a royal lover took his hint; And, not dispraising whom we prais'd, therein He was as calm as virtue, he began His mistress' picture; which by his tongue being made, And then a mind put in 't, either our brags Were crack'd of kitchen trulls, or his description Prov'd us unspeaking sots. Nay, nay, to the purpose. Your daughter's chastity, there it begins.
He spake of her as Dian had hot dreams, And she alone were cold; whereat I, wretch, Made scruple of his praise, and wager'd with him Pieces of gold 'gainst this, which then he wore Upon his honour'd finger, to attain In suit the place of his bed, and win this ring By hers and mine adultery. He, true knight, No lesser of her honour confident Than I did truly find her, stakes this ring; And would so, had it been a carbuncle Of Phœbus' wheel; and might so safely, had it Been all the worth of 's car. Away to Britain Post I in this design. Well may you, sir, Remember me at court, where I was taught Of your chaste daughter the wide difference 'Twixt amorous and villanous. Being thus quench'd Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain 'Gan in your duller Britain operate Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent; And, to be brief, my practice so prevail'd, That I return'd with simular proof enough To make the noble Leonatus mad, By wounding his belief in her renown With tokens thus, and thus; averring notes Of chamber-hanging, pictures, this her bracelet; Oh cunning! how I got it! nay, some marks Of secret on her person, that he could not But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd, I having ta'en the forfeit. Whereupon, Methinks I see him now, Ay, so thou dost, Italian fiend!
Ay me, most credulous fool, Egregious murderer, thief, any thing That's due to all the villains past, in being, To come. O! give me cord, or knife, or poison, Some upright justicer. Thou king, send out For torturers ingenious; it is I That all the abhorred things o' the earth amend By being worse than they. I am Posthumus, That kill'd thy daughter; villain-like, I lie; That caus'd a lesser villain than myself, A sacrilegious thief, to do 't; the temple Of virtue was she; yea, and she herself. Spit, and throw stones, cast mire upon me, set The dogs o' the street to bay me; every villain Be call'd Posthumus Leonatus; and Be villany less than 'twas! O Imogen! My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen, Imogen, Imogen! Peace, my lord! hear, hear! Shall 's have a play of this? Thou scornful page, There lie thy part. O, gentlemen, help! Mine, and your mistress! O! my Lord Posthumus, You ne'er kill'd Imogen till now. Help, help! Mine honour'd lady! Does the world go round? How come these staggers on me? Wake, my mistress! If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me To death with mortal joy. How fares my mistress? O! get thee from my sight: Thou gav'st me poison: dangerous fellow, hence! Breathe not where princes are. The tune of Imogen!
Lady, The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if That box I gave you was not thought by me A precious thing: I had it from the queen. New matter still? It poison'd me. O gods! I left out one thing which the queen confess'd, Which must approve thee honest: 'If Pisanio Have,' said she, 'given his mistress that confection Which I gave him for cordial, she is serv'd As I would serve a rat.' What's this, Cornelius? The queen, sir, very oft importun'd me To temper poisons for her, still pretending The satisfaction of her knowledge only In killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs, Of no esteem; I, dreading that her purpose Was of more danger, did compound for her A certain stuff, which, being ta'en, would cease The present power of life, but in short time All offices of nature should again Do their due functions. Have you ta'en of it? Most like I did, for I was dead. My boys, There was our error. This is, sure, Fidele. Why did you throw your wedded lady from you? Think that you are upon a rock; and now Throw me again. Hang there like fruit, my soul, Till the tree die! How now, my flesh, my child! What, mak'st thou me a dullard in this act? Wilt thou not speak to me? Your blessing, sir. Though you did love this youth, I blame ye not; You had a motive for 't.
My tears that fall Prove holy water on thee! Imogen, Thy mother's dead. I am sorry for 't, my lord. O, she was naught; and long of her it was That we meet here so strangely; but her son Is gone, we know not how, nor where. My lord, Now fear is from me, I'll speak troth. Lord Cloten, Upon my lady's missing, came to me With his sword drawn, foam'd at the mouth, and swore If I discover'd not which way she was gone, It was my instant death. By accident, I had a feigned letter of my master's Then in my pocket, which directed him To seek her on the mountains near to Milford; Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments, Which he enforc'd from me, away he posts With unchaste purpose and with oath to violate My lady's honour; what became of him I further know not. Let me end the story: I slew him there. Marry, the gods forfend! I would not thy good deeds should from my lips Pluck a hard sentence: Prithee, valiant youth, Deny 't again. I have spoke it, and I did it. He was a prince. A most incivil one. The wrongs he did me Were nothing prince-like; for he did provoke me With language that would make me spurn the sea If it could so roar to me.
I cut off 's head; And am right glad he is not standing here To tell this tale of mine. I am sorry for thee: By thine own tongue thou art condemn'd, and must Endure our law. Thou'rt dead. That headless man I thought had been my lord. Bind the offender, And take him from our presence. Stay, sir king: This man is better than the man he slew, As well descended as thyself; and hath More of thee merited than a band of Clotens Had ever scar for. Let his arms alone; They were not born for bondage. Why, old soldier, Wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for, By tasting of our wrath? How of descent As good as we? In that he spake too far. And thou shalt die for 't. We will die all three: But I will prove that two on 's are as good As I have given out him. My sons, I must For mine own part unfold a dangerous speech, Though, haply, well for you. Your danger's ours. And our good his. Have at it, then, by leave. Thou hadst, great king, a subject who was call'd Belarius. What of him? he is A banish'd traitor. He it is that hath Assum'd this age: indeed, a banish'd man; I know not how a traitor. Take him hence: The whole world shall not save him.
Not too hot: First pay me for the nursing of thy sons; And let it be confiscate all so soon As I have receiv'd it. Nursing of my sons! I am too blunt and saucy; here's my knee: Ere I arise I will prefer my sons; Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir, These two young gentlemen, that call me father, And think they are my sons, are none of mine; They are the issue of your loins, my liege, And blood of your begetting. How! my issue! So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan, Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish'd: Your pleasure was my mere offence, my punishment Itself, and all my treason; that I suffer'd Was all the harm I did. These gentle princes For such and so they are these twenty years Have I train'd up; those arts they have as I Could put into them; my breeding was, sir, as Your highness knows. Their nurse, Euriphile, Whom for the theft I wedded, stole these children Upon my banishment: I mov'd her to 't, Having receiv'd the punishment before, For that which I did then; beaten for loyalty Excited me to treason. Their dear loss, The more of you 'twas felt the more it shap'd Unto my end of stealing them. But, gracious sir, Here are your sons again; and I must lose Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.
The benediction of these covering heavens Fall on their heads like dew! for they are worthy To inlay heaven with stars. Thou weep'st, and speak'st. The service that you three have done is more Unlike than this thou tell'st. I lost my children: If these be they, I know not how to wish A pair of worthier sons. Be pleas'd awhile. This gentleman, whom I call Polydore, Most worthy prince, as yours, is true Guiderius; This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus, Your younger princely son; he, sir, was lapp'd In a most curious mantle, wrought by the hand Of his queen mother, which, for more probation, I can with ease produce. Guiderius had Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star; It was a mark of wonder. This is he, Who hath upon him still that natural stamp. It was wise nature's end in the donation, To be his evidence now. O! what, am I A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother Rejoic'd deliverance more. Blest pray you be, That, after this strange starting from your orbs, You may reign in them now. O Imogen! Thou hast lost by this a kingdom. No, my lord; I have got two worlds by 't. O my gentle brothers! Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter But I am truest speaker: you call'd me brother, When I was but your sister; I you brothers When ye were so indeed. Did you e'er meet? Ay, my good lord.
And at first meeting lov'd; Continu'd so, until we thought he died. By the queen's dram she swallow'd. O rare instinct! When shall I hear all through? This fierce abridgment Hath to it circumstantial branches, which Distinction should be rich in. Where? how liv'd you? And when came you to serve our Roman captive? How parted with your brothers? how first met them? Why fied you from the court, and whither? These, And your three motives to the battle, with I know not how much more, should be demanded, And all the other by-dependances, From chance to chance, but nor the time nor place Will serve our long inter'gatories. See, Posthumus anchors upon Imogen, And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye On him, her brothers, me, her master, hitting Each object with a joy: the counterchange Is severally in all. Let's quit this ground, And smoke the temple with our sacrifices. Thou art my brother; so we'll hold thee ever. You are my father too; and did relieve me, To see this gracious season. All o'erjoy'd Save these in bonds; let them be joyful too, For they shall taste our comfort. My good master, I will yet do you service. Happy be you! The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought He would have well becom'd this place and grac'd The thankings of a king.
I am, sir, The soldier that did company these three In poor beseeming; 'twas a fitment for The purpose I then follow'd. That I was he, Speak, Iachimo; I had you down and might Have made you finish. I am down again; But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee, As then your force did. Take that life, beseech you, Which I so often owe, but your ring first, And here the bracelet of the truest princess That ever swore her faith. Kneel not to me: The power that I have on you is to spare you; The malice towards you to forgive you. Live, And deal with others better. Nobly doom'd: We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law; Pardon's the word to all. You holp us, sir, As you did mean indeed to be our brother; Joy'd are we that you are. Your servant, princes. Good my lord of Rome, Call forth your soothsayer. As I slept, methought Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd, Appear'd to me, with other spritely shows Of mine own kindred: when I wak'd, I found This label on my bosom; whose containing Is so from sense in hardness that I can Make no collection of it; let him show His skill in the construction. Philarmonus! Here, my good lord.
Read, and declare the meaning Whenas a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall be lopped branches, which, being dead many years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old stock, and freshly grow: then shall Posthumus end his miseries, Britain be fortunate, and flourish in peace and plenty. Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp; The fit and apt construction of thy name, Being Leo-natus, doth import so much. The piece of tender air, thy virtuous daughter, Which we call mollis aer; and mollis aer We term it mulier; which mulier, I divine, Is this most constant wife; who, even now, Answering the letter of the oracle, Unknown to you, unsought, were clipp'd about With this most tender air. This hath some seeming. The lofty cedar, royal Cymbeline, Personates thee, and thy lopp'd branches point Thy two sons forth; who, by Belarius stolen, For many years thought dead, are now reviv'd To the majestic cedar join'd, whose issue Promises Britain peace and plenty. Well; My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius, Although the victor, we submit to Cæsar, And to the Roman empire; promising To pay our wonted tribute, from the which We were dissuaded by our wicked queen; Whom heavens in justice both on her and hers Have laid most heavy hand. The fingers of the powers above do tune The harmony of this peace.
The vision Which I made known to Lucius ere the stroke Of this yet scarce-cold battle, at this instant Is full accomplish'd; for the Roman eagle, From south to west on wing soaring aloft, Lessen'd herself, and in the beams o' the sun So vanish'd: which foreshow'd our princely eagle, The imperial Cæsar, should again unite His favour with the radiant Cymbeline, Which shines here in the west. Laud we the gods; And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils From our bless'd altars. Publish we this peace To all our subjects. Set we forward: let A Roman and a British ensign wave Friendly together; so through Lud's town march: And in the temple of great Jupiter Our peace we'll ratify; seal it with feasts. Set on there. Never was a war did cease, Ere bloody hands were wash'd, with such a peace.
In Troy there lies the scene. From isles of Greece The princes orgulous, their high blood chaf'd, Have to the port of Athens sent their ships, Fraught with the ministers and instruments Of cruel war: sixty and nine, that wore Their crownets regal, from the Athenian bay Put forth toward Phrygia; and their vow is made To ransack Troy, within whose strong immures The ravish'd Helen, Menelaus' queen, With wanton Paris sleeps; and that's the quarrel. To Tenedos they come, And the deep-drawing barks do there disgorge Their war-like fraughtage: now on Dardan plains The fresh and yet unbruised Greeks do pitch Their brave pavilions: Priam's six-gated city, Dardan, and Tymbria, Ilias, Chetas, Trojan, And Antenorides, with massy staples And corresponsive and fulfilling bolts, Sperr up the sons of Troy. Now expectation, tickling skittish spirits, On one and other side, Trojan and Greek, Sets all on hazard. And hither am I come A prologue arm'd, but not in confidence Of author's pen or actor's voice, but suited In like conditions as our argument, To tell you, fair beholders, that our play Leaps o'er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils, Beginning in the middle; starting thence away To what may be digested in a play. Like or find fault; do as your pleasures are: Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.
Call here my varlet, I'll unarm again: Why should I war without the walls of Troy, That find such cruel battle here within? Each Trojan that is master of his heart, Let him to field; Troilus, alas! has none. Will this gear ne'er be mended? The Greeks are strong, and skilful to their strength. Fierce to their skill, and to their fierceness valiant; But I am weaker than a woman's tear, Tamer than sleep, fonder than ignorance, Less valiant than the virgin in the night, And skilless as unpractis'd infancy. Well, I have told you enough of this: for my part, I'll not meddle nor make no further. He that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding. Have I not tarried? Ay, the grinding; but you must tarry the bolting. Have I not tarried? Ay, the bolting; but you must tarry the leavening. Still have I tarried. Ay, to the leavening; but here's yet in the word 'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the heating of the oven, and the baking; nay, you must stay the cooling too, or you may chance to burn your lips. Patience herself, what goddess e'er she be, Doth lesser blench at sufferance than I do. At Priam's royal table do I sit; And when fair Cressid comes into my thoughts, So, traitor! 'when she comes'! When is she thence?
Well, she looked yesternight fairer than ever I saw her look, or any woman else. I was about to tell thee: when my heart, As wedged with a sigh, would rive in twain, Lest Hector or my father should perceive me, I have as when the sun doth light a storm Buried this sigh in wrinkle of a smile; But sorrow, that is couch'd in seeming gladness, Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness. An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen's, well, go to, there were no more comparison between the women: but, for my part, she is my kins woman; I would not, as they term it, praise her, but I would somebody had heard her talk yesterday, as I did: I will not dispraise your sister Cassandra's wit, but O Pandarus! I tell thee, Pandarus, When I do tell thee, there my hopes lie drown'd, Reply not in how many fathoms deep They lie indrench'd. I tell thee I am mad In Cressid's love: thou answer'st, she is fair; Pour'st in the open ulcer of my heart Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gait, her voice; Handlest in thy discourse, O!
that her hand, In whose comparison all whites are ink, Writing their own reproach; to whose soft seizure The cygnet's down is harsh, and spirit of sense Hard as the palm of ploughman: this thou tell'st me, As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her; But, saying thus, instead of oil and balm, Thou lay'st in every gash that love hath given me The knife that made it. I speak no more than truth. Thou dost not speak so much. Faith, I'll not meddle in't. Let her be as she is: if she be fair, 'tis the better for her; an she be not, she has the mends in her own hands. Good Pandarus, how now, Pandarus! I have had my labour for my travail; ill-thought on of her, and ill-thought on of you: gone between, and between, but small thanks for my labour. What! art thou angry, Pandarus? what! with me? Because she's kin to me, therefore she's not so fair as Helen: an she were not kin to me, she would be as fair on Friday as Helen is on Sunday. But what care I? I care not an she were a black-a-moor; 'tis all one to me. Say I she is not fair? I do not care whether you do or no. She's a fool to stay behind her father: let her to the Greeks; and so I'll tell her the next time I see her.
For my part, I'll meddle nor make no more i' the matter. Pandarus, Not I. Sweet Pandarus, Pray you, speak no more to me! I will leave all as I found it, and there an end. Peace, you ungracious clamours! peace, rude sounds! Fools on both sides! Helen must needs bo fair, When with your blood you daily paint her thus. I cannot fight upon this argument; It is too starv'd a subject for my sword. But Pandarus, O gods! how do you plague me. I cannot come to Cressid but by Pandar; And he's as tetchy to be woo'd to woo As she is stubborn-chaste against all suit. Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love, What Cressid is, what Pandar, and what we? Her bed is India; there she lies, a pearl: Between our Ilium and where she resides Let it be call'd the wild and wandering flood; Ourself the merchant, and this sailing Pandar Our doubtful hope, our convoy and our bark. How now, Prince Troilus! wherefore not afield? Because not there: this woman's answer sorts, For womanish it is to be from thence. What news, Æneas, from the field to-day? That Paris is returned home, and hurt. By whom, Æneas? Troilus, by Menelaus. Let Paris bleed: 'tis but a scar to scorn; Paris is gor'd with Menelaus' horn. Hark, what good sport is out of town to-day! Better at home, if 'would I might' were 'may.'
But to the sport abroad: are you bound thither? In all swift haste. Come, go we then together. Who were those went by? Queen Hecuba and Helen. And whither go they? Up to the eastern tower, Whose height commands as subject all the vale, To see the battle. Hector, whose patience Is as a virtue fix'd, to-day was mov'd: He chid Andromache, and struck his armourer; And, like as there were husbandry in war, Before the sun rose he was harness'd light, And to the field goes he; where every flower Did, as a prophet, weep what it foresaw In Hector's wrath. What was his cause of anger? The noise goes, this: there is among the Greeks A lord of Trojan blood, nephew to Hector; They call him Ajax. Good; and what of him? They say he is a very man per se And stands alone. So do all men, unless they are drunk, sick, or have no legs. This man, lady, hath robbed many beasts of their particular additions: he is as valiant as the lion, churlish as the bear, slow as the elephant: a man into whom nature hath so crowded humours that his valour is crushed into folly, his folly sauced with discretion: there is no man hath a virtue that he hath not a glimpse of, nor any man an attaint but he carries some stain of it.
He is melancholy without cause, and merry against the hair; he hath the joints of every thing, but every thing so out of joint that he is a gouty Briareus, many hands and no use; or purblind Argus, all eyes and no sight. But how should this man, that makes me smile, make Hector angry? They say he yesterday coped Hector in the battle and struck him down; the disdain and shame whereof hath ever since kept Hector fasting and waking. Who comes here? Madam, your uncle Pandarus. Hector's a gallant man. As may be in the world, lady. What's that? what's that? Good morrow, uncle Pandarus. Good morrow, cousin Cressid. What do you talk of? Good morrow, Alexander. How do you, cousin? When were you at Ilium? This morning, uncle. What were you talking of when I came? Was Hector armed and gone ere ye came to Ilium? Helen was not up, was she? Hector was gone, but Helen was not up. E'en so: Hector was stirring early. That were we talking of, and of his anger. Was he angry? So he says here. True, he was so; I know the cause too: he'll lay about him to-day, I can tell them that: and there's Troilus will not come far behind him; let them take heed of Troilus, I can tell them that too. What! is he angry too? Who, Troilus? Troilus is the better man of the two. O Jupiter! there's no comparison. What!
not between Troilus and Hector? Do you know a man if you see him? Ay, if I ever saw him before and knew him. Well, I say Troilus is Troilus. Then you say as I say; for I am sure he is not Hector. No, nor Hector is not Troilus in some degrees. 'Tis just to each of them; he is himself. Himself! Alas, poor Troilus, I would he were. So he is. Condition, I had gone bare-foot to India. He is not Hector. Himself! no, he's not himself. Would a' were himself: well, the gods are above; time must friend or end: well, Troilus, well, I would my heart were in her body. No, Hector is not a better man than Troilus. Excuse me. He is elder. Pardon me, pardon me. Th' other's not come to't; you shall tell me another tale when the other's come to't. Hector shall not have his wit this year. He shall not need it if he have his own. Nor his qualities. No matter. Nor his beauty. 'Twould not become him; his own's better. You have no judgment, niece: Helen herself swore th' other day, that Troilus, for a brown favour, for so 'tis I must confess, not brown neither, No, but brown. Faith, to say truth, brown and not brown. To say the truth, true and not true. She prais'd his complexion above Paris. Why, Paris hath colour enough. So he has.
Then Troilus should have too much: if she praised him above, his complexion is higher than his: he having colour enough, and the other higher, is too flaming a praise for a good complexion. I had as lief Helen's golden tongue had commended Troilus for a copper nose. I swear to you, I think Helen loves him better than Paris. Then she's a merry Greek indeed. Nay, I am sure she does. She came to him th' other day into the compassed window, and, you know, he has not past three or four hairs on his chin, Indeed, a tapster's arithmetic may soon bring his particulars therein to a total. Why, he is very young; and yet will he, within three pound, lift as much as his brother Hector. Is he so young a man, and so old a lifter? But to prove to you that Helen loves him: she came and puts me her white hand to his cloven chin, Juno have mercy! how came it cloven? Why, you know, 'tis dimpled. I think his smiling becomes him better than any man in all Phrygia. O! he smiles valiantly. Does he not? O! yes, an 'twere a cloud in autumn. Why, go to, then. But to prove to you that Helen loves Troilus, Troilus will stand to the proof, if you'll prove it so. Troilus! why he esteems her no more than I esteem an addle egg.
If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle head, you would eat chickens i' the shell. I cannot choose but laugh, to think how she tickled his chin: indeed, she has a marvell's white hand, I must needs confess, Without the rack. And she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin. Alas! poor chin! many a wart is richer. But there was such laughing: Queen Hecuba laughed that her eyes ran o'er. With millstones. And Cassandra laughed. But there was more temperate fire under the pot of her eyes: did her eyes run o'er too? And Hector laughed. At what was all this laughing? Marry, at the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus' chin. An't had been a green hair, I should have laughed too. They laughed not so much at the hair as at his pretty answer. What was his answer? Quoth she, 'Here's but one-and-fifty hairs on your chin, and one of them is white.' This is her question. That's true; make no question of that. 'One-and-fifty hairs,' quoth he, 'and one white: that white hair is my father, and all the rest are his sons.' 'Jupiter!' quoth she, 'which of these hairs is Paris, my husband?' 'The forked one,' quoth he; 'pluck't out, and give it him.' But there was such laughing, and Helen so blushed, and Paris so chafed, and all the rest so laughed, that it passed.
So let it now, for it has been a great while going by. Well, cousin, I told you a thing yesterday; think on't. So I do. I'll be sworn 'tis true: he will weep you, an 'twere a man born in April. And I'll spring up in his tears, an 'twere a nettle against May. Hark! they are coming from the field. Shall we stand up here, and see them as they pass toward Ilium? good niece, do; sweet niece, Cressida. At your pleasure. Here, here; here's an excellent place: here we may see most bravely. I'll tell you them all by their names as they pass by, but mark Troilus above the rest. Speak not so loud. That's Æneas: is not that a brave man? he's one of the flowers of Troy, I can tell you: but mark Troilus; you shall see anon. Who's that? That's Antenor: he has a shrewd wit, I can tell you; and he's a man good enough: he's one o' the soundest judgments in Troy, whosoever, and a proper man of person. When comes Troilus? I'll show you Troilus anon: if he see me, you shall see him nod at me. Will he give you the nod? You shall see. If he do, the rich shall have more. That's Hector, that, that, look you, that; there's a fellow! Go thy way, Hector! There's a brave man, niece. O brave Hector! Look how he looks! there's a countenance! Is't not a brave man? O!
a brave man. Is a' not? It does a man's heart good. Look you what hacks are on his helmet! look you yonder, do you see? look you there: there's no jesting; there's laying on, take't off who will, as they say: there be hacks! Be those with swords? Swords? any thing, he cares not; an the devil come to him, it's all one: by God's lid, it does one's heart good. Yonder comes Paris, yonder comes Paris. Look ye yonder, niece: is't not a gallant man too, is't not? Why, this is brave now. Who said he came hurt home to-day? he's not hurt: why, this will do Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could see Troilus now! You shall see Troilus anon. Who's that? That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's Helenus. I think he went not forth to-day. That's Helenus. Can Helenus fight, uncle? Helenus? no, yes, he'll fight indifferent well. I marvel where Troilus is. Hark! do you not hear the people cry, 'Troilus?' Helenus is a priest. What sneaking fellow comes yonder? Where? yonder? that's Deiphobus. Tis Troilus! there's a man, niece! Hem! Brave Troilus! the prince of chivalry! Peace! for shame, peace! Mark him; note him: O brave Troilus! look well upon him, niece: look you how his sword is bloodied, and his helmet more hacked than Hector's; and how he looks, and how he goes! O admirable youth! he ne'er saw three-and-twenty.
Go thy way, Troilus, go thy way! Had I a sister were a grace, or a daughter a goddess, he should take his choice. O admirable man! Paris? Paris is dirt to him; and, I warrant, Helen, to change, would give an eye to boot. Here come more. Asses, fools, dolts! chaff and bran, chaff and bran! porridge after meat! I could live and die i' the eyes of Troilus. Ne'er look, ne'er look; the eagles are gone: crows and daws, crows and daws! I had rather be such a man as Troilus than Agamemnon and all Greece. There is among the Greeks Achilles, a better man than Troilus. Achilles! a drayman, a porter, a very camel. Well, well. 'Well, well!' Why, have you any discretion? have you any eyes? Do you know what a man is? Is not birth, beauty, good shape, discourse, manhood, learning, gentleness, virtue, youth, liberality, and so forth, the spice and salt that season a man? Ay, a minced man: and then to be baked with no date in the pie, for then the man's date's out. You are such a woman! one knows not at what ward you lie.
Upon my back, to defend my belly; upon my wit, to defend my wiles; upon my secrecy, to defend mine honesty; my mask, to defend my beauty; and you, to defend all these: and at all these wards I lie, at a thousand watches. Say one of your watches. Nay, I'll watch you for that; and that's one of the chiefest of them too: if I cannot ward what I would not have hit, I can watch you for telling how I took the blow; unless it swell past hiding, and then it's past watching. You are such another! Sir, my lord would instantly speak with you. Where? At your own house; there he unarms him. Good boy, tell him I come. I doubt he be hurt. Fare ye well, good niece. Adieu, uncle. I'll be with you, niece, by and by. To bring, uncle? Ay, a token from Troilus. By the same token, you are a bawd. Words, vows, gifts, tears, and love's full sacrifice He offers in another's enterprise; But more in Troilus thousand-fold I see Than in the glass of Pandar's praise may be. Yet hold I off.
Women are angels, wooing: Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing: That she belov'd knows nought that knows not this: Men prize the thing ungain'd more than it is: That she was never yet, that ever knew Love got so sweet as when desire did sue. Therefore this maxim out of love I teach: Achievement is command; ungain'd, beseech: Then though my heart's content firm love doth bear, Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear. Princes, What grief hath set the jaundice on your cheeks? The ample proposition that hope makes In all designs begun on earth below Fails in the promis'd largeness: checks and disasters Grow in the veins of actions highest rear'd; As knots, by the conflux of meeting sap, Infect the sound pine and divert his grain Tortive and errant from his course of growth. Nor, princes, is it matter new to us That we come short of our suppose so far That after seven years' siege yet Troy walls stand; Sith every action that hath gone before, Whereof we have record, trial did draw Bias and thwart, not answering the aim, And that unbodied figure of the thought That gave't surmised shape. Why then, you princes, Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works, And call them shames?
which are indeed nought else But the protractive trials of great Jove, To find persistive constancy in men: The fineness of which metal is not found In Fortune's love; for then, the bold and coward, The wise and fool, the artist and unread, The hard and soft, seem all affin'd and kin: But, in the wind and tempest of her frown, Distinction, with a broad and powerful fan, Puffing at all, winnows the light away; And what hath mass or matter, by itself Lies rich in virtue and unmingled. With due observance of thy god-like seat, Great Agamemnon, Nestor shall apply Thy latest words. In the reproof of chance Lies the true proof of men: the sea being smooth, How many shallow bauble boats dare sail Upon her patient breast, making their way With those of nobler bulk! But let the ruffian Boreas once enrage The gentle Thetis, and anon behold The strong-ribb'd bark through liquid mountains cut, Bounding between the two moist elements, Like Perseus' horse: where's then the saucy boat Whose weak untimber'd sides but even now Co-rivall'd greatness? either to harbour fled, Or made a toast for Neptune.
Even so Doth valour's show and valour's worth divide In storms of fortune; for in her ray and brightness The herd hath more annoyance by the breese Than by the tiger; but when the splitting wind Makes flexible the knees of knotted oaks, And flies fled under shade, why then the thing of courage, As rous'd with rage, with rage doth sympathize, And with an accent tun'd in self-same key, Retorts to chiding fortune. Agamemnon, Thou great commander, nerve and bone of Greece, Heart of our numbers, soul and only spirit, In whom the tempers and the minds of all Should be shut up, hear what Ulysses speaks. Besides the applause and approbation The which, most mighty for thy place and sway, And thou most reverend for thy stretch'd-out life, I give to both your speeches, which were such As Agamemnon and the hand of Greece Should hold up high in brass; and such again As venerable Nestor, hatch'd in silver, Should with a bond of air, strong as the axle-tree On which heaven rides, knit all the Greekish ears To his experienc'd tongue, yet let it please hoth, Thou great, and wise, to hear Ulysses speak.
Speak, Prince of Ithaca; and be't of less expect That matter needless, of importless burden, Divide thy lips, than we are confident, When rank Thersites opes his mastick jaws, We shall hear music, wit, and oracle. Troy, yet upon his basis, had been down, And the great Hector's sword had lack'd a master, But for these instances. The specialty of rule hath been neglected: And look, how many Grecian tents do stand Hollow upon this plain, so many hollow factions. When that the general is not like the hive To whom the foragers shall all repair, What honey is expected? Degree being vizarded, The unworthiest shows as fairly in the mask.
The heavens themselves, the planets, and this centre Observe degree, priority, and place, Insisture, course, proportion, season, form, Office, and custom, in all line of order: And therefore is the glorious planet Sol In noble eminence enthron'd and spher'd Amidst the other; whose med'cinable eye Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil, And posts, like the commandment of a king, Sans check, to good and bad: but when the planets In evil mixture to disorder wander, What plagues, and what portents, what mutiny, What raging of the sea, shaking of earth, Commotion in the winds, frights, changes, horrors, Divert and crack, rend and deracinate The unity and married calm of states Quite from their fixure! O! when degree is shak'd, Which is the ladder to all high designs, The enterprise is sick. How could communities, Degrees in schools, and brotherhoods in cities, Peaceful commerce from dividable shores, The primogenitive and due of birth, Prerogative of age, crowns, sceptres, laurels, But by degree, stand in authentic place? Take but degree away, untune that string, And, hark!
what discord follows; each thing meets In mere oppugnancy: the bounded waters Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores, And make a sop of all this solid globe: Strength should be lord of imbecility, And the rude son should strike his father dead: Force should be right; or rather, right and wrong Between whose endless jar justice resides Should lose their names, and so should justice too. Then every thing includes itself in power, Power into will, will into appetite; And appetite, a universal wolf, So doubly seconded with will and power, Must make perforce a universal prey, And last eat up himself. Great Agamemnon, This chaos, when degree is suffocate, Follows the choking. And this neglection of degree it is That by a pace goes backward, with a purpose It hath to climb. The general's disdain'd By him one step below, he by the next, That next by him beneath; so every step, Exampled by the first pace that is sick Of his superior, grows to an envious fever Of pale and bloodless emulation: And 'tis this fever that keeps Troy on foot, Not her own sinews. To end a tale of length, Troy in our weakness lives, not in her strength. Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd The fever whereof all our power is sick. The nature of the sickness found, Ulysses, What is the remedy?
The great Achilles, whom opinion crowns The sinew and the forehand of our host, Having his ear full of his airy fame, Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent Lies mocking our designs. With him Patroclus Upon a lazy bed the livelong day Breaks scurril jests, And with ridiculous and awkward action Which, slanderer, he imitation calls He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon, Thy topless deputation he puts on And, like a strutting player, whose conceit Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich To hear the wooden dialogue and sound 'Twixt his stretch'd footing and the scaffoldage, Such to-be-pitied and o'er-wrested seeming He acts thy greatness in: and when he speaks, 'Tis like a chime a mending; with terms unsquar'd, Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd, Would seem hyperboles. At this fusty stuff The large Achilles, on his press'd bed lolling, From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause; Cries, 'Excellent! 'tis Agamemnon just. Now play me Nestor; hem, and stroke thy beard, As he being drest to some oration.' That's done; as near as the extremest ends Of parallels, like as Vulcan and his wife: Yet good Achilles still cries, 'Excellent! 'Tis Nestor right. Now play him me, Patroclus, Arming to answer in a night alarm.'
And then, forsooth, the faint defects of age Must be the scene of mirth; to cough and spit, And with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget, Shake in and out the rivet: and at this sport Sir Valour dies; cries, 'O! enough, Patroclus; Or give me ribs of steel; I shall split all In pleasure of my spleen.' And in this fashion, All our abilities, gifts, natures, shapes, Severals and generals of grace exact, Achievements, plots, orders, preventions, Excitements to the field, or speech for truce, Success or loss, what is or is not, serves As stuff for these two to make paradoxes. And in the imitation of these twain Whom, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns With an imperial voice many are infect. Ajax is grown self-will'd, and bears his head In such a rein, in full as proud a place As broad Achilles; keeps his tent like him; Makes factious feasts; rails on our state of war, Bold as an oracle, and sets Thersites A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint To match us in comparison with dirt; To weaken and discredit our exposure, How rank soever rounded in with danger.
They tax our policy, and call it cowardice; Count wisdom as no member of the war; Forestall prescience, and esteem no act But that of hand: the still and mental parts, That do contrive how many hands shall strike, When fitness calls them on, and know by measure Of their observant toil the enemies' weight, Why, this hath not a finger's dignity: They call this bed-work, mappery, closet-war; So that the ram that batters down the wall, For the great swing and rudeness of his poise, They place before his hand that made the engine, Or those that with the fineness of their souls By reason guides his execution. Let this be granted, and Achilles' horse Makes many Thetis' sons. What trumpet? look, Menelaus. From Troy. What would you 'fore our tent? Is this great Agamemnon's tent, I pray you? Even this. May one, that is a herald and a prince, Do a fair message to his kingly ears? With surety stronger than Achilles' arm 'Fore all the Greekish heads, which with one voice Call Agamemnon head and general. Fair leave and large security. How may A stranger to those most imperial looks Know them from eyes of other mortals? How! Ay; I ask, that I might waken reverence, And bid the cheek be ready with a blush Modest as morning when she coldly eyes The youthful Phœbus: Which is that god in office, guiding men? Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon?
This Trojan scorns us; or the men of Troy Are ceremonious courtiers. Courtiers as free, as debonair, unarm'd, As bending angels; that's their fame in peace: But when they would seem soldiers, they have galls, Good arms, strong joints, true swords; and, Jove's accord, Nothing so full of heart. But peace, Æneas! Peace, Trojan! lay thy finger on thy lips! The worthiness of praise distains his worth, If that the prais'd himself bring the praise forth; But what the repining enemy commends, That breath fame blows; that praise, sole pure, transcends. Sir, you of Troy, call you yourself Æneas? Ay, Greek, that is my name. What's your affair, I pray you? Sir, pardon; 'tis for Agamemnon's ears. He hears nought privately that comes from Troy. Nor I from Troy come not to whisper him: I bring a trumpet to awake his ear, To set his sense on the attentive bent, And then to speak. Speak frankly as the wind: It is not Agamemnon's sleeping hour; That thou shalt know, Trojan, he is awake, He tells thee so himself. Trumpet, blow aloud, Send thy brass voice through all these lazy tents; And every Greek of mettle, let him know, What Troy means fairly shall be spoke aloud. We have, great Agamemnon, here in Troy.
A prince called Hector, Priam is his father, Who in this dull and long-continu'd truce Is rusty grown: he bade me take a trumpet, And to this purpose speak: kings, princes, lords! If there be one among the fair'st of Greece That holds his honour higher than his ease, That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril, That knows his valour, and knows not his fear, That loves his mistress more than in confession, With truant vows to her own lips he loves, And dare avow her beauty and her worth In other arms than hers, to him this challenge. Hector, in view of Trojans and of Greeks, Shall make it good, or do his best to do it, He hath a lady wiser, fairer, truer, Than ever Greek did compass in his arms; And will to-morrow with his trumpet call, Mid-way between your tents and walls of Troy, To rouse a Grecian that is true in love: If any come, Hector shall honour him; If none, he'll say in Troy when he retires, The Grecian dames are sunburnt, and not worth The splinter of a lance. Even so much.
This shall be told our lovers, Lord Æneas; If none of them have soul in such a kind, We left them all at home: but we are soldiers; And may that soldier a mere recreant prove, That means not, hath not, or is not in love! If then one is, or hath, or means to be, That one meets Hector; if none else, I am he. Tell him of Nestor, one that was a man When Hector's grandsire suck'd: he is old now; But if there be not in our Grecian host One noble man that hath one spark of fire To answer for his love, tell him from me, I'll hide my silver beard in a gold beaver, And in my vantbrace put this wither'd brawn; And, meeting him, will tell him that my lady Was fairer than his grandam, and as chaste As may be in the world: his youth in flood, I'll prove this truth with my three drops of blood. Now heavens forbid such scarcity of youth! Amen. Fair Lord Æneas, let me touch your hand; To our pavilion shall I lead you first. Achilles shall have word of this intent; So shall each lord of Greece, from tent to tent: Yourself shall feast with us before you go, And find the welcome of a noble foe. Nestor! What says Ulysses? I have a young conception in my brain; Be you my time to bring it to some shape. What is't?
This 'tis: Blunt wedges rive hard knots: the seeded pride That hath to this maturity blown up In rank Achilles, must or now be cropp'd, Or, shedding, breed a nursery of like evil, To overbulk us all. Well, and how? This challenge that the gallant Hector sends, However it is spread in general name, Relates in purpose only to Achilles. The purpose is perspicuous even as substance Whose grossness little characters sum up: And, in the publication, make no strain, But that Achilles, were his brain as barren As banks of Libya, though, Apollo knows, 'Tis dry enough, will with great speed of judgment, Ay, with celerity, find Hector's purpose Pointing on him. And wake him to the answer, think you? Yes, 'tis most meet: whom may you else oppose, That can from Hector bring those honours off, If not Achilles?
Though't be a sportful combat, Yet in the trial much opinion dwells; For here the Trojans taste our dear'st repute With their fin'st palate: and trust to me, Ulysses, Our imputation shall be oddly pois'd In this wild action; for the success, Although particular, shall give a scantling Of good or bad unto the general; And in such indexes, although small pricks To their subsequent volumes, there is seen The baby figure of the giant mass Of things to come at large. It is suppos'd He that meets Hector issues from our choice; And choice, being mutual act of all our souls, Makes merit her election, and doth boil, As 'twere from forth us all, a man distill'd Out of our virtues; who miscarrying, What heart receives from bence the conquering part, To steel a strong opinion to themselves? Which entertain'd, limbs are his instruments, In no less working than are swords and bows Directive by the limbs. Give pardon to my speech: Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector. Let us like merchants show our foulest wares, And think perchance they'll sell; if not, The lustre of the better yet to show Shall show the better. Do not consent That ever Hector and Achilles meet; For both our honour and our shame in this Are dogg'd with two strange followers. I see them not with my old eyes: what are they?
What glory our Achilles shares from Hector, Were he not proud, we all should share with him: But he already is too insolent; And we were better parch in Afric sun Than in the pride and salt scorn of his eyes, Should he 'scape Hector fair: if he were foil'd, Why then we did our main opinion crush In taint of our best man. No; make a lottery; And by device let blockish Ajax draw The sort to fight with Hector: among ourselves Give him allowance as the worthier man, For that will physic the great Myrmidon Who broils in loud applause; and make him fall His crest that prouder than blue Iris bends. If the dull brainless Ajax come safe off, We'll dress him up in voices: if he fail, Yet go we under our opinion still That we have better men. But, hit or miss, Our project's life this shape of sense assumes: Ajax employ'd plucks down Achilles' plumes. Ulysses, Now I begin to relish thy advice; And I will give a taste of it forthwith To Agamemnon: go we to him straight. Two curs shall tame each other: pride alone Must tarre the mastiffs on, as 'twere their bone. Thersites! Agamemnon, how if he had boils? full, all over, generally? Thersites! And those boils did run? Say so, did not the general run then? were not that a botchy core? Dog! Then would come some matter from him: I see none now.
Thou bitch-wolf's son, canst thou not hear? Feel, then. The plague of Greece upon thee, thou mongrel beef-witted lord! Speak then, thou vinewedst leaven, speak: I will beat thee into handsomeness. I shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness: but I think thy horse will sooner con an oration than thou learn a prayer without book. Thou canst strike, canst thou? a red murrain o' thy jade's tricks! Toadstool, learn me the proclamation. Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus? The proclamation! Thou art proclaimed a fool, I think. Do not, porpentine, do not: my fingers itch. I would thou didst itch from head to foot, and I had the scratching of thee; I would make thee the loathsomest scab of Greece. When thou art forth in the incursions, thou strikest as slow as another. I say, the proclamation! Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles, and thou art as full of envy at his greatness as Cerberus is at Proserpina's beauty, ay that thou barkest at him. Mistress Thersites! Thou shouldst strike him. Cobloaf! He would pun thee into shivers with his fist, as a sailor breaks a biscuit. You whoreson cur. Do, do. Thou stool for a witch! Ay, do, do; thou sodden-witted lord! thou hast no more brain than I have in mine elbows; an assinego may tutor thee: thou scurvy-valiant ass!
thou art here but to thrash Trojans; and thou art bought and sold among those of any wit, like a barbarian slave. If thou use to beat me, I will begin at thy heel, and tell what thou art by inches, thou thing of no bowels, thou! You dog! You scurvy lord! You cur! Mars his idiot! do, rudeness; do, camel; do, do. Why, how now, Ajax! wherefore do you this? How now, Thersites! what's the matter, man? You see him there, do you? Ay; what's the matter? Nay, look upon him. So I do: what's the matter? Nay, but regard him well. 'Well!' why, so I do. But yet you look not well upon him; for, whosoever you take him to be, he is Ajax. I know that, fool. Ay, but that fool knows not himself. Therefore I beat thee. Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! his evasions have ears thus long. I have bobbed his brain more than he has beat my bones: I will buy nine sparrows for a penny, and his pia mater is not worth the ninth part of a sparrow. This lord, Achilles, Ajax, who wears his wit in his belly, and his guts in his head, I'll tell you what I say of him. What? I say, this Ajax, Nay, good Ajax. Has not so much wit Nay, I must hold you. As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he comes to fight.
Peace, fool! I would have peace and quietness, but the fool will not: he there; that he; look you there. O thou damned cur! I shall Will you set your wit to a fool's? No, I warrant you; for a fool's will shame it. Good words, Thersites. What's the quarrel? I bade the vile owl go learn me the tenour of the proclamation, and he rails upon me. I serve thee not. Well, go to, go to. I serve here voluntary. Your last service was sufferance, 'twas not voluntary; no man is beaten voluntary: Ajax was here the voluntary, and you as under an impress. Even so; a great deal of your wit too lies in your sinews, or else there be liars. Hector shall have a great catch if he knock out either of your brains: a' were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel. What, with me too, Thersites? There's Ulysses and old Nestor, whose wit was mouldy ere your grandsires had nails on their toes, yoke you like draught-oxen, and make you plough up the wars. What, what? Yes, good sooth: to, Achilles! to, Ajax! to! I shall cut out your tongue. 'Tis no matter; I shall speak as much as thou afterwards. No more words, Thersites; peace! I will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall I? There's for you, Patroclus.
I will see you hanged, like clotpoles, ere I come any more to your tents: I will keep where there is wit stirring and leave the faction of fools. A good riddance. Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host: That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun, Will, with a trumpet, 'twixt our tents and Troy To morrow morning call some knight to arms That hath a stomach; and such a one that dare Maintain I know not what: 'tis trash. Farewell. Farewell. Who shall answer him? I know not: it is put to lottery; otherwise, He knew his man. O, meaning you. I will go learn more of it. After so many hours, lives, speeches spent, Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks: 'Deliver Helen, and all damage else, As honour, loss of time, travail, expense, Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consum'd In hot digestion of this cormorant war, Shall be struck off.' Hector, what say you to't? Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than I, As far as toucheth my particular, Yet, dread Priam, There is no lady of more softer bowels, More spongy to suck in the sense of fear, More ready to cry out 'Who knows what follows?' Than Hector is. The wound of peace is surety, Surety secure; but modest doubt is call'd The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches To the bottom of the worst.
Let Helen go: Since the first sword was drawn about this question, Every tithe soul, 'mongst many thousand dismes, Hath been as dear as Helen; I mean, of ours: If we have lost so many tenths of ours, To guard a thing not ours nor worth to us, Had it our name, the value of one ten, What merit's in that reason which denies The yielding of her up? Fie, fie! my brother, Weigh you the worth and honour of a king So great as our dread father in a scale Of common ounces? will you with counters sum The past proportion of his infinite? And buckle in a waist most fathomless With spans and inches so diminutive As fears and reasons? fie, for godly shame! No marvel, though you bite so sharp at reasons, You are so empty of them. Should not our father Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons, Because your speech hath none that tells him so? You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest; You fur your gloves with reason.
Here are your reasons: You know an enemy intends you harm; You know a sword employ'd is perilous, And reason flies the object of all harm: Who marvels then, when Helenus beholds A Grecian and his sword, if he do set The very wings of reason to his heels, And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove, Or like a star disorb'd? Nay, if we talk of reason, Let's shut our gates and sleep: manhood and honour Should have hare-hearts, would they but fat their thoughts With this cramm'd reason: reason and respect Make livers pale, and lustihood deject. Brother, she is not worth what she doth cost The holding. What is aught but as 'tis valu'd? But value dwells not in particular will; It holds his estimate and dignity As well wherein 'tis precious of itself As in the prizer. 'Tis mad idolatry To make the service greater than the god; And the will dotes that is inclinable To what infectiously itself affects, Without some image of the affected merit. I take to-day a wife, and my election Is led on in the conduct of my will; My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears, Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores Of will and judgment. How may I avoid, Although my will distaste what it elected, The wife I chose? there can be no evasion To blench from this and to stand firm by honour.
We turn not back the silks upon the merchant When we have soil'd them, nor the remainder viands We do not throw in unrespective sink Because we now are full. It was thought meet Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks: Your breath of full consent bellied his sails; The seas and winds old wranglers took a truce And did him service: he touch'd the ports desir'd, And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness Wrinkles Apollo's, and makes stale the morning. Why keep we her? the Grecians keep our aunt: Is she worth keeping? why, she is a pearl, Whose price hath launch'd above a thousand ships, And turn'd crown'd kings to merchants. If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went, As you must needs, for you all cried 'Go, go,' If you'll confess he brought home noble prize, As you must needs, for you all clapp'd your hands, And cry'd 'Inestimable!' why do you now The issue of your proper wisdoms rate, And do a deed that Fortune never did, Beggar the estimation which you priz'd Richer than sea and land? O! theft most base, That we have stol'n what we do fear to keep! But thieves unworthy of a thing so stol'n, That in their country did them that disgrace We fear to warrant in our native place. Cry, Trojans, cry! What noise? what shriek?
'Tis our mad sister, I do know her voice Cry, Trojans! It is Cassandra. Cry, Trojans, cry! lend me ten thousand eyes, And I will fill them with prophetic tears. Peace, sister, peace! Virgins and boys, mid-age and wrinkled eld, Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry, Add to my clamours! let us pay betimes A moiety of that mass of moan to come. Cry, Trojans, cry! practise your eyes with tears! Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilion stand; Our firebrand brother, Paris, burns us all. Cry, Trojans, cry! a Helen and a woe! Cry, cry! Troy burns, or else let Helen go. Now, youthful Troilus, do not these high strains Of divination in our sister work Some touches of remorse? or is your blood So madly hot that no discourse of reason, Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause, Can qualify the same? Why, brother Hector, We may not think the justness of each act Such and no other than event doth form it, Nor once deject the courage of our minds, Because Cassandra's mad: her brain-sick raptures Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel Which hath our several honours all engag'd To make it gracious. For my private part, I am no more touch'd than all Priam's sons; And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us Such things as might offend the weakest spleen To fight for and maintain.
Else might the world convince of levity As well my undertakings as your counsels; But I attest the gods, your full consent Gave wings to my propension and cut off All fears attending on so dire a project: For what, alas! can these my single arms? What propugnation is in one man's valour, To stand the push and enmity of those This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest, Were I alone to pass the difficulties, And had as ample power as I have will, Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done, Nor faint in the pursuit. Paris, you speak Like one besotted on your sweet delights: You have the honey still, but these the gall; So to be valiant is no praise at all. Sir, I propose not merely to myself The pleasure such a beauty brings with it; But I would have the soil of her fair rape Wip'd off, in honourable keeping her. What treason were it to the ransack'd queen, Disgrace to your great worths, and shame to me, Now to deliver her possession up, On terms of base compulsion! Can it be That so degenerate a strain as this Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
There's not the meanest spirit on our party Without a heart to dare or sword to draw When Helen is defended, nor none so noble Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfam'd Where Helen is the subject: then, I say, Well may we fight for her, whom, we know well, The world's large spaces cannot parallel. Paris and Troilus, you have both said well; And on the cause and question now in hand Have gloz'd, but superficially; not much Unlike young men, whom Aristotle thought Unfit to hear moral philosophy. The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion of distemper'd blood Than to make up a free determination 'Twixt right and wrong; for pleasure and revenge Have ears more deaf than adders to the voice Of any true decision. Nature craves All dues be render'd to their owners: now, What nearer debt in all humanity Than wife is to the husband? if this law Of nature be corrupted through affection, And that great minds, of partial indulgence To their benumbed wills, resist the saine; There is a law in each well-order'd nation To curb those raging appetites that are Most disobedient and refractory.
If Helen then be wife to Sparta's king, As it is known she is, these moral laws Of nature, and of nations, speak aloud To have her back return'd: thus to persist In doing wrong extenuates not wrong, But makes it much more heavy. Hector's opinion Is this, in way of truth; yet, ne'ertheless, My spritely brethren, I propend to you In resolution to keep Helen still; For 'tis a cause that hath no mean dependance Upon our joint and several dignities. Why, there you touch'd the life of our design: Were it not glory that we more affected Than the performance of our heaving spleens, I would not wish a drop of Trojan blood Spent more in her defence. But, worthy Hector, She is a theme of honour and renown, A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds, Whose present courage may beat down our foes, And fame in time to come canonize us; For, I presume, brave Hector would not lose So rich advantage of a promis'd glory As smiles upon the forehead of this action For the wide world's revenue. I am yours, You valiant offspring of great Priamus. I have a roisting challenge sent amongst The dull and factious nobles of the Greeks Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits. I was advertis'd their great general slept Whilst emulation in the army crept: This, I presume, will wake him. How now, Thersites! what, lost in the labyrinth of thy fury!
Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? he beats me, and I rail at him: O worthy satisfaction! Would it were otherwise; that I could beat him, whilst he railed at me. 'Sfoot, I'll learn to conjure and raise devils, but I'll see some issue of my spiteful execrations. Then there's Achilles, a rare enginer. If Troy be not taken till these two undermine it, the walls will stand till they fall of themselves. O! thou great thunder-darter of Olympus, forget that thou art Jove the king of gods, and, Mercury, lose all the serpentine craft of thy caduceus, if ye take not that little little less than little wit from them that they have; which short-armed ignorance itself knows is so abundant scarce it will not in circumvention deliver a fly from a spider, without drawing their massy irons and cutting the web. After this, the vengeance on the whole camp! or, rather, the Neapolitan bone-ache! for that, methinks, is the curse dependant on those that war for a placket. I have said my prayers, and devil Envy say Amen. What, ho! my Lord Achilles! Who's there? Thersites! Good Thersites, come in and rail. If I could have remembered a gilt counterfeit, thou wouldst not have slipped out of my contemplation: but it is no matter; thyself upon thyself! The common curse of mankind, folly and ignorance, be thine in great revenue! heaven bless thee from a tutor, and discipline come not near thee!
Let thy blood be thy direction till thy death! then, if she that lays thee out says thou art a fair corpse, I'll be sworn and sworn upon't she never shrouded any but lazars. Amen. Where's Achilles? What! art thou devout? wast thou in prayer? Ay; the heavens hear me! Who's there? Thersites, my lord. Where, where? Art thou come? Why, my cheese, my digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to my table so many meals? Come, what's Agamemnon? Thy commander, Achilles. Then tell me, Patroclus, what's Achilles? Thy lord, Thersites. Then tell me, I pray thee, what's thyself? Thy knower, Patroclus. Then tell me, Patroclus, what art thou? Thou mayst tell that knowest. O! tell, tell. I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands Achilles; Achilles is my lord; I am Patroclus' knower; and Patroclus is a fool. You rascal! Peace, fool! I have not done. He is a privileged man. Proceed, Thersites. Agamemnon is a fool; Achilles is a fool; Thersites is a fool; and, as aforesaid, Patroclus is a fool. Derive this; come. Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles; Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon; Thersites is a fool to serve such a fool; and Patroclus is a fool positive. Why am I a fool? Make that demand to the Creator. It suffices me thou art. Look you, who comes here? Patroclus, I'll speak with nobody. Come in with me, Thersites.
Here is such patchery, such juggling, and such knavery! all the argument is a cuckold and a whore; a good quarrel to draw emulous factions and bleed to death upon. Now, the dry serpigo on the subject! and war and lechery confound all! Where is Achilles? Within his tent; but ill-dispos'd, my lord. Let it be known to him that we are here. He shent our messengers; and we lay by Our appertainments, visiting of him: Let him be told so; lest perchance he think We dare not move the question of our place, Or know not what we are. I shall say so to him. We saw him at the opening of his tent: He is not sick. Yes, lion-sick, sick of proud heart: you may call it melancholy if you will favour the man; but, by my head, 'tis pride: but why, why? let him show us a cause. A word, my lord. What moves Ajax thus to bay at him? Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him. Who, Thersites? He. Then will Ajax lack matter, if he have lost his argument. No; you see, he is his argument that has his argument, Achilles. All the better; their fraction is more our wish than their faction: but it was a strong composure a fool could disunite. The amity that wisdom knits not folly may easily untie. Here comes Patroclus. No Achilles with him.
The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy: his legs are legs for necessity, not for flexure. Achilles bids me say, he is much sorry If any thing more than your sport and pleasure Did move your greatness and this noble state To call upon him; he hopes it is no other But, for your health and your digestion sake, An after-dinner's breath. Hear you, Patroclus: We are too well acquainted with these answers: But his evasion, wing'd thus swift with scorn, Cannot outfly our apprehensions. Much attribute he hath, and much the reason Why we ascribe it to him; yet all his virtues, Not virtuously on his own part beheld, Do in our eyes begin to lose their gloss, Yea, like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish, Are like to rot untasted. Go and tell him, We come to speak with him; and you shall not sin If you do say we think him over-proud And under-honest, in self-assumption greater Than in the note of judgment; and worthier than himself Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on, Disguise the holy strength of their command, And underwrite in an observing kind His humorous predominance; yea, watch His pettish lunes, his ebbs, his flows, as if The passage and whole carriage of this action Rode on his tide.
Go tell him this, and add, That if he overhold his price so much, We'll none of him; but let him, like an engine Not portable, lie under this report: 'Bring action hither, this cannot go to war:' A stirring dwarf we do allowance give Before a sleeping giant: tell him so. I shall; and bring his answer presently. In second voice we'll not be satisfied; We come to speak with him. Ulysses, enter you. What is he more than another? No more than what he thinks he is. Is he so much? Do you not think he thinks himself a better man than I am? No question. Will you subscribe his thought, and say he is? No, noble Ajax; you are as strong, as valiant, as wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether more tractable. Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I know not what pride is. Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the fairer. He that is proud eats up himself: pride is his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle; and whatever praises itself but in the deed, devours the deed in the praise. I do hate a proud man, as I hate the engendering of toads. Yet he loves himself: is't not strange? Achilles will not to the field to-morrow. What's his excuse?
He doth rely on none, But carries on the stream of his dispose Without observance or respect of any, In will peculiar and in self-admission. Why will he not upon our fair request Untent his person and share the air with us? Things small as nothing, for request's sake only, He makes important: possess'd he is with greatness, And speaks not to himself but with a pride That quarrels at self-breath: imagin'd worth Holds in his blood such swoln and hot discourse, That 'twixt his mental and his active parts Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages And batters down himself: what should I say? He is so plaguy proud, that the death-tokens of it Cry 'No recovery.' Let Ajax go to him. Dear lord, go you and meet him in his tent: 'Tis said he holds you well, and will be led At your request a little from himself. O Agamemnon! let it not be so. We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes When they go from Achilles: shall the proud lord That bastes his arrogance with his own seam, And never suffers matter of the world Enter his thoughts, save such as do revolve And ruminate himself, shall he be worshipp'd Of that we hold an idol more than he?
No, this thrice-worthy and right valiant lord Must not so stale his palm, nobly acquir'd; Nor, by my will, assubjugate his merit, As amply titled as Achilles is, By going to Achilles: That were to enlard his fat-already pride, And add more coals to Cancer when he burns With entertaining great Hyperion. This lord go to him! Jupiter forbid, And say in thunder, 'Achilles go to him.' O! this is well; he rubs the vein of him. And how his silence drinks up this applause! If I go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the face. O, no! you shall not go. An a' be proud with me, I'll pheeze his pride. Let me go to him. Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel. A paltry, insolent fellow! How he describes himself! Can he not be sociable? The raven chides blackness. I'll let his humours blood. He will be the physician that should be the patient. An all men were o' my mind, Wit would be out of fashion. A' should not bear it so, a' should eat swords first: shall pride carry it? An't would, you'd carry half. A' would have ten shares. I will knead him; I will make him supple. He's not yet through warm: force him with praises: pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry. My lord, you feed too much on this dislike. Our noble general, do not do so. You must prepare to fight without Achilles.
Why, 'tis this naming of him does him harm. Here is a man but 'tis before his face; I will be silent. Wherefore should you so? He is not emulous, as Achilles is. Know the whole world, he is as valiant. A whoreson dog, that shall palter thus with us! Would he were a Trojan! What a vice were it in Ajax now, If he were proud, Or covetous of praise, Ay, or surly borne, Or strange, or self-affected! Thank the heavens, lord, thou art of sweet composure; Praise him that got thee, her that gave thee suck: Fam'd be thy tutor, and thy parts of nature Thrice-fam'd, beyond all erudition: But he that disciplin'd thy arms to fight, Let Mars divide eternity in twain, And give him half: and, for thy vigour, Bull-bearing Milo his addition yield To sinewy Ajax. I will not praise thy wisdom, Which, like a bourn, a pale, a shore, confines Thy spacious and dilated parts: here's Nestor Instructed by the antiquary times, He must, he is, he cannot but be wise; But pardon, father Nestor, were your days As green as Ajax, and your brain so temper'd, You should not have the eminence of him, But be as Ajax. Shall I call you father? Ay, my good son. Be rul'd by him, Lord Ajax. There is no tarrying here; the hart Achilles Keeps thicket.
Please it our great general To call together all his state of war; Fresh kings are come to Troy: to-morrow, We must with all our main of power stand fast: And here's a lord, come knights from east to west, And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best. Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep: Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep. Friend! you! pray you, a word: do not you follow the young Lord Paris? Ay, sir, when he goes before me. You depend upon him, I mean? Sir, I do depend upon the Lord. You depend upon a noble gentleman; I must needs praise him. The Lord be praised! You know me, do you not? Faith, sir, superficially. Friend, know me better. I am the Lord Pandarus. I hope I shall know your honour better. I do desire it. You are in the state of grace. Grace! not so, friend; honour and lordship are my titles. What music is this? I do but partly know, sir: it is music in parts. Know you the musicians? Wholly, sir. Who play they to? To the hearers, sir. At whose pleasure, friend? At mine, sir, and theirs that love music. Command, I mean, friend. Who shall I command, sir? Friend, we understand not one another: I am too courtly, and thou art too cunning. At whose request do these men play? That's to't, indeed, sir.
Marry, sir, at the request of Paris my lord, who is there in person; with him the mortal Venus, the heartblood of beauty, love's invisible soul. Who, my cousin Cressida? No, sir, Helen: could you not find out that by her attributes? It should seem, fellow, that thou hast not seen the Lady Cressida. I come to speak with Paris from the Prince Troilus: I will make a complimental assault upon him, for my business seethes. Sodden business: there's a stewed phrase, indeed. Fair be to you, my lord, and to all this fair company! fair desires, in all fair measures, fairly guide them! especially to you, fair queen! fair thoughts be your fair pillow! Dear lord, you are full of fair words. You speak your fair pleasure, sweet queen. Fair prince, here is good broken music. You have broke it, cousin; and, by my life, you shall make it whole again: you shall piece it out with a piece of your performance. Nell, he is full of harmony. Truly, lady, no. O, sir! Rude, in sooth; in good sooth, very rude. Well said, my lord! Well, you say so in fits. I have business to my lord, dear queen. My lord, will you vouchsafe me a word? Nay, this shall not hedge us out: we'll hear you sing, certainly. Well, sweet queen, you are pleasant with me. But, marry, thus, my lord.
My dear lord and most esteemed friend, your brother Troilus My Lord Pandarus; honey-sweet lord, Go to, sweet queen, go to: commends himself most affectionately to you. You shall not bob us out of our melody: if you do, our melancholy upon your head! Sweet queen, sweet queen! that's a sweet queen, i' faith. And to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence. Nay, that shall not serve your turn; that shall it not, in truth, la! Nay, I care not for such words: no, no. And, my lord, he desires you, that if the king call for him at supper, you will make his excuse. My Lord Pandarus, What says my sweet queen, my very sweet queen? What exploit's in hand? where sups he to-night? Nay, but my lord, What says my sweet queen! My cousin will fall out with you. You must know where he sups. I'll lay my life, with my disposer Cressida. No, no, no such matter; you are wide. Come, your disposer is sick. Well, I'll make excuse. Ay, good my lord. Why should you say Cressida? no, your poor disposer's sick. I spy. You spy! what do you spy? Come, give me an instrument. Now, sweet queen. Why, this is kindly done. My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have, sweet queen. She shall have it, my lord, if it be not my Lord Paris. He!
no, she'll none of him; they two are twain. Falling in, after falling out, may make them three. Come, come, I'll hear no more of this. I'll sing you a song now. Ay, ay, prithee now. By my troth, sweet lord, thou hast a fine forehead. Ay, you may, you may. Let thy song be love: this love will undo us all. O Cupid, Cupid, Cupid! Love! ay, that it shall, i' faith. Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love. In good troth, it begins so: Love, love, nothing but love, still more! For, oh! love's bow Shoots buck and doe: The shaft confounds, Not that it wounds, But tickles still the sore. These lovers cry O! O! they die! Yet that which seems the wound to kill, Doth turn O! O! to ha! ha! he! So dying love lives still: O! O! a while, but ha! ha! ha! O! O! groans out for ha! ha! ha! Heigh-ho! In love, i' faith, to the very tip of the nose. He eats nothing but doves, love; and that breeds hot blood, and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot thoughts beget hot deeds, and hot deeds is love. Is this the generation of love? hot blood? hot thoughts, and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers: is love a generation of vipers? Sweet lord, who's a-field to-day?
Hector, Deiphobus, Helenus, Antenor, and all the gallantry of Troy: I would fain have armed to-day, but my Nell would not have it so. How chance my brother Troilus went not? He hangs the lip at something: you know all, Lord Pandarus. Not I, honey-sweet queen. I long to hear how they sped to-day. You'll remember your brother's excuse? To a hair. Farewell, sweet queen. Commend me to your niece. I will, sweet queen. They're come from field: let us to Priam's hall To greet the warriors. Sweet Helen, I must woo you To help unarm our Hector: his stubborn buckles, With these your white enchanting fingers touch'd, Shall more obey than to the edge of steel Or force of Greekish sinews; you shall do more Than all the island kings, disarm great Hector. 'Twill make us proud to be his servant, Paris; Yea, what he shall receive of us in duty Gives us more palm in beauty than we have, Yea, overshines ourself. Sweet, above thought I love thee. How now! where's thy master? at my cousin Cressida's? No, sir; he stays for you to conduct him thither. O! here he comes. How now, how now! Sirrah, walk off. Have you seen my cousin? No, Pandarus: I stalk about her door, Like a strange soul upon the Stygian banks Staying for waftage. O!
be thou my Charon, And give me swift transportance to those fields Where I may wallow in the lily-beds Propos'd for the deserver! O gentle Pandarus! From Cupid's shoulder pluck his painted wings, And fly with me to Cressid. Walk here i' the orchard. I'll bring her straight. I am giddy, expectation whirls me round. The imaginary relish is so sweet That it enchants my sense. What will it be When that the watery palate tastes indeed Love's thrice-repured nectar? death, I fear me, Swounding destruction, or some joy too fine, Too subtle-potent, tun'd too sharp in sweetness For the capacity of my ruder powers: I fear it much; and I do fear besides That I shall lose distinction in my joys; As doth a battle, when they charge on heaps The enemy flying. She's making her ready: she'll come straight: you must be witty now. She does so blush, and fetches her wind so short, as if she were frayed with a sprite: I'll fetch her. It is the prettiest villain: she fetches her breath as short as a new-ta'en sparrow. Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom; My heart beats thicker than a fev'rous pulse; And all my powers do their bestowing lose, Like vassalage at unawares encountering The eye of majesty. Come, come, what need you blush? shame's a baby. Here she is now: swear the oaths now to her that you have sworn to me. What! are you gone again?
you must be watched ere you be made tame, must you? Come your ways, come your ways; an you draw backward, we'll put you i' the fills. Why do you not speak to her? Come, draw this curtain, and let's see your picture. Alas the day, how loath you are to offend day-light! an 'twere dark, you'd close sooner. So, so; rub on, and kiss the mistress. How now! a kiss in fee-farm! build there, carpenter; the air is sweet. Nay, you shall fight your hearts out ere I part you. The falcon as the tercel, for all the ducks i' the river: go to, go to. You have bereft me of all words, lady. Words pay no debts, give her deeds; but she'll bereave you of the deeds too if she call your activity in question. What! billing again? Here's 'In witness whereof the parties interchangeably' Come in, come in: I'll go get a fire. Will you walk in, my lord? O Cressida! how often have I wished me thus! Wished, my lord! The gods grant, O my lord! What should they grant? what makes this pretty abruption? What too curious dreg espies my sweet lady in the fountain of our love? More dregs than water, if my fears have eyes. Fears make devils of cherubins; they never see truly. Blind fear, that seeing reason leads, finds safer footing than blind reason stumbling without fear: to fear the worst oft cures the worse. O!
let my lady apprehend no fear: in all Cupid's pageant there is presented no monster. Nor nothing monstrous neither? Nothing but our undertakings; when we vow to weep seas, live in fire, eat rocks, tame tigers; thinking it harder for our mistress to devise imposition enough than for us to undergo any difficulty imposed. This is the monstruosity in love, lady, that the will is infinite, and the execution confined; that the desire is boundless, and the act a slave to limit. They say all lovers swear more performance than they are able, and yet reserve an ability that they never perform; vowing more than the perfection of ten and discharging less than the tenth part of one. They that have the voice of lions and the act of hares, are they not monsters? Are there such? such are not we. Praise us as we are tasted, allow us as we prove; our head shall go bare, till merit crown it. No perfection in reversion shall have a praise in present: we will not name desert before his birth, and, being born, his addition shall be humble. Few words to fair faith: Troilus shall be such to Cressid, as what envy can say worst shall be a mock for his truth; and what truth can speak truest not truer than Troilus. Will you walk in, my lord? What! blushing still? have you not done talking yet? Well, uncle, what folly I commit, I dedicate to you.
I thank you for that: if my lord get a boy of you, you'll give him me. Be true to my lord; if he flinch, chide me for it. You know now your hostages; your uncle's word, and my firm faith. Nay, I'll give my word for her too. Our kindred, though they be long ere they are wooed, they are constant being won: they are burrs, I can tell you; they'll stick where they are thrown. Boldness comes to me now, and brings me heart: Prince Troilus, I have lov'd you night and day For many weary months. Why was my Cressid then so hard to win? Hard to seem won; but I was won, my lord, With the first glance that ever pardon me If I confess much you will play the tyrant. I love you now; but, till now, not so much But I might master it: in faith, I lie; My thoughts were like unbridled children, grown Too headstrong for their mother. See, we fools! Why have I blabb'd? who shall be true to us When we are so unsecret to ourselves? But, though I lov'd you well, I woo'd you not; And yet, good faith, I wish'd myself a man, Or that we women had men's privilege Of speaking first. Sweet, bid me hold my tongue; For in this rapture I shall surely speak The thing I shall repent. See, see!
your silence, Cunning in dumbness, from my weakness draws My very soul of counsel. Stop my mouth. And shall, albeit sweet music issues thence. Pretty, i' faith. My lord, I do beseech you, pardon me; 'Twas not my purpose thus to beg a kiss: I am asham'd: O heavens! what have I done? For this time will I take my leave, my lord. Your leave, sweet Cressid? Leave! an you take leave till to-morrow morning, Pray you, content you. What offends you, lady? Sir, mine own company. You cannot shun yourself. Let me go and try: I have a kind of self resides with you; But an unkind self, that itself will leave, To be another's fool. I would be gone: Where is my wit? I speak I know not what. Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely. Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love; And fell so roundly to a large confession, To angle for your thoughts: but you are wise, Or else you love not, for to be wise, and love, Exceeds man's might; that dwells with gods above. O!
that I thought it could be in a woman As if it can I will presume in you To feed for aye her lamp and flames of love; To keep her constancy in plight and youth, Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind That doth renew swifter than blood decays: Or that persuasion could but thus convince me, That my integrity and truth to you Might be affronted with the match and weight Of such a winnow'd purity in love; How were I then uplifted! but, alas! I am as true as truth's simplicity, And simpler than the infancy of truth. In that I'll war with you. O virtuous fight! When right with right wars who shall be most right. True swains in love shall in the world to come Approve their truths by Troilus: when their rimes, Full of protest, of oath, and big compare, Want similes, truth tir'd with iteration, As true as steel, as plantage to the moon, As sun to day, as turtle to her mate, As iron to adamant, as earth to the centre, Yet, after all comparisons of truth, As truth's authentic author to be cited, 'As true as Troilus' shall crown up the verse And sanctify the numbers. Prophet may you be!
If I be false, or swerve a hair from truth, When time is old and hath forgot itself, When waterdrops have worn the stones of Troy, And blind oblivion swallow'd cities up, And mighty states characterless are grated To dusty nothing, yet let memory, From false to false, among false maids in love Upbraid my falsehood! when they have said 'as false As air, as water, wind, or sandy earth, As fox to lamb, as wolf to heifer's calf, Pard to the hind, or stepdame to her son;' Yea, let them say, to stick the heart of falsehood, 'As false as Cressid.' Go to, a bargain made; seal it, seal it: I'll be the witness. Here I hold your hand, here my cousin's. If ever you prove false one to another, since I have taken such pains to bring you together, let all pitiful goers-between be called to the world's end after my name; call them all Pandars; let all constant men be Troiluses, all false women Cressids, and all brokers-between Pandars! say, Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber and a bed; which bed, because it shall not speak of your pretty encounters, press it to death: away! And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here Bed, chamber, Pandar to provide this gear! Now, princes, for the service I have done you, The advantage of the time prompts me aloud To call for recompense.
Appear it to your mind That through the sight I bear in things to come, I have abandon'd Troy, left my possession, Incurr'd a traitor's name; expos'd myself, From certain and possess'd conveniences, To doubtful fortunes; sequestering from me all That time, acquaintance, custom, and condition Made tame and most familiar to my nature; And here, to do you service, have become As new into the world, strange, unacquainted: I do beseech you, as in way of taste, To give me now a little benefit, Out of those many register'd in promise, Which, you say, live to come in my behalf. What wouldst thou of us, Trojan? make demand. You have a Trojan prisoner, call'd Antenor, Yesterday took: Troy holds him very dear. Oft have you often have you thanks therefore Desir'd my Cressid in right great exchange, Whom Troy hath still denied; but this Antenor I know is such a wrest in their affairs That their negociations all must slack, Wanting his manage; and they will almost Give us a prince of blood, a son of Priam, In change of him: let him be sent, great princes, And he shall buy my daughter; and her presence Shall quite strike off all service I have done, In most accepted pain. Let Diomedes bear him, And bring us Cressid hither: Calchas shall have What he requests of us.
Good Diomed, Furnish you fairly for this interchange: Withal bring word if Hector will to-morrow Be answer'd in his challenge: Ajax is ready. This shall I undertake; and 'tis a burden Which I am proud to bear. Achilles stands in the entrance of his tent: Please it our general to pass strangely by him, As if he were forgot; and, princes all, Lay negligent and loose regard upon him: I will come last. 'Tis like he'll question me Why such unplausive eyes are bent on him: If so, I have derision med'cinable To use between your strangeness and his pride, Which his own will shall have desire to drink. It may do good: pride hath no other glass To show itself but pride, for supple knees Feed arrogance and are the poor man's fees. We'll execute your purpose, and put on A form of strangeness as we pass along: So do each lord, and either greet him not, Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way. What! comes the general to speak with me? You know my mind; I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy. What says Achilles? would he aught with us? Would you, my lord, aught with the general? No. Nothing, my lord. The better. Good day, good day. How do you? how do you? What! does the cuckold scorn me? How now, Patroclus? Good morrow, Ajax. Ha? Good morrow. Ay, and good next day too.
What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles? They pass by strangely: they were us'd to bend, To send their smiles before them to Achilles; To come as humbly as they us'd to creep To holy altars. What! am I poor of late? 'Tis certain, greatness, once fall'n out with fortune, Must fall out with men too: what the declin'd is He shall as soon read in the eyes of others As feel in his own fall; for men, like butterflies, Show not their mealy wings but to the summer, And not a man, for being simply man, Hath any honour, but honour for those honours That are without him, as places, riches, and favour, Prizes of accident as oft as merit: Which when they fall, as being slippery standers, The love that lean'd on them as slippery too, Do one pluck down another, and together Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me: Fortune and I are friends: I do enjoy At ample point all that I did possess, Save these men's looks; who do, methinks, find out Something not worth in me such rich beholding As they have often given. Here is Ulysses: I'll interrupt his reading. How now, Ulysses! Now, great Thetis' son! What are you reading?
A strange fellow here Writes me, That man, how dearly ever parted, How much in having, or without or in, Cannot make boast to have that which he hath, Nor feels not what he owes but by reflection; As when his virtues shining upon others Heat them, and they retort that heat again To the first giver. This is not strange, Ulysses! The beauty that is borne here in the face The bearer knows not, but commends itself To others' eyes: nor doth the eye itself That most pure spirit of sense behold itself, Not going from itself; but eye to eye oppos'd Salutes each other with each other's form; For speculation turns not to itself Till it hath travell'd and is mirror'd there Where it may see itself. This is not strange at all. I do not strain at the position, It is familiar, but at the author s drift; Who in his circumstance expressly proves That no man is the lord of any thing Though in and of him there be much consisting Till he communicate his parts to others: Nor doth he of himself know them for aught Till he behold them form'd in the applause Where they're extended; who, like an arch, reverberates The voice again, or, like a gate of steel Fronting the sun, receives and renders back His figure and his heat. I was much rapt in this; And apprehended here immediately The unknown Ajax.
Heavens, what a man is there! a very horse, That has he knows not what. Nature, what things there are, Most abject in regard, and dear in use! What things again most dear in the esteem And poor in worth! Now shall we see to-morrow, An act that very chance doth throw upon him, Ajax renown'd. O heavens! what some men do; While some men leave to do. How some men creep in skittish Fortune's hall, Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes! How one man eats into another's pride, While pride is fasting in his wantonness! To see these Grecian lords! why, even already They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder, As if his foot were on brave Hector's breast, And great Troy shrinking. I do believe it; for they pass'd by me As misers do by beggars, neither gave to me Good word or look: what! are my deeds forgot? Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back, Wherein he puts alms for oblivion, A great-siz'd monster of ingratitudes: Those scraps are good deeds past; which are devour'd As fast as they are made, forgot as soon As done: perseverance, dear my lord, Keeps honour bright: to have done, is to hang Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail In monumental mockery.
Take the instant way; For honour travels in a strait so narrow Where one but goes abreast: keep, then, the path; For emulation hath a thousand sons That one by one pursue: if you give way, Or hedge aside from the direct forthright, Like to an enter'd tide they all rush by And leave you hindmost; Or, like a gallant horse fall'n in first rank, Lie there for pavement to the abject rear, O'errun and trampled on: then what they do in present, Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours; For time is like a fashionable host, That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand, And with his arms outstretch'd, as he would fly, Grasps in the comer: welcome ever smiles, And farewell goes out sighing. O! let not virtue seek Remuneration for the thing it was; For beauty, wit, High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service, Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all To envious and calumniating time. One touch of nature makes the whole world kin, That all with one consent praise new-born gawds, Though they are made and moulded of things past, And give to dust that is a little gilt More laud than gilt o'er-dusted. The present eye praises the present object: Then marvel not, thou great and complete man, That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax; Since things in motion sooner catch the eye Than what not stirs.
The cry went once on thee, And still it might, and yet it may again, If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive, And case thy reputation in thy tent; Whose glorious deeds, but in these fields of late, Made emulous missions 'mongst the gods themselves, And drave great Mars to faction. Of this my privacy I have strong reasons. But 'gainst your privacy The reasons are more potent and heroical. 'Tis known, Achilles, that you are in love With one of Priam's daughters. Ha! known! Is that a wonder? The providence that's in a watchful state Knows almost every grain of Plutus' gold, Finds bottom in the uncomprehensive deeps, Keeps place with thought, and almost, like the gods, Does thoughts unveil in their dumb cradles. There is a mystery with whom relation Durst never meddle in the soul of state, Which hath an operation more divine Than breath or pen can give expressure to. All the commerce that you have had with Troy As perfectly is ours as yours, my lord; And better would it fit Achilles much To throw down Hector than Polyxena; But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home, When fame shall in our islands sound her trump, And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing, 'Great Hector's sister did Achilles win, But our great Ajax bravely beat down him.' Farewell, my lord: I as your lover speak; The fool slides o'er the ice that you should break.
To this effect, Achilles, have I mov'd you. A woman impudent and mannish grown Is not more loath'd than an effeminate man In time of action. I stand condemn'd for this: They think my little stomach to the war And your great love to me restrains you thus. Sweet, rouse yourself; and the weak wanton Cupid Shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold, And, like a dew-drop from the lion's mane, Be shook to air. Shall Ajax fight with Hector? Ay; and perhaps receive much honour by him. I see my reputation is at stake; My fame is shrewdly gor'd. O! then, beware; Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves: Omission to do what is necessary Seals a commission to a blank of danger; And danger, like an ague, subtly taints Even then when we sit idly in the sun. Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus: I'll send the fool to Ajax and desire him T' invite the Trojan lords after the combat To see us here unarmed. I have a woman's longing, An appetite that I am sick withal, To see great Hector in his weeds of peace; To talk with him and to behold his visage, Even to my full of view. A labour sav'd! A wonder! What? Ajax goes up and down the field, asking for himself. How so?
He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so prophetically proud of an heroical cudgelling that he raves in saying nothing. How can that be? Why, he stalks up and down like a peacock, a stride and a stand; ruminates like a hostess that hath no arithmetic but her brain to set down her reckoning; bites his lip with a politic regard, as who should say 'There were wit in this head, an 'twould out;' and so there is, but it lies as coldly in him as fire in a flint, which will not show without knocking. The man's undone for ever; for if Hector break not his neck i' the combat, he'll break't himself in vainglory. He knows not me: I said, 'Good morrow, Ajax;' and he replies, 'Thanks, Agamemnon.' What think you of this man that takes me for the general? He's grown a very land-fish, languageless, a monster. A plague of opinion! a man may wear it on both sides, like a leather jerkin. Thou must be my ambassador to him, Thersites. Who, I? why, he'll answer nobody; he professes not answering; speaking is for beggars; he wears his tongue in his arms. I will put on his presence: let Patroclus make demands to me, you shall see the pageant of Ajax.
To him, Patroclus: tell him, I humbly desire the valiant Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector to come unarmed to my tent; and to procure safe-conduct for his person of the magnanimous and most illustrious, six-or-seven-times-honoured captain-general of the Grecian army, Agamemnon, et cætera. Do this. Jove bless great Ajax! Hum! I come from the worthy Achilles, Ha! Who most humbly desires you to invite Hector to his tent, Hum! And to procure safe-conduct from Agamemnon. Agamemnon! Ay, my lord. Ha! What say you to't? God be wi' you, with all my heart. Your answer, sir. If to-morrow be a fair day, by eleven o'clock it will go one way or other; howsoever, he shall pay for me ere he has me. Your answer, sir. Fare you well, with all my heart. Why, but he is not in this tune, is he? No, but he's out o' tune thus. What music will be in him when Hector has knocked out his brains, I know not; but, I am sure, none, unless the fiddler Apollo get his sinews to make catlings on. Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight. Let me bear another to his horse, for that's the more capable creature. My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirr'd; And I myself see not the bottom of it. Would the fountain of your mind were clear again, that I might water an ass at it!
I had rather be a tick in a sheep than such a valiant ignorance. See, ho! who is that there? It is the Lord Æneas. Is the prince there in person? Had I so good occasion to lie long As you, Prince Paris, nothing but heavenly business Should rob my bed-mate of my company. That's my mind too. Good morrow, Lord Æneas. A valiant Greek, Æneas; take his hand: Witness the process of your speech, wherein You told how Diomed, a whole week by days, Did haunt you in the field. Health to you, valiant sir, During all question of the gentle truce; But when I meet you arm'd, as black defiance As heart can think or courage execute. The one and other Diomed embraces. Our bloods are now in calm, and, so long, health! But when contention and occasion meet, By Jove, I'll play the hunter for thy life With all my force, pursuit, and policy. And thou shalt hunt a lion, that will fly With his face backward. In humane gentleness, Welcome to Troy! now, by Anchises' life, Welcome, indeed! By Venus' hand I swear, No man alive can love in such a sort The thing he means to kill more excellently. We sympathize. Jove, let Æneas live, If to my sword his fate be not the glory, A thousand complete courses of the sun!
But, in mine emulous honour, let him die, With every joint a wound, and that to-morrow! We know each other well. We do; and long to know each other worse. This is the most despiteful gentle greeting, The noblest hateful love, that e'er I heard of. What business, lord, so early? I was sent for to the king; but why, I know not. His purpose meets you: 'twas to bring this Greek To Calchas' house, and there to render him, For the enfreed Antenor, the fair Cressid. Let's have your company; or, if you please, Haste there before us. I constantly do think Or rather, call my thought a certain knowledge My brother Troilus lodges there to-night: Rouse him and give him note of our approach, With the whole quality wherefore: I fear We shall be much unwelcome. That I assure you: Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece Than Cressid borne from Troy. There is no help; The bitter disposition of the time Will have it so. On, lord; we'll follow you. Good morrow, all. And tell me, noble Diomed; faith, tell me true, Even in the soul of sound good-fellowship, Who, in your thoughts, merits fair Helen best Myself or Menelaus?
Both alike: He merits well to have her that doth seek her Not making any scruple of her soilure With such a hell of pain and world of charge, And you as well to keep her that defend her Not palating the taste of her dishonour With such a costly loss of wealth and friends: He, like a puling cuckold, would drink up The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece; You, like a lecher, out of whorish loins Are pleas'd to breed out your inheritors: Both merits pois'd, each weighs nor less nor more; But he as he, the heavier for a whore. You are too bitter to your country-woman. She's bitter to her country. Hear me, Paris: For every false drop in her bawdy veins A Grecian's life hath sunk; for every scruple Of her contaminated carrion weight A Trojan hath been slain. Since she could speak, She hath not given so many good words breath As for her Greeks and Trojans suffer'd death. Fair Diomed, you do as chapmen do, Dispraise the thing that you desire to buy; But we in silence hold this virtue well, We'll not commend what we intend to sell. Here lies our way. Dear, trouble not yourself: the morn is cold. Then, sweet my lord, I'll call mine uncle down: He shall unbolt the gates.
Trouble him not; To bed, to bed: sleep kill those pretty eyes, And give as soft attachment to thy senses As infants' empty of all thought! Good morrow then. I prithee now, to bed. Are you aweary of me? O Cressida! but that the busy day, Wak'd by the lark, hath rous'd the ribald crows, And dreaming night will hide our joys no longer, I would not from thee. Night hath been too brief. Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays As tediously as hell, but flies the grasps of love With wings more momentary-swift than thought. You will catch cold, and curse me. Prithee, tarry: You men will never tarry. O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off, And then you would have tarried. Hark! there's one up. What! are all the doors open here? It is your uncle. A pestilence on him! now will he be mocking: I shall have such a life! How now, how now! how go maiden-heads? Here, you maid! where's my cousin Cressid? Go hang yourself, you naughty mocking uncle! You bring me to do and then you flout me too. To do what? to do what? let her say what: what have I brought you to do? Come, come; beshrew your heart! you'll ne'er be good, Nor suffer others. Ha, ha! Alas, poor wretch! a poor capocchia! hast not slept to-night? would he not, a naughty man, let it sleep? a bugbear take him! Did not I tell you?
'would he were knock'd o' the head! Who's that at door? good uncle, go and see. My lord, come you again into my chamber: You smile, and mock me, as if I meant naughtily. Ha, ha! Come, you are deceiv'd, I think of no such thing. How earnestly they knock! Pray you, come in: I would not for half Troy have you seen here. Who's there? what's the matter? will you beat down the door? How now! what's the matter? Good morrow, lord, good morrow. Who's there? my Lord Æneas! By my troth, I knew you not: what news with you so early? Is not Prince Troilus here? Here! what should he do here? Come, he is here, my lord: do not deny him: it doth import him much to speak with me. Is he here, say you? 'tis more than I know, I'll be sworn: for my own part, I came in late. What should he do here? Who! nay, then: come, come, you'll do him wrong ere you're 'ware. You'll be so true to him, to be false to him. Do not you know of him, but yet go fetch him hither; go. How now! what's the matter?
My lord, I scarce have leisure to salute you, My matter is so rash: there is at hand Paris your brother, and Deiphobus, The Grecian Diomed, and our Antenor Deliver'd to us; and for him forthwith, Ere the first sacrifice, within this hour, We must give up to Diomedes' hand The Lady Cressida. Is it so concluded? By Priam, and the general state of Troy: They are at hand and ready to effect it. How my achievements mock me! I will go meet them: and, my Lord Æneas, We met by chance; you did not find me here. Good, good, my lord; the secrets of nature Have not more gift in taciturnity. Is't possible? no sooner got but lost? The devil take Antenor! the young prince will go mad: a plague upon Antenor! I would they had broke's neck! How now! What is the matter? Who was here? Ah! ah! Why sigh you so profoundly? where's my lord? gone! Tell me, sweet uncle, what's the matter? Would I were as deep under the earth as I am above! O the gods! what's the matter? Prithee, get thee in. Would thou hadst ne'er been born! I knew thou wouldst be his death. O poor gentleman! A plague upon Antenor! Good uncle, I beseech you, on my knees I beseech you, what's the matter? Thou must be gone, wench, thou must be gone; thou art changed for Antenor.
Thou must to thy father, and be gone from Troilus: 'twill be his death; 'twill be his bane; he cannot bear it. O you immortal gods! I will not go. Thou must. I will not, uncle: I have forgot my father; I know no touch of consanguinity; No kin, no love, no blood, no soul so near me As the sweet Troilus. O you gods divine! Make Cressid's name the very crown of falsehood If ever she leave Troilus! Time, force, and death, Do to this body what extremes you can; But the strong base and building of my love Is as the very centre of the earth, Drawing all things to it. I'll go in and weep, Do, do. Tear my bright hair, and scratch my praised cheeks, Crack my clear voice with sobs, and break my heart With sounding Troilus. I will not go from Troy. It is great morning, and the hour prefix'd Of her delivery to this valiant Greek Comes fast upon. Good my brother Troilus, Tell you the lady what she is to do, And haste her to the purpose. Walk into her house; I'll bring her to the Grecian presently: And to his hand when I deliver her, Think it an altar, and thy brother Troilus A priest, there offering to it his own heart. I know what 'tis to love; And would, as I shall pity, I could help! Please you walk in, my lords. Be moderate, be moderate.
Why tell you me of moderation? The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste, And violenteth in a sense as strong As that which causeth it: how can I moderate it? If I could temporize with my affection, Or brew it to a weak and colder palate, The like allayment could I give my grief: My love admits no qualifying dross; No more my grief, in such a precious loss. Here, here, here he comes. Ah! sweet ducks. O Troilus! Troilus! What a pair of spectacles is here! Let me embrace too. 'O heart,' as the goodly saying is, O heart, heavy heart, Why sigh'st thou without breaking? when he answers again, Because thou canst not ease thy smart By friendship nor by speaking. There was never a truer rime. Let us cast away nothing, for we may live to have need of such a verse: we see it, we see it. How now, lambs! Cressid, I love thee in so strain'd a purity, That the bless'd gods, as angry with my fancy, More bright in zeal than the devotion which Cold lips blow to their deities, take thee from me. Have the gods envy? Ay, ay, ay, ay; 'tis too plain a case. And is it true that I must go from Troy? A hateful truth. What! and from Troilus too? From Troy and Troilus. Is it possible?
And suddenly; where injury of chance Puts back leave-taking, justles roughly by All time of pause, rudely beguiles our lips Of all rejoindure, forcibly prevents Our lock'd embrasures, strangles our dear vows Even in the birth of our own labouring breath. We two, that with so many thousand sighs Did buy each other, must poorly sell ourselves With the rude brevity and discharge of one. Injurious time now with a robber's haste Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how: As many farewells as be stars in heaven, With distinct breath and consign'd kisses to them, He fumbles up into a loose adieu, And scants us with a single famish'd kiss, Distasted with the salt of broken tears. My lord, is the lady ready? Hark! you are call'd: some say the Genius so Cries 'Come!' to him that instantly must die. Bid them have patience; she shall come anon. Where are my tears? rain, to lay this wind, or my heart will be blown up by the root! I must then to the Grecians? No remedy. A woeful Cressid 'mongst the merry Greeks! When shall we see again? Hear me, my love. Be thou but true of heart, I true! how now! what wicked deem is this?
Nay, we must use expostulation kindly, For it is parting from us: I speak not 'be thou true,' as fearing thee, For I will throw my glove to Death himself, That there's no maculation in thy heart; But, 'be thou true,' say I, to fashion in My sequent protestation; be thou true, And I will see thee. O! you shall be expos'd, my lord, to dangers As infinite as imminent; but I'll be true. And I'll grow friend with danger. Wear this sleeve. And you this glove. When shall I see you? I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels, To give thee nightly visitation. But yet, be true. O heavens! 'be true' again! Hear why I speak it, love: The Grecian youths are full of quality; They're loving, well compos'd, with gifts of nature, Flowing and swelling o'er with arts and exercise: How novelty may move, and parts with person, Alas! a kind of godly jealousy, Which, I beseech you, call a virtuous sin, Makes me afear'd. O heavens! you love me not. Die I a villain, then!
In this I do not call your faith in question So mainly as my merit: I cannot sing, Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk, Nor play at subtle games; fair virtues all, To which the Grecians are most prompt and pregnant: But I can tell that in each grace of these There lurks a still and dumb-discoursive devil That tempts most cunningly. But be not tempted. Do you think I will? No. But something may be done that we will not: And sometimes we are devils to ourselves When we will tempt the frailty of our powers, Presuming on their changeful potency. Nay, good my lord, Come, kiss; and let us part. Brother Troilus! Good brother, come you hither; And bring Æneas and the Grecian with you. My lord, will you be true? Who, I? alas, it is my vice, my fault: While others fish with craft for great opinion, I with great truth catch mere simplicity; Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns, With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare. Fear not my truth; the moral of my wit Is plain, and true; there's all the reach of it. Welcome, Sir Diomed! Here is the lady Which for Antenor we deliver you: At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand, And by the way possess thee what she is.
Entreat her fair; and, by my soul, fair Greek, If e'er thou stand at mercy of my sword, Name Cressid, and thy life shall be as safe As Priam is in Ilion. Fair Lady Cressid, So please you, save the thanks this prince expects: The lustre in your eye, heaven in your cheek, Pleads your fair usage; and to Diomed You shall be mistress, and command him wholly. Grecian, thou dost not use me courteously, To shame the zeal of my petition to thee In praising her: I tell thee, lord of Greece, She is as far high-soaring o'er thy praises As thou unworthy to be call'd her servant. I charge thee use her well, even for my charge; For, by the dreadful Pluto, if thou dost not, Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard, I'll cut thy throat. O! be not mov'd, Prince Troilus: Let me be privileg'd by my place and message To be a speaker free; when I am hence, I'll answer to my lust; and know you, lord, I'll nothing do on charge: to her own worth She shall be priz'd; but that you say 'be't so,' I'll speak it in my spirit and honour, 'no.' Come, to the port. I'll tell thee, Diomed, This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head. Lady, give me your hand, and, as you walk, To our own selves bend we our needful talk. Hark! Hector's trumpet. How have we spent this morning!
The prince must think me tardy and remiss, That swore to ride before him to the field. 'Tis Troilus' fault. Come, come, to field with him. Let us make ready straight. Yea, with a bridegroom's fresh alacrity, Let us address to tend on Hector's heels: The glory of our Troy doth this day lie On his fair worth and single chivalry. Here art thou in appointment fresh and fair, Anticipating time with starting courage. Give with thy trumpet a loud note to Troy, Thou dreadful Ajax; that the appalled air May pierce the head of the great combatant And hale him hither. Thou, trumpet, there's my purse. Now crack thy lungs, and split thy brazen pipe: Blow, villain, till thy sphered bias cheek Outswell the colic of puff'd Aquilon. Come, stretch thy chest, and let thy eyes spout blood; Thou blow'st for Hector. No trumpet answers. 'Tis but early days. Is not yond Diomed with Calchas' daughter? 'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gait; He rises on the toe: that spirit of his In aspiration lifts him from the earth. Is this the Lady Cressid? Even she. Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady. Our general doth salute you with a kiss. Yet is the kindness but particular; 'Twere better she were kiss'd in general. And very courtly counsel: I'll begin. So much for Nestor. I'll take that winter from your lips, fair lady: Achilles bids you welcome. I had good argument for kissing once.
But that's no argument for kissing now; For thus popp'd Paris in his hardiment, And parted thus you and your argument. O, deadly gall, and theme of all our scorns! For which we lose our heads to gild his horns. The first was Menelaus' kiss; this, mine: Patroclus kisses you. O! this is trim. Paris and I, kiss evermore for him. I'll have my kiss, sir. Lady, by your leave. In kissing, do you render or receive? Both take and give. I'll make my match to live, The kiss you take is better than you give; Therefore no kiss. I'll give you boot; I'll give you three for one. You're an odd man; give even, or give none. An odd man, lady! every man is odd. No, Paris is not; for, you know 'tis true, That you are odd, and he is even with you. You fillip me o' the head. No, I'll be sworn. It were no match, your nail against his horn. May I, sweet lady, beg a kiss of you? You may. I do desire it. Why, beg, then. Why, then, for Venus' sake, give me a kiss, When Helen is a maid again, and his. I am your debtor; claim it when 'tis due. Never's my day, and then a kiss of you. Lady, a word: I'll bring you to your father. A woman of quick sense. Fie, fie upon her!
There's language in her eye, her cheek, her lip, Nay, her foot speaks; her wanton spirits look out At every joint and motive of her body. O! these encounterers, so glib of tongue, That give a coasting welcome ere it comes, And wide unclasp the tables of their thoughts To every tickling reader, set them down For sluttish spoils of opportunity And daughters of the game. The Trojans' trumpet. Yonder comes the troop. Hail, all you state of Greece! what shall be done To him that victory commands? or do you purpose A victor shall be known? will you the knights Shall to the edge of all extremity Pursue each other, or shall be divided By any voice or order of the field? Hector bade ask. Which way would Hector have it? He cares not; he'll obey conditions. 'Tis done like Hector; but securely done, A little proudly, and great deal misprising The knight oppos'd. If not Achilles, sir. What is your name? If not Achilles, nothing. Therefore Achilles; but, whate'er, know this: In the extremity of great and little, Valour and pride excel themselves in Hector; The one almost as infinite as all, The other blank as nothing. Weigh him well, And that which looks like pride is courtesy.
This Ajax is half made of Hector's blood: In love whereof half Hector stays at home; Half heart, half hand, half Hector comes to seek This blended knight, half Trojan, and half Greek. A maiden battle, then? O! I perceive you. Here is Sir Diomed. Go, gentle knight, Stand by our Ajax: as you and Lord Æneas Consent upon the order of their fight, So be it; either to the uttermost, Or else a breath: the combatants being kin Half stints their strife before their strokes begin. They are oppos'd already. What Trojan is that same that looks so heavy? The youngest son of Priam, a true knight: Not yet mature, yet matchless; firm of word, Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue; Not soon provok'd, nor being provok'd soon calm'd: His heart and hand both open and both free; For what he has he gives, what thinks he shows; Yet gives he not till judgment guide his bounty, Nor dignifies an impure thought with breath. Manly as Hector, but more dangerous; For Hector, in his blaze of wrath, subscribes To tender objects; but he in heat of action Is more vindicative than jealous love. They call him Troilus, and on him erect A second hope, as fairly built as Hector. Thus says Æneas; one that knows the youth Even to his inches, and with private soul Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me. They are in action. Now, Ajax, hold thine own!
Hector, thou sleep'st; awake thee! His blows are well dispos'd: there, Ajax! You must no more. Princes, enough, so please you. I am not warm yet; let us fight again. As Hector pleases. Why, then will I no more: Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son, A cousin-german to great Priam's seed; The obligation of our blood forbids A gory emulation 'twixt us twain. Were thy commixtion Greek and Trojan so That thou couldst say, 'This hand is Grecian all, And this is Trojan; the sinews of this leg All Greek, and this all Troy; my mother's blood Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister Bounds in my father's,' by Jove multipotent, Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member Wherein my sword had not impressure made Of our rank feud. But the just gods gainsay That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother, My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword Be drain'd! Let me embrace thee, Ajax; By him that thunders, thou hast lusty arms; Hector would have them fall upon him thus: Cousin, all honour to thee! I thank thee, Hector: Thou art too gentle and too free a man: I came to kill thee, cousin, and bear hence A great addition earned in thy death. Not Neoptolemus so mirable, On whose bright crest Fame with her loud'st byes Cries, 'This is he!' could promise to himself A thought of added honour torn from Hector.
There is expectance here from both the sides, What further you will do. We'll answer it; The issue is embracement: Ajax, farewell. If I might in entreaties find success, As seld I have the chance, I would desire My famous cousin to our Grecian tents. 'Tis Agamemnon's wish, and great Achilles Doth long to see unarm'd the valiant Hector. Æneas, call my brother Troilus to me, And signify this loving interview To the expecters of our Trojan part; Desire them home. Give me thy hand, my cousin; I will go eat with thee and see your knights. Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here. The worthiest of them tell me name by name; But for Achilles, mine own searching eyes Shall find him by his large and portly size. Worthy of arms! as welcome as to one That would be rid of such an enemy; But that's no welcome; understand more clear, What's past and what's to come is strew'd with husks And formless ruin of oblivion; But in this extant moment, faith and troth, Strain'd purely from all hollow bias-drawing, Bids thee, with most divine integrity, From heart of very heart, great Hector, welcome. I thank thee, most imperious Agamemnon. My well-fam'd Lord of Troy, no less to you. Let me confirm my princely brother's greeting: You brace of war-like brothers, welcome hither. Whom must we answer? The noble Menelaus. O! you, my lord? by Mars his gauntlet, thanks!
Mock not that I affect the untraded oath; Your quondam wife swears still by Venus' glove: She's well, but bade me not commend her to you. Name her not now, sir; she's a deadly theme. O! pardon; I offend. I have, thou gallant Trojan, seen thee oft, Labouring for destiny, make cruel way Through ranks of Greekish youth: and I have seen thee, As hot as Perseus, spur thy Phrygian steed, Despising many forfeits and subduements, When thou hast hung thy advanc'd sword i' th' air, Not letting it decline on the declin'd; That I have said to some my standers-by, 'Lo! Jupiter is yonder, dealing life!' And I have seen thee pause and take thy breath, When that a ring of Greeks have hemm'd thee in, Like an Olympian wrestling: this have I seen; But this thy countenance, still lock'd in steel, I never saw till now. I knew thy grandsire, And once fought with him: he was a soldier good; But, by great Mars, the captain of us all, Never like thee. Let an old man embrace thee; And, worthy warrior, welcome to our tents. 'Tis the old Nestor. Let me embrace thee, good old chronicle, That hast so long walk'd hand in hand with time: Most reverend Nestor, I am glad to clasp thee. I would my arms could match thee in contention, As they contend with thee in courtesy. I would they could. Ha!
By this white beard, I'd fight with thee to-morrow. Well, welcome, welcome! I have seen the time. I wonder now how yonder city stands, When we have here her base and pillar by us. I know your favour, Lord Ulysses, well. Ah! sir, there's many a Greek and Trojan dead, Since first I saw yourself and Diomed In Ilion, on your Greekish embassy. Sir, I foretold you then what would ensue: My prophecy is but half his journey yet; For yonder walls, that pertly front your town, Yond towers, whose wanton tops do buss the clouds, Must kiss their own feet. I must not believe you: There they stand yet, and modestly I think, The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost A drop of Grecian blood: the end crowns all, And that old common arbitrator, Time, Will one day end it. So to him we leave it. Most gentle and most valiant Hector, welcome. After the general, I beseech you next To feast with me and see me at my tent. I shall forestall thee, Lord Ulysses, thou! Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee; I have with exact view perus'd thee, Hector, And quoted joint by joint. Is this Achilles? I am Achilles. Stand fair, I pray thee: let me look on thee. Behold thy fill. Nay, I have done already. Thou art too brief: I will the second time, As I would buy thee, view thee limb by limb. O!
like a book of sport thou'lt read me o'er; But there's more in me than thou understand'st. Why dost thou so oppress me with thine eye? Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body Shall I destroy him? whether there, or there, or there? That I may give the local wound a name, And make distinct the very breach whereout Hector's great spirit flew. Answer me, heavens! It would discredit the bless'd gods, proud man, To answer such a question. Stand again: Think'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly As to prenominate in nice conjecture Where thou wilt hit me dead? I tell thee, yea. Wert thou an oracle to tell me so, I'd not believe thee. Henceforth guard thee well, For I'll not kill thee there, nor there, nor there; But, by the forge that stithied Mars his helm, I'll kill thee every where, yea, o'er and o'er. You wisest Grecians, pardon me this brag; His insolence draws folly from my lips; But I'll endeavour deeds to match these words, Or may I never Do not chafe thee, cousin: And you, Achilles, let these threats alone, Till accident or purpose bring you to't: You may have every day enough of Hector, If you have stomach. The general state, I fear, Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him.
I pray you, let us see you in the field; We have had pelting wars since you refus'd The Grecians' cause. Dost thou entreat me, Hector? To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death; To-night all friends. Thy hand upon that match. First, all you peers of Greece, go to my tent; There in the full convive we afterwards, As Hector's leisure and your bounties shall Concur together, severally entreat him. Beat loud the tabourines, let the trumpets blow, That this great soldier may his welcome know. My Lord Ulysses, tell me, I beseech you, In what place of the field doth Calchas keep? At Menelaus' tent, most princely Troilus: There Diomed doth feast with him to-night; Who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth, But gives all gaze and bent of amorous view On the fair Cressid. Shall I, sweet lord, be bound to thee so much, After we part from Agamemnon's tent, To bring me thither? You shall command me, sir. As gentle tell me, of what honour was This Cressida in Troy? Had she no lover there That wails her absence? O, sir! to such as boasting show their scars A mock is due. Will you walk on, my lord? She was belov'd, she lov'd; she is, and doth: But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth. I'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night, Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow. Patroclus, let us feast him to the height. Here comes Thersites.
How now, thou core of envy! Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news? Why, thou picture of what thou seemest, and idol of idiot-worshippers, here's a letter for thee. From whence, fragment? Why, thou full dish of fool, from Troy. Who keeps the tent now? The surgeon's box, or the patient's wound. Well said, adversity! and what need these tricks? Prithee, be silent, boy: I profit not by thy talk: thou art thought to be Achilles' male varlet. Male varlet, you rogue! what's that? Why, his masculine whore. Now, the rotten diseases of the south, the guts-griping, ruptures, catarrhs, loads o' gravel i' the back, lethargies, cold palsies, raw eyes, dirt-rotten livers, wheezing lungs, bladders full of imposthume, sciaticas, lime-kilns i' the palm, incurable bone-ache, and the rivelled fee-simple of the tetter, take and take again such preposterous discoveries! Why, thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest thou to curse thus? Do I curse thee? Why, no, you ruinous butt, you whoreson indistinguishable cur, no. No! why art thou then exasperate, thou idle immaterial skein of sleave silk, thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye, thou tassel of a prodigal's purse, thou? Ah! how the poor world is pestered with such water-flies, diminutives of nature. Out, gall! Finch egg! My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite From my great purpose in to-morrow's battle.
Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba, A token from her daughter, my fair love, Both taxing me and gaging me to keep An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it: Fall Greeks; fail fame; honour or go or stay; My major vow lies here, this I'll obey. Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent; This night in banqueting must all be spent. Away, Patroclus! With too much blood and too little brain, these two may run mad; but if with too much brain, and too little blood they do, I'll be a curer of madmen. Here's Agamemnon, an honest fellow enough, and one that loves quails, but he has not so much brain as ear-wax: and the goodly transformation of Jupiter there, his brother, the bull, the primitive statue, and oblique memorial of cuckolds; a thrifty shoeing-horn in a chain, hanging at his brother's leg, to what form but that he is should wit larded with malice and malice forced with wit turn him to? To an ass, were nothing: he is both ass and ox; to an ox, were nothing: he is both ox and ass. To be a dog, a mule, a cat, a fitchew, a toad, a lizard, an owl, a puttock, or a herring without a roe, I would not care; but to be Menelaus! I would conspire against destiny.
Ask me not what I would be, if I were not Thersites, for I care not to be the louse of a lazar, so I were not Menelaus. Hey-day! spirits and fires! We go wrong, we go wrong. No, yonder 'tis; There, where we see the lights. I trouble you. No, not a whit. Here comes himself to guide you. Welcome, brave Hector; welcome, princes all. So now, fair prince of Troy, I bid good-night. Ajax commands the guard to tend on you. Thanks and good-night to the Greeks' general. Good-night, my lord. Good-night, sweet Lord Menelaus. Sweet draught: 'sweet,' quoth a'! sweet sink, sweet sewer. Good-night and welcome both at once, to those That go or tarry. Good-night. Old Nestor tarries; and you too, Diomed, Keep Hector company an hour or two. I cannot, lord; I have important business, The tide whereof is now. Good-night, great Hector. Give me your hand. Follow his torch; he goes to Calchas' tent. I'll keep you company. Sweet sir, you honour me. And so, good-night. Come, come, enter my tent. That same Diomed's a false-hearted rogue, a most unjust knave; I will no more trust him when he leers than I will a serpent when he hisses.
He will spend his mouth, and promise, like Brabbler the hound; but when he performs, astronomers foretell it: it is prodigious, there will come some change: the sun borrows of the moon when Diomed keeps his word. I will rather leave to see Hector, than not to dog him: they say he keeps a Trojan drab, and uses the traitor Calchas' tent. I'll after. Nothing but lechery! all incontinent varlets. What, are you up here, ho! speak. Who calls? Diomed. Calchas, I think. Where's your daughter? She comes to you. Stand where the torch may not discover us. Cressid comes forth to him. How now, my charge! Now, my sweet guardian! Hark! a word with you. Yea, so familiar! She will sing any man at first sight. And any man may sing her, if he can take her cliff; she's noted. Will you remember? Remember! yes. Nay, but do, then; And let your mind be coupled with your words. What should she remember? List! Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly. Roguery! Nay, then, I'll tell you what, Foh, foh! come, tell a pin: you are forsworn. In faith, I cannot. What would you have me do? A juggling trick, to be secretly open. What did you swear you would bestow on me? I prithee, do not hold me to mine oath; Bid me do anything but that, sweet Greek. Good-night. Hold, patience! How now, Trojan?
Diomed, No, no, good-night; I'll be your fool no more. Thy better must. Hark! one word in your ear. O plague and madness! You are mov'd, prince; let us depart, I pray you, Lest your displeasure should enlarge itself To wrathful terms. This place is dangerous; The time right deadly. I beseech you, go. Behold, I pray you! Nay, good my lord, go off: You flow to great distraction; come, my lord. I pray thee, stay. You have not patience; come. I pray you, stay. By hell, and all hell's torments, I will not speak a word! And so, good-night. Nay, but you part in anger. Doth that grieve thee? O wither'd truth! Why, how now, lord! By Jove, I will be patient. Guardian! why, Greek! Foh, foh! adieu; you palter. In faith, I do not: come hither once again. You shake, my lord, at something: will you go? You will break out. She strokes his cheek! Come, come. Nay, stay; by Jove, I will not speak a word: There is between my will and all offences A guard of patience: stay a little while. How the devil Luxury, with his fat rump and potato finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry! But will you, then? In faith, I will, la; never trust me else. Give me some token for the surety of it. I'll fetch you one. You have sworn patience.
Fear me not, sweet lord; I will not be myself, nor have cognition Of what I feel: I am all patience. Now the pledge! now, now, now! Here, Diomed, keep this sleeve. O beauty! where is thy faith? My lord, I will be patient; outwardly I will. You look upon that sleeve; behold it well. He lov'd me O false wench! Give't to me again. Whose was't? It is no matter, now I have't again. I will not meet with you to-morrow night. I prithee, Diomed, visit me no more. Now she sharpens: well said, whetstone! I shall have it. What, this? Ay, that. O! all you gods. O pretty, pretty pledge! Thy master now lies thinking in his bed Of thee and me; and sighs, and takes my glove, And gives me norial dainty kisses to it, As I kiss thee. Nay, do not snatch it from me; He that takes that doth take my heart withal. I had your heart before; this follows it. I did swear patience. You shall not have it, Diomed; faith you shall not; I'll give you something else. I will have this. Whose was it? 'Tis no matter. Come, tell me whose it was. 'Twas one's that loved me better than you will. But, now you have it, take it. Whose was it? By all Diana's waiting-women yond, And by herself, I will not tell you whose.
To-morrow will I wear it on my helm, And grieve his spirit that dares not challenge it. Wert thou the devil, and wor'st it on thy horn, It should be challeng'd. Well, well, 'tis done, 'tis past: and yet it is not: I will not keep my word. Why then, farewell; Thou never shalt mock Diomed again. You shall not go: one cannot speak a word, But it straight starts you. I do not like this fooling. Nor I, by Pluto: but that that likes not me Pleases me best. What, shall I come? the hour? Ay, come: O Jove! Do come: I shall be plagu'd. Farewell till then. Good-night: I prithee, come. Troilus, farewell! one eye yet looks on thee, But with my heart the other eye doth see. Ah! poor our sex; this fault in us I find, The error of our eye directs our mind. What error leads must err. O! then conclude Minds sway'd by eyes are full of turpitude. A proof of strength she could not publish more, Unless she said, 'My mind is now turn'd whore.' All's done, my lord. It is. Why stay we, then? To make a recordation to my soul Of every syllable that here was spoke. But if I tell how these two did co-act, Shall I not lie in publishing a truth?
Sith yet there is a credence in my heart, An esperance so obstinately strong, That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears, As if those organs had deceptions functions, Created only to calumniate. Was Cressid here? I cannot conjure, Trojan. She was not, sure. Most sure she was. Why, my negation hath no taste of madness. Nor mine, my lord: Cressid was here but now. Let it not be believ'd for womanhood! Think we had mothers; do not give advantage To stubborn critics, apt, without a theme, For depravation, to square the general sex By Cressid's rule: rather think this not Cressid. What hath she done, prince, that can soil our mothers? Nothing at all, unless that this were she. Will he swagger himself out on's own eyes? This she? no, this is Diomed's Cressida. If beauty have a soul, this is not she; If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimony, If sanctimony be the gods' delight, If there be rule in unity itself, This is not she. O madness of discourse, That cause sets up with and against itself; Bi-fold authority! where reason can revolt Without perdition, and loss assume all reason Without revolt: this is, and is not, Cressid.
Within my soul there doth conduce a fight Of this strange nature that a thing inseparate Divides more wider than the sky and earth; And yet the spacious breadth of this division Admits no orifice for a point as subtle As Ariachne's broken woof to enter. Instance, O instance! strong as Pluto's gates; Cressid is mine, tied with the bonds of heaven: Instance, O instance! strong as heaven itself; The bonds of heaven are slipp'd, dissolv'd, and loos'd; And with another knot, five-finger-tied, The fractions of her faith, orts of her love, The fragments, scraps, the bits, and greasy reliques Of her o'er-eaten faith, are bound to Diomed. May worthy Troilus be half attach'd With that which here his passion doth express? Ay, Greek; and that shall be divulged well In characters as red as Mars his heart Inflam'd with Venus: never did young man fancy With so eternal and so fix'd a soul. Hark, Greek: as much as I do Cressid love, So much by weight hate I her Diomed; That sleeve is mine that he'll bear on his helm; Were it a casque compos'd by Vulcan's skill, My sword should bite it. Not the dreadful spout Which shipmen do the hurricano call, Constring'd in mass by the almighty sun, Shall dizzy with more clamour Neptune's ear In his descent than shall my prompted sword Falling on Diomed. He'll tickle it for his concupy. O Cressid! O false Cressid! false, false, false!
Let all untruths stand by thy stained name, And they'll seem glorious. O! contain yourself; Your passion draws ears hither. I have been seeking you this hour, my lord. Hector, by this, is arming him in Troy: Ajax, your guard, stays to conduct you home. Have with you, prince. My courteous lord, adieu. Farewell, revolted fair! and Diomed, Stand fast, and wear a castle on thy head! I'll bring you to the gates. Accept distracted thanks. Would I could meet that rogue Diomed! I would croak like a raven; I would bode, I would bode. Patroclus would give me any thing for the intelligence of this whore: the parrot will not do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab. Lechery, lechery; still, wars and lechery: nothing else holds fashion. A burning devil take them! When was my lord so much ungently temper'd, To stop his ears against admonishment? Unarm, unarm, and do not fight to-day. You train me to offend you; get you in: By all the everlasting gods, I'll go. My dreams will, sure, prove ominous to the day. No more, I say. Where is my brother Hector? Here, sister; arm'd, and bloody in intent. Consort with me in loud and dear petition; Pursue we him on knees; for I have dream'd Of bloody turbulence, and this whole night Hath nothing been but shapes and forms of slaughter. O! 'tis true. Ho! bid my trumpet sound.
No notes of sally, for the heavens, sweet brother. Be gone, I say: the gods have heard me swear. The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows: They are polluted offerings, more abhorr'd Than spotted livers in the sacrifice. O! be persuaded: do not count it holy To hurt by being just: it is as lawful, For we would give much, to use violent thefts, And rob in the behalf of charity. It is the purpose that makes strong the vow; But vows to every purpose must not hold. Unarm, sweet Hector. Hold you still, I say; Mine honour keeps the weather of my fate: Life every man holds dear; but the dear man Holds honour far more precious-dear than life. How now, young man! mean'st thou to fight to-day? Cassandra, call my father to persuade. No, faith, young Troilus; doff thy harness, youth; I am to-day i' the vein of chivalry: Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong, And tempt not yet the brushes of the war. Unarm thee, go, and doubt thou not, brave boy, I'll stand to-day for thee and me and Troy. Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you, Which better fits a lion than a man. What vice is that, good Troilus? chide me for it. When many times the captive Grecian falls, Even in the fan and wind of your fair sword, You bid them rise, and live. O! 'tis fair play.
Fool's play, by heaven, Hector. How now! how now! For the love of all the gods, Let's leave the hermit pity with our mothers, And when we have our armours buckled on, The venom'd vengeance ride upon our swords, Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth. Fie, savage, fie! Hector, then 'tis wars. Troilus, I would not have you fight to-day. Who should withhold me? Not fate, obedience, nor the hand of Mars Beckoning with fiery truncheon my retire; Not Priamus and Hecuba on knees, Their eyes o'ergalled with recourse of tears; Nor you, my brother, with your true sword drawn, Oppos'd to hinder me, should stop my way, But by my ruin. Lay hold upon him, Priam, hold him fast: He is thy crutch; now if thou lose thy stay, Thou on him leaning, and all Troy on thee, Fall all together. Come, Hector, come; go back: Thy wife hath dream'd; thy mother hath had visions; Cassandra doth foresee; and I myself Am like a prophet suddenly enrapt, To tell thee that this day is ominous: Therefore, come back. Æneas is a-field; And I do stand engag'd to many Greeks, Even in the faith of valour, to appear This morning to them. Ay, but thou shalt not go. I must not break my faith.
You know me dutiful; therefore, dear sir, Let me not shame respect, but give me leave To take that course by your consent and voice, Which you do here forbid me, royal Priam. O Priam! yield not to him. Do not, dear father. Andromache, I am offended with you: Upon the love you bear me, get you in. This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl Makes all these bodements. O farewell! dear Hector. Look! how thou diest; look! how thy eye turns pale; Look! how thy wounds do bleed at many vents: Hark! how Troy roars: how Hecuba cries out! How poor Andromache shrills her dolours forth! Behold, distraction, frenzy, and amazement, Like witless anticks, one another meet, And all cry Hector! Hector's dead! O Hector! Away! Away! Farewell. Yet, soft! Hector, I take my leave: Thou dost thyself and all our Troy deceive. You are amaz'd, my liege, at her exclaim. Go in and cheer the town: we'll forth and fight; Do deeds worth praise and tell you them at night. Farewell: the gods with safety stand about thee! They are at it, hark! Proud Diomed, believe, I come to lose my arm, or win my sleeve. Do you hear, my lord? do you hear? What now? Here's a letter come from yond poor girl. Let me read.
A whoreson tisick, a whoreson rascally tisick so troubles me, and the foolish fortune of this girl; and what one thing, what another, that I shall leave you one o' these days: and I have a rheum in mine eyes too, and such an ache in my bones that, unless a man were cursed, I cannot tell what to think on't. What says she there? Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart; The effect doth operate another way. Go, wind to wind, there turn and change together. My love with words and errors still she feeds, But edifies another with her deeds. Now they are clapper-clawing one another; I'll go look on. That dissembling abominable varlet, Diomed, has got that same scurvy doting foolish young knave's sleeve of Troy there in his helm: I would fain see them meet; that that same young Trojan ass, that loves the whore there, might send that Greekish whoremasterly villain, with the sleeve, back to the dissembling luxurious drab, on a sleeveless errand.
O' the other side, the policy of those crafty swearing rascals, that stale old mouse-eaten dry cheese, Nestor, and that same dog-fox, Ulysses, is not proved worth a blackberry: they set me up, in policy, that mongrel cur, Ajax, against that dog of as bad a kind, Achilles; and now is the cur Ajax prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm to-day; whereupon the Grecians begin to proclaim barbarism, and policy grows into an ill opinion. Soft! here comes sleeve, and t' other. Fly not; for shouldst thou take the river Styx, I would swim after. Thou dost miscall retire: I do not fly; but advantageous care Withdrew me from the odds of multitude. Have at thee! Hold thy whore, Grecian! now for thy whore, Trojan! now the sleeve, now the sleeve! What art thou, Greek? art thou for Hector's match? Art thou of blood and honour? No, no, I am a rascal; a scurvy railing knave; a very filthy rogue. I do believe thee: live. God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me; but a plague break thy neck for frighting me! What's become of the wenching rogues? I think they have swallowed one another: I would laugh at that miracle; yet, in a sort, lechery eats itself. I'll seek them.
Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus' horse; Present the fair steed to my Lady Cressid: Fellow, commend my service to her beauty: Tell her I have chastis'd the amorous Trojan, And am her knight by proof. I go, my lord. Renew, renew! The fierce Polydamas Hath beat down Menon; bastard Margarelon Hath Doreus prisoner, And stands colossus-wise, waving his beam, Upon the pashed corses of the kings Epistrophus and Cedius; Polixenes is slain; Amphimachus, and Thoas, deadly hurt; Patroclus ta'en, or slain; and Palamedes Sore hurt and bruis'd; the dreadful Sagittary Appals our numbers: haste we, Diomed, To reinforcement, or we perish all. Go, bear Patroclus' body to Achilles; And bid the snail-pac'd Ajax arm for shame. There is a thousand Hectors in the field: Now here he fights on Galathe his horse, And there lacks work; anon he's there afoot, And there they fly or die, like scaled sculls Before the belching whale; then is he yonder, And there the strawy Greeks, ripe for his edge, Fall down before him, like the mower's swath: Here, there, and everywhere, he leaves and takes, Dexterity so obeying appetite That what he will he does; and does so much That proof is called impossibility. O!
courage, courage, princes; great Achilles Is arming, weeping, cursing, vowing vengeance: Patroclus' wounds have rous'd his drowsy blood, Together with his mangled Myrmidons, That noseless, handless, hack'd and chipp'd, come to him, Crying on Hector. Ajax hath lost a friend, And foams at mouth, and he is arm'd and at it, Roaring for Troilus, who hath done to-day Mad and fantastic execution, Engaging and redeeming of himself With such a careless force and forceless care As if that luck, in very spite of cunning, Bade him win all. Troilus! thou coward Troilus! Ay, there, there. So, so, we draw together. Where is this Hector? Come, come, thou boy-queller, show thy face; Know what it is to meet Achilles angry: Hector! where's Hector? I will none but Hector. Troilus, thou coward Troilus, show thy head! Troilus, I say! where's Troilus? What wouldst thou? I would correct him. Were I the general, thou shouldst have my office Ere that correction. Troilus, I say! what, Troilus! O traitor Diomed! Turn thy false face, thou traitor! And pay thy life thou ow'st me for my horse! Ha! art thou there? I'll fight with him alone: stand, Diomed. He is my prize; I will not look upon. Come, both you cogging Greeks; have at you both! Yea, Troilus? O, well fought, my youngest brother! Now I do see thee. Ha! have at thee, Hector! Pause, if thou wilt. I do disdain thy courtesy, proud Trojan.
Be happy that my arms are out of use: My rest and negligence befriend thee now, But thou anon shalt hear of me again; Till when, go seek thy fortune. Fare thee well: I would have been much more a fresher man, Had I expected thee. How now, my brother! Ajax hath ta'en Æneas: shall it be? No, by the flame of yonder glorious heaven, He shall not carry him: I'll be ta'en too, Or bring him off. Fate, hear me what I say! I reck not though I end my life to-day. Stand, stand, thou Greek; thou art a goodly mark. No? wilt thou not? I like thy armour well; I'll frush it, and unlock the rivets all, But I'll be master of it. Wilt thou not, beast, abide? Why then, fly on, I'll hunt thee for thy hide. Come here about me, you my Myrmidons; Mark what I say. Attend me where I wheel: Strike not a stroke, but keep yourselves in breath: And when I have the bloody Hector found, Empale him with your weapons round about; In fellest manner execute your aims. Follow me, sirs, and my proceedings eye: It is decreed, Hector the great must die. The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now, bull! now, dog! 'Loo, Paris, 'loo! now, my double-henned sparrow! 'loo, Paris, 'loo! The bull has the game: 'ware horns, ho! Turn, slave, and fight. What art thou? A bastard son of Priam's.
I am a bastard too; I love bastards: I am a bastard begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind, bastard in valour, in every thing illegitimate. One bear will not bite another, and wherefore should one bastard? Take heed, the quarrel's most ominous to us: if the son of a whore fight for a whore, he tempts judgment. Farewell, bastard. The devil take thee, coward! Most putrefied core, so fair without, Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life. Now is my day's work done; I'll take good breath: Rest, sword; thou hast thy fill of blood and death. Look, Hector, how the sun begins to set; How ugly night comes breathing at his heels: Even with the vail and darking of the sun, To close the day up, Hector's life is done. I am unarm'd; forego this vantage, Greek. Strike, fellows, strike! this is the man I seek. So, Ilion, fall thou next! now, Troy, sink down! Here lies thy heart, thy sinews, and thy bone. On! Myrmidons, and cry you all amain, 'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain.' Hark! a retreat upon our Grecian part. The Trojan trumpets sound the like, my lord. The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth, And, stickler-like, the armies separates. My half-supp'd sword, that frankly would have fed, Pleas'd with this dainty bait, thus goes to bed. Come, tie his body to my horse's tail; Along the field I will the Trojan trail. Hark! hark! what shout is that? Peace, drums!
Achilles! Achilles! Hector's slain! Achilles! The bruit is, Hector's slain, and by Achilles. If it be so, yet bragless let it be; Great Hector was a man as good as he. March patiently along. Let one be sent To pray Achilles see us at our tent. If in his death the gods have us befriended, Great Troy is ours, and our sharp wars are ended. Stand, ho! yet are we masters of the field. Never go home; here starve we out the night. Hector is slain. Hector! the gods forbid! He's dead; and at the murderer's horse's tail, In beastly sort, dragg'd through the shameful field. Frown on, you heavens, effect your rage with speed! Sit, gods, upon your thrones, and smile at Troy! I say, at once let your brief plagues be mercy, And linger not our sure destructions on! My lord, you do discomfort all the host. You understand me not that tell me so. I do not speak of flight, of fear, of death; But dare all imminence that gods and men Address their dangers in. Hector is gone: Who shall tell Priam so, or Hecuba?
Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd Go in to Troy, and say there Hector's dead: There is a word will Priam turn to stone, Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives, Cold statues of the youth; and, in a word, Scare Troy out of itself. But march away: Hector is dead; there is no more to say. Stay yet. You vile abominable tents, Thus proudly pight upon our Phrygian plains, Let Titan rise as early as he dare, I'll through and through you! And, thou great-siz'd coward, No space of earth shall sunder our two hates: I'll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still, That mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy's thoughts. Strike a free march to Troy! with comfort go: Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe. But hear you, hear you! Hence, broker lackey! ignomy and shame Pursue thy life, and live aye with thy name! A goodly medicine for my aching bones! O world! world! world! thus is the poor agent despised. O traitors and bawds, how earnestly are you set a-work, and how ill requited! why should our endeavour be so loved, and the performance so loathed? what verse for it? what instance for it? Let me see! Full merrily the humble-bee doth sing, Till he hath lost his honey and his sting; And being once subdu'd in armed tail, Sweet honey and sweet notes together fail. Good traders in the flesh, set this in your painted cloths.
As many as be here of pander's hall, Your eyes, half out, weep out at Pandar's fall; Or if you cannot weep, yet give some groans, Though not for me, yet for your aching bones. Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade, Some two months hence my will shall here be made. It should be now, but that my fear is this, Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss. Till then I'll sweat, and seek about for eases; And at that time bequeath you my diseases
Sir Hugh, persuade me not; I will make a Star-chamber matter of it; if he were twenty Sir John Falstaffs he shall not abuse Robert Shallow, esquire. In the county of Gloster, justice of peace, and coram. Ay, cousin Slender, and cust-alorum. Ay, and rato-lorum too; and a gentleman born, Master Parson; who writes himself armigero, in any bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation, armigero. Ay, that I do; and have done any time these three hundred years. All his successors gone before him hath done't; and all his ancestors that come after him may: they may give the dozen white luces in their coat. It is an old coat. The dozen white louses do become an old coat well; it agrees well, passant; it is a familiar beast to man, and signifies love. The luce is the fresh fish; the salt fish is an old coat. I may quarter, coz? You may, by marrying. It is marring indeed, if he quarter it. Not a whit. Yes, py'r lady; if he has a quarter of your coat, there is but three skirts for yourself, in my simple conjectures: but that is all one. If Sir John Falstaff have committed disparagements unto you, I am of the Church, and will be glad to do my benevolence to make atonements and compremises between you. The Council shall hear it; it is a riot. It is not meet the Council hear a riot; there is no fear of Got in a riot.
The Council, look you, shall desire to hear the fear of Got, and not to hear a riot; take your vizaments in that. Ha! o' my life, if I were young again, the sword should end it. It is petter that friends is the sword, and end it; and there is also another device in my prain, which, peradventure, prings goot discretions with it. There is Anne Page, which is daughter to Master Thomas Page, which is pretty virginity. Mistress Anne Page? She has brown hair, and speaks small like a woman. It is that fery person for all the orld, as just as you will desire; and seven hundred pounds of moneys, and gold and silver, is her grandsire, upon his death's-bed, Got deliver to a joyful resurrections! give, when she is able to overtake seventeen years old. It were a goot motion if we leave our pribbles and prabbles, and desire a marriage between Master Abraham and Mistress Anne Page. Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound? Ay, and her father is make her a petter penny. I know the young gentlewoman; she has good gifts. Seven hundred pounds and possibilities is goot gifts. Well, let us see honest Master Page. Is Falstaff there? Shall I tell you a lie? I do despise a har as I do despise one that is false; or as I despise one that is not true.
The knight, Sir John, is there; and, I beseech you, be ruled by your well-willers. I will peat the door for Master Page. What, hoa! Got pless your house here! Who's there? Here is Got's plessing, and your friend. and Justice Shallow; and here young Master Slender, that peradventures shall tell you another tale, if matters grow to your likings. I am glad to see your worships well. I thank you for my venison, Master Shallow. Master Page, I am glad to see you: much good do it your good heart! I wished your venison better; it was ill killed. How doth good Mistress Page? and I thank you always with my heart, la! with my heart. Sir, I thank you. Sir, I thank you; by yea and no, I do. I am glad to see you, good Master Slender. How does your fallow greyhound, sir? I heard say he was outrun on Cotsall. It could not be judged, sir. You'll not confess, you'll not confess. That he will not: 'tis your fault, 'tis your fault. 'Tis a good dog. A cur, sir. Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog; can there be more said? he is good and fair. Is Sir John Falstaff here? Sir, he is within; and I would I could do a good office between you. It is spoke as a Christians ought to speak. He hath wronged me, Master Page. Sir, he doth in some sort confess it.
If it be confessed, it is not redressed: is not that so, Master Page? He hath wronged me; indeed, he hath; at a word, he hath, believe me: Robert Shallow, esquire, saith, he is wronged. Here comes Sir John. Now, Master Shallow, you'll complain of me to the king? Knight, you have beaten my men, killed my deer, and broke open my lodge. But not kissed your keeper's daughter? Tut, a pin! this shall be answered. I will answer it straight: I have done all this. That is now answered. The Council shall know this. 'Twere better for you if it were known in counsel: you'll be laughed at. Pauca verba, Sir John; goot worts. Good worts! good cabbage. Slender, I broke your head: what matter have you against me? Marry, sir, I have matter in my head against you; and against your cony-catching rascals, Bardolph, Nym, and Pistol. They carried me to the tavern, and made me drunk, and afterwards picked my pocket. You Banbury cheese! Ay, it is no matter. How now, Mephistophilus! Ay, it is no matter. Slice, I say! pauca, pauca; slice! that's my humour. Where's Simple, my man? can you tell, cousin? Peace, I pray you.
Now let us understand: there is three umpires in this matter, as I understand; that is Master Page, fidelicet, Master Page; and there is myself, fidelicet, myself; and the three party is, lastly and finally, mine host of the Garter. We three, to hear it and end it between them. Fery goot: I will make a prief of it in my note-book; and we will afterwards ork upon the cause with as great discreetly as we can. Pistol! He hears with ears. The tevil and his tam! what phrase is this, 'He hears with ear?' Why, it is affectations. Pistol, did you pick Master Slender's purse? Ay, by these gloves, did he, or I would I might never come in mine own great chamber again else, of seven groats in mill-sixpences, and two Edward shovel-boards, that cost me two shilling and two pence a-piece of Yead Miller, by these gloves. Is this true, Pistol? No; it is false, if it is a pick-purse. Ha, thou mountain foreigner! Sir John and master mine, I combat challenge of this latten bilbo. Word of denial in thy labras here! Word of denial: froth and scum, thou liest. By these gloves, then, 'twas he. Be avised, sir, and pass good humours. I will say, 'marry trap,' with you, if you run the nuthook's humour on me: that is the very note of it.
By this hat, then, he in the red face had it; for though I cannot remember what I did when you made me drunk, yet I am not altogether an ass. What say you, Scarlet and John? Why, sir, for my part, I say, the gentleman had drunk himself out of his five sentences. It is his 'five senses;' fie, what the ignorance is! And being fap, sir, was, as they say, cashier'd; and so conclusions pass'd the careires. Ay, you spake in Latin then too; but 'tis no matter. I'll ne'er be drunk whilst I live again, but in honest, civil, godly company, for this trick: if I be drunk, I'll be drunk with those that have the fear of God, and not with drunken knaves. So Got udge me, that is a virtuous mind. You hear all these matters denied, gentlemen; you hear it. Nay, daughter, carry the wine in; we'll drink within. O heaven! this is Mistress Anne Page. How now, Mistress Ford! Mistress Ford, by my troth, you are very well met: by your leave, good mistress. Wife, bid these gentlemen welcome. Come, we have a hot venison pasty to dinner: come, gentlemen, I hope we shall drink down all unkindness. I had rather than forty shillings I had my Book of Songs and Sonnets here. How now, Simple! Where have you been? I must wait on myself, must I? You have not the Book of Riddles about you, have you? Book of Riddles!
why, did you not lend it to Alice Shortcake upon All-Hallowmas last, a fortnight afore Michaelmas? Come, coz; come, coz; we stay for you. A word with you, coz; marry, this, coz: there is, as 'twere a tender, a kind of tender, made afar off by Sir Hugh here: do you understand me? Ay, sir, you shall find me reasonable: if it be so, I shall do that that is reason. Nay, but understand me. So I do, sir. Give ear to his motions, Master Slender: I will description the matter to you, if you pe capacity of it. Nay, I will do as my cousin Shallow says. I pray you pardon me; he's a justice of peace in his country, simple though I stand here. But that is not the question; the question is concerning your marriage. Ay, there's the point, sir. Marry, is it, the very point of it; to Mistress Anne Page. Why, if it be so, I will marry her upon any reasonable demands. But can you affection the 'oman? Let us command to know that of your mouth or of your lips; for divers philosophers hold that the lips is parcel of the mouth: therefore, precisely, can you carry your good will to the maid? Cousin Abraham Slender, can you love her? I hope, sir, I will do as it shall become one that would do reason. Nay, Got's lords and his ladies!
you must speak possitable, if you can carry her your desires towards her. That you must. Will you, upon good dowry, marry her? I will do a greater thing than that, upon your request, cousin, in any reason. Nay, conceive me, conceive me, sweet coz: what I do, is to pleasure you, coz. Can you love the maid? I will marry her, sir, at your request; but if there be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may decrease it upon better acquaintance, when we are married and have more occasion to know one another: I hope, upon familiarity will grow more contempt: but if you say, 'Marry her,' I will marry her; that I am freely dissolved, and dissolutely. It is a fery discretion answer; save, the faul is in the ort 'dissolutely:' the ort is, according to our meaning, 'resolutely.' His meaning is goot. Ay, I think my cousin meant well. Ay, or else I would I might be hanged, la! Here comes fair Mistress Anne. Would I were young for your sake, Mistress Anne. The dinner is on the table; my father desires your worships' company. I will wait on him, fair Mistress Anne. Od's plessed will! I will not be absence at the grace. Will't please your worship to come in, sir? No, I thank you, forsooth, heartily; I am very well. The dinner attends you, sir. I am not a-hungry, I thank you forsooth.
Go, sirrah, for all you are my man, go wait upon my cousin Shallow. A justice of peace sometime may be beholding to his friend for a man. I keep but three men and a boy yet, till my mother be dead; but what though? yet I live like a poor gentleman born. I may not go in without your worship: they will not sit till you come. I' faith, I'll eat nothing; I thank you as much as though I did. I pray you, sir, walk in. I had rather walk here, I thank you. I bruised my shin th' other day with playing at sword and dagger with a master of fence; three veneys for a dish of stewed prunes; and, by my troth, I cannot abide the smell of hot meat since. Why do your dogs bark so? be there bears i' the town? I think there are, sir; I heard them talked of. I love the sport well; but I shall as soon quarrel at it as any man in England. You are afraid, if you see the bear loose, are you not? Ay, indeed, sir.
That's meat and drink to me, now: I have seen Sackerson loose twenty times, and have taken him by the chain; but, I warrant you, the women have so cried and shrieked at it, that it passed: but women, indeed, cannot abide 'em; they are very ill-favoured rough things. Come, gentle Master Slender, come; we stay for you. I'll eat nothing, I thank you, sir. By cock and pie, you shall not choose, sir! come, come. Nay, pray you, lead the way. Come on, sir. Mistress Anne, yourself shall go first. Not I, sir; pray you, keep on. Truly, I will not go first: truly, la! I will not do you that wrong. I pray you, sir. I'll rather be unmannerly than troublesome. You do yourself wrong, indeed, la! Go your ways, and ask of Doctor Caius' house, which is the way: and there dwells one Mistress Quickly, which is in the manner of his nurse, or his try nurse, or his cook, or his laundry, his washer, and his wringer. Well, sir. Nay, it is petter yet. Give her this letter; for it is a 'oman that altogether's acquaintance with Mistress Anne Page: and the letter is, to desire and require her to solicit your master's desires to Mistress Anne Page. I pray you, be gone: I will make an end of my dinner; there's pippins and seese to come. Mine host of the Garter! What says my bully-rook? Speak scholarly and wisely.
Truly, mine host, I must turn away some of my followers. Discard, bully Hercules; cashier: let them wag; trot, trot. I sit at ten pounds a week. Thou'rt an emperor, Cæsar, Keisar, and Pheezar. I will entertain Bardolph; he shall draw, he shall tap: said I well, bully Hector? Do so, good mine host. I have spoke; let him follow. Let me see thee forth and lime: I am at a word; follow. Bardolph, follow him. A tapster is a good trade: an old cloak makes a new jerkin; a withered serving-man, a fresh tapster. Go; adieu. It is a life that I have desired. I will thrive. O base Hungarian wight! wilt thou the spigot wield? He was gotten in drink; is not the humour conceited? I am glad I am so acquit of this tinderbox; his thefts were too open; his filching was like an unskilful singer; he kept not time. The good humour is to steal at a minim's rest. 'Convey,' the wise it call. 'Steal!' foh! a fico for the phrase! Well, sirs, I am almost out at heels. Why, then, let kibes ensue. There is no remedy; I must conycatch, I must shift. Young ravens must have food. Which of you know Ford of this town? I ken the wight: he is of substance good. My honest lads, I will tell you what I am about. Two yards, and more. No quips now, Pistol!
Indeed, I am in the waist two yards about; but I am now about no waste; I am about thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's wife: I spy entertainment in her; she discourses, she carves, she gives the leer of invitation: I can construe the action of her familiar style; and the hardest voice of her behaviour, to be Englished rightly, is, 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.' He hath studied her well, and translated her well, out of honesty into English. The anchor is deep: will that humour pass? Now, the report goes she has all the rule of her husband's purse; he hath a legion of angels. As many devils entertain, and 'To her, boy,' say I. The humour rises; it is good: humour me the angels. I have writ me here a letter to her; and here another to Page's wife, who even now gave me good eyes too, examined my parts with most judicious œilliades: sometimes the beam of her view gilded my foot, sometimes my portly belly. Then did the sun on dunghill shine. I thank thee for that humour. O! she did so course o'er my exteriors with such a greedy intention, that the appetite of her eye did seem to scorch me up like a burning-glass. Here's another letter to her: she bears the purse too; she is a region in Guiana, all gold and bounty.
I will be 'cheator to them both, and they shall be exchequers to me: they shall be my East and West Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go bear thou this letter to Mistress Page; and thou this to Mistress Ford. We will thrive, lads, we will thrive. Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become, And by my side wear steel? then, Lucifer take all! I will run no base humour: here, take the humour-letter. I will keep the haviour of reputation. Hold, sirrah, bear you these letters tightly: Sail like my pinnace to these golden shores. Rogues, hence! avaunt! vanish like hailstones, go; Trudge, plod away o'the hoof; seek shelter, pack! Falstaff will learn the humour of this age, French thrift, you rogues: myself and skirted page. Let vultures gripe thy guts! for gourd and fullam holds, And high and low beguile the rich and poor. Tester I'll have in pouch when thou shalt lack, Base Phrygian Turk! I have operations in my head, which be humours of revenge. Wilt thou revenge? By welkin and her star! With wit or steel? With both the humours, I: I will discuss the humour of this love to Page. And I to Ford shall eke unfold How Falstaff, varlet vile, His dove will prove, his gold will hold, And his soft couch defile.
My humour shall not cool: I will incense Page to deal with poison; I will possess him with yellowness, for the revolt of mine is dangerous: that is my true humour. Thou art the Mars of malcontents: I second thee; troop on. What, John Rugby! I pray thee, go to the casement, and see if you can see my master, Master Doctor Caius, coming: if he do, i' faith, and find anybody in the house, here will be an old abusing of God's patience and the king's English. I'll go watch. Go; and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in faith, at the latter end of a sea-coal fire. An honest, willing, kind fellow, as ever servant shall come in house withal; and, I warrant you, no tell-tale, nor no breed-bate: his worst fault is, that he is given to prayer; he is something peevish that way, but nobody but has his fault; but let that pass. Peter Simple you say your name is? Ay, for fault of a better. And Master Slender's your master? Ay, forsooth. Does he not wear a great round beard like a glover's paring-knife? No, forsooth: he hath but a little wheyface, with a little yellow beard a cane-coloured beard. A softly-sprighted man, is he not? Ay, forsooth; but he is as tall a man of his hands as any is between this and his head: he hath fought with a warrener. How say you? O!
I should remember him: does he not hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait? Yes, indeed, does he. Well, heaven send Anne Page no worse fortune! Tell Master Parson Evans I will do what I can for your master: Anne is a good girl, and I wish Out, alas! here comes my master. We shall all be shent. Run in here, good young man; go into this closet. He will not stay long. What, John Rugby! John, what, John, I say! Go, John, go inquire for my master; I doubt he be not well, that he comes not home. 'And down, down, adown-a,' &c. Vat is you sing? I do not like dese toys. Pray you, go and vetch me in my closet une boitine verde; a box, a green-a box: do intend vat I speak? a green-a box. Ay, forsooth; I'll fetch it you. I am glad he went not in himself: if he had found the young man, he would have been horn-mad. Fe, fe, fe, fe! ma foi, il fait fort chaud. Je m'en vais à la cour, la grande affaire. Is it this, sir? Oui; mettez le au mon pocket; dépêchez, quickly. Vere is dat knave Rugby? What, John Rugby! John! Here, sir. You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby: come, take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to de court. 'Tis ready, sir, here in the porch.
By my trot, I tarry too long. Od's me! Qu'ay j'oublié? dere is some simples in my closet, dat I vill not for de varld I shall leave behind. Ay me! he'll find the young man there, and be mad. O diable! diable! vat is in my closet? Villain! larron! Rugby, my rapier! Good master, be content. Verefore shall I be content-a? The young man is an honest man. Vat shall de honest man do in my closet? dere is no honest man dat shall come in my closet. I beseech you, be not so phlegmatic. Hear the truth of it: he came of an errand to me from Parson Hugh. Vell. Ay, forsooth, to desire her to Peace, I pray you. Peace-a your tongue! Speak-a your tale. To desire this honest gentlewoman, your maid, to speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my master in the way of marriage. This is all, indeed, la! but I'll ne'er put my finger in the fire, and need not. Sir Hugh send-a you? Rugby, baillez me some paper: tarry you a little-a while. I am glad he is so quiet: if he had been throughly moved, you should have heard him so loud, and so melancholy.
But, notwithstanding, man, I'll do your master what good I can; and the very yea and the no is, the French doctor, my master, I may call him my master, look you, for I keep his house; and I wash, wring, brew, bake, scour, dress meat and drink, make the beds, and do all myself, 'Tis a great charge to come under one body's hand. Are you avis'd o' that? you shall find it a great charge: and to be up early and down late; but notwithstanding, to tell you in your ear, I would have no words of it, my master himself is in love with Mistress Anne Page: but notwithstanding that, I know Anne's mind, that's neither here nor there. You jack'nape, give-a dis letter to Sir Hugh; by gar, it is a challenge: I vill cut his troat in de Park; and I vill teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest to meddle or make. You may be gone; it is not good you tarry here: by gar, I vill cut all his two stones; by gar, he shall not have a stone to trow at his dog. Alas! he speaks but for his friend. It is no matter-a for dat: do not you tell-a me dat I shall have Anne Page for myself? By gar, I vill kill de Jack priest; and I have appointed mine host of de Jartiere to measure our weapon. By gar, I vill myself have Anne Page.
Sir, the maid loves you, and all shall be well. We must give folks leave to prate: what, the good-jer! Rugby, come to the court vit me. By gar, if I have not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my door. Follow my heels, Rugby. You shall have An fool's-head of your own. No, I know Anne's mind for that: never a woman in Windsor knows more of Anne's mind than I do; nor can do more than I do with her, I thank heaven. Who's within there? ho! Who's there, I trow? Come near the house, I pray you. How now, good woman! how dost thou? The better, that it pleases your good worship to ask. What news? how does pretty Mistress Anne? In truth, sir, and she is pretty, and honest, and gentle; and one that is your friend, I can tell you that by the way; I praise heaven for it. Shall I do any good, thinkest thou? Shall I not lose my suit? Troth, sir, all is in his hands above; but notwithstanding, Master Fenton, I'll be sworn on a book, she loves you. Have not your worship a wart above your eye? Yes, marry have I; what of that? Well, thereby hangs a tale. Good faith, it is such another Nan; but, I detest, an honest maid as ever broke bread: we had an hour's talk of that wart.
I shall never laugh but in that maid's company; but, indeed, she is given too much to allicholy and musing. But for you well, go to. Well, I shall see her to-day. Hold, there's money for thee; let me have thy voice in my behalf: if thou seest her before me, commend me. Will I? i' faith, that we will: and I will tell your worship more of the wart the next time we have confidence; and of other wooers. Well, farewell; I am in great haste now. Farewell to your worship. Truly, an honest gentleman: but Anne loves him not; for I know Anne's mind as well as another does. Out upon't! what have I forgot? What! have I 'scaped love-letters in the holiday-time of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them? Let me see. Ask me no reason why I love you; for though Love use Reason for his physician, he admits him not for his counsellor. You are not young, no more am I; go to then, there's sympathy; you are merry, so am I, ha! ha! then, there's more sympathy, you love sack, and so do I, would you desire better sympathy? Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page, at the least, if the love of a soldier can suffice, that I love thee I will not say, pity me, 'tis not a soldier-like phrase; but I say, love me.
By me, Thine own true knight, By day or night, Or any kind of light, With all his might For thee to fight, What a Herod of Jewry is this! O wicked, wicked world! one that is well-nigh worn to pieces with age, to show himself a young gallant! What an unweighed behaviour hath this Flemish drunkard picked, with the devil's name! out of my conversation, that he dares in this manner assay me? Why, he hath not been thrice in my company! What should I say to him? I was then frugal of my mirth: heaven forgive me! Why, I'll exhibit a bill in the parliament for the putting down of men. How shall I be revenged on him? for revenged I will be, as sure as his guts are made of puddings. Mistress Page! trust me, I was going to your house. And, trust me, I was coming to you. You look very ill. Nay, I'll ne'er believe that: I have to show to the contrary. Faith, but you do, in my mind. Well, I do then; yet, I say I could show you to the contrary. O, Mistress Page! give me some counsel. What's the matter, woman? O woman, if it were not for one trifling respect, I could come to such honour! Hang the trifle, woman; take the honour. What is it? dispense with trifles; what is it?
If I would but go to hell for an eternal moment or so, I could be knighted. What? thou liest. Sir Alice Ford! These knights will hack; and so thou shouldst not alter the article of thy gentry. We burn daylight: here, read, read; perceive how I might be knighted. I shall think the worse of fat men as long as I have an eye to make difference of men's liking: and yet he would not swear; praised women's modesty; and gave such orderly and well-behaved reproof to all uncomeliness, that I would have sworn his disposition would have gone to the truth of his words; but they do no more adhere and keep place together than the Hundredth Psalm to the tune of 'Green Sleeves.' What tempest, I trow, threw this whale, with so many tuns of oil in his belly, ashore at Windsor? How shall I be revenged on him? I think, the best way were to entertain him with hope, till the wicked fire of lust have melted him in his own grease. Did you ever hear the like? Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and Ford differs! To thy great comfort in this mystery of ill opinions, here's the twin brother of thy letter: but let thine inherit first; for, I protest, mine never shall.
I warrant, he hath a thousand of these letters, writ with blank space for different names, sure more, and these are of the second edition. He will print them, out of doubt; for he cares not what he puts into the press, when he would put us two: I had rather be a grantess, and lie under Mount Pelion. Well, I will find you twenty lascivious turtles ere one chaste man. Why, this is the very same; the very hand, the very words. What doth he think of us? Nay, I know not: it makes me almost ready to wrangle with mine own honesty. I'll entertain myself like one that I am not acquainted withal; for, sure, unless he know some strain in me, that I know not myself, he would never have boarded me in this fury. Boarding call you it? I'll be sure to keep him above deck. So will I: if he come under my hatches, I'll never to sea again. Let's be revenged on him: let's appoint him a meeting; give him a show of comfort in his suit, and lead him on with a fine-baited delay, till he hath pawned his horses to mine host of the Garter. Nay, I will consent to act any villany against him, that may not sully the chariness of our honesty. O, that my husband saw this letter! it would give eternal food to his jealousy.
Why, look, where he comes; and my good man too: he's as far from jealousy, as I am from giving him cause; and that, I hope, is an unmeasurable distance. You are the happier woman. Let's consult together against this greasy knight. Come hither. Well, I hope it be not so. Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs: Sir John affects thy wife. Why, sir, my wife is not young. He woos both high and low, both rich and poor, Both young and old, one with another, Ford. He loves the galimaufry: Ford, perpend. Love my wife! With liver burning hot: prevent, or go thou, Like Sir Actæon he, with Ringwood at thy heels. O! odious is the name! What name, sir? The horn, I say. Farewell: Take heed; have open eye, for thieves do foot by night: Take heed, ere summer comes or cuckoo-birds do sing. Away, sir Corporal Nym! Believe it, Page; he speaks sense. I will be patient: I will find out this. And this is true; I like not the humour of lying. He hath wronged me in some humours: I should have borne the humoured letter to her, but I have a sword and it shall bite upon my necessity. He loves your wife; there's the short and the long. My name is Corporal Nym; I speak, and I avouch 'tis true: my name is Nym, and Falstaff loves your wife. Adieu.
I love not the humour of bread and cheese; and there's the humour of it. Adieu. 'The humour of it,' quoth'a! here's a fellow frights humour out of his wits. I will seek out Falstaff. I never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue. If I do find it: well. I will not believe such a Cataian, though the priest o' the town commended him for a true man. 'Twas a good sensible fellow: well. How now, Meg! Whither go you, George? Hark you. How now, sweet Frank! why art thou melancholy? I melancholy! I am not melancholy. Get you home, go. Faith, thou hast some crotchets in thy head now. Will you go, Mistress Page? Have with you. You'll come to dinner, George? Look, who comes yonder: she shall be our messenger to this paltry knight. Trust me, I thought on her: she'll fit it. You are come to see my daughter Anne? Ay, forsooth; and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne? Go in with us, and see: we'd have an hour's talk with you. How now, Master Ford! You heard what this knave told me, did you not? Yes; and you heard what the other told me? Do you think there is truth in them? Hang 'em, slaves!
I do not think the knight would offer it: but these that accuse him in his intent towards our wives, are a yoke of his discarded men; very rogues, now they be out of service. Were they his men? Marry, were they. I like it never the better for that. Does he lie at the Garter? Ay, marry, does he. If he should intend this voyage towards my wife, I would turn her loose to him; and what he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head. I do not misdoubt my wife, but I would be loth to turn them together. A man may be too confident: I would have nothing 'lie on my head:' I cannot be thus satisfied. Look, where my ranting host of the Garter comes. There is either liquor in his pate or money in his purse when he looks so merrily. How now, mine host! How now, bully-rook! thou'rt a gentleman. Cavaliero-justice, I say! I follow, mine host, I follow. Good even and twenty, good Master Page! Master Page, will you go with us? we have sport in hand. Tell him, cavaliero-justice; tell him, bully-rook. Sir, there is a fray to be fought between Sir Hugh the Welsh priest and Caius the French doctor. Good mine host o' the Garter, a word with you. What sayest thou, my bully-rook? Will you go with us to behold it?
My merry host hath had the measuring of their weapons, and, I think, hath appointed them contrary places; for, believe me, I hear the parson is no jester. Hark, I will tell you what our sport shall be. Hast thou no suit against my knight, my guest-cavalier? None, I protest: but I'll give you a pottle of burnt sack to give me recourse to him and tell him my name is Brook, only for a jest. My hand, bully: thou shalt have egress and regress; said I well? and thy name shall be Brook. It is a merry knight. Will you go, mynheers? Have with you, mine host. I have heard, the Frenchman hath good skill in his rapier. Tut, sir! I could have told you more. In these times you stand on distance, your passes, stoccadoes, and I know not what: 'tis the heart, Master Page; 'tis here, 'tis here. I have seen the time with my long sword I would have made you four tall fellows skip like rats. Here, boys, here, here! shall we wag? Have with you. I had rather hear them scold than fight. Though Page be a secure fool, and stands so firmly on his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my opinion so easily. She was in his company at Page's house, and what they made there, I know not. Well, I will look further into't; and I have a disguise to sound Falstaff.
If I find her honest, I lose not my labour; if she be otherwise, 'tis labour well bestowed. I will not lend thee a penny. Why, then the world's mine oyster, Which I with sword will open. I will retort the sum in equipage. Not a penny. I have been content, sir, you should lay my countenance to pawn: I have grated upon my good friends for three reprieves for you and your coach-fellow Nym; or else you had looked through the grate, like a geminy of baboons. I am damned in hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends, you were good soldiers and tall fellows; and when Mistress Bridget lost the handle of her fan, I took't upon mine honour thou hadst it not. Didst thou not share? hadst thou not fifteen pence? Reason, you rogue, reason: thinkest thou, I'll endanger my soul gratis? At a word, hang no more about me; I am no gibbet for you: go: a short knife and a throng! to your manor of Picht-hatch! go. You'll not bear a letter for me, you rogue! you stand upon your honour! Why, thou unconfinable baseness, it is as much as I can do to keep the terms of mine honour precise.
I, I, I, myself sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand and hiding mine honour in my necessity, am fain to shuffle, to hedge and to lurch; and yet you, rogue, will ensconce your rags, your cat-a-mountain looks, your red-lattice phrases, and your bold-beating oaths, under the shelter of your honour! You will not do it, you! I do relent: what wouldst thou more of man? Sir, here's a woman would speak with you. Let her approach. Give your worship good morrow. Good morrow, good wife. Not so, an't please your worship. Good maid, then. I'll be sworn As my mother was, the first hour I was born. I do believe the swearer. What with me? Shall I vouchsafe your worship a word or two? Two thousand, fair woman; and I'll vouchsafe thee the hearing. There is one Mistress Ford, sir, I pray, come a little nearer this ways: I myself dwell with Master Doctor Caius. Well, on: Mistress Ford, you say, Your worship says very true: I pray your worship, come a little nearer this ways. I warrant thee, nobody hears; mine own people, mine own people. Are they so? God bless them, and make them his servants! Well: Mistress Ford; what of her? Why, sir, she's a good creature. Lord, Lord! your worship's a wanton! Well, heaven forgive you, and all of us, I pray!
Mistress Ford; come, Mistress Ford, Marry, this is the short and the long of it. You have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis wonderful: the best courtier of them all, when the court lay at Windsor, could never have brought her to such a canary; yet there has been knights, and lords, and gentlemen, with their coaches, I warrant you, coach after coach, letter after letter, gift after gift; smelling so sweetly all musk, and so rushling, I warrant you, in silk and gold; and in such alligant terms; and in such wine and sugar of the best and the fairest, that would have won any woman's heart; and, I warrant you, they could never get an eye-wink of her. I had myself twenty angels given me this morning; but I defy all angels, in any such sort, as they say, but in the way of honesty: and, I warrant you, they could never get her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of them all; and yet there has been earls, nay, which is more, pensioners; but, I warrant you, all is one with her. But what says she to me? be brief, my good she Mercury. Marry, she hath received your letter; for the which she thanks you a thousand times; and she gives you to notify that her husband will be absence from his house between ten and eleven. Ten and eleven?
Ay, forsooth; and then you may come and see the picture, she says, that you wot of: Master Ford, her husband, will be from home. Alas! the sweet woman leads an ill life with him; he's a very jealousy man; she leads a very frampold life with him, good heart. Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her; I will not fail her. Why, you say well. But I have another messenger to your worship: Mistress Page hath her hearty commendations to you too: and let me tell you in your ear, she's as fartuous a civil modest wife, and one, I tell you, that will not miss you morning nor evening prayer, as any is in Windsor, whoe'er be the other: and she bade me tell your worship that her husband is seldom from home; but, she hopes there will come a time. I never knew a woman so dote upon a man: surely, I think you have charms, la; yes, in truth. Not I, I assure thee: setting the attraction of my good parts aside, I have no other charms. Blessing on your heart for't! But, I pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me? That were a jest indeed! they have not so little grace, I hope: that were a trick, indeed!
But Mistress Page would desire you to send her your little page, of all loves: her husband has a marvellous infection to the little page; and, truly, Master Page is an honest man. Never a wife in Windsor leads a better life than she does: do what she will, say what she will, take all, pay all, go to bed when she list, rise when she list, all is as she will: and, truly she deserves it; for if there be a kind woman in Windsor, she is one. You must send her your page; no remedy. Why, I will. Nay, but do so, then: and, look you, he may come and go between you both; and in any case have a nay-word, that you may know one another's mind, and the boy never need to understand any thing; for 'tis not good that children should know any wickedness: old folks, you know, have discretion, as they say, and know the world. Fare thee well: commend me to them both. There's my purse; I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with this woman. This news distracts me. This punk is one of Cupid's carriers. Clap on more sails; pursue; up with your fights; Give fire! she is my prize, or ocean whelm them all! Sayest thou so, old Jack? go thy ways; I'll make more of thy old body than I have done. Will they yet look after thee?
Wilt thou, after the expense of so much money, be now a gainer? Good body, I thank thee. Let them say 'tis grossly done; so it be fairly done, no matter. Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would fain speak with you, and be acquainted with you: and hath sent your worship a morning's draught of sack. Brook is his name? Ay, sir. Call him in. Such Brooks are welcome to me, that o'erflow such liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress Ford and Mistress Page, have I encompassed you? go to; via! Bless your, sir! And you, sir; would you speak with me? I make bold to press with so little preparation upon you. You're welcome. What's your will? Give us leave, drawer. Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much: my name is Brook. Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance of you. Good Sir John, I sue for yours: not to charge you; for I must let you understand I think myself in better plight for a lender than you are: the which hath something emboldened me to this unseasoned intrusion; for, they say, if money go before, all ways do lie open. Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on. Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me: if you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or half, for easing me of the carriage. Sir, I know not how I may deserve to be your porter.
I will tell you, sir, if you will give me the hearing. Speak, good Master Brook; I shall be glad to be your servant. Sir, I hear you are a scholar, I will be brief with you, and you have been a man long known to me, though I had never so good means, as desire, to make myself acquainted with you. I shall discover a thing to you, wherein I must very much lay open mine own imperfection; but, good Sir John, as you have one eye upon my follies, as you hear them unfolded, turn another into the register of your own, that I may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you yourself know how easy it is to be such an offender. Very well, sir; proceed. There is a gentlewoman in this town, her husband's name is Ford. Well, sir. I have long loved her, and, I protest to you, bestowed much on her; followed her with a doting observance; engrossed opportunities to meet her; fee'd every slight occasion that could but niggardly give me sight of her; not only bought many presents to give her, but have given largely to many to know what she would have given. Briefly, I have pursued her as love hath pursued me; which hath been on the wing of all occasions.
But whatsoever I have merited, either in my mind or in my means, meed, I am sure, I have received none; unless experience be a jewel that I have purchased at an infinite rate; and that hath taught me to say this, Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues; Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues Have you received no promise of satisfaction at her hands? Never. Have you importuned her to such a purpose? Never. Of what quality was your love, then? Like a fair house built upon another man's ground; so that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place where I erected it. To what purpose have you unfolded this to me? When I have told you that, I have told you all. Some say, that though she appear honest to me, yet in other places she enlargeth her mirth so far that there is shrewd construction made of her. Now, Sir John, here is the heart of my purpose: you are a gentleman of excellent breeding, admirable discourse, of great admittance, authentic in your place and person, generally allowed for your many war-like, court-like, and learned preparations. O, sir! Believe it, for you know it.
There is money; spend it, spend it; spend more; spend all I have; only give me so much of your time in exchange of it, as to lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife: use your art of wooing, win her to consent to you; if any man may, you may as soon as any. Would it apply well to the vehemency of your affection, that I should win what you would enjoy? Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously. O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on the excellency of her honour, that the folly of my soul dares not present itself: she is too bright to be looked against. Now, could I come to her with any detection in my hand, my desires had instance and argument to commend themselves: I could drive her then from the ward of her purity, her reputation, her marriage vow, and a thousand other her defences, which now are too-too strongly embattled against me. What say you to't, Sir John? Master Brook, I will first make bold with your money; next, give me your hand; and last, as I am a gentleman, you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife. O good sir! I say you shall. Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none. Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall want none.
I shall be with her, I may tell you, by her own appointment; even as you came in to me, her assistant or go-between parted from me: I say I shall be with her between ten and eleven; for at that time the jealous rascally knave her husband will be forth. Come you to me at night; you shall know how I speed. I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford, sir? Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! I know him not. Yet I wrong him, to call him poor: they say the jealous wittolly knave hath masses of money; for the which his wife seems to me well-favoured. I will use her as the key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer; and there's my harvest-home. I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him, if you saw him. Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! I will stare him out of his wits; I will awe him with my cudgel: it shall hang like a meteor o'er the cuckold's horns. Master Brook, thou shalt know I will predominate over the peasant, and thou shalt he with his wife. Come to me soon at night. Ford's a knave, and I will aggravate his style; thou, Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and cuckold. Come to me soon at night. What a damned Epicurean rascal is this! My heart is ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is improvident jealousy?
my wife hath sent to him, the hour is fixed, the match is made. Would any man have thought this? See the hell of having a false woman! My bed shall be abused, my coffers ransacked, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall not only receive this villanous wrong, but stand under the adoption of abominable terms, and by him that does me this wrong. Terms! names! Amaimon sounds well; Lucifer, well; Barbason, well; yet they are devils' additions, the names of fiends: but Cuckold! Wittol! Cuckold! the devil himself hath not such a name. Page is an ass, a secure ass: he will trust his wife; he will not be jealous. I will rather trust a Fleming with my butter, Parson Hugh the Welshman with my cheese, an Irishman with my aqua-vitæ bottle, or a thief to walk my ambling gelding, than my wife with herself: then she plots, then she ruminates, then she devises; and what they think in their hearts they may effect, they will break their hearts but they will effect. God be praised for my jealousy! Eleven o'clock the hour: I will prevent this, detect my wife, be revenged on Falstaff, and laugh at Page. I will about it; better three hours too soon than a minute too late. Fie, fie, fie! cuckold! cuckold! cuckold! Jack Rugby! Sir? Vat is de clock, Jack? 'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promised to meet.
By gar, he has save his soul, dat he is no come: he has pray his Pible vell, dat he is no come. By gar, Jack Rugby, he is dead already, if he be come. He is wise, sir; he knew your worship would kill him, if he came. By gar, de herring is no dead so as I vill kill him. Take your rapier, Jack; I vill tell you how I vill kill him. Alas, sir! I cannot fence. Villany, take your rapier. Forbear; here's company. Bless thee, bully doctor! Save you, Master Doctor Caius! Now, good Master doctor! Give you good morrow, sir. Vat be all you, one, two, tree, four, come for? To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee traverse; to see thee here, to see thee there; to see thee pass thy punto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy distance, thy montant. Is he dead, my Ethiopian? is he dead, my Francisco? ha, bully! What says my Æsculapius? my Galen? my heart of elder? ha! is he dead, bully stale? is he dead? By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de vorld; he is not show his face. Thou art a Castilian King Urinal! Hector of Greece, my boy! I pray you, bear vitness that me have stay six or seven, two, tree hours for him, and he is no come.
He is the wiser man, Master doctor: he is a curer of souls, and you a curer of bodies; if you should fight, you go against the hair of your professions. Is it not true, Master Page? Master Shallow, you have yourself been a great fighter, though now a man of peace. Bodykins, Master Page, though I now be old and of the peace, if I see a sword out, my finger itches to make one. Though we are justices and doctors and churchmen, Master Page, we have some salt of our youth in us; we are the sons of women, Master Page. 'Tis true, Master Shallow. It will be found so, Master Page. Master Doctor Caius, I am come to fetch you home. I am sworn of the peace: you have showed yourself a wise physician, and Sir Hugh hath shown himself a wise and patient churchman. You must go with me, Master doctor. Pardon, guest-justice. A word, Monsieur Mockwater. Mock-vater! vat is dat? Mock-water, in our English tongue, is valour, bully. By gar, den, I have as mush mock-vater as de Englishman. Scurvy jack-dog priest! by gar, me vill cut his ears. He will clapper-claw thee tightly, bully. Clapper-de-claw! vat is dat? That is, he will make thee amends. By gar, me do look, he shall clapper-de-claw me; for, by gar, me vill have it. And I will provoke him to't, or let him wag. Me tank you for dat.
And moreover, bully, But first, Master guest, and Master Page, and eke Cavaliero Slender, go you through the town to Frogmore. Sir Hugh is there, is he? He is there: see what humour he is in; and I will bring the doctor about by the fields. Will it do well? We will do it. Adieu, good Master doctor. By gar, me vill kill de priest; for he speak for a jack-an-ape to Anne Page. Let him die. Sheathe thy impatience; throw cold water on thy choler: go about the fields with me through Frogmore: I will bring thee where Mistress Anne Page is, at a farmhouse a-feasting; and thou shalt woo her. Cried I aim? said I well? By gar, me tank you for dat: by gar, I love you; and I shall procure-a you de good guest, de earl, de knight, de lords, de gentlemen, my patients. For the which I will be thy adversary toward Anne Page: said I well? By gar, 'tis good; vell said. Let us wag, then. Come at my heels, Jack Rugby. I pray you now, good Master Slender's serving-man, and friend Simple by your name, which way have you looked for Master Caius, that calls himself doctor of physic? Marry, sir, the pittie-ward, the parkward, every way; old Windsor way, and every way but the town way. I most fehemently desire you you will also look that way. I will, sir. Pless my soul!
how full of chollors I am, and trempling of mind! I shall be glad if he have deceived me. How melancholies I am! I will knog his urinals about his knave's costard when I have goot opportunities for the 'ork: pless my soul! To shallow rivers, to whose falls Melodious birds sing madrigals; There will we make our peds of roses, And a thousand fragrant pasies. To shallow Mercy on me! I have a great dispositions to cry. Melodious birds sing madrigals, When as I sat in Pabylon, And a thousand vagram posies. To shallow, Yonder he is coming, this way, Sir Hugh. He's welcome. To shallow rivers, to whose falls Heaven prosper the right! what weapons is he? No weapons, sir. There comes my master, Master Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over the stile, this way. Pray you, give me my gown; or else keep it in your arms. How now, Master Parson! Good morrow, good Sir Hugh. Keep a gamester from the dice, and a good student from his book, and it is wonderful. Ah, sweet Anne Page! Save you, good Sir Hugh! Pless you from His mercy sake, all of you! What, the sword and the word! do you study them both, Master Parson? And youthful still in your doublet and hose! this raw rheumatic day? There is reasons and causes for it. We are come to you to do a good office, Master parson. Fery well: what is it?
Yonder is a most reverend gentleman, who, belike having received wrong by some person, is at most odds with his own gravity and patience that ever you saw. I have lived fourscore years and upward; I never heard a man of his place, gravity, and learning, so wide of his own respect. What is he? I think you know him; Master Doctor Caius, the renowned French physician. Got's will, and his passion of my heart! I had as lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge. Why? He has no more knowledge in Hibbocrates and Galen, and he is a knave besides; a cowardly knave as you would desires to be acquainted withal. I warrant you, he's the man should fight with him. O, sweet Anne Page! It appears so, by his weapons. Keep them asunder: here comes Doctor Caius. Nay, good Master parson, keep in your weapon. So do you, good Master doctor. Disarm them, and let them question: let them keep their limbs whole and hack our English. I pray you, let-a me speak a word vit your ear: verefore vill you not meet-a me? Pray you, use your patience: in good time. By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.
Pray you, let us not be laughing-stogs to other men's humours; I desire you in friendship, and I will one way or other make you amends: I will knog your urinals about your knave's cogscomb for missing your meetings and appointments. Diable! Jack Rugby, mine host de Jarretierre, have I not stay for him to kill him? have I not, at de place I did appoint? As I am a Christians soul, now, look you, this is the place appointed: I'll be judgment by mine host of the Garter. Peace, I say, Gallia and Guallia; French and Welsh, soul-curer and body-curer! Ay, dat is very good; excellent. Peace, I say! hear mine host of the Garter. Am I politic? am I subtle? am I a Machiavel? Shall I lose my doctor? no; he gives me the potions and the motions. Shall I lose my parson, my priest, my Sir Hugh? no; he gives me the proverbs and the no-verbs. Give me thy hand, terrestrial; so; give me thy hand celestial; so. Boys of art, I have deceived you both; I have directed you to wrong places: your hearts are mighty, your skins are whole, and let burnt sack be the issue. Come, lay their swords to pawn. Follow me, lads of peace; follow, follow, follow. Trust me, a mad host! Follow, gentlemen, follow. O, sweet Anne Page! Ha! do I perceive dat? have you make-a de sot of us, ha, ha?
This is well; he has made us his vlouting-stog. I desire you that we may be friends and let us knog our prains together to be revenge on this same scall, scurvy, cogging companion, the host of the Garter. By gar, vit all my heart. He promise to bring me vere is Anne Page: by gar, he deceive me too. Well, I will smite his noddles. Pray you, follow. Nay, keep your way, little gallant: you were wont to be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether had you rather lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels? I had rather, forsooth, go before you like a man than follow him like a dwarf. O! you are a flattering boy: now I see you'll be a courtier. Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you? Truly, sir, to see your wife: is she at home? Ay; and as idle as she may hang together, for want of company. I think, if your husbands were dead, you two would marry. Be sure of that, two other husbands. Where had you this pretty weathercock? I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my husband had him of. What do you call your knight's name, sirrah? Sir John Falstaff. Sir John Falstaff! He, he; I can never hit on's name. There is such a league between my good man and he! Is your wife at home indeed? Indeed she is.
By your leave, sir: I am sick till I see her. Has Page any brains? hath he any eyes? hath he any thinking? Sure, they sleep; he hath no use of them. Why, this boy will carry a letter twenty mile, as easy as a cannon will shoot point-blank twelve score. He pieces out his wife's inclination; he gives her folly motion and advantage: and now she's going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her. A man may hear this shower sing in the wind: and Falstaff's boy with her! Good plots! they are laid; and our revolted wives share damnation together. Well; I will take him, then torture my wife, pluck the borrowed veil of modesty from the so seeming Mistress Page, divulge Page himself for a secure and wilful Actæon; and to these violent proceedings all my neighbours shall cry aim. The clock gives me my cue, and my assurance bids me search; there I shall find Falstaff. I shall be rather praised for this than mocked; for it is as positive as the earth is firm, that Falstaff is there: I will go. Well met, Master Ford. Trust me, a good knot. I have good cheer at home; and I pray you all go with me. I must excuse myself, Master Ford. And so must I, sir: we have appointed to dine with Mistress Anne, and I would not break with her for more money than I'll speak of.
We have lingered about a match between Anne Page and my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have our answer. I hope I have your good will, father Page. You have, Master Slender; I stand wholly for you: but my wife, Master doctor, is for you altogether. Ay, by gar; and de maid is love-a me: my nursh-a Quickly tell me so mush. What say you to young Master Fenton? he capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he speaks holiday, he smells April and May: he will carry't, he will carry't; 'tis in his buttons; he will carry't. Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is of no having: he kept company with the wild prince and Pointz; he is of too high a region; he knows too much. No, he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes with the finger of my substance: if he take her, let him take her simply; the wealth I have waits on my consent, and my consent goes not that way. I beseech you heartily, some of you go home with me to dinner: besides your cheer, you shall have sport; I will show you a monster. Master doctor, you shall go; so shall you, Master Page; and you, Sir Hugh. Well, fare you well: we shall have the freer wooing at Master Page's. Go home, John Rugby; I come anon.
Farewell, my hearts: I will to my honest knight Falstaff, and drink canary with him. I think I shall drink in pipewine first with him; I'll make him dance. Will you go, gentles? Have with you to see this monster. What, John! what, Robert! Quickly, quickly: Is the buckbasket I warrant. What, Robin, I say! Come, come, come. Here, set it down. Give your men the charge; we must be brief. Marry, as I told you before, John, and Robert, be ready here hard by in the brewhouse; and when I suddenly call you, come forth, and without any pause or staggering, take this basket on your shoulders: that done, trudge with it in all haste, and carry it among the whitsters in Datchet-mead, and there empty it in the muddy ditch, close by the Thames side. You will do it? I have told them over and over; they lack no direction. Be gone, and come when you are called. Here comes little Robin. How now, my eyas-musket! what news with you? My master, Sir John, is come in at your back-door, Mistress Ford, and requests your company. You little Jack-a-Lent, have you been true to us? Ay, I'll be sworn. My master knows not of your being here, and hath threatened to put me into everlasting liberty if I tell you of it; for he swears he'll turn me away.
Thou'rt a good boy; this secrecy of thine shall be a tailor to thee and shall make thee a new doublet and hose. I'll go hide me. Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone. Mistress Page, remember you your cue. I warrant thee; if I do not act it, hiss me. Go to, then: we'll use this unwholesome humidity, this gross watery pumpion; we'll teach him to know turtles from jays. 'Have I caught my heavenly jewel?' Why, now let me die, for I have lived long enough: this is the period of my ambition: O this blessed hour! O, sweet Sir John! Mistress Ford, I cannot cog, I cannot prate, Mistress Ford. Now shall I sin in my wish: I would thy husband were dead. I'll speak it before the best lord, I would make thee my lady. I your lady, Sir John! alas, I should be a pitiful lady. Let the court of France show me such another. I see how thine eye would emulate the diamond: thou hast the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the ship-tire, the tire-valiant, or any tire of Venetian admittance. A plain kerchief, Sir John: my brows become nothing else; nor that well neither.
By the Lord, thou art a traitor to say so: thou wouldst make an absolute courtier; and the firm fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion to thy gait in a semi-circled farthingale. I see what thou wert, if Fortune thy foe were not, Nature thy friend. Come, thou canst not hide it. Believe me, there's no such thing in me. What made me love thee? let that persuade thee there's something extraordinary in thee. Come, I cannot cog and say thou art this and that, like a many of these lisping hawthornbuds, that come like women in men s apparel, and smell like Bucklersbury in simple-time; I cannot; but I love thee; none but thee; and thou deservest it. Do not betray me, sir. I fear you love Mistress Page. Thou mightst as well say, I love to walk by the Counter-gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek of a lime-kiln. Well, heaven knows how I love you; and you shall one day find it. Keep in that mind; I'll deserve it. Nay, I must tell you, so you do, or else I could not be in that mind. Mistress Ford! Mistress Ford! here's Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing and looking wildly, and would needs speak with you presently. She shall not see me: I will ensconce me behind the arras. Pray you, do so: she's a very tattling woman. What's the matter? how now! O Mistress Ford!
what have you done? You're shamed, you are overthrown, you're undone for ever! What's the matter, good Mistress Page? O well-a-day, Mistress Ford! having an honest man to your husband, to give him such cause of suspicion! What cause of suspicion? What cause of suspicion! Out upon you! how am I mistook in you! Why, alas, what's the matter? Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all the officers of Windsor, to search for a gentleman that he says is here now in the house by your consent, to take an ill advantage of his absence: you are undone. Speak louder. 'Tis not so, I hope. Pray heaven it be not so, that you have such a man here! but 'tis most certain your husband's coming with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a one. I come before to tell you. If you know yourself clear, why, I am glad of it; but if you have a friend here, convey, convey him out. Be not amazed; call all your senses to you: defend your reputation, or bid farewell to your good life for ever. What shall I do? There is a gentleman, my dear friend; and I fear not mine own shame so much as his peril: I had rather than a thousand pound he were out of the house. For shame!
never stand 'you had rather' and 'you had rather:' your husband's here at hand; bethink you of some conveyance: in the house you cannot hide him. O, how have you deceived me! Look, here is a basket: if he be of any reasonable stature, he may creep in here; and throw foul linen upon him, as if it were going to bucking: or it is whiting-time send him by your two men to Datchet-mead. He's too big to go in there. What shall I do? Let me see't, let me see't, O, let me see't! I'll in, I'll in. Follow your friend's counsel. I'll in. What, Sir John Falstaff! Are these your letters, knight? I love thee, and none but thee; help me away: let me creep in here. I'll never Help to cover your master, boy. Call your men, Mistress Ford. You dissembling knight! What, John! Robert! John! Go take up these clothes here quickly; where's the cowl-staff? look, how you drumble! carry them to the laundress in Datchet-mead; quickly, come. Pray you, come near: if I suspect without cause, why then make sport at me; then let me be your jest; I deserve it. How now! what goes here? whither bear you this? To the laundress, forsooth. Why, what have you to do whither they bear it? You were best meddle with buck-washing. Buck! I would I could wash myself of the buck! Buck, buck, buck!
Ay, buck; I warrant you, buck; and of the season too, it shall appear. Gentlemen, I have dreamed to-night; I'll tell you my dream. Here, here, here be my keys: ascend my chambers; search, seek, find out: I'll warrant we'll unkennel the fox. Let me stop this way first. So, now uncape. Good Master Ford, be contented: you wrong yourself too much. True, Master Page. Up, gentlemen; you shall see sport anon: follow me, gentlemen. This is fery fantastical humours and jealousies. By gar, 'tis no de fashion of France; it is not jealous in France. Nay, follow him, gentlemen; see the issue of his search. Is there not a double excellency in this? I know not which pleases me better; that my husband is deceived, or Sir John. What a taking was he in when your husband asked who was in the basket! I am half afraid he will have need of washing; so throwing him into the water will do him a benefit. Hang him, dishonest rascal! I would all of the same strain were in the same distress. I think my husband hath some special suspicion of Falstaff's being here; for I never saw him so gross in his jealousy till now. I will lay a plot to try that; and we will yet have more tricks with Falstaff: his dissolute disease will scarce obey this medicine.
Shall we send that foolish carrion Mistress Quickly to him, and excuse his throwing into the water; and give him another hope, to betray him to another punishment? We will do it: let him be sent for to-morrow, eight o'clock, to have amends. I cannot find him: may be the knave bragged of that he could not compass. Heard you that? Ay, ay, peace. You use me well, Master Ford, do you? Ay, I do so. Heaven make you better than your thoughts! Amen! You do yourself mighty wrong, Master Ford. Ay, ay; I must bear it. If there pe any pody in the house, and in the chambers, and in the coffers, and in the presses, heaven forgive my sins at the day of judgment! By gar, nor I too, dere is no bodies. Fie, fie, Master Ford! are you not ashamed? What spirit, what devil suggests this imagination? I would not ha' your distemper in this kind for the wealth of Windsor Castle. 'Tis my fault, Master Page: I suffer for it. You suffer for a pad conscience: your wife is as honest a 'omans as I will desires among five thousand, and five hundred too. By gar, I see 'tis an honest woman. Well; I promised you a dinner. Come, come, walk in the Park: I pray you, pardon me; I will hereafter make known to you why I have done this. Come, wife; come, Mistress Page.
I pray you, pardon me; pray heartily, pardon me. Let's go in, gentlemen; but, trust me, we'll mock him. I do invite you to-morrow morning to my house to breakfast; after, we'll a-birding together: I have a fine hawk for the bush. Shall it be so? Any thing. If there is one, I shall make two in the company. If dere be one or two, I shall make-a de turd. Pray you go, Master Page. I pray you now, remembrance to-morrow on the lousy knave, mine host. Dat is good; by gar, vit all my heart. A lousy knave! to have his gibes and his mockeries! I see I cannot get thy father's love; Therefore no more turn me to him, sweet Nan. Alas! how then? Why, thou must be thyself. He doth object, I am too great of birth, And that my state being gall'd with my expense, I seek to heal it only by his wealth. Besides these, other bars he lays before me, My riots past, my wild societies; And tells me 'tis a thing impossible I should love thee but as a property. May be he tells you true. No, heaven so speed me in my time to come!
Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth Was the first motive that I woo'd thee, Anne: Yet, wooing thee, I found thee of more value Than stamps in gold or sums in sealed bags; And 'tis the very riches of thyself That now I aim at. Gentle Master Fenton, Yet seek my father's love; still seek it, sir: If opportunity and humblest suit Cannot attain it, why, then, hark you hither. Break their talk, Mistress Quickly: my kinsman shall speak for himself. I'll make a shaft or a bolt on't. 'Slid, 'tis but venturing. Be not dismayed. No, she shall not dismay me: I care not for that, but that I am afeard. Hark ye; Master Slender would speak a word with you. I come to him. This is my father's choice. O, what a world of vile ill-favour'd faults Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a year! And how does good Master Fenton? Pray you, a word with you. She's coming; to her, coz. O boy, thou hadst a father! I had a father, Mistress Anne; my uncle can tell you good jests of him. Pray you, uncle, tell Mistress Anne the jest, how my father stole two geese out of a pen, good uncle. Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you. Ay, that I do; as well as I love any woman in Glostershire. He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
Ay, that I will, come cut and long-tail, under the degree of a squire. He will make you a hundred and fifty pounds jointure. Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself. Marry, I thank you for it; I thank you for that good comfort. She calls you, coz: I'll leave you. Now, Master Slender. Now, good Mistress Anne. What is your will? My will? od's heartlings! that's a pretty jest, indeed! I ne'er made my will yet, I thank heaven; I am not such a sickly creature, I give heaven praise. I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me? Truly, for mine own part, I would little or nothing with you. Your father and my uncle have made motions: if it be my luck, so; if not, happy man be his dole! They can tell you how things go better than I can: you may ask your father; here he comes. Now, Master Slender: love him, daughter Anne. Why, how now! what does Master Fenton here? You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house: I told you, sir, my daughter is dispos'd of. Nay, Master Page, be not impatient. Good Master Fenton, come not to my child. She is no match for you. Sir, will you hear me? No, good Master Fenton. Come, Master Shallow; come, son Slender, in. Knowing my mind, you wrong me, Master Fenton. Speak to Mistress Page.
Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter In such a righteous fashion as I do, Perforce, against all checks, rebukes and manners, I must advance the colours of my love And not retire: let me have your good will. Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool. I mean it not; I seek you a better husband. That's my master, Master doctor. Alas! I had rather be set quick i' the earth, And bowl'd to death with turnips. Come, trouble not yourself. Good Master Fenton, I will not be your friend nor enemy: My daughter will I question how she loves you, And as I find her, so am I affected. 'Till then, farewell, sir: she must needs go in; Her father will be angry. Farewell, gentle mistress. Farewell, Nan. This is my doing, now: 'Nay,' said I, 'will you cast away your child on a fool, and a physician? Look on Master Fenton.' This is my doing. I thank thee: and I pray thee, once to-night Give my sweet Nan this ring. There's for thy pains. Now heaven send thee good fortune! A kind heart he hath: a woman would run through fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I would my master had Mistress Anne; or I would Master Slender had her; or, in sooth, I would Master Fenton had her.
I will do what I can for them all three, for so I have promised, and I'll be as good as my word; but speciously for Master Fenton. Well, I must of another errand to Sir John Falstaff from my two mistresses: what a beast am I to slack it! Bardolph, I say, Here, sir. Go fetch me a quart of sack; put a toast in't. Have I lived to be carried in a basket, and to be thrown in the Thames like a barrow of butcher's offal? Well, if I be served such another trick, I'll have my brains ta'en out, and buttered, and give them to a dog for a new year's gift. The rogues slighted me into the river with as little remorse as they would have drowned a blind bitch's puppies, fifteen i' the litter; and you may know by my size that I have a kind of alacrity in sinking: if the bottom were as deep as hell, I should down. I had been drowned but that the shore was shelvy and shallow; a death that I abhor, for the water swells a man, and what a thing should I have been when I had been swelled! I should have been a mountain of mummy. Here's Mistress Quickly, sir, to speak with you.
Come, let me pour in some sack to the Thames water, for my belly's as cold as if I had swallowed snowballs for pills to cool the reins. Call her in. Come in, woman. By your leave. I cry you mercy: give your worship good morrow. Take away these chalices. Go brew me a pottle of sack finely. With eggs, sir? Simple of itself; I'll no pullet-sperm in my brewage. How now! Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress Ford. Mistress Ford! I have had ford enough; I was thrown into the ford; I have my belly full of ford. Alas the day! good heart, that was not her fault: she does so take on with her men; they mistook their erection. So did I mine, to build upon a foolish woman's promise. Well, she laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn your heart to see it. Her husband goes this morning a-birding: she desires you once more to come to her between eight and nine. I must carry her word quickly: she'll make you amends, I warrant you. Well, I will visit her: tell her so; and bid her think what a man is: let her consider his frailty, and then judge of my merit. I will tell her. Do so. Between nine and ten, sayest thou? Eight and nine, sir. Well, be gone: I will not miss her. Peace be with you, sir.
I marvel I hear not of Master Brook; he sent me word to stay within. I like his money well. O! here he comes. Bless you, sir! Now, Master Brook, you come to know what hath passed between me and Ford's wife? That, indeed, Sir John, is my business. Master Brook, I will not lie to you: I was at her house the hour she appointed me. And how sped you, sir? Very ill-favouredly, Master Brook. How so, sir? did she change her determination? No, Master Brook; but the peaking cornuto her husband, Master Brook, dwelling in a continual 'larum of jealousy, comes me in the instant of our encounter, after we had embraced, kissed, protested, and, as it were, spoke the prologue of our comedy; and at his heels a rabble of his companions, thither provoked and instigated by his distemper, and, forsooth, to search his house for his wife's love. What! while you were there? While I was there. And did he search for you, and could not find you? You shall hear. As good luck would have it, comes in one Mistress Page; gives intelligence of Ford's approach; and in her invention, and Ford's wife's distraction, they conveyed me into a buck-basket. A buck-basket! By the Lord, a buck-basket!
rammed me in with foul shirts and smocks, socks, foul stockings, greasy napkins; that, Master Brook, there was the rankest compound of villanous smell that ever offended nostril. And how long lay you there? Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook, what I have suffered to bring this woman to evil for your good. Being thus crammed in the basket, a couple of Ford's knaves, his hinds, were called forth by their mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to Datchet-lane: they took me on their shoulders; met the jealous knave their master in the door, who asked them once or twice what they had in their basket. I quaked for fear lest the lunatic knave would have searched it; but Fate, ordaining he should be a cuckold, held his hand. Well; on went he for a search, and away went I for foul clothes.
But mark the sequel, Master Brook: I suffered the pangs of three several deaths: first, an intolerable-fright, to be detected with a jealous rotten bell-wether; next, to be compassed, like a good bilbo, in the circumference of a peck, hilt to point, heel to head; and then, to be stopped in, like a strong distillation, with stinking clothes that fretted in their own grease: think of that, a man of my kidney, think of that, that am as subject to heat as butter; a man of continual dissolution and thaw: it was a miracle to 'scape suffocation. And in the height of this bath, when I was more than half stewed in grease, like a Dutch dish, to be thrown into the Thames, and cooled, glowing hot, in that surge, like a horse-shoe; think of that, hissing hot, think of that, Master Brook! In good sadness, sir, I am sorry that for my sake you have suffered all this. My suit then is desperate; you'll undertake her no more? Master Brook, I will be thrown into Etna, as I have been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her husband is this morning gone a-birding: I have received from her another embassy of meeting; 'twixt eight and nine is the hour, Master Brook. 'Tis past eight already, sir. Is it? I will then address me to my appointment.
Come to me at your convenient leisure, and you shall know how I speed, and the conclusion shall be crowned with your enjoying her: adieu. You shall have her, Master Brook; Master Brook, you shall cuckold Ford. Hum! ha! is this a vision? is this a dream? do I sleep? Master Ford, awake! awake, Master Ford! there's a hole made in your best coat, Master Ford. This 'tis to be married: this 'tis to have linen and buck-baskets! Well, I will proclaim myself what I am: I will now take the lecher; he is at my house; he cannot 'scape me; 'tis impossible he should; he cannot creep into a half-penny purse, nor into a pepper-box; but, lest the devil that guides him should aid him, I will search impossible places. Though what I am I cannot avoid, yet to be what I would not, shall not make me tame: if I have horns to make me mad, let the proverb go with me; I'll be horn-mad. Is he at Master Ford's already, thinkest thou? Sure he is by this, or will be presently; but truly, he is very courageous mad about his throwing into the water. Mistress Ford desires you to come suddenly. I'll be with her by and by: I'll but bring my young man here to school. Look, where his master comes; 'tis a playing-day, I see. How now, Sir Hugh! no school to-day? No; Master Slender is get the boys leave to play.
Blessing of his heart! Sir Hugh, my husband says my son profits nothing in the world at his book: I pray you, ask him some questions in his accidence. Come hither, William; hold up your head; come. Come on, sirrah; hold up your head; answer your master, be not afraid. William, how many numbers is in nouns? Two. Truly, I thought there had been one number more, because they say, 'Od's nouns.' Peace your tattlings! What is fair, William? Pulcher. Polecats! there are fairer things than polecats, sure. You are a very simplicity 'oman: I pray you peace. What is lapis, William? A stone. And what is a stone, William? A pebble. No, it is lapis: I pray you remember in your prain. Lapis. That is a good William. What is he, William, that does lend articles? Articles are borrowed of the pronoun, and be thus declined, Singulariter, nominativo, hic, hæc, hoc. Nominativo, hig, hag, hog; pray you, mark: genitivo, hujus. Well, what is your accusative case? Accusativo, hinc. I pray you, have your remembrance, child; accusativo, hung, hang, hog. Hang hog is Latin for bacon, I warrant you. Leave your prabbles, 'oman. What is the focative case, William? O vocativo, O. Remember, William; focative is caret. And that's a good root. 'Oman, forbear. Peace! What is your genitive case plural, William? Genitive case? Ay. Genitive, horum, harum, horum. Vengeance of Jenny's case! fie on her! Never name her, child, if she be a whore.
For shame, 'oman! You do ill to teach the child such words. He teaches him to hick and to hack, which they'll do fast enough of themselves, and to call 'horum?' fie upon you! 'Oman, art thou lunatics? hast thou no understandings for thy cases and the numbers and the genders? Thou art as foolish Christian creatures as I would desires. Prithee, hold thy peace. Show me now, William, some declensions of your pronouns. Forsooth, I have forgot. It is qui, quæ, quod; if you forget your quis, your quæs, and your quods, you must be preeches. Go your ways and play; go. He is a better scholar than I thought he was. He is a good sprag memory. Farewell, Mistress Page. Adieu, good Sir Hugh. Get you home, boy. Come, we stay too long. Mistress Ford, your sorrow hath eaten up my sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love, and I profess requital to a hair's breadth; not only, Mistress Ford, in the simple office of love, but in all the accoutrement, complement and ceremony of it. But are you sure of your husband now? He's a-birding, sweet Sir John. What ho! gossip Ford! what ho! Step into the chamber, Sir John. How now, sweetheart! who's at home besides yourself? Why, none but mine own people. Indeed! No, certainly. Speak louder. Truly, I am so glad you have nobody here. Why?
Why, woman, your husband is in his old lunes again: he so takes on yonder with my husband; so rails against all married mankind; so curses all Eve's daughters, of what complexion soever; and so buffets himself on the forehead, crying, 'Peer out, peer out!' that any madness I ever yet beheld seemed but tameness, civility and patience, to this his distemper he is in now. I am glad the fat knight is not here. Why, does he talk of him? Of none but him; and swears he was carried out, the last time he searched for him, in a basket: protests to my husband he is now here, and hath drawn him and the rest of their company from their sport, to make another experiment of his suspicion. But I am glad the knight is not here; now he shall see his own foolery. How near is he, Mistress Page? Hard by; at street end; he will be here anon. I am undone! the knight is here. Why then you are utterly shamed, and he's but a dead man. What a woman are you! Away with him, away with him! better shame than murder. Which way should he go? how should I bestow him? Shall I put him into the basket again? No, I'll come no more i' the basket. May I not go out ere he come? Alas!
three of Master Ford's brothers watch the door with pistols, that none shall issue out; otherwise you might slip away ere he came. But what make you here? What shall I do? I'll creep up into the chimney. There they always use to discharge their birding-pieces. Creep into the kiln-hole. Where is it? He will seek there, on my word. Neither press, coffer, chest, trunk, well, vault, but he hath an abstract for the remembrance of such places, and goes to them by his note: there is no hiding you in the house. I'll go out, then. If you go out in your own semblance, you die, Sir John. Unless you go out disguised, How might we disguise him? Alas the day! I know not. There is no woman's gown big enough for him; otherwise, he might put on a hat, a muffler, and a kerchief, and so escape. Good hearts, devise something: any extremity rather than a mischief. My maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brainford, has a gown above. On my word, it will serve him; she's as big as he is: and there's her thrummed hat and her muffler too. Run up, Sir John. Go, go, sweet Sir John: Mistress Page and I will look some linen for your head. Quick, quick! we'll come dress you straight; put on the gown the while.
I would my husband would meet him in this shape: he cannot abide the old woman of Brainford; he swears she's a witch; forbade her my house, and hath threatened to beat her. Heaven guide him to thy husband's cudgel, and the devil guide his cudgel afterwards! But is my husband coming? Ay, in good sadness, is he; and talks of the basket too, howsoever he hath had intelligence. We'll try that; for I'll appoint my men to carry the basket again, to meet him at the door with it, as they did last time. Nay, but he'll be here presently: let's go dress him like the witch of Brainford. I'll first direct my men what they shall do with the basket. Go up; I'll bring linen for him straight. Hang him, dishonest varlet! we cannot misuse him enough. We'll leave a proof, by that which we will do, Wives may be merry, and yet honest too: We do not act that often jest and laugh; 'Tis old, but true, 'Still swine eats all the draff.' Go, sirs, take the basket again on your shoulders: your master is hard at door; if he bid you set it down, obey him. Quickly; dispatch. Come, come, take it up. Pray heaven, it be not full of knight again. I hope not; I had as lief bear so much lead. Ay, but if it prove true, Master Page, have you any way then to unfool me again?
Set down the basket, villains. Somebody call my wife. Youth in a basket! O you panderly rascals! there's a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy against me: now shall the devil be shamed. What, wife, I say! Come, come forth! Behold what honest clothes you send forth to bleaching! Why, this passes! Master Ford, you are not to go loose any longer; you must be pinioned. Why, this is lunatics! this is mad as a mad dog! Indeed, Master Ford, this is not well, indeed. So say I too, sir. Come hither, Mistress Ford, the honest woman, the modest wife, the virtuous creature, that hath the jealous fool to her husband! I suspect without cause, mistress, do I? Heaven by my witness, you do, if you suspect me in any dishonesty. Well said, brazen-face! hold it out. Come forth, sirrah! This passes! Are you not ashamed? let the clothes alone. I shall find you anon. 'Tis unreasonable. Will you take up your wife's clothes? Come away. Empty the basket, I say! Why, man, why? Master Page, as I am an honest man, there was one conveyed out of my house yesterday in this basket: why may not he be there again? In my house I am sure he is; my intelligence is true; my jealousy is reasonable. Pluck me out all the linen. If you find a man there he shall die a flea's death. Here's no man.
By my fidelity, this is not well, Master Ford; this wrongs you. Master Ford, you must pray, and not follow the imaginations of your own heart: this is jealousies. Well, he's not here I seek for. No, nor nowhere else but in your brain. Help to search my house this one time: if I find not what I seek, show no colour for my extremity; let me for ever be your table-sport; let them say of me, 'As jealous as Ford, that searched a hollow walnut for his wife's leman.' Satisfy me once more; once more search with me. What ho, Mistress Page! come you and the old woman down; my husband will come into the chamber. Old woman! What old woman's that? Why, it is my maid's aunt of Brainford. A witch, a quean, an old cozening quean! Have I not forbid her my house? She comes of errands, does she? We are simple men; we do not know what's brought to pass under the profession of fortune-telling. She works by charms, by spells, by the figure, and such daubery as this is, beyond our element: we know nothing. Come down, you witch, you hag, you; come down, I say! Nay, good, sweet husband! good gentlemen, let him not strike the old woman. Come, Mother Prat; come, give me your hand. I'll 'prat' her. Out of my door, you witch, you rag, you baggage, you polecat, you ronyon! out, out!
I'll conjure you, I'll fortune-tell you. Are you not ashamed? I think you have killed the poor woman. Nay, he will do it. 'Tis a goodly credit for you. Hang her, witch! By yea and no, I think the 'oman is a witch indeed: I like not when a 'oman has a great peard; I spy a great peard under her muffler. Will you follow, gentlemen? I beseech you, follow: see but the issue of my jealousy. If I cry out thus upon no trail, never trust me when I open again. Let's obey his humour a little further. Come, gentlemen. Trust me, he beat him most pitifully. Nay, by the mass, that he did not; he beat him most unpitifully methought. I'll have the cudgel hallowed and hung o'er the altar: it hath done meritorious service. What think you? May we, with the warrant of womanhood and the witness of a good conscience, pursue him with any further revenge? The spirit of wantonness is, sure, scared out of him: if the devil have him not in fee-simple, with fine and recovery, he will never, I think, in the way of waste, attempt us again. Shall we tell our husbands how we have served him? Yes, by all means; if it be but to scrape the figures out of your husband's brains. If they can find in their hearts the poor unvirtuous fat knight shall be any further afflicted, we two will still be the ministers.
I'll warrant they'll have him publicly shamed, and methinks there would be no period to the jest, should he not be publicly shamed. Come, to the forge with it then; shape it: I would not have things cool. Sir, the Germans desire to have three of your horses: the duke himself will be to-morrow at court, and they are going to meet him. What duke should that be comes so secretly? I hear not of him in the court. Let me speak with the gentlemen; they speak English? Ay, sir; I'll call them to you. They shall have my horses, but I'll make them pay; I'll sauce them: they have had my house a week at command; I have turned away my other guests: they must come off; I'll sauce them. Come. 'Tis one of the pest discretions of a 'oman as ever I did look upon. And did he send you both these letters at an instant? Within a quarter of an hour. Pardon me, wife. Henceforth do what thou wilt; I rather will suspect the sun with cold Than thee with wantonness: now doth thy honour stand, In him that was of late an heretic, As firm as faith. 'Tis well, 'tis well; no more.
Be not as extreme in submission As in ofrence; But let our plot go forward: let our wives Yet once again, to make us public sport, Appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow, Where we may take him and disgrace him for it. There is no better way than that they spoke of. How? to send him word they'll meet him in the Park at midnight? Fie, fie! he'll never come. You say he has been thrown into the rivers, and has been grievously peaten as an old 'oman: methinks there should be terrors in him that he should not come; methinks his flesh is punished, he shall have no desires. So think I too. Devise but how you'll use him when he comes, And let us two devise to bring him thither.
There is an old tale goes that Herne the hunter, Sometime a keeper here in Windsor forest, Doth all the winter-time, at still midnight, Walk round about an oak, with great ragg'd horns; And there he blasts the tree, and takes the cattle, And makes milch-kine yield blood, and shakes a chain In a most hideous and dreadful manner: You have heard of such a spirit, and well you know The superstitious idle-headed eld Receiv'd and did deliver to our age This tale of Herne the hunter for a truth. Why, yet there want not many that do fear In deep of night to walk by this Herne's oak. But what of this? Marry, this is our device; That Falstaff at that oak shall meet with us, Disguis'd like Herne with huge horns on his head. Well, let it not be doubted but he'll come, And in this shape when you have brought him thither, What shall be done with him? what is your plot? That likewise have we thought upon, and thus: Nan Page my daughter, and my little son, And three or four more of their growth, we'll dress Like urchins, ouphs and fairies, green and white, With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads, And rattles in their hands.
Upon a sudden, As Falstaff, she, and I, are newly met, Let them from forth a sawpit rush at once With some diffused song: upon their sight, We two in great amazedness will fly: Then let them all encircle him about, And, fairy-like, to-pinch the unclean knight; And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel, In their so sacred paths he dares to tread In shape profane. And till he tell the truth, Let the supposed fairies pinch him sound And burn him with their tapers. The truth being known, We'll all present ourselves, dis-horn the spirit, And mock him home to Windsor. The children must Be practis'd well to this, or they'll ne'er do't. I will teach the children their behaviours; and I will be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the knight with my taber. That will be excellent. I'll go buy them vizards. My Nan shall be the queen of all the fairies, Finely attired in a robe of white. That silk will I go buy: and in that time Shall Master Slender steal my Nan away, And marry her at Eton. Go, send to Falstaff straight. Nay, I'll to him again in name of Brook; He'll tell me all his purpose. Sure, he'll come. Fear not you that. Go, get us properties, And tricking for our fairies. Let us about it: it is admirable pleasures and fery honest knaveries.
Go, Mistress Ford, Send Quickly to Sir John, to know his mind. I'll to the doctor: he hath my good will, And none but he, to marry with Nan Page. That Slender, though well landed, is an idiot; And him my husband best of all affects: The doctor is well money'd, and his friends Potent at court: he, none but he, shall have her, Though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her. What wouldst thou have, boor? what, thick-skin? speak, breathe, discuss; brief, short, quick, snap. Marry, sir, I come to speak with Sir John Falstaff from Master Slender. There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his standing-bed and truckle-bed: 'tis painted about with the story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go knock and call: he'll speak like an Anthropophaginian unto thee: knock, I say. There's an old woman, a fat woman, gone up into his chamber: I'll be so bold as stay, sir, till she come down; I come to speak with her, indeed. Ha! a fat woman! the knight may be robbed: I'll call. Bully knight! Bully Sir John! speak from thy lungs military: art thou there? it is thine host, thine Ephesian, calls. How now, mine host! Here's a Bohemian-Tartar tarries the coming down of thy fat woman. Let her descend, bully; let her descend; my chambers are honourable: fie! privacy? fie! There was, mine host, an old fat woman even now with me, but she's gone.
Pray you, sir, was't not the wise woman of Brainford? Ay, marry, was it, muscle-shell: what would you with her? My Master, sir, Master Slender, sent to her, seeing her go thorough the streets, to know, sir, whether one Nym, sir, that beguiled him of a chain, had the chain or no. I spake with the old woman about it. And what says she, I pray, sir? Marry, she says that the very same man that beguiled Master Slender of his chain cozened him of it. I would I could have spoken with the woman herself: I had other things to have spoken with her too, from him. What are they? let us know. Ay, come; quick. I may not conceal them, sir. Conceal them, or thou diest. Why, sir, they were nothing but about Mistress Anne Page; to know if it were my master's fortune to have her or no. 'Tis, 'tis his fortune. What, sir? To have her, or no. Go; say the woman told me so. May I be bold to say so, sir? Ay, Sir Tike; who more bold? I thank your worship: I shall make my master glad with these tidings. Thou art clerkly, thou art clerkly, Sir John. Was there a wise woman with thee?
Ay, that there was, mine host; one that hath taught me more wit than ever I learned before in my life: and I paid nothing for it neither, but was paid for my learning. Out, alas, sir! cozenage, mere cozenage! Where be my horses? speak well of them, varletto. Run away, with the cozeners; for so soon as I came beyond Eton, they threw me off, from behind one of them, in a slough of mire; and set spurs and away, like three German devils, three Doctor Faustuses. They are gone but to meet the duke, villain. Do not say they be fled: Germans are honest men. Where is mine host? What is the matter, sir? Have a care of your entertainments: there is a friend of mine come to town, tells me, there is three cozen-germans that has cozened all the hosts of Readins, of Maidenhead, of Colebrook, of horses and money. I tell you for good will, look you: you are wise and full of gibes and vlouting-stogs, and 'tis not convenient you should be cozened. Fare you well. Vere is mine host de Jarteer? Here, Master doctor, in perplexity and doubtful dilemma. I cannot tell vat is dat; but it is tell-a me dat you make grand preparation for a duke de Jamany: by my trot, dere is no duke dat de court is know to come. I tell you for good vill: adieu. Hue and cry, villain! go.
Assist me, knight; I am undone. Fly, run, hue and cry, villain! I am undone! I would all the world might be cozened, for I have been cozened and beaten too. If it should come to the ear of the court how I have been transformed, and how my transformation hath been washed and cudgelled, they would melt me out of my fat drop by drop, and liquor fishermen's boots with me: I warrant they would whip me with their fine wits till I were as crest-fallen as a dried pear. I never prospered since I forswore myself at primero. Well, if my wind were but long enough to say my prayers, I would repent. Now, whence come you? From the two parties, forsooth. The devil take one party and his dam the other! and so they shall be both bestowed. I have suffered more for their sakes, more than the villanous inconstancy of man's disposition is able to bear. And have not they suffered? Yes, I warrant; speciously one of them: Mistress Ford, good heart, is beaten black and blue, that you cannot see a white spot about her. What tellest thou me of black and blue?
I was beaten myself into all the colours of the rainbow; and I was like to be apprehended for the witch of Brainford: but that my admirable dexterity of wit, my counterfeiting the action of an old woman, delivered me, the knave constable had set me i' the stocks, i' the common stocks, for a witch. Sir, let me speak with you in your chamber; you shall hear how things go, and, I warrant, to your content. Here is a letter will say somewhat. Good hearts! what ado here is to bring you together! Sure, one of you does not serve heaven well, that you are so crossed. Come up into my chamber. Master Fenton, talk not to me: my mind is heavy; I will give over all. Yet hear me speak. Assist me in my purpose, And, as I am a gentleman, I'll give thee A hundred pound in gold more than your loss. I will hear you, Master Fenton; and I will, at the least, keep your counsel. From time to time I have acquainted you With the dear love I bear to fair Anne Page; Who, mutually hath answer'd my affection, So far forth as herself might be her chooser, Even to my wish.
I have a letter from her Of such contents as you will wonder at; The mirth whereof so larded with my matter, That neither singly can be manifested, Without the show of both; wherein fat Falstaff Hath a great scare: the image of the jest I'll show you here at large Hark, good mine host: To-night at Herne's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one, Must my sweet Nan present the Fairy Queen; The purpose why, is here: in which disguise, While other jests are something rank on foot, Her father hath commanded her to slip Away with Slender, and with him at Eton Immediately to marry: she hath consented: Now, sir, Her mother, even strong against that match And firm for Doctor Caius, hath appointed That he shall likewise shuffle her away, While other sports are tasking of their minds; And at the deanery, where a priest attends, Straight marry her: to this her mother's plot She, seemingly obedient, likewise hath Made promise to the doctor.
Now, thus it rests: Her father means she shall be all in white, And in that habit, when Slender sees his time To take her by the hand and bid her go, She shall go with him: her mother hath intended, The better to denote her to the doctor, For they must all be mask'd and vizarded That quaint in green she shall be loose enrob'd, With ribands pendent, flaring 'bout her head; And when the doctor spies his vantage ripe, To pinch her by the hand; and on that token The maid hath given consent to go with him. Which means she to deceive, father or mother? Both, my good host, to go along with me: And here it rests, that you'll procure the vicar To stay for me at church 'twixt twelve and one, And, in the lawful name of marrying, To give our hearts united ceremony. Well, husband your device; I'll to the vicar. Bring you the maid, you shall not lack a priest. So shall I evermore be bound to thee; Besides, I'll make a present recompense. Prithee, no more prattling; go: I'll hold. This is the third time; I hope good luck lies in odd numbers. Away! go. They say there is divinity in odd numbers, either in nativity, chance or death. Away! I'll provide you a chain, and I'll do what I can to get you a pair of horns.
Away, I say; time wears: hold up your head, and mince. How now, Master Brook! Master Brook, the matter will be known to-night, or never. Be you in the Park about midnight, at Herne's oak, and you shall see wonders. Went you not to her yesterday, sir, as you told me you had appointed? I went to her, Master Brook, as you see, like a poor old man; but I came from her, Master Brook, like a poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband, hath the finest mad devil of jealousy in him, Master Brook, that ever governed frenzy. I will tell you: he beat me grievously, in the shape of a woman; for in the shape of a man, Master Brook, I fear not Goliath with a weaver's beam, because I know also life is a shuttle. I am in haste: go along with me; I'll tell you all, Master Brook. Since I plucked geese, played traunt, and whipped top, I knew not what it was to be beaten till lately. Follow me: I'll tell you strange things of this knave Ford, on whom to-night I will be revenged, and I will deliver his wife into your hand. Follow. Strange things in hand, Master Brook! Follow. Come, come; we'll couch i' the castle-ditch till we see the light of our fairies. Remember, son Slender, my daughter.
Ay, forsooth; I have spoke with her and we have a nayword how to know one another. I come to her in white, and cry, 'mum;' she cries, 'budget;' and by that we know one another. That's good too: but what needs either your 'mum,' or her 'budget?' the white will decipher her well enough. It hath struck ten o'clock. The night is dark; light and spirits will become it well. Heaven prosper our sport! No man means evil but the devil, and we shall know him by his horns. Let's away; follow me. Master Doctor, my daughter is in green: when you see your time, take her by the hand, away with her to the deanery, and dispatch it quickly. Go before into the Park: we two must go together. I know vat I have to do. Adieu. Fare you well, sir. My husband will not rejoice so much at the abuse of Falstaff, as he will chafe at the doctor's marrying my daughter: but 'tis no matter; better a little chiding than a great deal of heart break. Where is Nan now and her troop of fairies, and the Welsh devil, Hugh? They are all couched in a pit hard by Herne's oak, with obscured lights; which, at the very instant of Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once display to the night. That cannot choose but amaze him.
If he be not amazed, he will be mocked; if he be amazed, he will every way be mocked. We'll betray him finely. Against such lewdsters and their lechery, Those that betray them do no treachery. The hour draws on: to the oak, to the oak! Trib, trib, fairies: come; and remember your parts. Be pold, I pray you; follow me into the pit, and when I give the watch-ords, do as I pid you. Come, come; trib, trib. The Windsor bell hath struck twelve; the minute draws on. Now, the hot-blooded gods assist me! Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa; love set on thy horns. O powerful love! that, in some respects, makes a beast a man; in some other, a man a beast. You were also, Jupiter, a swan for the love of Leda; O omnipotent love! how near the god drew to the complexion of a goose! A fault done first in the form of a beast; O Jove, a beastly fault! and then another fault in the semblance of a fowl: think on 't, Jove; a foul fault! When gods have hot backs, what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a Windsor stag; and the fattest, I think, i' the forest: send me a cool rut-time, Jove, or who can blame me to piss my tallow? Who comes here? my doe? Sir John! art thou there, my deer? my male deer? My doe with the black scut!
Let the sky rain potatoes; let it thunder to the tune of 'Green Sleeves;' hail kissing-comfits and snow eringoes; let there come a tempest of provocation, I will shelter me here. Mistress Page is come with me, sweetheart. Divide me like a brib'd buck, each a haunch: I will keep my sides to myself, my shoulders for the fellow of this walk, and my horns I bequeath your husbands. Am I a woodman, ha? Speak I like Herne the hunter? Why, now is Cupid a child of conscience; he makes restitution. As I am a true spirit, welcome! Alas! what noise? Heaven forgive our sins! What should this be? Away, away! Away, away! I think the devil will not have me damned, lest the oil that is in me should set hell on fire; he would never else cross me thus. Fairies, black, grey, green, and white, You moonshine revellers, and shades of night, You orphan heirs of fixed destiny, Attend your office and your quality. Crier Hobgoblin, make the fairy oyes. Elves, list your names: silence, you airy toys! Cricket, to Windsor chimneys shalt thou leap: Where fires thou find'st unrak'd and hearths unswept, There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry: Our radiant queen hates sluts and sluttery. They are fairies; he that speaks to them shall die: I'll wink and couch: no man their works must eye. Where's Bede?
Go you, and where you find a maid That, ere she sleep, has thrice her prayers said, Rein up the organs of her fantasy, Sleep she as sound as careless infancy; But those that sleep and think not on their sins, Pinch them, arms, legs, backs, shoulders, sides, and shins. About, about! Search Windsor castle, elves, within and out: Strew good luck, ouphs, on every sacred room, That it may stand till the perpetual doom, In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit, Worthy the owner, and the owner it. The several chairs of order look you scour With juice of balm and every precious flower: Each fair instalment, coat, and several crest, With loyal blazon, ever more be blest! And nightly, meadow-fairies, look you sing, Like to the Garter's compass, in a ring: The expressure that it bears, green let it be, More fertile-fresh than all the field to see; And, Honi soit qui mal y pense write In emerald tufts, flowers purple, blue, and white; Like sapphire, pearl, and rich embroidery, Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee: Fairies use flowers for their charactery. Away! disperse! But, till 'tis one o'clock, Our dance of custom round about the oak Of Herne the hunter, let us not forget. Pray you, lock hand in hand; yourselves in order set; And twenty glow-worms shall our lanthorns be, To guide our measure round about the tree. But, stay; I smell a man of middle-earth.
Heavens defend me from that Welsh fairy, lest he transform me to a piece of cheese! Vile worm, thou wast o'erlook'd even in thy birth. With trial-fire touch me his finger-end: If he be chaste, the flame will back descend And turn him to no pain; but if he start, It is the flesh of a corrupted heart. A trial! come. Come, will this wood take fire? Oh, oh, oh! Corrupt, corrupt, and tainted in desire! About him, fairies, sing a scornful rime; And, as you trip, still pinch him to your time. Fie on sinful fantasy! Fie on lust and luxury! Lust is but a bloody fire, Kindled with unchaste desire, Fed in heart, whose flames aspire, As thoughts do blow them higher and higher. Pinch him, fairies, mutually; Pinch him for his villany; Pinch him, and burn him, and turn him about, Till candles and star-light and moonshine be out. Nay, do not fly: I think we have watch'd you now: Will none but Herne the hunter serve your turn? I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher. Now, good Sir John, how like you Windsor wives? See you these, husband? do not these fair yokes Become the forest better than the town? Now sir, who's a cuckold now?
Master Brook, Falstaff's a knave, a cuckoldly knave; here are his horns, Master Brook: and, Master Brook, he hath enjoyed nothing of Ford's but his buck-basket, his cudgel, and twenty pounds of money, which must be paid too, Master Brook; his horses are arrested for it, Master Brook. Sir John, we have had ill luck; we could never meet. I will never take you for my love again, but I will always count you my deer. I do begin to perceive that I am made an ass. Ay, and an ox too; both the proofs are extant. And these are not fairies? I was three or four times in the thought they were not fairies; and yet the guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my powers, drove the grossness of the foppery into a received belief, in despite of the teeth of all rime and reason, that they were fairies. See now how wit may be made a Jack-a-lent, when 'tis upon ill employment! Sir John Falstaff, serve Got, and leave your desires, and fairies will not pinse you. Well said, fairy Hugh. And leave you your jealousies too, I pray you. I will never mistrust my wife again, till thou art able to woo her in good English. Have I laid my brain in the sun and dried it, that it wants matter to prevent so gross o'er-reaching as this? Am I ridden with a Welsh goat too?
shall I have a coxcomb of frize? 'Tis time I were choked with a piece of toasted cheese. Seese is not goot to give putter: your pelly is all putter. 'Seese' and 'putter!' have I lived to stand at the taunt of one that makes fritters of English? This is enough to be the decay of lust and late-walking through the realm. Why, Sir John, do you think, though we would have thrust virtue out of our hearts by the head and shoulders, and have given ourselves without scruple to hell, that ever the devil could have made you our delight? What, a hodge-pudding? a bag of flax? A puffed man? Old, cold, withered, and of intolerable entrails? And one that is as slanderous as Satan? And as poor as Job? And as wicked as his wife? And given to fornications, and to taverns, and sack and wine and metheglins, and to drinkings and swearings and starings, pribbles and prabbles? Well, I am your theme: you have the start of me; I am dejected; I am not able to answer the Welsh flannel. Ignorance itself is a plummet o'er me: use me as you will.
Marry, sir, we'll bring you to Windsor, to one Master Brook, that you have cozened of money, to whom you should have been a pander: over and above that you have suffered, I think, to repay that money will be a biting affliction. Nay, husband, let that go to make amends; Forgive that sum, and so we'll all be friends. Well, here's my hand: all is forgiven at last. Yet be cheerful, knight: thou shalt eat a posset to-night at my house; where I will desire thee to laugh at my wife, that now laughs at thee. Tell her, Master Slender hath married her daughter. Doctors doubt that: if Anne Page be my daughter, she is, by this Doctor Caius' wife. Whoa, ho! ho! father Page! Son, how now! how now, son! have you dispatched? Dispatched! I'll make the best in Gloster-shire know on 't; would I were hanged, la, else! Of what, son? I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne Page, and she's a great lubberly boy: if it had not been i' the church, I would have swinged him, or he should have swinged me. If I did not think it had been Anne Page, would I might never stir! and 'tis a postmaster's boy. Upon my life, then, you took the wrong. What need you tell me that? I think so, when I took a boy for a girl.
If I had been married to him, for all he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had him. Why, this is your own folly. Did not I tell you how you should know my daughter by her garments? I went to her in white, and cried, 'mum,' and she cried 'budget,' as Anne and I had appointed; and yet it was not Anne, but a postmaster's boy. Jeshu! Master Slender, cannot you see put marry poys? O I am vexed at heart: what shall I do? Good George, be not angry: I knew of your purpose; turned my daughter into green; and, indeed, she is now with the doctor at the deanery, and there married. Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened: I ha' married un garçon, a boy; un paysan, by gar, a boy; it is not Anne Page: by gar, I am cozened. Why, did you not take her in green? Ay, by gar, and 'tis a boy: by gar, I'll raise all Windsor. This is strange. Who hath got the right Anne? My heart misgives me: here comes Master Fenton. How now, Master Fenton! Pardon, good father! good my mother, pardon! Now, mistress, how chance you went not with Master Slender? Why went you not with Master Doctor, maid? You do amaze her: hear the truth of it. You would have married her most shamefully, Where there was no proportion held in love.
The truth is, she and I, long since contracted, Are now so sure that nothing can dissolve us. The offence is holy that she hath committed, And this deceit loses the name of craft, Of disobedience, or unduteous title, Since therein she doth evitate and shun A thousand irreligious cursed hours, Which forced marriage would have brought upon her. Stand not amaz'd: here is no remedy: In love the heavens themselves do guide the state: Money buys lands, and wives are sold by fate. I am glad, though you have ta'en a special stand to strike at me, that your arrow hath glanced. Well, what remedy? Fenton, heaven give thee joy! What cannot be eschew'd must be embrac'd. When night dogs run all sorts of deer are chas'd. Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton, Heaven give you many, many merry days! Good husband, let us every one go home, And laugh this sport o'er by a country fire; Sir John and all. Let it be so. Sir John, To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word; For he to-night shall lie with Mistress Ford.
Escalus. My lord? Of government the properties to unfold, Would seem in me to affect speech and discourse, Since I am put to know that your own science Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice My strength can give you: then no more remains, But that, to your sufficiency, as your worth is able, And let them work. The nature of our people, Our city's institutions, and the terms For common justice, you're as pregnant in, As art and practice hath enriched any That we remember. There is our commission, From which we would not have you warp. Call hither, I say, bid come before us Angelo. What figure of us think you he will bear? For you must know, we have with special soul Elected him our absence to supply, Lent him our terror, drest him with our love, And given his deputation all the organs Of our own power: what think you of it? If any in Vienna be of worth To undergo such ample grace and honour, It is Lord Angelo. Look where he comes. Always obedient to your Grace's will, I come to know your pleasure. Angelo, There is a kind of character in thy life, That, to th' observer doth thy history Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings Are not thine own so proper, as to waste Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do, Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends The smallest scruple of her excellence, But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines Herself the glory of a creditor, Both thanks and use. But I do bend my speech To one that can my part in him advertise; Hold, therefore, Angelo: In our remove be thou at full ourself; Mortality and mercy in Vienna Live in thy tongue and heart. Old Escalus, Though first in question, is thy secondary. Take thy commission. Now, good my lord, Let there be some more test made of my metal, Before so noble and so great a figure Be stamp'd upon it. No more evasion: We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice Proceeded to you; therefore take your honours. Our haste from hence is of so quick condition That it prefers itself, and leaves unquestion'd Matters of needful value. We shall write to you, As time and our concernings shall importune, How it goes with us; and do look to know What doth befall you here. So, fare you well: To the hopeful execution do I leave you Of your commissions. Yet, give leave, my lord, That we may bring you something on the way.
My haste may not admit it; Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do With any scruple: your scope is as mine own, So to enforce or qualify the laws As to your soul seems good. Give me your hand; I'll privily away: I love the people, But do not like to stage me to their eyes. Though it do well, I do not relish well Their loud applause and Aves vehement, Nor do I think the man of safe discretion That does affect it. Once more, fare you well. The heavens give safety to your purposes! Lead forth and bring you back in happiness! I thank you. Fare you well. I shall desire you, sir, to give me leave To have free speech with you; and it concerns me To look into the bottom of my place: A power I have, but of what strength and nature I am not yet instructed. 'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together, And we may soon our satisfaction have Touching that point. I'll wait upon your honour. If the Duke with the other dukes come not to composition with the King of Hungary, why then, all the dukes fall upon the king. Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King of Hungary's! Amen. Thou concludest like the sanctimonious pirate, that went to sea with the Ten Commandments, but scraped one out of the table. 'Thou shalt not steal?' Ay, that he razed.
Why, 'twas a commandment to command the captain and all the rest from their functions: they put forth to steal. There's not a soldier of us all, that, in the thanksgiving before meat, doth relish the petition well that prays for peace. I never heard any soldier dislike it. I believe thee, for I think thou never wast where grace was said. No? a dozen times at least. What, in metre? In any proportion or in any language. I think, or in any religion. Ay; why not? Grace is grace, despite of all controversy: as, for example, thou thyself art a wicked villain, despite of all grace. Well, there went but a pair of shears between us. I grant; as there may between the lists and the velvet: thou art the list. And thou the velvet: thou art good velvet; thou art a three-piled piece, I warrant thee. I had as lief be a list of an English kersey as be piled, as thou art piled, for a French velvet. Do I speak feelingly now? I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painful feeling of thy speech: I will, out of thine own confession, learn to begin thy health; but, whilst I live, forget to drink after thee. I think I have done myself wrong, have I not? Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free. Behold, behold, where Madam Mitigation comes!
I have purchased as many diseases under her roof as come to To what, I pray? Judge. To three thousand dolours a year. Ay, and more. A French crown more. Thou art always figuring diseases in me; but thou art full of error: I am sound. Nay, not as one would say, healthy; but so sound as things that are hollow: thy bones are hollow; impiety has made a feast of thee. How now! which of your hips has the most profound sciatica? Well, well; there's one yonder arrested and carried to prison was worth five thousand of you all. Who's that, I pray thee? Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio. Claudio to prison! 'tis not so. Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested; saw him carried away; and, which is more, within these three days his head to be chopped off. But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so. Art thou sure of this? I am too sure of it; and it is for getting Madam Julietta with child. Believe me, this may be: he promised to meet me two hours since, and he was ever precise in promise-keeping. Besides, you know, it draws something near to the speech we had to such a purpose. But most of all, agreeing with the proclamation. Away! let's go learn the truth of it.
Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what with the gallows and what with poverty, I am custom-shrunk. How now! what's the news with you? Yonder man is carried to prison. Well: what has he done? A woman. But what's his offence? Groping for trouts in a peculiar river. What, is there a maid with child by him? No; but there's a woman with maid by him. You have not heard of the proclamation, have you? What proclamation, man? All houses of resort in the suburbs of Vienna must be plucked down And what shall become of those in the city? They shall stand for seed: they had gone down too, but that a wise burgher put in for them. But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be pulled down? To the ground, mistress. Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth! What shall become of me? Come; fear not you: good counsellors lack no clients: though you change your place, you need not change your trade; I'll be your tapster still. Courage! there will be pity taken on you; you that have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you will be considered. What's to do here, Thomas tapster? Let's withdraw. Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to prison; and there's Madam Juliet. Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to the world? Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
I do it not in evil disposition, But from Lord Angelo by special charge. Thus can the demi-god Authority Make us pay down for our offence' by weight. The words of heaven; on whom it will, it will; On whom it will not, so: yet still 'tis just. Why, how now, Claudio! whence comes this restraint? From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty: As surfeit is the father of much fast, So every scope by the immoderate use Turns to restraint. Our natures do pursue Like rats that ravin down their proper bane, A thirsty evil, and when we drink we die. If I could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would send for certain of my creditors. And yet, to say the truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedom as the morality of imprisonment. What's thy offence, Claudio? What but to speak of would offend again. What, is't murder? No. Lechery? Call it so. Away, sir! you must go. One word, good friend. Lucio, a word with you. A hundred, if they'll do you any good. Is lechery so looked after?
Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract I got possession of Julietta's bed: You know the lady; she is fast my wife, Save that we do the denunciation lack Of outward order: this we came not to, Only for propagation of a dower Remaining in the coffer of her friends, From whom we thought it meet to hide our love Till time had made them for us. But it chances The stealth of our most mutual entertainment With character too gross is writ on Juliet. With child, perhaps? Unhappily, even so. And the new deputy now for the duke, Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness, Or whether that the body public be A horse whereon the governor doth ride, Who, newly in the seat, that it may know He can command, lets it straight feel the spur; Whether the tyranny be in his place, Or in his eminence that fills it up, I stagger in: but this new governor Awakes me all the enrolled penalties Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by the wall So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round, And none of them been worn; and, for a name, Now puts the drowsy and neglected act Freshly on me: 'tis surely for a name. I warrant it is: and thy head stands so tickle on thy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love, may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to him.
I have done so, but he's not to be found. I prithee, Lucio, do me this kind service. This day my sister should the cloister enter, And there receive her approbation: Acquaint her with the danger of my state; Implore her, in my voice, that she make friends To the strict deputy; bid herself assay him: I have great hope in that; for in her youth There is a prone and speechless dialect, Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art When she will play with reason and discourse, And well she can persuade. I pray she may: as well for the encouragement of the like, which else would stand under grievous imposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who I would be sorry should be thus foolishly lost at a game of tick-tack. I'll to her. I thank you, good friend Lucio. Within two hours. Come, officer, away! No, holy father; throw away that thought: Believe not that the dribbling dart of love Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee To give me secret harbour, hath a purpose More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends Of burning youth. May your Grace speak of it? My holy sir, none better knows than you How I have ever lov'd the life remov'd, And held in idle price to haunt assemblies Where youth, and cost, and witless bravery keeps.
I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo A man of stricture and firm abstinence My absolute power and place here in Vienna, And he supposes me travell'd to Poland; For so I have strew'd it in the common ear, And so it is receiv'd. Now, pious sir, You will demand of me why I do this? Gladly, my lord. We have strict statutes and most biting laws, The needful bits and curbs to headstrong steeds, Which for this fourteen years we have let sleep; Even like an o'ergrown lion in a cave, That goes not out to prey. Now, as fond fathers, Having bound up the threat'ning twigs of birch, Only to stick it in their children's sight For terror, not to use, in time the rod Becomes more mock'd than fear'd; so our decrees, Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead, And liberty plucks justice by the nose; The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart Goes all decorum. It rested in your Grace T' unloose this tied-up justice when you pleas'd; And it in you more dreadful would have seem'd Than in Lord Angelo. I do fear, too dreadful: Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope, 'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them For what I bid them do: for we bid this be done, When evil deeds have their permissive pass And not the punishment.
Therefore, indeed, my father, I have on Angelo impos'd the office, Who may, in the ambush of my name, strike home, And yet my nature never in the sight To do it slander. And to behold his sway, I will, as 'twere a brother of your order, Visit both prince and people: therefore, I prithee, Supply me with the habit, and instruct me How I may formally in person bear me Like a true friar. Moe reasons for this action At our more leisure shall I render you; Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise; Stands at a guard with envy; scarce confesses That his blood flows, or that his appetite Is more to bread than stone: hence shall we see, If power change purpose, what our seemers be. And have you nuns no further privileges? Are not these large enough? Yes, truly: I speak not as desiring more, But rather wishing a more strict restraint Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare. Ho! Peace be in this place! Who's that which calls? It is a man's voice. Gentle Isabella, Turn you the key, and know his business of him: You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn. When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men But in the presence of the prioress: Then, if you speak, you must not show your face, Or, if you show your face, you must not speak. He calls again; I pray you, answer him. Peace and prosperity!
Who is't that calls? Hail, virgin, if you be, as those cheek-roses Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me As bring me to the sight of Isabella, A novice of this place, and the fair sister To her unhappy brother Claudio? Why 'her unhappy brother?' let me ask; The rather for I now must make you know I am that Isabella and his sister. Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you: Not to be weary with you, he's in prison. Woe me! for what? For that which, if myself might be his judge, He should receive his punishment in thanks: He hath got his friend with child. Sir, make me not your story. It is true. I would not, though 'tis my familiar sin With maids to seem the lapwing and to jest, Tongue far from heart, play with all virgins so: I hold you as a thing ensky'd and sainted; By your renouncement an immortal spirit, And to be talk'd with in sincerity, As with a saint. You do blaspheme the good in mocking me. Do not believe it. Fewness and truth, 'tis thus: Your brother and his lover have embrac'd: As those that feed grow full, as blossoming time That from the seedness the bare fallow brings To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry. Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet? Is she your cousin?
Adoptedly; asschool-maids change their names By vain, though apt affection. She it is. O! let him marry her. This is the point. The duke is very strangely gone from hence; Bore many gentlemen, myself being one, In hand and hope of action; but we do learn By those that know the very nerves of state, His givings out were of an infinite distance From his true-meant design. Upon his place, And with full line of his authority, Governs Lord Angelo; a man whose blood Is very snow-broth; one who never feels The wanton stings and motions of the sense, But doth rebate and blunt his natural edge With profits of the mind, study and fast. He, to give fear to use and liberty, Which have for long run by the hideous law, As mice by lions, hath pick'd out an act, Under whose heavy sense your brother's life Falls into forfeit: he arrests him on it, And follows close the rigour of the statute, To make him an example. All hope is gone, Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer To soften Angelo; and that's my pith of business Twixt you and your poor brother. Doth he so seek his life? He's censur'd him Already; and, as I hear, the provost hath A warrant for his execution. Alas! what poor ability's in me To do him good? Assay the power you have. My power? alas!
I doubt Our doubts are traitors, And make us lose the good we oft might win, By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo, And let him learn to know, when maidens sue, Men give like gods; but when they weep and kneel, All their petitions are as freely theirs As they themselves would owe them. I'll see what I can do. But speedily. I will about it straight; No longer staying but to give the Mother Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you: Commend me to my brother; soon at night I'll send him certain word of my success. I take my leave of you. Good sir, adieu. We must not make a scarecrow of the law, Setting it up to fear the birds of prey, And let it keep one shape, till custom make it Their perch and not their terror. Ay, but yet Let us be keen and rather cut a little, Than fall, and bruise to death. Alas! this gentleman, Whom I would save, had a most noble father.
Let but your honour know, Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue, That, in the working of your own affections, Had time coher'd with place or place with wishing, Or that the resolute acting of your blood Could have attain'd the effect of your own purpose, Whether you had not, some time in your life, Err'd in this point which now you censure him, And pull'd the law upon you. 'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus, Another thing to fall. I not deny, The jury, passing on the prisoner's life, May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two Guiltier than him they try; what's open made to justice, That justice seizes: what know the laws That thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant, The jewel that we find, we stoop and take it Because we see it; but what we do not see We tread upon, and never think of it. You may not so extenuate his offence For I have had such faults; but rather tell me, When I, that censure him, do so offend, Let mine own judgment pattern out my death, And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die. Be it as your wisdom will. Where is the provost? Here, if it like your honour. See that Claudio Be executed by nine to-morrow morning: Bring him his confessor, let him be prepar'd; For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage. Well, heaven forgive him, and forgive us all!
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall: Some run from brakes of ice, and answer none, And some condemned for a fault alone. Come, bring them away: if these be good people in a common-weal that do nothing but use their abuses in common houses, I know no law: bring them away. How now, sir! What's your name, and what's the matter? If it please your honour, I am the poor duke's constable, and my name is Elbow: I do lean upon justice, sir; and do bring in here before your good honour two notorious benefactors. Benefactors! Well; what benefactors are they? are they not malefactors? If it please your honour, I know not well what they are; but precise villains they are, that I am sure of, and void of all profanation in the world that good Christians ought to have. This comes off well: here's a wise officer. Go to: what quality are they of? Elbow is your name? why dost thou not speak, Elbow? He cannot, sir: he's out at elbow. What are you, sir? He, sir! a tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one that serves a bad woman, whose house, sir, was, as they say, plucked down in the suburbs; and now she professes a hot-house, which, I think, is a very ill house too. How know you that? My wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour, How! thy wife?
Ay, sir; whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman, Dost thou detest her therefore? I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as she, that this house, if it be not a bawd's house, it is pity of her life, for it is a naughty house. How dost thou know that, constable? Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman cardinally given, might have been accused in fornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there. By the woman's means? Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means; but as she spit in his face, so she defied him. Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so. Prove it before these varlets here, thou honourable man, prove it. Do you hear how he misplaces? Sir, she came in, great with child, and longing, saving your honour's reverence, for stewed prunes. Sir, we had but two in the house, which at that very distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, a dish of some three-pence; your honours have seen such dishes; they are not China dishes, but very good dishes. Go to, go to: no matter for the dish, sir. No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in the right: but to the point.
As I say, this Mistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, and being great-bellied, and longing, as I said, for prunes, and having but two in the dish, as I said, Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the rest, as I said, and, as I say, paying for them very honestly; for, as you know, Master Froth, I could not give you three-pence again. No, indeed. Very well: you being then, if you be remembered, cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes, Ay, so I did, indeed. Why, very well: I telling you then, if you be remembered, that such a one and such a one were past cure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept very good diet, as I told you, All this is true. Why, very well then. Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. What was done to Elbow's wife, that he hath cause to complain of? Come me to what was done to her. Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet. No, sir, nor I mean it not. Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's leave. And, I beseech you, look into Master Froth here, sir; a man of fourscore pound a year, whose father died at Hallowmas. Was't not at Hallowmas, Master Froth? All-hallownd eve. Why, very well: I hope here be truths.
He, sir, sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in the Bunch of Grapes, where indeed, you have a delight to sit, have you not? I have so, because it is an open room and good for winter. Why, very well then: I hope here be truths. This will last out a night in Russia, When nights are longest there: I'll take my leave, And leave you to the hearing of the cause, Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all. I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship. Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more? Once, sir? there was nothing done to her once. I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife. I beseech your honour, ask me. Well, sir, what did this gentleman to her? I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face. Good Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a good purpose. Doth your honour mark his face? Ay, sir, very well. Nay, I beseech you, mark it well. Well, I do so. Doth your honour see any harm in his face? Why, no. I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worst thing about him. Good, then; if his face be the worst thing about him, how could Master Froth do the constable's wife any harm? I would know that of your honour. He's in the right. Constable, what say you to it?
First, an' it like you, the house is a respected house; next, this is a respected fellow, and his mistress is a respected woman. By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected person than any of us all. Varlet, thou liest: thou liest, wicked varlet. The time is yet to come that she was ever respected with man, woman, or child. Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her. Which is the wiser here? Justice, or Iniquity? Is this true? O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked Hannibal! I respected with her before I was married to her? If ever I was respected with her, or she with me, let not your worship think me the poor duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or I'll have mine action of battery on thee. If he took you a box o' th' ear, you might have your action of slander too. Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't your worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff? Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him that thou wouldest discover if thou couldst, let him continue in his courses till thou knowest what they are. Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou wicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art to continue now, thou varlet, thou art to continue. Where were you born, friend? Here in Vienna, sir.
Are you of fourscore pounds a year? Yes, an't please you, sir. So. What trade are you of, sir? A tapster; a poor widow's tapster. Your mistress' name? Mistress Overdone. Hath she had any more than one husband? Nine, sir; Overdone by the last. Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master Froth, I would not have you acquainted with tapsters; they will draw you, Master Froth, and you will hang them. Get you gone, and let me hear no more of you. I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never come into any room in a taphouse, but I am drawn in. Well: no more of it, Master Froth: farewell. Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's your name, Master tapster? Pompey. What else? Bum, sir. Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you, so that, in the beastliest sense, you are Pompey the Great. Pompey, you are partly a bawd, Pompey, howsoever you colour it in being a tapster, are you not? come, tell me true: it shall be the better for you. Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live. How would you live, Pompey? by being a bawd? What do you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade? If the law would allow it, sir. But the law will not allow it, Pompey; nor it shall not be allowed in Vienna.
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the youth of the city? No, Pompey. Truly, sir, in my humble opinion, they will to't then. If your worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds. There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you: it is but heading and hanging. If you head and hang all that offend that way but for ten year together, you'll be glad to give out a commission for more heads. If this law hold in Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in it after threepence a bay. If you live to see this come to pass, say, Pompey told you so. Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your prophecy, hark you: I advise you, let me not find you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever; no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey, I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd Cæsar to you. In plain dealing, Pompey, I shall have you whipt. So, for this time, Pompey, fare you well. I thank your worship for your good counsel; but I shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall better determine. Whip me! No, no; let carman whip his jade; The valiant heart's not whipt out of his trade. Come hither to me, Master Elbow; come hither, Master constable. How long have you been in this place of constable?
Seven year and a half, sir. I thought, by your readiness in the office, you had continued in it some time. You say, seven years together? And a half, sir. Alas! it hath been great pains to you! They do you wrong to put you so oft upon 't. Are there not men in your ward sufficient to serve it? Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters. As they are chosen, they are glad to choose me for them: I do it for some piece of money, and go through with all. Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven, the most sufficient of your parish. To your worship's house, sir? To my house. Fare you well. What's o'clock, think you? Eleven, sir. I pray you home to dinner with me. I humbly thank you. It grieves me for the death of Claudio; But there is no remedy. Lord Angelo is severe. It is but needful: Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so; Pardon is still the nurse of second woe. But yet, poor Claudio! There's no remedy. Come, sir. He's hearing of a cause: he will come straight: I'll tell him of you. Pray you, do. I'll know His pleasure; may be he will relent. Alas! He hath but as offended in a dream: All sects, all ages smack of this vice, and he To die for it! Now, what's the matter, provost?
Is it your will Claudio shall die to-morrow? Did I not tell thee, yea? hadst thou not order? Why dost thou ask again? Lest I might be too rash. Under your good correction, I have seen, When, after execution, Judgment hath Repented o'er his doom. Go to; let that be mine: Do you your office, or give up your place, And you shall well be spar'd. I crave your honour's pardon. What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet? She's very near her hour. Dispose of her To some more fitter place; and that with speed. Here is the sister of the man condemn'd Desires access to you. Hath he a sister? Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid, And to be shortly of a sisterhood, If not already. Well, let her be admitted. See you the fornicatress be remov'd: Let her have needful, but not lavish, means; There shall be order for't. God save your honour! Stay a little while. You're welcome: what's your will? I am a woful suitor to your honour, Please but your honour hear me. Well; what's your suit? There is a vice that most I do abhor, And most desire should meet the blow of justice, For which I would not plead, but that I must; For which I must not plead, but that I am At war 'twixt will and will not. Well; the matter?
I have a brother is condemn'd to die: I do beseech you, let it be his fault, And not my brother. Heaven give thee moving graces! Condemn the fault, and not the actor of it? Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done. Mine were the very cipher of a function, To fine the faults whose fine stands in record, And let go by the actor. O just, but severe law! I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour! Give't not o'er so: to him again, entreat him; Kneel down before him, hang upon his gown; You are too cold; if you should need a pin, You could not with more tame a tongue desire it. To him. I say! Must he needs die? Maiden, no remedy. Yes; I do think that you might pardon him, And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy. I will not do't. But can you, if you would? Look, what I will not, that I cannot do. But might you do't, and do the world no wrong, If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse As mine is to him? He's sentenc'd: 'tis too late. You are too cold. Too late? why, no; I, that do speak a word, May call it back again.
Well, believe this, No ceremony that to great ones 'longs, Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword, The marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe, Become them with one half so good a grace As mercy does. If he had been as you, and you as he, You would have slipt like him; but he, like you, Would not have been so stern. Pray you, be gone. I would to heaven I had your potency, And you were Isabel! should it then be thus? No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge, And what a prisoner. Ay, touch him; there's the vein. Your brother is a forfeit of the law, And you but waste your words. Alas! alas! Why, all the souls that were were forfeit once; And He that might the vantage best have took, Found out the remedy. How would you be, If He, which is the top of judgment, should But judge you as you are? O! think on that, And mercy then will breathe within your lips, Like man new made. Be you content, fair maid; It is the law, not I, condemn your brother: Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son, It should be thus with him: he must die to-morrow. To-morrow! O! that's sudden! Spare him, spare him! He's not prepar'd for death. Even for our kitchens We kill the fowl of season: shall we serve heaven With less respect than we do minister To our gross selves?
Good, good my lord, bethink you: Who is it that hath died for this offence? There's many have committed it. Ay, well said. The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept: Those many had not dar'd to do that evil, If that the first that did th' edict infringe Had answer'd for his deed: now 'tis awake, Takes note of what is done, and, like a prophet, Looks in a glass, that shows what future evils, Either new, or by remissness new-conceiv'd, And so in progress to be hatch'd and born, Are now to have no successive degrees, But, ere they live, to end. Yet show some pity. I show it most of all when I show justice; For then I pity those I do not know, Which a dismiss'd offence would after gall, And do him right, that, answering one foul wrong, Lives not to act another. Be satisfied: Your brother dies to-morrow: be content. So you must be the first that gives this sentence, And he that suffers. O! it is excellent To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous To use it like a giant. That's well said. Could great men thunder As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet, For every pelting, petty officer Would use his heaven for thunder; nothing but thunder. Merciful heaven!
Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak Than the soft myrtle; but man, proud man, Drest in a little brief authority, Most ignorant of what he's most assur'd, His glassy essence, like an angry ape, Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven As make the angels weep; who, with our spleens, Would all themselves laugh mortal. O, to him, to him, wench! He will relent: He's coming: I perceive't. Pray heaven she win him! We cannot weigh our brother with ourself: Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them, But, in the less foul profanation. Thou'rt in the right, girl: more o' that. That in the captain's but a choleric word, Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy. Art advis'd o' that? more on 't. Why do you put these sayings upon me? Because authority, though it err like others, Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself, That skins the vice o' the top. Go to your bosom; Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know That's like my brother's fault: if it confess A natural guiltiness such as is his, Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue Against my brother's life. She speaks, and 'tis Such sense that my sense breeds with it. Fare you well. Gentle my lord, turn back. I will bethink me. Come again to-morrow. Hark how I'll bribe you. Good my lord, turn back. How! bribe me?
Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you. You had marr'd all else. Not with fond sicles of the tested gold, Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor As fancy values them; but with true prayers That shall be up at heaven and enter there Ere sun-rise: prayers from preserved souls, From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate To nothing temporal. Well; come to me to-morrow. Go to; 'tis well: away! Heaven keep your honour safe! Amen: For I am that way going to temptation, Where prayers cross. At what hour to-morrow Shall I attend your lordship? At any time 'fore noon. Save your honour! From thee; even from thy virtue! What's this? what's this? Is this her fault or mine? The tempter or the tempted, who sins most? Ha! Not she; nor doth she tempt: but it is I, That, lying by the violet in the sun, Do as the carrion does, not as the flower, Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be That modesty may more betray our sense Than woman's lightness? Having waste ground enough, Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary, And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie! What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo? Dost thou desire her foully for those things That make her good? O, let her brother live! Thieves for their robbery have authority When judges steal themselves. What!
do I love her, That I desire to hear her speak again, And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on? O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint, With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous Is that temptation that doth goad us on To sin in loving virtue: never could the strumpet, With all her double vigour, art and nature, Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid Subdues me quite. Ever till now, When men were fond, I smil'd and wonder'd how. Hail to you, provost! so I think you are. I am the provost. What's your will, good friar? Bound by my charity and my bless'd order, I come to visit the afflicted spirits Here in the prison: do me the common right To let me see them and to make me know The nature of their crimes, that I may minister To them accordingly. I would do more than that, if more were needful. Look, here comes one: a gentlewoman of mine, Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth, Hath blister'd her report. She is with child, And he that got it, sentenc'd; a young man More fit to do another such offence, Than die for this. When must he die? As I do think, to-morrow. I have provided for you: stay a while, And you shall be conducted. Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry? I do, and bear the shame most patiently.
I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience, And try your penitence, if it be sound, Or hollowly put on. I'll gladly learn. Love you the man that wrong'd you? Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him. So then it seems your most offenceful act Was mutually committed? Mutually. Then was your sin of heavier kind than his. I do confess it, and repent it, father. 'Tis meet so, daughter: but lest you do repent, As that the sin hath brought you to this shame, Which sorrow is always toward ourselves, not heaven, Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it, But as we stand in fear, I do repent me, as it is an evil, And take the shame with joy. There rest. Your partner, as I hear, must die to-morrow, And I am going with instruction to him. God's grace go with you! Benedicite! Must die to-morrow! O injurious love, That respites me a life, whose very comfort Is still a dying horror! 'Tis pity of him. When I would pray and think, I think and pray To several subjects: heaven hath my empty words, Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue, Anchors on Isabel: heaven in my mouth, As if I did but only chew his name, And in my heart the strong and swelling evil Of my conception.
The state, whereon I studied, Is like a good thing, being often read, Grown fear'd and tedious; yea, my gravity, Wherein, let no man hear me, I take pride, Could I with boot change for an idle plume, Which the air beats for vain. O place! O form! How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit, Wrench awe from fools, and tie the wiser souls To thy false seeming! Blood, thou art blood: Let's write good angel on the devil's horn, 'Tis not the devil's crest. How now! who's there? One Isabel, a sister, Desires access to you. Teach her the way. O heavens! Why does my blood thus muster to my heart, Making both it unable for itself, And dispossessing all my other parts Of necessary fitness? So play the foolish throngs with one that swounds; Come all to help him, and so stop the air By which he should revive: and even so The general, subject to a well-wish'd king, Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love Must needs appear offence. How now, fair maid! I am come to know your pleasure. That you might know it, would much better please me, Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live. Even so. Heaven keep your honour! Yet may he live awhile; and, it may be, As long as you or I: yet he must die. Under your sentence? Yea. When, I beseech you?
that in his reprieve, Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted That his soul sicken not. Ha! fie, these filthy vices! It were as good To pardon him that hath from nature stolen A man already made, as to remit Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image In stamps that are forbid: 'tis all as easy Falsely to take away a life true made, As to put metal in restrained means To make a false one. 'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth. Say you so? then I shall pose you quickly. Which had you rather, that the most just law Now took your brother's life; or, to redeem him, Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness As she that he hath stain'd? Sir, believe this, I had rather give my body than my soul. I talk not of your soul. Our compell'd sins Stand more for number than for accompt. How say you? Nay, I'll not warrant that; for I can speak Against the thing I say. Answer to this: I, now the voice of the recorded law, Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life: Might there not be a charity in sin To save this brother's life? Please you to do't, I'll take it as a peril to my soul; It is no sin at all, but charity. Pleas'd you to do't, at peril of your soul, Were equal poise of sin and charity.
That I do beg his life, if it be sin, Heaven let me bear it! you granting of my suit, If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer To have it added to the faults of mine, And nothing of your answer. Nay, but hear me. Your sense pursues not mine: either you are ignorant, Or seem so craftily; and that's not good. Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good, But graciously to know I am no better. Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright When it doth tax itself; as these black masks Proclaim an enshield beauty ten times louder Than beauty could, display'd. But mark me; To be received plain, I'll speak more gross: Your brother is to die. So. And his offence is so, as it appears Accountant to the law upon that pain. True.
Admit no other way to save his life, As I subscribe not that, nor any other, But in the loss of question, that you, his sister, Finding yourself desir'd of such a person, Whose credit with the judge, or own great place, Could fetch your brother from the manacles Of the all-building law; and that there were No earthly mean to save him, but that either You must lay down the treasures of your body To this suppos'd, or else to let him suffer; What would you do? As much for my poor brother, as myself: That is, were I under the terms of death, Th' impression of keen whips I'd wear as rubies, And strip myself to death, as to a bed That, longing, have been sick for, ere I'd yield My body up to shame. Then must your brother die. And 'twere the cheaper way: Better it were a brother died at once, Than that a sister, by redeeming him, Should die for ever. Were not you then as cruel as the sentence That you have slander'd so? Ignomy in ransom and free pardon Are of two houses: lawful mercy Is nothing kin to foul redemption. You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant; And rather prov'd the sliding of your brother A merriment than a vice. O, pardon me, my lord! it oft falls out, To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean.
I something do excuse the thing I hate, For his advantage that I dearly love. We are all frail. Else let my brother die, If not a feodary, but only he Owe and succeed thy weakness. Nay, women are frail too. Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves, Which are as easy broke as they make forms. Women! Help heaven! men their creation mar In profiting by them. Nay, call us ten times frail, For we are soft as our complexions are, And credulous to false prints. I think it well: And from this testimony of your own sex, Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger Than faults may shake our frames, let me be bold; I do arrest your words. Be that you are, That is, a woman; if you be more, you're none; If you be one, as you are well express'd By all external warrants, show it now, By putting on the destin'd livery. I have no tongue but one: gentle my lord, Let me entreat you speak the former language. Plainly conceive, I love you. My brother did love Juliet; and you tell me That he shall die for't. He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love. I know your virtue hath a licence in't. Which seems a little fouler than it is, To pluck on others. Believe me, on mine honour, My words express my purpose. Ha!
little honour to be much believ'd, And most pernicious purpose! Seeming, seeming! I will proclaim thee, Angelo; look for't: Sign me a present pardon for my brother, Or with an outstretch'd throat I'll tell the world aloud What man thou art. Who will believe thee, Isabel? My unsoil'd name, the austereness of my life, My vouch against you, and my place i' the state, Will so your accusation overweigh, That you shall stifle in your own report And smell of calumny. I have begun; And now I give my sensual race the rein: Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite; Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes, That banish what they sue for; redeem thy brother By yielding up thy body to my will, Or else he must not only die the death, But thy unkindness shall his death draw out To lingering sufferance. Answer me to-morrow, Or, by the affection that now guides me most, I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you, Say what you can, my false o'erweighs your true. To whom should I complain? Did I tell this, Who would believe me? O perilous mouths! That bear in them one and the self-same tongue, Either of condemnation or approof, Bidding the law make curt'sy to their will; Hooking both right and wrong to th' appetite, To follow as it draws.
I'll to my brother: Though he hath fallen by prompture of the blood, Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour, That, had he twenty heads to tender down On twenty bloody blocks, he'd yield them up, Before his sister should her body stoop To such abhorr'd pollution. Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die: More than our brother is our chastity. I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request, And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest. So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo? The miserable have no other medicine But only hope: I have hope to live, and am prepar'd to die. Be absolute for death; either death or life Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life: If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing That none but fools would keep: a breath thou art, Servile to all the skyey influences, That dost this habitation, where thou keep'st, Hourly afflict. Merely, thou art death's fool; For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun, And yet run'st toward him still. Thou art not noble: For all th' accommodations that thou bear'st Are nurs'd by baseness. Thou art by no means valiant; For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep, And that thou oft provok'st; yet grossly fear'st Thy death, which is no more.
Thou art not thyself; For thou exist'st on many a thousand grains That issue out of dust. Happy thou art not; For what thou hast not, still thou striv'st to get, And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain; For thy complexion shifts to strange effects, After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor; For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows, Thou bear'st thy heavy riches but a journey, And death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none; For thine own bowels, which do call thee sire, The mere effusion of thy proper loins, Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum, For ending thee no sooner. Thou hast nor youth nor age; But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep, Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich, Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty, To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this That bears the name of life? Yet in this life Lie hid moe thousand deaths: yet death we fear, That makes these odds all even. I humbly thank you. To sue to live, I find I seek to die, And, seeking death, find life: let it come on. What ho! Peace here; grace and good company! Who's there? come in: the wish deserves a welcome. Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again. Most holy sir, I thank you.
My business is a word or two with Claudio. And very welcome. Look, signior; here's your sister. Provost, a word with you. As many as you please. Bring me to hear them speak, where I may be conceal'd. Now, sister, what's the comfort? Why, as all comforts are; most good, most good indeed. Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven, Intends you for his swift ambassador, Where you shall be an everlasting leiger: Therefore, your best appointment make with speed; To-morrow you set on. Is there no remedy? None, but such remedy, as to save a head To cleave a heart in twain. But is there any? Yes, brother, you may live: There is a devilish mercy in the judge, If you'll implore it, that will free your life, But fetter you till death. Perpetual durance? Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint, Though all the world's vastidity you had, To a determin'd scope. But in what nature? In such a one as, you consenting to't, Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear, And leave you naked. Let me know the point. O, I do fear thee, Claudio; and I quake, Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain, And six or seven winters more respect Than a perpetual honour. Dar'st thou die? The sense of death is most in apprehension, And the poor beetle, that we tread upon, In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great As when a giant dies. Why give you me this shame?
Think you I can a resolution fetch From flowery tenderness? If I must die, I will encounter darkness as a bride, And hug it in mine arms. There spake my brother: there my father's grave Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die: Thou art too noble to conserve a life In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy, Whose settled visage and deliberate word Nips youth i' the head, and follies doth enmew As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil; His filth within being cast, he would appear A pond as deep as hell. The prenzie Angelo? O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell, The damned'st body to invest and cover In prenzie guards! Dost thou think, Claudio? If I would yield him my virginity, Thou mightst be freed. O heavens! it cannot be. Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence, So to offend him still. This night's the time That I should do what I abhor to name, Or else thou diest to-morrow. Thou shalt not do't. O! were it but my life, I'd throw it down for your deliverance As frankly as a pin. Thanks, dear Isabel. Be ready, Claudio, for your death to-morrow. Yes. Has he affections in him, That thus can make him bite the law by the nose, When he would force it? Sure, it is no sin; Or of the deadly seven it is the least. Which is the least?
If it were damnable, he being so wise, Why would he for the momentary trick Be perdurably fin'd? O Isabel! What says my brother? Death is a fearful thing. And shamed life a hateful. Ay, but to die, and go we know not where; To lie in cold obstruction and to rot; This sensible warm motion to become A kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice; To be imprison'd in the viewless winds, And blown with restless violence round about The pendant world; or to be worse than worst Of those that lawless and incertain thoughts Imagine howling: 'tis too horrible! The weariest and most loathed worldly life That age, ache, penury and imprisonment Can lay on nature is a paradise To what we fear of death. Alas! alas! Sweet sister, let me live: What sin you do to save a brother's life, Nature dispenses with the deed so far That it becomes a virtue. O you beast! O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch! Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice? Is't not a kind of incest, to take life From thine own sister's shame? What should I think? Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair; For such a warped slip of wilderness Ne'er issu'd from his blood. Take my defiance; Die, perish! Might but my bending down Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed.
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death, No word to save thee. Nay, hear me, Isabel. O, fie, fie, fie! Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade. Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd: 'Tis best that thou diest quickly. O hear me, Isabella. Vouchsafe a word, young sister, but one word. What is your will? Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and by have some speech with you: the satisfaction I would require is likewise your own benefit. I have no superfluous leisure: my stay must be stolen out of other affairs; but I will attend you a while. Son, I have overheard what hath past between you and your sister. Angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her; only he hath made an assay of her virtue to practise his judgment with the disposition of natures. She, having the truth of honour in her, hath made him that gracious denial which he is most glad to receive: I am confessor to Angelo, and I know this to be true; therefore prepare yourself to death. Do not satisfy your resolution with hopes that are fallible: to-morrow you must die; go to your knees and make ready. Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love with life that I will sue to be rid of it. Hold you there: farewell. Provost, a word with you. What's your will, father? That now you are come, you will be gone.
Leave me awhile with the maid: my mind promises with my habit no loss shall touch her by my company. In good time. The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good: the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty brief in goodness; but grace, being the soul of your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever fair. The assault that Angelo hath made to you, fortune hath conveyed to my understanding; and, but that frailty hath examples for his falling, I should wonder at Angelo. How would you do to content this substitute, and to save your brother? I am now going to resolve him; I had rather my brother die by the law than my son should be unlawfully born. But O, how much is the good duke deceived in Angelo! If ever he return and I can speak to him. I will open my lips in vain, or discover his government. That shall not be much amiss: yet, as the matter now stands, he will avoid your accusation; 'he made trial of you only.' Therefore, fasten your ear on my advisings: to the love I have in doing good a remedy presents itself.
I do make myself believe that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited benefit, redeem your brother from the angry law, do no stain to your own gracious person, and much please the absent duke, if peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of this business. Let me hear you speak further. I have spirit to do anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit. Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have you not heard speak of Mariana, the sister of Frederick, the great soldier who miscarried at sea? I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her name. She should this Angelo have married; was affianced to her by oath, and the nuptial appointed: between which time of the contract, and limit of the solemnity, her brother Frederick was wracked at sea, having in that perished vessel the dowry of his sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the poor gentlewoman: there she lost a noble and renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most kind and natural; with him the portion and sinew of her fortune, her marriage-dowry with both, her combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo. Can this be so? Did Angelo so leave her?
Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them with his comfort; swallowed his vows whole, pretending in her discoveries of dishonour: in few, bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears, is washed with them, but relents not. What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid from the world! What corruption in this life, that it will let this man live! But how out of this can she avail? It is a rupture that you may easily heal; and the cure of it not only saves your brother, but keeps you from dishonour in doing it. Show me how, good father. This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance of her first affection: his unjust unkindness, that in all reason should have quenched her love, hath, like an impediment in the current, made it more violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo: answer his requiring with a plausible obedience: agree with his demands to the point; only refer yourself to this advantage, first, that your stay with him may not be long, that the time may have all shadow and silence in it, and the place answer to convenience.
This being granted in course, and now follows all, we shall advise this wronged maid to stead up your appointment, go in your place; if the encounter acknowledge itself hereafter, it may compel him to her recompense; and here by this is your brother saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana advantaged, and the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid will I frame and make fit for his attempt. If you think well to carry this, as you may, the doubleness of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof. What think you of it? The image of it gives me content already, and I trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection. It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily to Angelo: if for this night he entreat you to his bed, give him promise of satisfaction. I will presently to St. Luke's; there, at the moated grange, resides this dejected Mariana: at that place call upon me, and dispatch with Angelo, that it may be quickly. I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father. Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will needs buy and sell men and women like beasts, we shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard. O heavens! what stuff is here?
'Twas never merry world, since, of two usuries, the merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by order of law a furred gown to keep him warm; and furred with fox and lamb skins too, to signify that craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing. Come your way, sir. Bless you, good father friar. And you, good brother father. What offence hath this man made you, sir? Marry, sir, he hath offended the law: and, sir, we take him to be a thief too, sir; for we have found upon him, sir, a strange picklock, which we have sent to the deputy. Fie, sirrah: a bawd, a wicked bawd! The evil that thou causest to be done, That is thy means to live. Do thou but think What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back From such a filthy vice: say to thyself, From their abominable and beastly touches I drink, I eat, array myself, and live. Canst thou believe thy living is a life, So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend. Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir; but yet, sir, I would prove Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin, Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer; Correction and instruction must both work Ere this rude beast will profit. He must before the deputy, sir; he has given him warning.
The deputy cannot abide a whoremaster: if he be a whoremonger, and comes before him, he were as good go a mile on his errand. That we were all, as some would seem to be, From our faults, as faults from seeming, free! His neck will come to your waist, a cord, sir. I spy comfort: I cry, bail. Here's a gentleman and a friend of mine. How now, noble Pompey! What, at the wheels of Cæsar? Art thou led in triumph? What, is there none of Pygmalion's images, newly made woman, to he had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and extracting it clutched? What reply? ha? What say'st thou to this tune, matter and method? Is't not drowned i' the last rain, ha? What sayest thou Trot? Is the world as it was, man? Which is the way? Is it sad, and few words, or how? The trick of it? Still thus, and thus, still worse! How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she still, ha? Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she is herself in the tub. Why, 'tis good; it is the right of it; it must be so: ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd: an unshunned consequence; it must be so. Art going to prison, Pompey? Yes, faith, sir. Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell. Go, say I sent thee thither. For debt, Pompey? or how?
For being a bawd, for being a bawd. Well, then, imprison him. If imprisonment be the due of a bawd, why, 'tis his right: bawd is he, doubtless, and of antiquity too; bawd-born. Farewell, good Pompey. Commend me to the prison, Pompey. You will turn good husband now, Pompey; you will keep the house. I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail. No, indeed will I not, Pompey; it is not the wear. I will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage: if you take it not patiently, why, your mettle is the more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. Bless you, friar. And you. Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha? Come your ways, sir; come. You will not bail me then, sir? Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar? What news? Come your ways, sir; come. Go to kennel, Pompey; go. What news, friar, of the duke? I know none. Can you tell me of any? Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia; other some, he is in Rome: but where is he, think you? I know not where; but wheresoever, I wish him well. It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from the state, and usurp the beggary he was never born to. Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence; he puts transgression to't. He does well in't. A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in him: something too crabbed that way, friar.
It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it. Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred; it is well allied; but it is impossible to extirp it quite, friar, till eating and drinking be put down. They say this Angelo was not made by man and woman after this downright way of creation: is it true, think you? How should he be made, then? Some report a sea-maid spawn'd him; some that he was begot between two stock-fishes. But it is certain that when he makes water his urine is congealed ice; that I know to be true; and he is a motion generative; that's infallible. You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace. Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the rebellion of a cod-piece to take away the life of a man! Would the duke that is absent have done this? Ere he would have hanged a man for the getting a hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing a thousand: he had some feeling of the sport; he knew the service, and that instructed him to mercy. I never heard the absent duke much detected for women; he was not inclined that way. O, sir, you are deceived. 'Tis not possible. Who? not the duke?
yes, your beggar of fifty, and his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish; the duke had crotchets in him. He would be drunk too; that let me inform you. You do him wrong, surely. Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the duke; and, I believe I know the cause of his withdrawing. What, I prithee, might be the cause? No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be locked within the teeth and the lips; but this I can let you understand, the greater file of the subject held the duke to be wise. Wise! why, no question but he was. A very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow. Either this is envy in you, folly, or mistaking: the very stream of his life and the business he hath helmed must, upon a warranted need, give him a better proclamation. Let him be but testimonied in his own bringings forth, and he shall appear to the envious a scholar, a statesman and a soldier. Therefore you speak unskilfully; or, if your knowledge be more, it is much darkened in your malice. Sir, I know him, and I love him. Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with dearer love. Come, sir, I know what I know. I can hardly believe that, since you know not what you speak.
But, if ever the duke return, as our prayers are he may, let me desire you to make your answer before him: if it be honest you have spoke, you have courage to maintain it. I am bound to call upon you; and, I pray you, your name? Sir, my name is Lucio, well known to the duke. He shall know you better, sir, if I may live to report you. I fear you not. O! you hope the duke will return no more, or you imagine me too unhurtful an opposite. But indeed I can do you little harm; you'll forswear this again. I'll be hanged first: thou art deceived in me, friar. But no more of this. Canst thou tell if Claudio die to-morrow or no? Why should he die, sir? Why? for filling a bottle with a tundish. I would the duke we talk of were returned again: this ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with continency; sparrows must not build in his house-eaves, because they are lecherous. The duke yet would have dark deeds darkly answered; he would never bring them to light: would he were returned! Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing. Farewell, good friar; I prithee, pray for me. The duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on Fridays.
He's not past it yet, and I say to thee, he would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt brown bread and garlic: say that I said so. Farewell. No might nor greatness in mortality Can censure 'scape: back-wounding calumny The whitest virtue strikes. What king so strong Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue? But who comes here? Go; away with her to prison! Good my lord, be good to me; your honour is accounted a merciful man; good my lord. Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in the same kind? This would make mercy swear, and play the tyrant. A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please your honour. My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me. Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the duke's time; he promised her marriage; his child is a year and a quarter old, come Philip and Jacob: I have kept it myself, and see how he goes about to abuse me! That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be called before us. Away with her to prison! Go to; no more words. Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered; Claudio must die to-morrow. Let him be furnished with divines, and have all charitable preparation: if my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be so with him. So please you, this friar hath been with him, and advised him for the entertainment of death.
Good even, good father. Bliss and goodness on you! Of whence are you? Not of this country, though my chance is now To use it for my time: I am a brother Of gracious order, late come from the See, In special business from his Holiness. What news abroad i' the world? None, but there is so great a fever on goodness, that the dissolution of it must cure it: novelty is only in request; and it is as dangerous to be aged in any kind of course, as it is virtuous to be constant in any undertaking: there is scarce truth enough alive to make societies secure, but security enough to make fellowships accursed. Much upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world. This news is old enough, yet it is every day's news. I pray you, sir, of what disposition was the duke? One that, above all other strifes, contended especially to know himself. What pleasure was he given to? Rather rejoicing to see another merry, than merry at anything which professed to make him rejoice: a gentleman of all temperance. But leave we him to his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous; and let me desire to know how you find Claudio prepared. I am made to understand, that you have lent him visitation.
He professes to have received no sinister measure from his judge, but most willingly humbles himself to the determination of justice; yet had he framed to himself, by the instruction of his frailty, many deceiving promises of life, which I, by my good leisure have discredited to him, and now is he resolved to die. You have paid the heavens your function, and the prisoner the very debt of your calling. I have laboured for the poor gentleman to the extremest shore of my modesty; but my brother justice have I found so severe, that he hath forced me to tell him he is indeed Justice. If his own life answer the straitness of his proceeding, it shall become him well; wherein if he chance to fail, he hath sentenced himself. I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well. Peace be with you! He, who the sword of heaven will bear Should be as holy as severe; Pattern in himself to know, Grace to stand, and virtue go; More nor less to others paying Than by self offences weighing. Shame to him whose cruel striking Kills for faults of his own liking! Twice treble shame on Angelo, To weed my vice and let his grow! O, what may man within him hide, Though angel on the outward side! How many likeness made in crimes, Making practice on the times, To draw with idle spiders' strings Most pond'rous and substantial things!
Craft against vice I must apply: With Angelo to-night shall lie His old betrothed but despis'd: So disguise shall, by the disguis'd, Pay with falsehood false exacting, And perform an old contracting. Take, O take those lips away, That so sweetly were forsworn; And those eyes, the break of day, Lights that do mislead the morn: But my kisses bring again, bring again, Seals of love, but seal'd in vain, seal'd in vain. Break off thy song, and haste thee quick away: Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice Hath often still'd my brawling discontent. I cry you mercy, sir; and well could wish You had not found me here so musical: Let me excuse me, and believe me so, My mirth it much displeas'd, but pleas'd my woe. 'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm To make bad good, and good provoke to harm. I pray you tell me, hath anybody inquired for me here to-day? much upon this time have I promised here to meet. You have not been inquired after: I have sat here all day. I do constantly believe you. The time is come even now. I shall crave your forbearance a little; may be I will call upon you anon, for some advantage to yourself. I am always bound to you. Very well met, and well come. What is the news from this good deputy?
He hath a garden circummur'd with brick, Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd; And to that vineyard is a planched gate, That makes his opening with this bigger key; This other doth command a little door Which from the vineyard to the garden leads; There have I made my promise Upon the heavy middle of the night To call upon him. But shall you on your knowledge find this way? I have ta'en a due and wary note upon't: With whispering and most guilty diligence, In action all of precept, he did show me The way twice o'er. Are there no other tokens Between you 'greed concerning her observance? No, none, but only a repair i' the dark; And that I have possess'd him my most stay Can be but brief; for I have made him know I have a servant comes with me along, That stays upon me, whose persuasion is I come about my brother. 'Tis well borne up. I have not yet made known to Mariana A word of this. What ho! within! come forth. I pray you, be acquainted with this maid; She comes to do you good. I do desire the like. Do you persuade yourself that I respect you? Good friar, I know you do, and oft have found it. Take then this your companion by the hand, Who hath a story ready for your ear. I shall attend your leisure: but make haste; The vaporous night approaches.
Will't please you walk aside? O place and greatness! millions of false eyes Are stuck upon thee: volumes of report Run with these false and most contrarious quests Upon thy doings: thousand escapes of wit Make thee the father of their idle dream, And rack thee in their fancies! Welcome! How agreed? She'll take the enterprise upon her, father, If you advise it. It is not my consent, But my entreaty too. Little have you to say When you depart from him, but, soft and low, 'Remember now my brother.' Fear me not. Nor, gentle daughter, fear you not at all. He is your husband on a pre-contract: To bring you thus together, 'tis no sin, Sith that the justice of your title to him Doth flourish the deceit. Come, let us go: Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow. Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head? If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can; but if he be a married man, he is his wife's head, and I can never cut off a woman's head. Come, sir, leave me your snatches, and yield me a direct answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio and Barnardine.
Here is in our prison a common executioner, who in his office lacks a helper: if you will take it on you to assist him, it shall redeem you from your gyves; if not, you shall have your full time of imprisonment, and your deliverance with an unpitied whipping, for you have been a notorious bawd. Sir, I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind; but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I would be glad to receive some instruction from my fellow partner. What ho, Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there? Do you call, sir? Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow in your execution. If you think it meet, compound with him by the year, and let him abide here with you; if not, use him for the present, and dismiss him. He cannot plead his estimation with you; he hath been a bawd. A bawd, sir? Fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery. Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn the scale. Pray, sir, by your good favour for surely, sir, a good favour you have, but that you have a hanging look, do you call, sir, your occupation a mystery? Ay, sir; a mystery.
Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; and your whores, sir, being members of my occupation, using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery: but what mystery there should be in hanging, if I should be hanged, I cannot imagine. Sir, it is a mystery. Proof? Every true man's apparel fits your thief. If it be too little for your thief, your true man thinks it big enough; if it be too big for your thief, your thief thinks it little enough: so, every true man's apparel fits your thief. Are you agreed? Sir, I will serve him; for I do find that your hangman is a more penitent trade than your bawd, he doth often ask forgiveness. You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe to-morrow four o'clock. Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow. I do desire to learn, sir; and, I hope, if you have occasion to use me for your own turn, you shall find me yare; for, truly, sir, for your kindness I owe you a good turn. Call hither Barnardine and Claudio: The one has my pity; not a jot the other, Being a murderer, though he were my brother. Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death: 'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labour When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones; He will not wake. Who can do good on him? Well, go; prepare yourself. But hark, what noise? Heaven give your spirits comfort! By and by. I hope it is some pardon or reprieve For the most gentle Claudio. Welcome, father. The best and wholesom'st spirits of the night Envelop you, good provost! Who call'd here of late? None since the curfew rung. Not Isabel? No. They will, then, ere't be long. What comfort is for Claudio? There's some in hope. It is a bitter deputy. Not so, not so: his life is parallel'd Even with the stroke and line of his great justice: He doth with holy abstinence subdue That in himself which he spurs on his power To qualify in others: were he meal'd with that Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous; But this being so, he's just. Now are they come. This is a gentle provost: seldom when The steeled gaoler is the friend of men. How now! What noise? That spirit's possess'd with haste That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes. There he must stay until the officer Arise to let him in; he is call'd up. Have you no countermand for Claudio yet, But he must die to-morrow? None, sir, none. As near the dawning, provost, as it is, You shall hear more ere morning.
Happily You something know; yet, I believe there comes No countermand: no such example have we. Besides, upon the very siege of justice, Lord Angelo hath to the public ear Profess'd the contrary. This is his lordship's man. And here comes Claudio's pardon. My lord hath sent you this note; and by me this further charge, that you swerve not from the smallest article of it, neither in time, matter, or other circumstance. Good morrow; for, as I take it, it is almost day. I shall obey him. This is his pardon, purchased by such sin For which the pardoner himself is in; Hence hath offence his quick celerity, When it is borne in high authority. When vice makes mercy, mercy's so extended, That for the fault's love is the offender friended. Now, sir, what news? I told you; Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remiss in mine office, awakens me with this unwonted putting on; methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before. Pray you, let's hear. Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary, let Claudio be executed by four of the clock; and, in the afternoon, Barnardine. For my better satisfaction, let me have Claudio's head sent me by five. Let this be duly performed; with a thought that more depends on it than we must yet deliver. Thus fail not to do your office, as you will answer it at your peril. What say you to this, sir?
What is that Barnardine who is to be executed this afternoon? A Bohemian born, but here nursed up and bred; one that is a prisoner nine years old. How came it that the absent duke had not either delivered him to his liberty or executed him? I have heard it was ever his manner to do so. His friends still wrought reprieves for him; and, indeed, his fact, till now in the government of Lord Angelo, came not to an undoubtful proof. It is now apparent? Most manifest, and not denied by himself. Hath he borne himself penitently in prison? How seems he to be touched? A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but as a drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearless of what's past, present, or to come; insensible of mortality, and desperately mortal. He wants advice. He will hear none. He hath evermore had the liberty of the prison: give him leave to escape hence, he would not: drunk many times a day, if not many days entirely drunk. We have very oft awaked him, as if to carry him to execution, and showed him a seeming warrant for it: it hath not moved him at all. More of him anon. There is written in your brow, provost, honesty and constancy; if I read it not truly, my ancient skill beguiles me; but, in the boldness of my cunning I will lay myself in hazard.
Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is no greater forfeit to the law than Angalo who hath sentenced him. To make you understand this in a manifested effect, I crave but four days' respite, for the which you are to do me both a present and a dangerous courtesy. Pray, sir, in what? In the delaying death. Alack! how may I do it, having the hour limited, and an express command, under penalty, to deliver his head in the view of Angelo? I may make my case as Claudio's to cross this in the smallest. By the vow of mine order I warrant you, if my instructions may be your guide. Let this Barnardine be this morning executed, and his head borne to Angelo. Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour. O! death's a great disguiser, and you may add to it. Shave the head, and tie the beard; and say it was the desire of the penitent to be so bared before his death: you know the course is common. If anything fall to you upon this, more than thanks and good fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead against it with my life. Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath. Were you sworn to the duke or to the deputy? To him, and to his substitutes. You will think you have made no offence, if the duke avouch the justice of your dealing?
But what likelihood is in that? Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see you fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor persuasion can with ease attempt you, I will go further than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you. Look you, sir; here is the hand and seal of the duke: you know the character, I doubt not, and the signet is not strange to you. I know them both. The contents of this is the return of the duke: you shall anon over-read if at your pleasure, where you shall find within these two days, he will be here. This is a thing that Angelo knows not, for he this very day receives letters of strange tenour; perchance of the duke's death; perchance, his entering into some monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what is writ. Look, the unfolding star calls up the shepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how these things should be: all difficulties are but easy when they are known. Call your executioner, and off with Barnardine's head: I will give him a present shrift and advise him for a better place. Yet you are amaz'd, but this shall absolutely resolve you. Come away; it is almost clear dawn. I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house of profession: one would think it were Mistress Overdone's own house, for here be many of her old customers.
First, here's young Master Rash; he's in for a commodity of brown paper and old ginger, nine-score and seventeen pounds, of which he made five marks, ready money: marry, then ginger was not much in request, for the old women were all dead. Then is there here one Master Caper, at the suit of Master Three-pile the mercer, for some four suits of peach-colour'd satin, which now peaches him a beggar. Then have we young Dizy, and young Master Deep-vow, and Master Copperspur, and Master Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man, and young Drop-heir that kill'd lusty Pudding, and Master Forthlight, the tilter, and brave Master Shoe-tie the great traveller, and wild Half-can that stabbed Pots, and, I think, forty more; all great doers in our trade, and are now 'for the Lord's sake.' Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither. Master Barnardine! you must rise and be hanged, Master Barnardine. What ho! Barnardine! A pox o' your throats! Who makes that noise there? What are you? Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so good, sir, to rise and be put to death. Away! you rogue, away! I am sleepy. Tell him he must awake, and that quickly too. Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are executed, and sleep afterwards. Go in to him, and fetch him out. He is coming, sir, he is coming; I hear his straw rustle. Is the axe upon the block, sirrah? Very ready, sir. How now, Abhorson! what's the news with you?
Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your prayers; for, look you, the warrant's come. You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not fitted for't. O, the better, sir; for he that drinks all night, and is hang'd betimes in the morning, may sleep the sounder all the next day. Look you, sir; here comes your ghostly father: do we jest now, think you? Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily you are to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort you, and pray with you. Friar, not I: I have been drinking hard all night, and I will have more time to prepare me, or they shall beat out my brains with billets. I will not consent to die this day, that's certain. O, sir, you must; and therefore, I beseech you look forward on the journey you shall go. I swear I will not die to-day for any man's persuasion. But hear you. Not a word: if you have anything to say to me, come to my ward; for thence will not I to day. Unfit to live or die. O, gravel heart! After him fellows: bring him to the block. Now, sir, how do you find the prisoner? A creature unprepar'd, unmeet for death; And, to transport him in the mind he is Were damnable.
Here in the prison, father, There died this morning of a cruel fever One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate, A man of Claudio's years; his beard and head Just of his colour. What if we do omit This reprobate till he were well inclin'd, And satisfy the deputy with the visage Of Ragozine, more like to Claudio? O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides! Dispatch it presently: the hour draws on Prefix'd by Angelo. See this be done, And sent according to command, whiles I Persuade this rude wretch willingly to die. This shall be done, good father, presently. But Barnardine must die this afternoon: And how shall we continue Claudio, To save me from the danger that might come If he were known alive? Let this be done: Put them in secret holds, both Barnardine and Claudio: Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting To the under generation, you shall find Your safety manifested. I am your free dependant. Quick, dispatch, And send the head to Angelo.
Now will I write letters to Angelo, The provost, he shall bear them, whose contents Shall witness to him I am near at home, And that, by great injunctions, I am bound To enter publicly: him I'll desire To meet me at the consecrated fount A league below the city; and from thence, By cold gradation and well-balanc'd form, We shall proceed with Angelo. Here is the head; I'll carry it myself. Convenient is it. Make a swift return, For I would commune with you of such things That want no ear but yours. I'll make all speed. Peace, ho, be here! The tongue of Isabel. She's come to know If yet her brother's pardon be come hither; But I will keep her ignorant of her good, To make her heavenly comforts of despair, When it is least expected. Ho! by your leave. Good morning to you, fair and gracious daughter. The better, given me by so holy a man. Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon? He hath releas'd him, Isabel, from the world: His head is off and sent to Angelo. Nay, but it is not so. It is no other: show your wisdom, daughter, In your close patience. O! I will to him and pluck out his eyes! You shall not be admitted to his sight. Unhappy Claudio! Wretched Isabel! Injurious world! Most damned Angelo!
This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot; Forbear it therefore; give your cause to heaven. Mark what I say, which you shall find By every syllable a faithful verity. The duke comes home to-morrow; nay, dry your eyes: One of our covent, and his confessor, Gives me this instance: already he hath carried Notice to Escalus and Angelo, Who do prepare to meet him at the gates, There to give up their power. If you can, pace your wisdom In that good path that I would wish it go, And you shall have your bosom on this wretch, Grace of the Duke, revenges to your heart, And general honour. I am directed by you. This letter then to Friar Peter give; 'Tis that he sent me of the duke's return: Say, by this token, I desire his company At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours, I'll perfect him withal, and he shall bring you Before the duke; and to the head of Angelo Accuse him home, and home. For my poor self, I am combined by a sacred vow And shall be absent. Wend you with this letter. Command these fretting waters from your eyes With a light heart: trust not my holy order, If I pervert your course. Who's here? Good even. Friar, where is the provost? Not within, sir. O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see thine eyes so red: thou must be patient.
I am fain to dine and sup with water and bran; I dare not for my head fill my belly; one fruitful meal would set me to't. But they say the duke will be here to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother: if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been at home, he had lived. Sir, the duke is marvellous little beholding to your reports; but the best is, he lives not in them. Friar, thou knowest not the duke so well as I do: he's a better woodman than thou takest him for. Well, you'll answer this one day. Fare ye well. Nay, tarry; I'll go along with thee: I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke. You have told me too many of him already, sir, if they be true; if not true, none were enough. I was once before him for getting a wench with child. Did you such a thing? Yes, marry, did I; but I was fain to forswear it: they would else have married me to the rotten medlar. Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well. By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end. If bawdy talk offend you, we'll have very little of it. Nay, friar, I am a kind of burr; I shall stick. Every letter he hath writ hath disvouched other. In most uneven and distracted manner.
His actions show much like to madness: pray heaven his wisdom be not tainted! And why meet him at the gates, and redeliver our authorities there? I guess not. And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his entering, that if any crave redress of injustice, they should exhibit their petitions in the street? He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of complaints, and to deliver us from devices hereafter, which shall then have no power to stand against us. Well, I beseech you, let it be proclaim'd: Betimes i' the morn I'll call you at your house; Give notice to such men of sort and suit As are to meet him. I shall, sir: fare you well. Good night. This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant And dull to all proceedings. A deflower'd maid, And by an eminent body that enforc'd The law against it! But that her tender shame Will not proclaim against her maiden loss, How might she tongue me! Yet reason dares her no: For my authority bears so credent bulk, That no particular scandal once can touch: But it confounds the breather. He should have liv'd, Save that his riotous youth, with dangerous sense, Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge, By so receiving a dishonour'd life With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had liv'd! Alack!
when once our grace we have forgot, Nothing goes right: we would, and we would not. These letters at fit time deliver me. The provost knows our purpose and our plot. The matter being afoot, keep your instruction, And hold you ever to our special drift, Though sometimes you do blench from this to that, As cause doth minister. Go call at Flavius' house, And tell him where I stay: give the like notice To Valentinus, Rowland, and to Crassus, And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate; But send me Flavius first. It shall be speeded well. I thank thee, Varrius; thou hast made good haste. Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends Will greet us here anon, my gentle Varrius. To speak so indirectly I am loath: I would say the truth; but to accuse him so, That is your part: yet I'm advis'd to do it; He says, to veil full purpose. Be rul'd by him. Besides, he tells me that if peradventure He speak against me on the adverse side, I should not think it strange; for 'tis a physic That's bitter to sweet end. I would, Friar Peter O, peace! the friar is come. Come; I have found you out a stand most fit, Where you may have such vantage on the duke, He shall not pass you.
Twice have the trumpets sounded: The generous and gravest citizens Have hent the gates, and very near upon The duke is ent'ring: therefore hence, away! My very worthy cousin, fairly met! Our old and faithful friend, we are glad to see you. Happy return be to your royal Grace! Happy return be to your royal Grace! Many and hearty thankings to you both. We have made inquiry of you; and we hear Such goodness of your justice, that our soul Cannot but yield you forth to public thanks, Forerunning more requital. You make my bonds still greater. O! your desert speaks loud; and I should wrong it, To lock it in the wards of covert bosom, When it deserves, with characters of brass, A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand, And let the subject see, to make them know That outward courtesies would fain proclaim Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus, You must walk by us on our other hand; And good supporters are you. Now is your time: speak loud and kneel before him. Justice, O royal duke! Vail your regard Upon a wrong'd, I'd fain have said, a maid! O worthy prince! dishonour not your eye By throwing it on any other object Till you have heard me in my true complaint And given me justice, justice, justice, justice! Relate your wrongs: in what? by whom?
Be brief; Here is Lord Angelo, shall give you justice: Reveal yourself to him. O worthy duke! You bid me seek redemption of the devil. Hear me yourself; for that which I must speak Must either punish me, not being believ'd, Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O, hear me, here! My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm: She hath been a suitor to me for her brother Cut off by course of justice, By course of justice! And she will speak most bitterly and strange. Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak. That Angelo's forsworn, is it not strange? That Angelo's a murderer, is't not strange? That Angelo is an adulterous thief, A hypocrite, a virgin-violator; Is it not strange, and strange? Nay, it is ten times strange. It is not truer he is Angelo Than this is all as true as it is strange; Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth To the end of reckoning. Away with her! poor soul, She speaks this in the infirmity of sense. O prince, I conjure thee, as thou believ'st There is another comfort than this world, That thou neglect me not, with that opinion That I am touch'd with madness. Make not impossible That which but seems unlike.
'Tis not impossible But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground, May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute As Angelo; even so may Angelo, In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms, Be an arch-villain. Believe it, royal prince: If he be less, he's nothing; but he's more, Had I more name for badness. By mine honesty, If she be mad, as I believe no other, Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense, Such a dependency of thing on thing, As e'er I heard in madness. O gracious duke! Harp not on that; nor do not banish reason For inequality; but let your reason serve To make the truth appear where it seems hid, And hide the false seems true. Many that are not mad Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say? I am the sister of one Claudio, Condemn'd upon the act of fornication To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo. I, in probation of a sisterhood, Was sent to by my brother; one Lucio As then the messenger, That's I, an't like your Grace: I came to her from Claudio, and desir'd her To try her gracious fortune with Lord Angelo For her poor brother's pardon. That's he indeed. You were not bid to speak. No, my good lord; Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
I wish you now, then; Pray you, take note of it; and when you have A business for yourself, pray heaven you then Be perfect. I warrant your honour. The warrant's for yourself: take heed to it. This gentleman told somewhat of my tale, Right. It may be right; but you are in the wrong To speak before your time. Proceed. I went To this pernicious caitiff deputy. That's somewhat madly spoken. Pardon it; The phrase is to the matter. Mended again: the matter; proceed. In brief, to set the needless process by, How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd, How he refell'd me, and how I replied, For this was of much length, the vile conclusion I now begin with grief and shame to utter. He would not, but by gift of my chaste body To his concupiscible intemperate lust, Release my brother; and, after much debatement, My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour, And I did yield to him. But the next morn betimes, His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant For my poor brother's head. This is most likely! O, that it were as like as it is true! By heaven, fond wretch! thou know'st not what thou speak'st, Or else thou art suborn'd against his honour In hateful practice.
First, his integrity Stands without blemish; next, it imports no reason That with such vehemency he should pursue Faults proper to himself: if he had so offended, He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself, And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on: Confess the truth, and say by whose advice Thou cam'st here to complain. And is this all? Then, O you blessed ministers above, Keep me in patience; and, with ripen'd time Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up In countenance! Heaven shield your Grace from woe, As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go! I know you'd fain be gone. An officer! To prison with her! Shall we thus permit A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall On him so near us? This needs must be a practice. Who knew of your intent and coming hither? One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick. A ghostly father, belike. Who knows that Lodowick? My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar; I do not like the man: had he been lay, my lord, For certain words he spake against your Grace In your retirement, I had swing'd him soundly. Words against me! This' a good friar, belike! And to set on this wretched woman here Against our substitute! Let this friar be found.
But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar, I saw them at the prison: a saucy friar, A very scurvy fellow. Bless'd be your royal Grace! I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard Your royal ear abus'd. First, hath this woman Most wrongfully accus'd your substitute, Who is as free from touch or soil with her, As she from one ungot. We did believe no less. Know you that Friar Lodowick that she speaks of? I know him for a man divine and holy; Not scurvy, nor a temporary meddler, As he's reported by this gentleman; And, on my trust, a man that never yet Did, as he vouches, misreport your Grace. My lord, most villanously; believe it. Well; he in time may come to clear himself, But at this instant he is sick, my lord, Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request, Being come to knowledge that there was complaint Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither, To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know Is true and false; and what he with his oath And all probation will make up full clear, Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman, To justify this worthy nobleman, So vulgarly and personally accus'd, Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes, Till she herself confess it. Good friar, let's hear it. Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo? O heaven, the vanity of wretched fools! Give us some seats.
Come, cousin Angelo; In this I'll be impartial; be you judge Of your own cause. Is this the witness, friar? First, let her show her face, and after speak. Pardon, my lord; I will not show my face Until my husband bid me. What, are you married? No, my lord. Are you a maid? No, my lord. A widow, then? Neither, my lord. Why, you Are nothing, then: neither maid, widow, nor wife? My lord, she may be a punk; for many of them are neither maid, widow, nor wife. Silence that fellow: I would he had some cause To prattle for himself. Well, my lord. My lord, I do confess I ne'er was married; And I confess besides I am no maid: I have known my husband yet my husband knows not That ever he knew me. He was drunk then my lord: it can be no better. For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too! Well, my lord. This is no witness for Lord Angelo. Now I come to't, my lord: She that accuses him of fornication, In self-same manner doth accuse my husband; And charges him, my lord, with such a time, When, I'll depose, I had him in mine arms, With all th' effect of love. Charges she moe than me? Not that I know. No? you say your husband.
Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo, Who thinks he knows that he ne'er knew my body But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel's. This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face. My husband bids me; now I will unmask. This is that face, thou cruel Angelo, Which once thou swor'st was worth the looking on: This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract, Was fast belock'd in thine: this is the body That took away the match from Isabel, And did supply thee at thy garden-house In her imagin'd person. Know you this woman? Carnally, she says. Sirrah, no more! Enough, my lord. My lord, I must confess I know this woman; And five years since there was some speech of marriage Betwixt myself and her, which was broke off, Partly for that her promised proportions Came short of composition; but, in chief For that her reputation was disvalu'd In levity: since which time of five years I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her, Upon my faith and honour. Noble prince, As there comes light from heaven and words from breath, As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue, I am affianc'd this man's wife as strongly As words could make up vows: and, my good lord, But Tuesday night last gone in 's garden-house He knew me as a wife.
As this is true, Let me in safety raise me from my knees Or else for ever be confixed here, A marble monument. I did but smile till now: Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice; My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive These poor informal women are no more But instruments of some more mightier member That sets them on. Let me have way, my lord, To find this practice out. Ay, with my heart; And punish them unto your height of pleasure. Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman, Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths, Though they would swear down each particular saint, Were testimonies against his worth and credit That's seal'd in approbation? You, Lord Escalus, Sit with my cousin; lend him your kind pains To find out this abuse, whence 'tis deriv'd. There is another friar that set them on; Let him be sent for. Would he were here, my lord; for he indeed Hath set the women on to this complaint: Your provost knows the place where he abides And he may fetch him. Go do it instantly.
And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin, Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth, Do with your injuries as seems you best, In any chastisement: I for awhile will leave you; But stir not you, till you have well determin'd Upon these slanderers. My lord, we'll do it throughly. Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that Friar Lodowick to be a dishonest person? Cucullus non facit monachum: honest in nothing, but in his clothes; and one that hath spoke most villanous speeches of the duke. We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and enforce them against him. We shall find this friar a notable fellow. As any in Vienna, on my word. Call that same Isabel here once again: I would speak with her. Pray you, my lord, give me leave to question; you shall see how I'll handle her. Not better than he, by her own report. Say you? Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately, she would sooner confess: perchance, publicly, she'll be ashamed. I will go darkly to work with her. That's the way: for women are light at midnight. Come on, mistress: here's a gentlewoman denies all that you have said. My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of; here with the provost. In very good time: speak not you to him, till we call upon you. Mum. Come, sir. Did you set these women on to slander Lord Angelo? they have confessed you did.
'Tis false. How! know you where you are? Respect to your great place! and let the devil Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne. Where is the duke? 'tis he should hear me speak. The duke's in us, and we will hear you speak: Look you speak justly. Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls! Come you to seek the lamb here of the fox? Good night to your redress! Is the duke gone? Then is your cause gone too. The duke's unjust, Thus to retort your manifest appeal, And put your trial in the villain's mouth Which here you come to accuse. This is the rascal: this is he I spoke of. Why, thou unreverend and unhallow'd friar! Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth, And in the witness of his proper ear, To call him villain? And then to glance from him to the duke himself. To tax him with injustice? take him hence; To the rack with him! We'll touse you joint by joint, But we will know his purpose. What! 'unjust'? Be not so hot; the duke Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he Dare rack his own: his subject am I not, Nor here provincial.
My business in this state Made me a looker-on here in Vienna, Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble Till it o'er-run the stew: laws for all faults, But faults so countenanc'd, that the strong statutes Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop, As much in mock as mark. Slander to the state! Away with him to prison! What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio? Is this the man that you did tell us of? 'Tis he, my lord. Come hither, goodman bald-pate: do you know me? I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I met you at the prison, in the absence of the duke. O! did you so? And do you remember what you said of the duke? Most notedly, sir. Do you so, sir? And was the duke a flesh-monger, a fool, and a coward, as you then reported him to be? You must, sir, change persons with me, ere you make that my report: you, indeed, spoke so of him; and much more, much worse. O thou damnable fellow! Did not I pluck thee by the nose for thy speeches? I protest I love the duke as I love myself. Hark how the villain would close now, after his treasonable abuses! Such a fellow is not to be talk'd withal. Away with him to prison! Where is the provost? Away with him to prison! Lay bolts enough on him, let him speak no more.
Away with those giglots too, and with the other confederate companion! Stay, sir; stay awhile. What! resists he? Help him, Lucio. Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh! sir. Why, you bald-pated, lying rascal, you must be hooded, must you? show your knave's visage, with a pox to you! show your sheepbiting face, and be hanged an hour! Will't not off? Thou art the first knave that e'er made a duke. First, provost, let me bail these gentle three. Sneak not away, sir; for the friar and you Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him. This may prove worse than hanging. What you have spoke I pardon; sit you down: We'll borrow place of him. Sir, by your leave. Hast thou or word, or wit, or impudence, That yet can do thee office? If thou hast, Rely upon it till my tale be heard, And hold no longer out. O my dread lord! I should be guiltier than my guiltiness, To think I can be undiscernible When I perceive your Grace, like power divine, Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good prince, No longer session hold upon my shame, But let my trial be mine own confession: Immediate sentence then and sequent death Is all the grace I beg. Come hither, Mariana, Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman? I was, my lord. Go take her hence, and marry her instantly.
Do you the office, friar; which consummate, Return him here again. Go with him, provost. My lord, I am more amaz'd at his dishonour Than at the strangeness of it. Come hither, Isabel. Your friar is now your prince: as I was then Advertising and holy to your business, Not changing heart with habit, I am still Attorney'd at your service. O, give me pardon, That I, your vassal, have employ'd and pain'd Your unknown sovereignty! You are pardon'd, Isabel: And now, dear maid, be you as free to us. Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart; And you may marvel why I obscur'd myself, Labouring to save his life, and would not rather Make rash remonstrance of my hidden power Than let him so be lost. O most kind maid! It was the swift celerity of his death, Which I did think with slower foot came on, That brain'd my purpose: but, peace be with him! That life is better life, past fearing death, Than that which lives to fear: make it your comfort, So happy is your brother. I do, my lord. For this new-married man approaching here, Whose salt imagination yet hath wrong'd Your well-defended honour, you must pardon For Mariana's sake.
But as he adjudg'd your brother, Being criminal, in double violation Of sacred chastity, and of promise-breach, Thereon dependent, for your brother's life, The very mercy of the law cries out Most audible, even from his proper tongue, 'An Angelo for Claudio, death for death!' Haste still pays haste, and leisure answers leisure, Like doth quit like, and Measure still for Measure. Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested, Which, though thou wouldst deny, denies thee vantage. We do condemn thee to the very block Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste. Away with him! O, my most gracious lord! I hope you will not mock me with a husband. It is your husband mock'd you with a husband. Consenting to the safeguard of your honour, I thought your marriage fit; else imputation, For that he knew you, might reproach your life And choke your good to come. For his possessions, Although by confiscation they are ours, We do instate and widow you withal, To buy you a better husband. O my dear lord! I crave no other, nor no better man. Never crave him; we are definitive. Gentle my liege, You do but lose your labour. Away with him to death! Now, sir, to you. O my good lord!
Sweet Isabel, take my part: Lend me your knees, and, all my life to come, I'll lend you all my life to do you service, Against all sense you do importune her: Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact, Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break, And take her hence in horror. Isabel, Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me: Hold up your hands, say nothing, I'll speak all. They say best men are moulded out of faults, And, for the most, become much more the better For being a little bad: so may my husband. O, Isabel! will you not lend a knee? He dies for Claudio's death. Most bounteous sir, Look, if it please you, on this man condemn'd, As if my brother liv'd. I partly think A due sincerity govern'd his deeds, Till he did look on me: since it is so, Let him not die. My brother had but justice, In that he did the thing for which he died: For Angelo, His act did not o'ertake his bad intent; And must be buried but as an intent That perish'd by the way. Thoughts are no subjects; Intents but merely thoughts. Merely, my lord. Your suit's unprofitable: stand up, I say. I have bethought me of another fault. Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded At an unusual hour? It was commanded so. Had you a special warrant for the deed?
No, my good lord; it was by private message. For which I do discharge you of your office: Give up your keys. Pardon me, noble lord: I thought it was a fault, but knew it not, Yet did repent me, after more advice; For testimony whereof, one in the prison, That should by private order else have died I have reserv'd alive. What's he? His name is Barnardine. I would thou hadst done so by Claudio. Go, fetch him hither: let me look upon him. I am sorry, one so learned and so wise As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd, Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood, And lack of temper'd judgment afterward. I am sorry that such sorrow I procure; And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart That I crave death more willingly than mercy: 'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it. Which is that Barnardine? This, my lord. There was a friar told me of this man. Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul, That apprehends no further than this world, And squar'st thy life according. Thou'rt condemn'd: But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all, And pray thee take this mercy to provide For better times to come. Friar, advise him: I leave him to your hand. What muffled fellow's that?
This is another prisoner that I sav'd, That should have died when Claudio lost his head, As like almost to Claudio as himself. If he be like your brother, for his sake Is he pardon'd; and, for your lovely sake Give me your hand and say you will be mine, He is my brother too. But fitter time for that. By this, Lord Angelo perceives he's safe: Methinks I see a quickening in his eye. Well, Angelo, your evil quits you well: Look that you love your wife; her worth worth yours. I find an apt remission in myself, And yet here's one in place I cannot pardon. You, sirrah, that knew me for a fool, a coward, One all of luxury, an ass, a madman: Wherein have I so deserv'd of you, That you extol me thus? 'Faith, my lord, I spoke it but according to the trick. If you will hang me for it, you may; but I had rather it would please you I might be whipped. Whipp'd first, sir, and hang'd after. Proclaim it, provost, round about the city, If any woman's wrong'd by this lewd fellow, As I have heard him swear himself there's one Whom he begot with child, let her appear, And he shall marry her: the nuptial finish'd, Let him be whipp'd and hang'd. I beseech your highness, do not marry me to a whore.
Your highness said even now, I made you a duke: good my lord, do not recompense me in making me a cuckold. Upon mine honour, thou shalt marry her. Thy slanders I forgive; and therewithal Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison, And see our pleasure herein executed. Marrying a punk, my lord, is pressing to death, whipping, and hanging. Slandering a prince deserves it. She, Claudio, that you wrong'd, look you restore. Joy to you, Mariana! love her, Angelo: I have confess'd her and I know her virtue. Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness: There's more behind that is more gratulate. Thanks, provost, for thy care and secrecy; We shall employ thee in a worthier place. Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home The head of Ragozine for Claudio's: The offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel, I have a motion much imports your good; Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline, What's mine is yours, and what is yours is mine. So, bring us to our palace; where we'll show What's yet behind, that's meet you all should know.
