The actor son of the legendary star Dennis Hopper is accused of raping a 15-year-old girl after luring her to his home with promises of a 'casting couch' photo shoot. The unidentified girl is suing Henry Hopper for damages 'in the millions of dollars' for allegedly assaulting her several times after plying her with drugs and alcohol in April 2011. The teen's new lawyer, Jeff Herman, claimed to MailOnline on Monday that Hopper traded on his father's fame to convince her to go to his house after the pair met on Facebook via mutual friends. Family ties: Henry Hopper, left, is the son of late actor Dennis Hopper, right, seen together in 2008 . Mr Herman is taking over the lawsuit after it was initially filed last year and has not yet gone to trial. 'He said, "Let's take photos of you" and he used the to entice her to see him,' Mr Herman alleged to MailOnline. Mr Herman claimed the then-20-year-old Hopper promised to snap modeling pictures of her and to use his fame to help her. The girl, now 17 years old, met Hopper on Facebook via mutual friends in 2011. Mr Herman said it's a classic . 'casting couch' scam that is used all over Hollywood to lure . unsuspecting girls and young women into sex. Henry Hopper's agent refused to comment about any of the allegations facing the actor when asked by MailOnline. Up and coming: Henry is seen in 2011 with his costar Mia Wasikowska for the film 'Restless' After meeting online, the lawsuit . alleges, the two began messaging back and forth in spite of the fact . that he was five years older than she was. Mr Herman says that after communicating electronically, . they eventually agreed to meet at Hopper's house. He paid for a cab to . pick the girl up and drive her to his home in April 2011.
When she arrived, he gave her unspecified 'non-narcotic' drugs and alcohol, and that is when the sexual assault occurred. 'Over . about the next 10 months, there were more incidents in which Hopper . again had Jane Doe brought to his house, furnished her with drugs and . alcohol, and then raped her,' the lawyer said in a press release. 'These . encounters were initiated through sexual Facebook messages from Hopper . to Jane Doe. These sexual messages included, among other things, a . request that Jane Doe send him photos of her so she can “pleasure him . from afar”; and being into a “school girl vibe” when “doin the nasty” with Jane Doe.' Mr Herman said his client reported . the allegation to police, but that the investigation remains open and . Hopper was never charged with a crime. Claims: The girl says that she was 15-years-old when a then-20-year old Henry repeatedly raped her (Henry seen here with his father in 2009) The teen says her life 'fell apart' after the attack. She lost her friends and had to be hospitalized . several times for mental health issues. Despite this, Mr Herman says, she went back to Hopper's house several times and maintained a sexual relationship with him. 'He continues to contact her and for a while, she had nothing - this was the only thing she had,' he said. Mr Herman said she was a 'compliant . victim' at that point - but maintains Hopper was taking advantage of her . fragile mental state. The teen's mental and emotional problems continue to this day, he added. Henry Hopper is an actor who appeared in 'Tree of Life' and Gus Van Sant's 'Restless,' both in 2011. His father Dennis died at the age of 74 in 2010, following a battle with prostate cancer.
He was known for cult classics such as Easy Rider, Apocalypse Now and Blue Velvet. Henry's mother, Katherine LaNasa, was the fourth wife of Dennis Hopper.
Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. FILE - In this Nov. 12, 2016 file photo, Arnold Schwarzenegger is seen in Los Angeles. President Donald Trump is seeking prayers for Schwarzenegger over ratings for “Celebrity Apprentice,” the show Trump (Associated Press) FILE - In this Nov. 12, 2016 file photo, Arnold Schwarzenegger is seen in Los Angeles. President Donald Trump is seeking prayers for Schwarzenegger over ratings for “Celebrity Apprentice,” the show Trump (Associated Press) WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump is seeking prayers for Arnold Schwarzenegger over ratings for "Celebrity Apprentice" — the show Trump once hosted. Addressing the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington on Thursday, Trump said ratings went "right down the tubes," and the show has been a "total disaster" since the actor and former California governor debuted as host last month. Trump told the audience, "I want to just pray for Arnold if we can." Schwarzenegger responded in a brief video on his Twitter account, captioned "The National Prayer Breakfast?" He suggests he and Trump switch jobs since Trump is "such an expert in ratings." That way, Schwarzenegger says, "people can finally sleep comfortably again." According to the Nielsen company, ratings for Schwarzenegger's debut were down significantly compared to Trump's debut in January 2004.
(CNN) -- Police said they are pursuing leads in the death of 8-year-old Sandra Cantu, whose body was found Monday stuffed into a suitcase in a dairy-farm pond near her Tracy, California, home. Sandra Cantu, 8, disappeared March 27. Her body was found at a dairy-farm pond near her Calilfornia home. "We are heading in a direction," Tracy police Sgt. Tony Sheneman told reporters. "To comment on that would compromise the investigation, and I can't do that." A search warrant was executed at the Tracy mobile home park where the girl lived, and a related search was to be conducted Tuesday at a nearby church, he said. He implied more than one person may have been involved in the death of Sandra, who had been missing since March 27. "Investigators are looking at additional information they received since yesterday and, hopefully, that will lead us to Sandra's killers," he said. Asked if his use of the plural meant police were looking for more than one person, he responded, "We have no specific suspects, ma'am." Sheneman also implied the killer likely was familiar with the location where the body was found. He said he himself was unfamiliar with the location where the girl's body was found, despite having lived in the community for nearly 12 years. "Someone would have to be familiar with that area to know to go there," he said. Watch how the suitcase was found » . Sheneman said police had no one in custody, despite having interviewed hundreds of people regarding the case. "Everyone that we speak to right now is being considered a person of interest," he said. "We're not eliminating anyone." The autopsy was being conducted Tuesday, but it was not clear when the report would be available. "It's going to be some time before we hear from the coroner," Sheneman said. "I can't tell you when that's going to be."
More than 10 search warrants have been executed as part of the investigation and "a lot" of evidence has been recovered, Sheneman said. The day Sandra was last reported seen, she returned home from school, kissed her mother and left to play with a friend who lives nearby. A short time later, wearing a pink Hello Kitty T-shirt and black leggings, she left to go to another friend's home, according to a family spokeswoman. Police said Monday the girl's clothing helped them identify the body.
Southampton’s extraordinary start to the season, maintained with a brilliant opportunist’s goal from Victor Wanyama at the KC Stadium, has been built on the best defensive record in the country. The Saints have kept six clean sheets in 10 Premier League matches and conceded just five goals, two of them at Liverpool in the first match Ronald Koeman’s side played together. Nathaniel Clyne is a key component of the division’s best back line and the 23-year-old right-back sees no reason why this dream season cannot continue — for club and country. Nathaniel Clyne has been in impressive form for high-flying Southampton so far this season . Victor Wanyama's first-time effort from 40 yards out gave Southampton an early lead at the KC Stadium . ‘I think I’ve got the ability to play for my country. Hopefully I can get the call-up next time,’ he said. England manager Roy Hodgson was in the stands as Clyne gave another fine attacking full-back display at the KC Stadium. Southampton's five goals conceded is half the next lowest number in the Premier League, and the lowest per game in all of English football. He was an unused substitute in the last squad and hopes for another call-up ahead of the Euro 2016 qualifier against Slovenia on November 15. Last time, I did. Hopefully I can get called up again and receive my first cap.’ ‘This has been the best season of his career to date. I feel fit, I feel strong, I’m getting a lot of game time and I’m enjoying it.’ Another Englishman, Ryan Bertrand, has been a star performer for the Saints this season . Hull boss Steve Bruce hopes Southampton stay near the upper regions of the Premier League .
Southampton have another English full-back on the opposite flank in Ryan Bertrand, and an England goalkeeper in Fraser Forster. With centre-halves Toby Alderweireld and Jose Fonte and defensive midfielders Wanyama (left) and Morgan Schneiderlin, Koeman has constructed a sturdy platform on which his flair players have freedom to operate. ‘We work hard on our defensive shape in training and it shows during games,’ Clyne said. ‘They only had one shot at goal. ‘It’s good and hopefully it continues. If you keep a clean sheet, you’ve always got a chance of winning a game or getting a result that we need.’ Hull’s manager, Steve Bruce, joined the chorus of praise for Southampton, saying it was refreshing to see them riding high. ‘Let’s hope they stay there. There’s no reason they can’t, if they can stay injury-free. To be fair to everyone at Southampton, they can take a big pat on the back.’
(CNN) -- A 17-year-old student was formally charged Tuesday with the kidnapping, sexual assault and murder of 10-year-old Jessica Ridgeway, whose body parts were found at a park in a Denver suburb earlier this month. Austin Reed Sigg, a student at Arapahoe Community College, was also charged with attempting to kidnap, sexually assault and murder a female jogger last May. The charges were outlined in a 17-count accusation filed by Jefferson County, Colorado, District Attorney Pam Russell Tuesday. Sigg, who lived about one mile from Ridgeway's home in Westminster, was charged as an adult, a decision that could be challenged by his lawyers. The teen was arrested a week ago and accused of strangling Ridgeway, dismembering her and placing some of her body parts in a crawlspace under his family's home. Police first found parts of her body at a park 5 miles away five days after the bespectacled blonde girl disappeared while walking to Witt Elementary School on October 5. The big break in the investigation came last Tuesday night, when Sigg's mother called 911 and handed him the phone. Sigg, police said, confessed. Along with charges related to Jessica's death, Sigg is also accused in the May assault of a 22-year-old woman on a hiking trail. Suspect in Jessica Ridgeway death made girls in the area uneasy . CNN's Shawn Nottingham contributed to this report.
By . Australian Associated Press . and Leesa Smith . The search for a 19 year-old Irish surfer who went missing after he was caught in a rip with two mates off Cape Byron has continued into Sunday. Rescue teams are facing treacherous conditions as they search waters off northern NSW. The group went surfing at around 10.35am on Saturday, and got into trouble in a strong rip off the north corner of Tallow Beach. A 26-year-old man was located in waters a short distance away and did not suffer any injuries while another man, 20, was found on rocks with minor injuries. Scroll down for video . Dangerous: The surfer was off Tallow Beach in New South Wales when he was swept away by a rip tide . Surf Life Saving Far North Coast Duty Officer Jimmy Keogh said the dangerous surf conditions and fading light caused the search to be suspended on Saturday night. SLSNSW's Elton Cummings said patient one was treated by ambulance officers on the beach while patient two who was also located, was very distressed about the third person. ‘Apparently he was right behind him - but so far the search has failed to located this person,’ Mr Cummings said on Saturday evening. ‘We are very concerned about this third person.’ He said the jet ski crews found it difficult to stay in the cold water for any length of time. With rough seas hitting the NSW coast this weekend, the Roads and Maritime Services are urging all boat users to take extreme care on the waters on Sunday. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Donna Savigar was eating breakfast at a Newcastle-under-Lyme branch of McDonald's when she found a screw in her sausage and egg McMuffin (above) A grandmother who discovered a metal screw in her £3.39 McDonald's breakfast is 'outraged' after staff did not offer her a refund. Donna Savigar ordered a sausage and egg McMuffin at a Newcastle-under-Lyme branch of the fast food chain around 9.45am on Friday. The 45-year-old was three-quarters of the way through her sandwich when she felt metal crunch between her teeth and spat out a screw. Donna's daughter Dayna Bennett, 20, went to complain about the dangerous nail - but staff said they could only make her a fresh one. Ms Savigar, who works for a charity, said: 'I could have ended up choking to death - imagine if it had happened to a child. 'A child would start choking and you wouldn't know what to do because you certainly wouldn't be expecting them to have swallowed a screw in the middle of McDonald's. 'I don't see why they don't just pay up. All I was looking for was a refund.' The mother-of-one, from Halmer End, said she complained to headquarters but couldn't receive a refund until they had done a thorough investigation. She added: 'They need to train staff to deal with that sort of situation. A manager needs to come over and deal with it. 'We weren't offered a refund and we weren't even told how we could go about complaining to McDonald's about it, we had to Google that for ourselves. Scroll down for video . 'I had already eaten three-quarters of the burger when I felt something weird in between my teeth. 'Your first instinct is to spit it out, so I did, and I couldn't believe it. It was about an inch big and quite fat.'
The mother-of-one (above), from Halmer End, said she complained to headquarters but couldn't receive a refund until they had done a thorough investigation . Ms Bennett, who works as a carer and lives in Alsagers Bank, Stoke-on-Trent, said: 'It was absolutely outrageous. 'Imagine if it had been a child who ate it, they could have choked to death. Donna's daughter Dayna Bennett (left above), 20, went to complain about the dangerous nail - but staff did not offer a refund and instead suggested making a fresh McMuffin . 'We had gone in for a quick breakfast because we were going out shopping for the day. Mum was eating her McMuffin and then started making a funny face and then spat out the nail. 'I took a picture straight away so no one could say we had planted it there and then took the McMuffin back to the counter. 'They just took it away, I don't know what they did with it. Then they just asked if we wanted a fresh one. 'I said no and went back over to my mum. I couldn't believe they hadn't offered us a refund, but we didn't go and ask again because we just wanted to get out of there by that point. 'I've never been to McDonald's before and I won't be going back.' McDonald's confirmed it is investigating. A spokesman said: 'We are sorry for Ms Bennett's experience when visiting our restaurant. 'Food safety and quality are our highest priority and both our restaurants and our suppliers place great emphasis on quality control and follow rigorous standards in order to avoid imperfections in our products. 'An investigation is underway following the reporting of this incident and our Customer Service department will be in touch with Ms Bennett to keep her updated.'
The embarrassing incident comes days after another McDonald's diner, April Gilmour, 24, discovering beard trimmings in her breakfast McMuffin, in Kilmarnock.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 10:45 EST, 20 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 12:59 EST, 20 November 2013 . Breaking into 100 cars in one month - at least three each night - is no easy feat. But a trio of Chicago teens stand accused of just that after being arrested this week on auto burglary charges. Police have publicly thanked a local resident who called authorities and accurately described the serial thieves, allowing officers to track them down and put an end to the crime spree. 'Because that one person took the time to call there, there are definitely dozens of other people whose things aren't going to go missing at this point,' Park Ridge Deputy Police Chief Lou Jogmen told CBS Chicago. Good at what they do: Michael Staples, 17 (left), Nikolas Pena, 18 (right), and Stevan Bulatovic, 18 (below), are accused of stealing cash and valuables from at least 100 cars in a one-month Chicago crime spree . Chicago police say the three teens 'spent less than a minute' in each car and were capable of breaking into 12 in one night. Stevan Bulatovic (pictured) is one of the trio facing charges . Stevan Bulatovic, 18, Nikolas Pena, 18, and Michael T. Staples, 17, all of Harwood Heights, currently face one misdemeanor count of criminal trespass to a motor vehicle each, and two counts of burglary to a motor vehicle. But police say the three are responsible for more than 100 car burglaries in Chicago and across surrounding suburbs Park Ridge, Northbrook, Glenview, Niles and are looking to press further charges. Deputy Police Chief Jogmen said the young men typically targeted unlocked vehicles late at night. They moved quickly to take anything they could. The three walked away with cash, laptop computers, cell phones, cameras, GPS systems, wallets and other valuables.
They would would hit up to 12 cars a night, according to police. Chicago: Police say the team of three would wait for the cover of darkness before hitting cars late at night . 'It was in and out,' said Jogmen. 'They were literally in the car for a minute or less and then they moved on to the next one - just went up the block and continued to pull on doors and when they found an open one they went inside, saw what they could take, and took it.' But it wasn't every night. 'I'm sure they took a couple days off here and there,' Jogmen said. All three were held on a $5,000 bond and are due back in court in December.
Des McDaid, who has waived his right to anonymity, was giving evidence to the Historical Institutional Abuse Inquiry. He had travelled from St Joseph's Home, Termonbacca in Derry to the Clontarf orphanage in Perth, when he was eight. He said there was a lot of brutality at the Clontarf home and a number of brothers sexually abused the boys. He said he was sexually abused by older boys, members of the Christian Brothers religious order and a lay teacher. Mr McDaid, who is originally from County Donegal in the Republic of Ireland, told the inquiry: "The big thing I want you to remember is the helplessness." He said he was one of 16 boys shipped to Australia in 1953. Local authority homes: • Lissue Children's Unit, Lisburn • Kincora Boys' Home, Belfast • Bawnmore Children's Home, Newtownabbey Juvenile justice institutions: • St Patrick's Training School, Belfast • Lisnevin Training School, County Down • Rathgael Training School, Bangor Secular voluntary homes: • Barnardo's Sharonmore Project, Newtownabbey • Barnardo's Macedon, Newtownabbey Catholic Church-run homes: • St Joseph's Home, Termonbacca, Londonderry • Nazareth House Children's Home, Derry • Nazareth House Children's Home, Belfast • Nazareth Lodge Children's Home, Belfast • De La Salle Boys' Home, Kircubbin, County Down He said he was raped by an older boy at the Termonbacca boys home and he was abused by others in Australia. Using a video link from Australia, he said: "I had a lot more of it over here, from the Christian Brothers etc." Mr McDaid said he had traced his mother when he was 48 but he said he was worried she would not accept him. Her first words to him were: "Forgive me, forgive me, forgive me".
The inquiry, sitting in Banbridge, County Down, heard that he is still in touch with his mother and will be visiting her next month. On Monday, the inquiry heard that 131 children from Northern Ireland, some as young as five, were sent to Australia as child migrants. The experiences of 50 of them will be heard by the Historical Institutional Abuse Inquiry (HIA) either by oral or written evidence. It is examining the extent of child abuse in religious and state-run institutions in NI from 1922 to 1995.
By . Associated Press Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 19:52 EST, 28 May 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 19:53 EST, 28 May 2013 . A Utah woman gave birth to a healthy set of quintuplets over the weekend with help from a team of eight doctors, one anesthesiologist and dozens of nurses ensuring the mother and the tiny babies survived. Guillermina and Fernando Garcia's five babies – three girls and two boys – weigh between 2 to 3 pounds each and are expected to have to stay at the University of Utah hospital in Salt Lake City for another six weeks. Doctors predict they will grow up completely healthy. Joy: Guillermina, left, and her husband Fernando Garcia welcomed quintuplets, 3 girls and 2 boys over the weekend in Salt Lake City . New addition: The Utah mother welcomed 3 girls and 2 boys over the weekend (the hospital didn't identify the newborns in the photos they released) Bundle of joy: The Garcia family welcomed three girls among the set of quintuplets, they were named Esmeralda, Fatima, Marissa (one of the unidentified girls born over the weekend) Tiny: The newborns were born by cesarean section. They weigh between 2 to 3 pounds each (pictured one of the unidentified newborns) Guillermina Garcia, 34, carried the babies until 31 1/2 weeks – seven weeks shorter than most single-birth pregnancies but about three weeks longer than most quintuplet mothers. The extra time in the womb helped their lungs develop more than other quintuplets, said Dr. Elizabeth O'Brien, of the newborn intensive care unit. 'They are all doing remarkably well,' O'Brien said. It was the first set of quintuplets ever born at the hospital. Less than 10 quintuplet sets are born each year in the United States.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention counted 37 babies who were born as part of a set of five or more in 2010. 'We feel like we're dreaming,' said Fernando Garcia in Spanish at a Monday afternoon news conference. 'It's incredible that we have five.' Early days: The 2 boys are still using breathing tubes, as the girls are breathing on their own. The infants are expected to have to stay at the hospital for another six weeks (pictured one of the unidentified newborns) Precious: The Utah couple used fertility drugs, which increases the odds of a woman having multiple births (pictured an unidentified newborn from the quintuplets born) The Utah couple used fertility drugs, which increases the odds of a woman having multiple births. They found out early in the pregnancy they were having quintuplets, and Guillermina Garcia had been in the hospital on bed rest since early April. All five babies were born by cesarean section – coming out within two minutes. A team of five, including one doctor and two nurses, was waiting for each baby. Their names are Esmeralda, Fatima, Marissa, Fernando and Jordan. 'I was excited to see them and see that they were ok, that everything turned out normally,' she said in Spanish. The largest is baby Fernando, who weighed 3 pounds, 14 ounces. The two baby boys are still using breathing tubes, while the girls are breathing on their own. Dr. Tracy Manuck served as Guillermina Garcia's doctor at the hospital and called the mother an extraordinary person who never complained, despite suffering from high blood pressure and severe pre-eclampsia during the pregnancy. The doctors also complimented her husband's support throughout the pregnancy – including in the operating room Sunday morning. Expanding brood: All five babies were born by cesarean section ¿ coming out within two minutes .
Healthy: Doctors expect the newborns will need to stay at the University of Utah hospital in Salt Lake City for another six weeks . Full quiver: Less than 10 quintuplet sets are born each year in the United States. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention counted 37 babies who were born as part of a set of five or more in 2010 . Mother: Guillermina Garcia, 34, has been on bed rest in the hospital since April. She had used fertility drugs and found out early in the pregnancy she was having quintuplets . 'He did not become a patient, which is a good thing,' Manuck said. Though the hospital had never had quintuplets before, they've had many women give birth to triplets and quadruplets and drew on those experiences to help them Sunday, Manuck said. The beaming couple, originally from Guanajuato, Mexico, now begins a future sure to be filled with droves of dirty diapers, endless hours of trying to calm crying babies and enough bottles and binkies to fill a sink. They also have a 1-year-old girl, Julietta. They said they have sisters who live in the area who will help them. Fernando Garcia's bosses have told him to take as much time off as he needs from his work as a welder at a local factory. The family has health insurance, but the Utah Doula Association has setup an account where people can donate to help with the costs of having five babies. When asked how she plans to care for all five babies, Guillermina Garcia shrugged her shoulders, laughed and said simply: 'I don't know.' Her husband smiled and gave a more confident answer: 'Now that they're here, we'll find a way,' he said. 'We're through the hardest part.'
She will take up the post in July, replacing Valerie Watts who is leaving to take up an NHS post. Mrs Scott is stepping up to the role from her current position as the council's director of corporate governance. She said: "Financial challenges lie ahead but this great city is ready to meet them." Council leader Barney Crockett said: "We are absolutely delighted to have chosen Angela Scott to take up the position as our new chief executive. "Mrs Scott joined the city council last year to head the corporate governance directorate. "She has shone in that role, and we decided that she was perfectly suited to use her financial expertise, her drive and her leadership to help this administration to deliver on our promises to the city." He added: "It was Mrs Scott who stood out as the prime candidate to lead our workforce and deliver service excellence." Mrs Scott, 42, said: "I am proud to accept the job and I am looking forward to working hard with elected members, colleagues and key partners to deliver on Aberdeen's priorities." An earlier report to the panel created to find a successor said the salary would be Â£144,685.
(CNN) -- Several years ago, Satwant Singh Kaleka put a large American flag in the front of his yard, raising the eyebrows of his children, who thought it might be considered an eyesore. Kaleka pointed out there were no homes nearby with flags, and he wanted to show that the United States was a land of opportunity, said his son, Amardeep Kaleka. The elder Kaleka, 65, served as president of the Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Milwaukee, scene of Sunday morning's mass shooting. He was one of six community members killed. Sikhs react to the Wisconsin temple shooting . "He lived the American dream," Amardeep Kaleka told CNN. His father brought his family to the United States with little money but a strong work ethic in the early 1980s. The flag also was a form of protection for the family, Satwant Kaleka told them. It stood at half-staff Monday evening as the family grieved. The six killed in Sunday's attack were identified by police as five men -- Kaleka; Sita Singh, 41; Ranjit Singh, 49; Prakash Singh, 39, and Suveg Singh, 84 -- and a woman, 41-year-old Paramjit Kaur. "She was a good woman. She was a great mom," said Kaur's son, Harpreet Saini, 18. Kaur and her family immigrated to the United States eight years ago. "She lived for us. She worked for us. Anything she did, it was for us," said her older son Kamal Saini, 20. "If there wasn't enough to eat it was always us before she ate." When Kaur was in the temple praying on Sunday, "My aunt told her that there was a shooting going on outside, we need to get up and leave," said Kamal Saini.
"Rather than just getting up and leaving, she wanted to just bow down and pray for the last time and then get up and leave. She was just getting up. She was shot in the back." Her dream was for her sons to be educated. "She told us education is everything here," said Kamal Saini. His mother's death "took my world away," he said. Both young men plan to pursue careers in law enforcement. "I wanted her to see me in uniform," Kamal Saini said. Another victim, Suveg Singh, spent every day at the temple, said his granddaughter, Sandeep Khattra. "He is always there, and he's with the community and anybody who is willing to listen," said Khattra. "He educated them about our religion." Belief blog: Who are Sikhs? The victim's family told CNN they will return to their temple. His son, Baljander Singh Khattra, said Suveg Singh was friendly and a "very strong person." Prakash Singh was a priest who recently immigrated to the United States with his wife and two young children, said Justice Singh Khalsa, a temple member since the 1990s. Amardeep Kaleka said people called to tell him that his father saved many lives Sunday. The son said he was not surprised his father tried to stop the gunman at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin. "It's an amazing act of heroism, but it's also exactly who he was," Amardeep Kaleka told CNN Milwaukee affiliate WTMJ. "There was no way in God's green Earth that he would allow somebody to come in and do that without trying his best to stop it." Remembering the victims . Amardeep Kaleka said the FBI told him his father attacked the shooter in the lobby, resulting in a "blood struggle." A knife close to the victim's body showed blood on it, he said.
"From what we understand, he basically fought to the very end and suffered gunshot wounds while trying to take down the gunman," said Kanwardeep Singh Kaleka, Satwant's nephew. Satwant Kaleka's wife, Satpal, hid with several other women, telling them to remain quiet during the horrific incident. The gunman came into the kitchen and shot and wounded two women, she told CNN. "I grabbed everybody and said run, run to the pantry." Amardeep Kaleka said his father worked hard and was an honest man. "I would love for them (the public) to know that he lived his life with the principles that he knew and he was taught at a young age. It made him highly successful in America." President Barack Obama signed a proclamation honoring the victims, ordering that U.S. flags be flown at half-staff at federal facilities and buildings. Vigils were held Monday night, and one is set for Tuesday. The Sikh temple in Brookfield, northwest of Oak Creek, was to hold a candlelight vigil late Monday. The Rev. Paul Armstrong of Oak Creek Community United Methodist Church, site of a Monday evening prayer vigil, said the diverse array of faiths in the community have an opportunity to further deepen bonds. "There's a few of us who will be calling folks together to organize some more interfaith services," he told CNN. Opinion: An American tradition of bigotry . "Being in mission to the world is something we share," Armstrong said of his faith and the Sikh community. "Their hospitality is wonderful. That is something the Christian community is called to do." The vigil was held outdoors, and a survivor of the temple shooting spoke, according to Armstrong. "The focus was to express our sorrow and that all of us can be lights of the world," he said.
Navdeep Singh, a policy adviser to the Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund, says Sikhs believe in freedom of religion, community service and inclusiveness. At temples, or gurdwaras, where Sikhs hold services, everyone is welcome. "You can come and be equal," he says. Opinion: Sikh temple shooting is act of terrorism . CNN's Poppy Harlow, Steve Almasy, and Josh Levs contributed to this report. Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 10pm ET. For the latest from AC360° click here.
Richard Madeley and Judy Finnigan have made a formal complaint to the police after online rape threats were made against their daughter, Chloe. The television presenters said they had handed over 'a substantial amount of evidence' to the police. a week after their 27-year-old daughter was targeted by online trolls over the Ched Evans rape case. And they said detectives had 'launched an immediate investigation' as a result. Chloe was threatened with rape on Twitter after she defended comments made by Finnigan during a debate around the future of of the footballer rapist, in which her mother said his crime was 'non violent' and did not cause 'bodily harm'. Madeley, left, and Finnigan have complained to police about online rape threats to their daughter, Chloe, right . Madeley and Finnigan released a statement today, above, saying Scotland Yard had launched an investigation . Twitter trolls turned on Chloe after her mother appeared to defend rapist Ched Evans, right, on Loose Women . Today Chloe's parents put a statement on their website saying: 'Following legal advice, our family has now made a formal complaint to the Metropolitan Police about cyber-stalking, harassment and, most recently, rape threats made against Chloe on Twitter. 'We have presented the police with a substantial amount of evidence, and they have launched an immediate investigation. 'We will be making no further comment at this time.' The furore began when Finnigan, 66, appeared on ITV's Loose Women shortly before Evans was released from jail a week ago after serving two and a half years for raping a 19-year-old woman. Finnigan argued that the 26-year-old should be allowed to resume his playing career on his release from jail because, while the attack was 'unpleasant', his victim was drunk.
She also said: 'The rape – and I am not, please, by any means minimising any kind of rape – but the rape was not violent. He didn’t cause any bodily harm to the person.' Under the Malicious Communications Act 1988, any 'indecent or grossly offensive' message that causes 'distress or anxiety' to the recipient can lead to prosecution. The maximum punishment is a fine not exceeding level four on the standard scale - i.e. no more than £2,500. Since the 1988 law came into force before the widespread use of the internet, e-mail and social networking, prosecutors have used a number of different laws to charge Twitter trolls. Student Liam Stacey, who sent a series of racially abusive tweets after footballer Fabrice Muamba collapsed, was charged under the Crime and Disorder Act. Two men jailed for inciting riots last summer were found guilty under the Serious Crime Act, and Paul Chambers, who joked he would blow Doncaster airport 'sky high' was charged under the Communications Act 2003. Earlier this month, Justice Secretary Chris Grayling revealed to The Mail on Sunday that the maximum six month sentence for internet abuse will be quadrupled . The tougher new legislation is already being dubbed ‘Chloe’s Law’ after Miss Madeley's public stance against the disturbing messages. Her comments provoked a storm on social media sites, with campaigners accusing her of perpetuating harmful myths about rape. Finnigan apologised several times for causing offence, insisting that rape was 'an appalling crime', and saying she was merely discussing 'the legal facts of the case'. But the trolls merely turned on her daughter, with one saying: 'Judy's given me her blessing to rape you.' Another tweet, directed at her mother, said: 'Hope you discover first hand what rape is like you idiot.'
In a message put up via Twitter, Chloe said: 'My mother was voicing an opinion on the matter of criminals being accepted back into society. 'The comments she made on the case in question were facts, so not opinions. 'While it may anger some that the term "non-violent rape" exists, unfortunately it does. 'Referencing it and explaining why that was the charge does not mean that you think this category of rape is acceptable. 'To believe that my mother is pro "non-violent rape" is ridiculous and I am shocked that many people have jumped to this conclusion. 'To the trolls wishing rape on me, stop, you are utterly pathetic.' At the time, Madeley used Twitter to warn the trolls he would go to police, saying: ''I have noted every sick troll threat. 'Do they really think it's ok to wish/threaten rape on a woman? They're in deep trouble, trust me.' He added: 'Trolls who sent sick rape threats? Prosecution awaits you.' A Scotland Yard spokesman said today: 'An allegation of harassment was made to Barnet police relating to messages received via a social media site. Targeted: Stella Creasy MP, left, and historian Mary Beard, right, have both been victims of online trolling . 'A criminal investigation has commenced. There are no arrests at this stage but enquiries continue.' Last month Peter Nunn, a 33-year-old delivery driver from Bristol, was jailed for 18 weeks for using Twitter to threaten to rape Labour MP Stella Creasy in response to her backing of a campaign to put Jane Austen on the £10 note. Historian Mary Beard was trolled after she appeared on television, with one troll, Cambridge student Oliver Rawlings, 20, calling her a 'filthy old slut'.
She later accepted his invitation to lunch to apologise, and said afterwards: 'He is going to find it hard to get a job, because as soon as you Google his name, that is what comes up.' Rape in Britain is an offence under the Sexual Offences Act 2003, which came into force a decade ago, replacing and refining previous legislation. One of the key changes under the new Act was to define consent. A person consents if they agree to have sex by choice, and if they have the freedom and capacity to make that choice. Therefore in a situation where a victim had sex when they were incapacitated by drink, the law would say that they did not have the freedom or capacity to make the choice, ie did not consent. The law does not require the victim to have physically resisted in order to prove a lack of consent. Source:rapecrisis.org.uk .
By . Stephen Mcgowan for the Daily Mail . Celtic have landed a £212,000 Champions League bonus — after UEFA hammered Manchester City for breaching financial fair play rules. England’s champions were fined £50million for the FFP breaches but will only pay £20million provided they comply with break-even rules in future. Paris St Germain and Zenit St Petersburg were amongst nine clubs fined and the 70 clubs who reached the Champions League and Europa League group stages will each receive Euros 265,000 (£212,000) from the penalties. Beneficiaries: Celtic are among the clubs who will receive the funds from the FFP fines . Buying: Manchester City owner Sheikh mansour shows no sign of stopping his spending spree . Similar sums will be distributed to clubs who comply with the FFP rules in this season’s European competitions – meaning Celtic will double their money next season after reaching the Europa League group stage. The deal was hammered out in talks between the European Clubs’ Association and UEFA with ECA chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge saying: ‘It was an agreement between UEFA and the clubs that it was money belonging to the clubs.’ UEFA president Michel Platini addressed the ECA conference in Geneva attended by Celtic, Rangers and Motherwell and reiterated his commitment to FFP saying: ‘We will see whether any imperfections can be ironed out and whether there is room to further improve the system.’ Parkhead chief executive Peter Lawwell also lifted an ECA best achievement in marketing award after Celtic installed state of the art wifi last season. Advantage: The money City have been fined will be redistributed to other Champions League clubs . Selling: Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho insists his side have had to become a selling club due to the rules .
The decaying wreckage of a Second World War fighter plane, exposed after 65 years by changing tides on the Welsh coast, is to be removed. Known as the Maid of Harlech, the Lockheed P-38 Lightning fighter aircraft was discovered in July 2007 after decades hidden under the sands. It was the first time the rare United States Army Air Force (USAAF) fighter had been seen since it crashed off the Welsh coast in 1942 while on exercise. Known as the Maid of Harlech, a Lockheed P-38 Lightning fighter aircraft was discovered in July 2007 after 65 years hidden under the sands. It will now be carefully removed from its secret location . The International Group for Historic Aircraft Recovery (TIGHAR) hope to be able to remove the wreckage from the sea . The . retrieval, from a secret location near the beach near Harlech, Gwynedd, . will move ahead as soon as a home for the aircraft is found. The International Group for Historic Aircraft Recovery (TIGHAR) hope to be able to remove the wreckage from the sea. When it was discovered in 2007, it was the first time the rare United States Army Air Force (USAAF) fighter had been seen since it crashed off the Welsh coast in 1942 while on exercise . CREW: One . LENGTH: 37ft 10in . WINGSPAN: 52ft . LOADED WEIGHT: 17,500lbs . MAXIMUM SPEED: 443MPH . SERVICE CEILING: 44,000ft . RATE OF CLIMB: 4,750ft/min . ARMAMENT: 1x Hispano 20mm cannon . 4x Browning 0.5in machine guns . 4X 4.5in tube rocket launchers . Hardpoints for a variety of bombs .
Project director Ric Gillespie said: 'Once we have a home for the aircraft we can proceed with getting the necessary permissions from the local government, finalising the recovery plan and raising the all-important funding. 'Daunting, but do-able.' He added: 'The plane remains safely buried in the sand. We know where it is, no one else does. 'That's the only reason it hasn't been picked apart by looters. Our intention is to recover the aircraft and conserve rather than restore it.' 'That means a lengthy process of treating the metal so it doesn't corrode away when it is removed from the beach. 'We need a UK museum to partner with us in conserving and then exhibiting the aircraft.' 'The . major aviation museums such as the RAF museum and the Imperial War . museum are aware and interested but unable to devote resources right now . due to other commitments and shortages of space and funding.' The P-38 Lightning in her former glory. It is believed that the aircraft crash landed in 1942 while it was taking part in training exercises and its engines cut out . It is believed that the aircraft crash landed in 1942 while it was taking part in training exercises and its engines cut out. Amazingly pilot Lt Robert Elliott walked away from the incident . without a scratch but tragically went missing in action just three . months later serving in the American's Tunisia campaign in North Africa. The TIGHAR website dedicated to the project describes the find as one of the most significant WWII related archaeological discoveries in recent history. Local historian Matt Rimmer first alerted TIGAR to the wreck's discovery and assisted the TIGHAR archaeological team throughout October 2007 carrying out a survey at the site. Nicknamed 'the fork tailed devil' by . the Germans- who recognised the aircraft as a formidable opponent - the . P-38 entered service in 1941, with the US 1st Fighter Group. They were in initially deployed to the .
West Coast to defend against an anticipated Japanese attack, but by . 1942, the majority of P-38 squadrons were sent to Britain as part of the . Operation Bolero, when the US joined the war effort. Others were sent to North Africa, where they aided the Allies in gaining control of skies over the Mediterranean. In the Pacific, the P-38 served throughout the war and downed more Japanese aircraft . than any other US Army Air Force fighter. Back in Britain, the P-38 saw . extensive service as a bomber escort thanks to its long range. But it was plagued with engine issues due to the lower quality of European fuel. On April 18, 1943, the aircraft flew . one of its most famous missions. Sixteen P-38Gs were sent from the tropical island of . Guadalcanal to intercept transport carrying Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, the Commander-in-Chief of . the Japanese Combined Fleet, near . Bougainville. Flying just above the water surface, the P-38s succeeded in downing the admiral's plane as well as . three others. By the end of the war, the P-38 had downed more than 1,800 . Japanese aircraft, with more than100 pilots becoming aces in the process.
Montreal's Olympic Stadium is known as the "Big O," but for many of the city's taxpayers it is really the "Big Owe." "It took us 30 years to pay it off and as a taxpayer I'm not too happy about it," said one Montreal resident, echoing the anger that many here still feel about the way the games were funded in 1976. "It was not very well managed as a financial project. And we have a fabulous stadium, but I think it cost more than all the covered stadia in North America put together, " said Dick Pound, former International Olympic Committee vice-president and a prominent resident of the Canadian city. However, Pound said calling the Montreal games of 1976 "the bankrupt Olympics" is a bad rap, and pointed out that the games actually made money. He said they paved the way for a new financial structure and the introduction of lucrative new television rights deals. People still come up to him and remember how well the Montreal games were staged and, in the end, how exciting they were, he added. "They were pretty magic. All Olympics are magic but we had Comaneci with her first '10' and we had the Spinks brothers and we had Sugar Ray Leonard," he said. "I mean we had some magnificent heroes of the modern Olympics." But there is weariness in Montreal about being known for staging the Olympic games that almost bankrupted a city. The city's mayor at the time, Jean Drapeau, famously remarked that if the games end up having a deficit, men will have babies. And it was in large part due to the Olympic Stadium construction that the statement seems so ridiculous now. The Olympic debt was nearly US$1.48 billion, and the stadium itself has been an engineering nightmare -- the retractable roof has struggled to worked properly over the years and almost forced the closure of the entire arena last year amid safety concerns.
But the city's current government insists Montreal has put that legacy behind it and the Olympic stadium is now a key attraction. "Now it is paid, and it's profitable for Montreal to keep it," said Manon Barbe, the councillor in charge of sports and leisure for the city. Barbe pointed out that the legacy of the games has created a sporting city that nurtures hundreds of elite athletes. "Today Montreal has more than 1,000 elite athletics and more than 100 coaches. And if it's that high, it's not a coincidence. It is because we decided to keep most of our sporting facilities," said Barbe. One of those facilities is the Claude Robillard Sporting Center, an impressive training facility for more than a dozen sports that nurtures athletes of all ages. During the 76' games, the center hosted handball and water polo and was a training center for athletics, swimming and field hockey. Today, hundreds of aspiring athletes receive access to coaching and equipment, much of it subsidized by the city of Montreal. On most days you will find former Canadian Olympian Hank Palmer here on the track, either indoors or outdoors, or training in the pool or weights room. "If I didn't have this center, I probably wouldn't be at the peak I am, I would not have the career I've been able to have," said the sprinter, who competed at the Beijing Olympics in 2008. "This center really helped me develop myself, not only as a track athlete but an athlete in general because I have so many other sports around me. "I can cross-train, do basketball, soccer, weight training, anything."
Manu Tuilagi is a major doubt for the World Cup after it emerged the England and Leicester star is unlikely to play again this season. The powerhouse centre, one of the first names on Stuart Lancaster’s team-sheet when fit, has not featured since October and faces a race against time to be fit for the World Cup in September after suspicions his groin injury was worse than first thought were confirmed by Leicester. Leicester director of rugby Richard Cockerill said: ‘Manu is improving but it is a long process. The likelihood is, he may not play this season. He may or may not play this season.’ England coach Stuart Lancaster (left) has been hit by the news Manu Tuilagi could miss the World Cup . Tuilagi (centre) has a groin injury that could rule him out of England's tournament in September . Fears that Tuilagi's groin injury is worse than first feared were confirmed by his club Leicester . The 23-year-old, who Mailsport understands is suffering from the notoriously troublesome condition known as ‘Gilmore’s Groin’, is now likely to have just three warm-up matches this summer to prove his fitness ahead of the World Cup, which kicks off on September 18. Leicester, who have conducted a root and branch review of their medical department this season, have repeatedly insisted his return is imminent despite growing rumours the problem is more serious than they have let on. In February Cockerill accused Tuilagi of inadvertently exaggerating the extent of his injury after he gave an interview saying he would not feature in the Six Nations. Tuilagi is considered one of the first names on the England team-sheet when he is fit to play . Tuilagi will try to be fit for the start of England's World Cup campaign, which begins on September 18 . Tuilagi (right) missed the whole of England's Six Nations campaign due to injury .
As it transpired, he played no role in tournament, although he did spend time with England’s medical team and remains a valued member of the squad. But serious questions will now be asked about the management of his injury after surgery was delayed in a bid to get him fit. England had better news last night when Saracens confirmed injured duo Owen Farrell and Brad Barritt as expected to return in the next two to three weeks.
Best-selling children's book The Elf On The Shelf is a disturbing cultural phenomenon which instills in young children the idea that a surveillance state is perfectly acceptable, claims a university professor. Laura Pinto, a digital technology professor at the University of Ontario Institute of Technology, has published a paper in which she argues that the elf has a very sinister undertow. In her recently published paper, Who's The Boss, she claims that the idea of the elf reporting back to Santa each night on the child's behavior 'sets up children for dangerous, uncritical acceptance of power structures.' Professor Laura Pinto believes that the idea of an elf reporting back to Santa each night on a child's behavior 'sets up children for dangerous, uncritical acceptance of power structures' Since it was first published in 2005, The Elf On The Shelf has quickly become an integral part of modern Christmas celebrations. It has sold over six million copies and in 2013 was included as a float in the Macy's Thanksgiving parade for the first time. The story describes how Santa's 'scout elves' hide in people's homes to watch over events. Once everyone goes to bed, the scout elf then flies back to the North Pole to report to Santa the activities - both 'naughty' and 'nice' - that have taken place throughout the day. Before the family wakes up each morning, the scout elf flies back from the North Pole and hides. By hiding in a new spot each morning around the house, the scout elf and the family play an on-going game of hide and seek. Pinto has called the elf 'an external form of non-familial surveillance,' and says it is potentially conditioning children to accept state surveillance too. Since it was first published in 2005, The Elf On The Shelf has sold over 6 million copies and in 2013 it was included as a float in the Macy's Thanksgiving parade for the first time .
'If you grow up thinking it's cool for the elves to watch me and report back to Santa, well, then it's cool for the NSA to watch me and report back to the government,' she told Inside Halton. Pinto isn't the first person to criticize and question the message that The Elf On The Shelf teaches kids. Atlantic columnist Kate Tuttle called it 'a marketing juggernaut dressed up as a "tradition"', and its purpose 'to spy on kids' as inappropriate for the holiday season. Washington Post reviewer Hank Stuever characterized the concept as 'just another nannycam in a nanny state obsessed with penal codes.' Writing for Psychology Today, Dr. David Kyle Johnston called it a 'dangerous parental crutch', with much the same reasoning as what he terms the 'Santa lie.' The best-selling book was written and self-published by American author Carol Aebersold and her daughter Chanda Bell . In her paper, Pinto also argues that the book teaches children to potentially cater to The Elf On The Shelf as the 'other,' rather than engaging in and honing understandings of social relationships with peers, parents, teachers and 'real life' others. 'You're teaching (kids) a bigger lesson, which is that it's OK for other people to spy on you and you're not entitled to privacy,' she tells the Toronto Star.
(CNN) -- This week marks one of the most-exciting non-major events of the golf season -- the Players Championship at the famed TPC Sawgrass. With a deep field and a great course, you won't want to miss any of the action. Before the tournament tees off, we had a chance to catch up with TPC Sawgrass PGA Head Professional Matt Borocz, who provided some inside insight on the home of the PGA Tour. PGA.com: Thanks for joining us. This week presents one of the most exciting on the schedule with the Players Championship. What is it that makes the Players such a special event? Borocz: It's the Players Championship The Players is crown jewel of the PGA Tour. The world's best golfers are on a course that demands the highest level of shot-making and offers an unbelievable fan experience. It's also the highest purse in golf with the champion taking home $1.71 million at the end of the week. The Players Stadium Course was specifically built to host the Players Championship and offer our fans the best possible viewing. Everyone wants to see the action on the final three holes, especially the 17th. It's the lure of the hole and watching the best players in the world challenge the island green. PGA.com: We can't talk about the Players without mentioning the world-famous, par-3 17th island green, which you just touched on. I recently heard a promo with a player saying, "51 weeks a year, No. 17 at TPC Sawgrass is the easiest hole in the world for Tour players." I don't know if I would agree with that, but of course, that 52nd week is the Players. We know why it's daunting, but it's less than 150 yards. Is there any truth to what that Tour player said?
Borocz: A few stats on the 17thhole -- it plays 121 yards from the middle of the championship tee to the front of the green. To the back of the green it's 146 yards. The 17th green is 3,912 square feet compared to the average of 4,500 square feet. The challenge of the 17th hole is its ability to taunt the mental toughness of a player. It's a very calculating shot because you have to factor the wind, firmness of the green and avoid looking at the body of water surrounding the island green. During the Players, you add in the thousands of fans! We give tours every day to visitors and the No. 1 comment of amazement is, "The green looks so small compared to television." Making a par 3 on the 17th hole at TPC Sawgrass will bring a smile to all players, whether they are a novice or the best players in the world. PGA.com: Henrik Stenson of Sweden is your defending champion. Through the years with the likes of Stenson, Sergio Garcia, Adam Scott, Stephen Ames, Steve Elkington, Greg Norman, Nick Price -- the list goes on -- the Players has had quite a list of international champions. What is it about the course that yields such diverse champions? Borocz: In the 36-year history of the Players, 10 of the victories have been by international players. The Players Stadium Course does not favor any style of player. The goal of former Commissioner Deane Beman was to create a golf course that had balance in regards to distance, wind direction and shot-making. He wanted to create a goal course that was fair and would challenge every skill of the game. The goal at the end of week is to crown the greatest player in world. The diversity of the field allows the Players and PGA Tour to expand the scope of the tournament to a world-wide audience.
PGA.com: In 1994, Greg Norman won the Players with a remarkable 24-under 264. That's by far the best winning score in tournament history. Is there any chance someone could come within a sniff of that this year? Borocz: In 1994, when Greg Norman set the overall tournament record, the conditions started off perfect the first round with 76 players shooting under par. Norman started off on Thursday with a course-record round of 63, followed by three rounds of 67's to beat Fuzzy Zoeller by four shots. In 1994, the Players was played in March. With the tournament now being played in May the course is much firmer and faster conditions. In March, we had a lot of inconsistency in weather. It could be in the high 70s and beautiful or in the 50s with rain. The temperatures have become much more consistent, but the golf course plays much differently. When played in March, the golf course was overseeded. It's now Bermuda grass all year. The golf ball has more opportunity to run through the fairways and the greens. The forecast is shaping up to be a beautiful week. PGA.com: Final question. What's the best part about working at TPC Sawgrass? Borocz: Excellent question TPC Sawgrass is a very special place being that it's the home of the Players and PGA Tour. It is a privilege to work around such a passionate and dedicated group of people. Everyone on our team is focused on creating a magical experience for the Tour players, members and guests. Every team member comes to the club with a positive "can do" attitude. We have a team that is extremely dedicated and passionate about their role at the club. One of the most special things about TPC Sawgrass is the interaction with all the people that travel from all over the world to visit. Many of them have personal stories and connections why TPC Sawgrass is their favorite course.
There are definitely days that you have to pinch yourself. We are very fortunate to have the opportunity to work at such a beautiful place that is showcased to the world every year. As a club and being apart of the PGA Tour, we have a lot of involvement with local charitable organizations. Almost every month we have a charitable initiative that we are giving back to you. It's an honor and a blessing to be a part of such a great team.
By . Helen Pow . PUBLISHED: . 16:07 EST, 11 July 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 16:08 EST, 11 July 2013 . A 14-year-old Florida boy who was given a slim chance of survival after he was crushed under a bus two months ago has made a miraculous recovery. Jerry Cunningham, from Pompano Beach, was running to hold a Broward County bus for his mother on May 10 when his arm got stuck in the door and the distracted driver dragged him along the road and then pulled him under the vehicle, which weighed 20-tons. The shocking incident, which was captured on surveillance video, left the eighth grader with fractures to his face, ribs and ankle and he was put in a medically induced coma. Doctors gave him a slim chance of survival. But, after two months in hospital, Cunningham is going home today. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO - WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT . Recovery: Jerry Cunningham, pictured, a 14-year-old Pompano Beach boy who was given a slim chance of survival after he was crushed under a bus two months ago has made a miraculous recovery . 'I always say my son is a miracle because he's alive and nobody knows how,' his father, Gerard Cunningham, said, according to the Miami Herald. The teen was rushed to Broward Health Medical center after the horrific accident. Cunningham said his prognosis was grim when he arrived. The next few days would be critical for the 14-year-old. 'After the fifth day he woke up. He opened his eyes,' his father said. 'That day the doctor said it's a 50-50 chance. So we've been waiting day by day.' On June 13, Jerry was transferred to Jackson Memorial Hospital. 'On the second day that I was here, he called me Dad.
On the second day he called Mom, Dad, so he started talking and I saw him, he walks, he laughs,' Cunningham said. Miracle: The teen, pictured, was given a slim chance of survival by doctors . Injuries: Cunningham, pictured left and right, suffered fractures to his face, ribs and ankle and he was put in a medically induced coma . Emotional: Jerry's father, Gerald Cunningham, pictured, became emotional talking about his son's recovery at a press conference . Jerry suffered a severe traumatic brain . injury and the damage to his left leg meant he couldn't put weight on. He had to be fed through a tube. 'He didn't know where he was, who he was, what was going on. He didn't know anything,' said Seema Khurana, director of pediatric rehabilitation at Jackson, according to the Miami Herald. After a week at Jackson, the teen was sleeping, answering some questions and had put weight on his foot. He was improving every day. 'He is a miracle,' she told the Sun Sentinel, adding that his parents have been at Jerry's bedside and at his therapies sessions every day, which has made a big difference. Cunningham makes his son a special breakfast every morning and quizzes him on the menu to help with his memory. 'That's part of the therapy. They do their part and I do mine,' Cunningham said. When he gets home, Jerry will begin . stage two of his recovery as an outpatient. This involves three sessions . of therapy a week and lessons with a teacher. He has already learned to walk again by himself, though he's still shaky and requires supervision. 'He's like a baby,' his father said. 'He's not a 14-year-old boy, but rather a baby that has to learn everything again.' His . memory, however, is the biggest deficit, speech pathologist Jennifer . Rey said.
She said he was able to remember things right away, but . forgets after a few seconds. But his long-term memory remains intact and . doctors are hopeful his retention will improve. Jerry's . father became overcome at a press conference at the hospital on . Wednesday and thanked the medical teams who saved his son's life. 'The therapists and these people are miracle workers,' he said, almost in tears, 'excellent.' Before the drama: Cunningham is caught on one of the bus's camera running to catch up to the then-stationary bus . Stuck: This grab shows Cunningham catch up to the bus as the doors are closing . Help! Cunningham, pictured outside the bus, bangs on the doors after the vehicle takes off with his arm stuck inside . The shocking video captured the heartbreaking moment Jerry was run over by a 20-ton bus. In . the footage, the teen is seen sprinting to stop the bus as the vehicle . begins to move away from the curb. But the boy's arm gets caught in the . automatic doors, and the driver, who is distracted chatting to other . passengers, drags him along the road for a number of seconds and then . underneath the bus. According to the Sun Sentinel, the . tragedy took place at around 9 a.m. on May 10 in front of scores of . horrified passengers, and was filmed by the Broward County Transit bus's . security cameras, which cover eight angles. Two . of the angles captured the young boy as he gallantly ran towards the . bus for his mother. After he gets his arm caught, he is seen sprinting . for some seven seconds to keep up with the bus while banging on the door . for attention with his other arm. He then disappears out of sight. Tragic: Cunningham is pictured left running with his arm trapped in the bus door and right after he falls to the ground before disappearing from sight .
Witnesses: The security camera shows passengers, right, as they scream at driver Reinaldo Soto, left, to stop . Horror: After the bus stops, the passengers and the driver get out to help the boy before calling 911 . One woman can be seen and heard on . the tape telling the diver, Reinaldo Soto, 55, that someone was running . for the bus then several people yell at him to stop because the boy's . arm was shut in the door. When he slips out of sight, several passengers scream and one woman is seen hitting Soto as the bus stopped. The driver and a group of passengers . then rushed off the bus to help the boy with his mother who, by that . point, had caught up with the bus. Soto is seen rushing back to his radio to call for help. Cunningham suffered fractures to his face, ribs and ankle and is in the pediatric care unit at Broward Health Medical Center, his family's attorney Elie Anidjar told the Sun Sentinel. Last month, transit officials said bus driver Reinaldo Soto, 55, a 12-year veteran with the Transit authority, would be suspended without pay for 15 days and demoted from bus operator to coach service attendant to clean and service buses, the Sun Sentinel reported.
Steven Flynn forced open a window at McDiarmid Park with a crowbar in an attempt to find money to pay off drug debts. A court heard that police officers arrived at the stadium at 02:40 after an alarm went off, but did not realise there had been a break-in. A cleaner raised the alarm after seeing cupboards had been rummaged through. Perth Sheriff Court was told that Flynn, who has convictions for 120 previous offences, opened a door onto the pitch and walked around the Premier League club's ground until the police went away. It was only when the cleaner turned up several hours later and noticed that Flynn had rummaged around several cupboards and stolen keys and charity cash that a full investigation began. Flynn, 29, was jailed for 16 months after he admitted breaking into St Johnstone's stadium on 14 November last year and stealing keys and a charity box containing Â£20. Fiscal depute Sue Ruta told the court: "At 02:40 there had been an alarm activation within the stadium. "Police attended and noted an insecure window on the ground floor. "Officers believed that had been accidentally left open and they left the stadium." When the cleaner arrived, she noticed the alarm was ringing and the cupboard behind reception was open. Police were called and officers saw muddy footprints in the reception area. Ms Ruta said: "A crowbar covered in mud was recovered beneath the reception desk. "CCTV covered this area and police viewed it and positively identified the accused." Solicitor David Holmes, defending, said: "He told the police he committed the offence because he wanted money. "Money was owed to the people from whom he received drugs."
By . Deni Kirkova . PUBLISHED: . 08:41 EST, 2 August 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 03:17 EST, 3 August 2013 . She is one of the most petite actresses in Hollywood, famed for her toned physique. But size 6 Jessica Alba, 32, is on a mission to convince the world she is just like the rest of us as she claims to suffer a multitude of body hang-ups including stretch marks, cellulite and a muffin top. 'Let's face it, I don't have the body of a 14-year-old anymore,' said Alba. 'I think the more we try not to have that unrealistic ideal, the happier we'll be.' Jessica looking super svelte on her her recent holiday to St Barts with husband Cash Warren . Speaking to Women's Health magazine, the actress confessed: 'I have cellulite and stretch marks - and I have a muffin top!' But her fans will be hard pushed to spot any of these complaints, even after two children her washboard stomach and slim limbs remain perfectly sculpted. Indeed, while she no doubt wants to identify with her fans, it is likely to irritate rather than endear them to her. Out and about in LA the actress and business woman showed off long legs in seventies-style jeans . Looking trim at the Spike TV's Guys Choice 2013 at Sony Pictures Studios on June 8, 2013 in Culver City (l) and at the Versace Haute-Couture show FW13 at the Ritz hotel on July 1, 2012 in Paris (r) Eloise Parker, a pop culture expert on Entertainment Tonight, says it is surprising to hear the actress making these comments. Open: Jessica opened up about her body in the interview . She told MailOnline: 'I . was on the beach next to Jessica Alba in Mexico earlier this year. She .
definitely turned heads with her long, lean limbs and flawless skin, . playing with her kids in her tiny bikini. 'In fact, I not only admired . her stunning figure, but also her confidence in showing it off, so it . surprising to hear her make these comments. 'Perhaps she's trying to sound . humble, but if an actress renowned for her fabulous body can't . appreciate her good looks, it just makes it even harder for regular . women, who are inspired by girls like Jessica, to feel good about . themselves.' Alba claims . that she finds exercise too boring and struggles to keep up with her . fitness regime: 'I have a brutally short attention span. It means I'm . useless at working out. I get so bored.' The star has previously confessed to . spending three months strapped into two girdles following the birth of . her second child, Haven. 'It was brutal; it's not for everyone,' she said speaking with Net-A-Porter magazine. 'I wore a double corset day and night for three months. It was sweaty, but worth it.' Read the full Jessica Alba interview in the September/October issue of Women’s Health– on sale Wednesday 7 August .
A revolutionary new pill for advanced skin cancer is to be trialled next year. Laboratory tests suggest that the drug is likely to be effective in melanoma patients who no longer respond to existing treatments. Known as a panRAF inhibitor, the drug may also help people with a strain of cancer that cannot be treated with standard drugs. Melanoma, or malignant skin cancer, affects around 13,000 people and causes more than 2,000 deaths in the UK each year. Scroll down for video . A revolutionary new pill for advanced skin cancer is to be trialled next year. Scientists say it is likely to be effective in patients no longer responding to existing treatments . In the U.S., the American Cancer Society estimated that it killed 9,710 people in 2014. The cancer is triggered by short, sharp bursts of sunlight and those who have been burnt at least five times are at double the risk of the disease. Surgery is always the first treatment option. But in more advanced cases patients are given drugs that suppress faulty versions of a protein called BRAF, which fuels the growth of about half of all melanomas. While BRAF inhibitors are initially very effective, the cancers generally become resistant to them within a year. The new drugs, which target a wider range of biological pathways in order to kill cancer cells, have been shown to halt the growth of resistant tumours. They also appear to work against the 20 per cent to 25 per cent of melanomas driven by a different defective protein, RAS. Professor Caroline Springer, from the Institute of Cancer Research in London, who co-led a study, said: 'Melanomas often respond initially to the current generation of treatments, but they inevitably acquire resistance to them, and there is a desperate need for more effective options. 'Our new inhibitors are the first in a new family of drugs that attack cancers without allowing them the get-out clause of drug resistance, by blocking multiple cancer proteins at once.
'We are very hopeful that clinical trials from this series of new inhibitors will begin very soon - and that they will ultimately become new first or second-line options for patients who, at the moment, exhaust all the available treatments and end up with fatal disease.' Melanoma, or malignant skin cancer, affects around 13,000 people and causes more than 2,000 deaths in the UK each year. In the U.S., it killed approximately 9,710 people in 2014 . Her colleague, Professor Richard Marais, director of the Cancer Research UK Manchester Institute, based at the University of Manchester, added: 'Our laboratory study showed that these new drugs deliver multiple blows to cancer by hitting several cell survival routes at once. 'It's a step on from the drugs that are currently available which can't multitask in this way. 'The next step is testing this family of drugs in clinical trials to establish that they are both safe and effective in cancer patients, potentially providing urgently-needed new treatments for patients who have run out of options.' The trial is likely to involve a small number of patients and focus mainly on safety and dosage, although it might also produce some data about the drug's effectiveness. If you are unhappy with your looks, there is a greater risk of skin cancer, scientists have warned. A study found that people who believe they are unattractive are more likely to ‘gamble with their skin’s health’ by basking in the sun. They are also less likely to use sunscreen. The UK and US researchers say that those with low body confidence may crave a tan in the belief that the golden glow makes them look better. Alternatively, they may simply care less about their health. The finding could be used to improve advertising campaigns about the danger posed by skin cancer. Assuming the results are positive, further larger trials will look more closely at how well the drug performs.
Few details of the trial are available at this stage and the number of patients due to take part is yet to be determined. But Professor Springer said funding had been agreed and an application made for ethical approval. She added: 'We're all very excited and very hopeful, because it's very important to have different therapies to offer patients who have become resistant to existing treatments.' Patients will be given one specific drug which was chosen from hundreds of candidates after rigorous testing. In the laboratory study, two drugs code-named CCT 196969 and CCT 241161 were tested. Both suppressed drug-resistant tumours from patients grown in mice without significant side-effects. Dr Richard Seabrook, of Wellcome Trust, which co-funded the research together with Cancer Research UK, said: 'Malignant melanoma is the fifth most common cancer in the UK, with more than 13,000 people diagnosed in 2011. 'Doctors already have frontline drugs to treat melanoma, but many patients gradually develop resistance to them and are left with few other treatment options. 'This research, which discovered how two newly developed compounds could treat drug-resistant skin cancer, may give hope to the thousands who find themselves in this situation.' The study was published in the journal Cancer Cell.
Mobile, Alabama (CNN) -- Brianna Adkins stepped off the Carnival Triumph early Friday and into the arms of her anxious parents, bringing to an end the nightmarish journey aboard a crippled ship that was towed to port days after it was due. It was a big, tight hug between 18-year-old Adkins and her mom and dad, the kind filled with the emotion that reflected the days of uncertainty after the cruise ship was left virtually dead in the water after a reported engine fire knocked out power. "Just to be with them, just to let them know I'm safe," Adkins said, fighting back tears. "It means just so much to be with them you have no idea." My celebration trup on the Carnival Triumph: From joy to misery . A near party-atmosphere abounded aboard the cruise ship as it docked late Thursday at the Alabama Cruise Terminal, where some passengers hung over balcony rails, while others danced and waved signs. "I kissed the ground when I got off," said Adkins of Noblesville, Indiana, just north of Indianapolis. The saga began unfolding early Sunday morning as the Carnival Triumph, originally carrying 3,143 passengers and 1,086 crew members, was making its way to Galveston, Texas, when a fire left the vessel listing to the side and drifting in the Gulf of Mexico. The ship drifted nearly 90 miles before enough tugboats arrived to tow the massive cruise ship to Mobile. Almost immediately, reports emerged on social media of deteriorating conditions aboard the ship. Passengers reported sewage sloshing in the hallways and, in some cases, running down the walls of cabins. Still others said the power outage forced people, especially those in the lower decks or inside cabins, to drag their mattresses to outside decks because of stifling heat. The power outage also made it impossible for passengers to call loved ones. Why did it take five days?
For those who were able to get messages out -- drafting on wireless from cruise ships dropping supplies -- it was a few moments to reassure loved ones they were OK. Still, for Adkins and others there was nothing better than being able to put both feet on firm ground while wrapping their arms around family members. "The unknown was the worst part," Adkins mother, Beth, said. About 75 families were on hand, according to a spokesman for the City of Mobile, at the Alabama Cruise Terminal. Family members who spoke to CNN said they had come from Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana and Texas. Some had come in as early as Wednesday but the bulk of people arrived Thursday afternoon, with each hour bringing a few more cars. After a bad cruise, can you cruise into court? Most of the anxious families couldn't bear the thought of their relatives being on a bus for hours and had gotten hotel rooms in Mobile where the homecoming would include a long shower and a meal. Brooklyn Burgess, 18, got off the ship scanning the crowd for father and brother, who had driven from their Carthage, Mississippi, home to get them and bring them home. There in the crowd, she and her mother, who was traveling with her, found the family. Her father picked her up in a tight hug, and Burgess started to cry. "I said I don't have a boyfriend. I sure hope somebody who missed me is there waiting for me," she said, her eyes red from tears. Video: Passengers spell out help . For others, it will be a little longer before they connect with loved ones. Brittany Ferguson and Kendall Jenkins, both 24, got off the ship cheering and dancing. Jenkins went so far as to lay kneel down and kiss the ground. "We won this cruise at a Houston Rockets game. Lucky us," Ferguson said, laughing.
They are among the many who boarded one of the more than 100 motor coaches that were reserved by Carnival to take them to New Orleans where many will overnight before continuing their journey home. The two are headed home to Houston. But that's OK with the Ferguson and Jenkins because they have "land under our feet." Spate of fires hits cruise industry . CNN's Erin Burnett and Martin Savidge reported from Mobile, Alabama; Chelsea J. Carter wrote from Atlanta.
The co-founder of pre-Facebook social network Plaxo has been charged with murdering his ex-wife's new husband. Minh Nguyen, 38, allegedly shot Corey Mattison two months after he married Denise Nguyen, having broken into the new couple's townhouse in Ashburn, Virginia. Two of Nguyen's three children with Denise were present at the time of the shooting at 9.30pm on Thursday, police said. Shooting: Plaxo co-founder Minh Nguyen (right) allegedly shot dead Corey Mattison, who married his ex-wife Denise in November (new couple pictured together, left). Nguyen has been charged with first-degree murder . Denise walked in with the third child during the attack, according to the Londoun County Sheriff's Office. Nobody else was injured in the attack, the report said, and Nguyen was arrested without incident. He was charged with first-degree murder and is being held without bond. Mattison, who had two elementary-school-aged children of his own, was a project manager at a glass construction company based in Washington, D.C., WPBF reported. His colleagues told the station Mattison spent a lot of time with his children as well as Nguyen's. 'Corey and his wife would go to a baseball game with the kids, and [Nguyen] would blow up,' his colleague Rick Knutson told the station. Attack: Mattison (left) was killed in the shooting at the townhouse he shares with Denise and their children from previous relationships. Denise's three children with Nguyen were present at the shooting, police say . 'Broke in': Nguyen, 38, allegedly broke into the property in Ashburn, Virginia, at 9.30pm on Thursday . 'He would try to prevent them from taking the kids anywhere. The guy seemed to be a little unstable.'
Nguyen, a major figure in the US technology business, co-founded Plaxo in 2002 with Sean Parker, Facebook's first president. The site has since been bought by Comcast. The social network described itself as the 'world's leading online address book, storing over 50 million address books with 3.7 billion contacts.' Nguyen, graduated from George Mason University with a degree in Multimedia Design in 1997, is based in Washington, D.C. Tech career: Nguyen co-founded Plaxo in 2002 with Sean Parker (right), who was Facebook's first president . Landmark venture: The pre-Facebook site was billed as an 'online address book' used by 3.7 billion people . Having started out as an interface programmer at AOL, Nguyen's post-Plaxo career saw him take up advising roles at numerous apps and websites. In 2012, he became the founding CEO of App Press, which provided tools for designers to build, manage and deploy apps. He is currently an advisor to for at least three tech firms and the chairman of Syllabuster, a mobile platform for students and teachers.
She was hurt when the MR-01 race car she was driving hit a support truck at Duxford airfield in Cambridgeshire on Tuesday. It was the first time the 32-year-old Spaniard had driven the car for the Oxfordshire-based Marussia team. Inspectors from the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) visited the test track on Wednesday. Marussia said surgeons at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge "embarked on a lengthy procedure to address the serious head and facial injuries sustained by Maria in the accident". It said: "The operation began yesterday afternoon and she was in theatre until this morning. "Maria remains in a critical but stable condition." John Booth, team principal of the Marussia F1 Team, said: "Maria emerged from theatre at Addenbrooke's Hospital this morning after a lengthy operation to address the serious head and facial injuries she received in the accident at Duxford Airfield yesterday. "We are grateful for the medical attention that Maria has been receiving and her family would like to thank the Neurological and Plastics surgical teams. "However, it is with great sadness that I must report that, due to the injuries she sustained, Maria has lost her right eye. "Maria's care and the wellbeing of her family remain our priority at this time. Her family are at the hospital and we are doing everything possible to support them." De Villota sustained her injuries after her car "suddenly accelerated" into the back of the support lorry, according to witnesses. BBC Radio Cambridgeshire presenter Chris Mann, who saw the accident, said: "The top of her car and her helmet seemed to take the brunt of it. "She didn't move for about 15 minutes." He said De Villota had been driving at up to 200mph during the testing, but the car was travelling considerably slower at the time of the crash.
Mr Booth said: "With regard to the accident, we have embarked on a very comprehensive analysis of what happened and this work continues for the moment." Messages of support have come in from the motor racing world, including ones from Ferrari driver and fellow Spaniard Fernando Alonso and Jenson Button. Formula 1 driver and BBC analyst Jaime Alguersari said in his weekly column : "I was shocked to hear of the accident suffered by Maria de Villota. I know her and her family very well. I still don't know the cause of the accident. There are so many rumours but I want to wait to see what really happened. "It's terribly sad. Maria is a fantastic person, as are her brothers and her father Emilio, who was one of Spain's first F1 drivers. "She is a role model, especially for all the females who want to get into F1. So this is a very sad situation. "Thankfully, she is not in a life-threatening situation so we have to look at the positive side. We will see Maria again." Lewis Hamilton tweeted: "Just heard about Maria's terrible accident at Duxford. I hope she pulls through. My thoughts and prayers are with her family at this time." The McLaren driver said later: "I don't understand how it happened or how it was able to happen."
Manchester United raised £210,000 for charity at the club's 15th annual UNICEF Gala Dinner on Tuesday evening. On a night when the focus was on events in Madrid and London, Louis van Gaal and his players gathered at Old Trafford to raise money for the world's leading children's organisation. Many of United's players attended the event with their partners and posed for pictures outside the ground beforehand. Manchester United's players showed their support for charity by attending the club's UNICEF Gala Dinner . Anders Lindegaard attended with wife Misse (left) and Chris Smalling came with partner Sam Cooke . Darren Fletcher and wife Haley pose for pictures (left) as do Daley Blind and partner Candy Rae . Angel di Maria and wife Jorgelina were at the dinner as were Tyler Blackett and partner Naomi Thomas (right) Sir Bobby Charlton and his wife Lady Norma (left) and Louis van Gaal and wife Truss were all smiles . Hosted by sports presenter Mike Bushell, the black-tie event was also attended by celebrities including Strictly Come Dancing star Robin Windsor, Countdown’s Rachel Riley (who is a United fan) and Emmerdale actor Chris Bisson. While Indie rock band The Enemy headlined the function. Guests were able to bid on prizes during an auction, take part in a raffle and other fundraising games throughout the evening. Money raised from the event will help fund UNICEF’s work protecting vulnerable children in Vietnam from abuse, neglect and exploitation. Van Gaal said: ‘It does not surprise me that Manchester United is part of such a significant charity partnership and one that has impacted on the lives of so many children throughout the world. Van Gaal addressed the gathered crowd at the event and said he was honoured to be there . Wayne Rooney (left) talks to host Mike Bushell (right) on stage during the event at Old Trafford .
Part of United's Spanish-speaking contingent (from left) Di Maria, David de Gea, Ander Herrera and Juan Mata pose for pictures . United players (from left) Luke Shaw, Phil Jones, reserve goalkeeper Ben Amos and Smalling pose for pictures . Anderson has barely featured for United this season but made an appearance at the event . 'Our work with UNICEF is something this club can be very proud of and I was honoured to join the players at tonight’s 15-year anniversary event.’ Club captain Wayne Rooney added: ‘Any player who signs for this club soon realises how important UNICEF is to Manchester United. I’ve been attending the gala dinner for 10 years now and it’s always a great evening that raises a lot of money for United for UNICEF. ‘Like myself, most of the players here tonight have young families so it’s very moving to learn about the UNICEF project in Vietnam and the awful circumstances so many children have to face. I’m just glad we could help tonight and am grateful to all the supporters who joined us to make it such a special event.’ Radamel Falcao and partner Lorelei Taron and Robin van Persie and wife Bouchra (right) pose for snaps . Jones with partner Kaya Hall (left) and Jonny Evans with wife Helen looked to be having fun . Manchester United fan Rachel Riley attended the event as did actor Chris Bisson and his partner (right) Catherine Cottrell, UNICEF UK Deputy Executive Director for Fundraising, added: ‘We are really proud to be celebrating 15 years of partnership with Manchester United this year; thanks to the continued support we’ve received from the club and its fans we’ve been able to transform the lives of millions of children.
‘All the money raised through tonight’s gala dinner will help us protect children in Vietnam who are living their lives in danger of abuse, neglect and exploitation. 'On behalf of everyone at UNICEF I would like to say a huge thank you to those who donated tonight and helped us reach even more children in need of help and protection.’ Like our Manchester United Facebook page.
Tottenham are desperate to offload some of their deadwood in order to revamp their squad on transfer deadline day. Mauricio Pochettino's squad is already two senior players over the Premier League's 25-man limit. Spurs are looking at last-minute deals for Danny Welbeck and Montpellier's defensive midfielder Benjamin Stambouli, but will have to sell or loan other players. VIDEO Scroll down to watch Sportsmail's Top 10 Premier League transfers compilation . Future Spurs: Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino is keen to sign Manchester United's Danny Welbeck . Done deal: Benjamin Stambouli is set to join Tottenham from Montpellier after passing his medical . Three goalies: Lloris, Vorm and Friedel. 11 defenders: Walker, Naughton, Kaboul, Dier, Vertonghen, Fryers, Fazio, Chiriches, Rose, Davies and Assou-Ekotto. 11 midfielders: Lennon, Townsend, Lamela, Eriksen, Capoue, Sandro, Paulinho, Holtby, Chadli, Dembele and Mason. Two strikers: Adebayor and Soldado. That’s 27 senior players. Kane and Bentaleb don’t take a place in the Premier League squad as U21 players. Lewis Holtby could be one of the first out of the door with Hamburg set to secure the playmaker on a season-long loan deal and a permanent £6m deal could follow. The German side expect Holtby at the club for a medical later on Monday. Aaron Lennon and Sandro could also be on the way with fellow Londoners QPR - and former Spurs boss Harry Redknapp - interested in the duo. Redknapp is also set to sign young Tottenham left-back Zeki Fryers but he will have to fight off interest from Crystal Palace too.
However Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy is quoting a staggering £5m for out of favour left-back. Levy is playing hardball, even though the former Manchester United trainee has made just seven appearances for Tottenham. Sidelines: Lewis Holtby has become a fringe player at Tottenham, regularly starting matches from the bench . Going? Aaron Lennon (pictured) and Sandro were left out of Mauricio Pochettino's squad for Sunday's game . Race against time: Sandro may move after seemingly falling out of Mauricio Pochettino's plans at Spurs .
A stunning start saw tries from Peceli Yato and David Strettle help Clermont into an early 15-0 lead. Four penalties from Johnny Sexton then cut the gap to three but a Morgan Parra penalty and Camille Lopez drop-goal seemed to have won it. Garry Ringrose's score cut the gap to two but Lopez's boot saw Clermont home. Clermont - two-time finalists but yet to win the tournament - will meet Saracens in Edinburgh on Saturday, 13 May. Clermont are the nearly men of French rugby, having lost to Toulon in Europe's top club tournament in the 2013 and 2015 finals, and won only one of their 12 French finals - and that at the 11th attempt. But they started as a side used to the biggest stages, and their early pressure brought them deserved tries from the impressive Fiji flanker Yato and livewire former England winger Strettle. Both sides are attack-minded but Leinster were struggling to get hold of the ball and it was not until the end of the half they finally enjoyed some pressure of their own. Ireland fly-half Sexton got them on the board with the last kick of a half in which they had been totally outplayed. Leinster needed to start the second half the better and duly attacked from deep on their first possession. They proceeded to come at Clermont from every angle, with three quick penalties enabling Sexton to cut the gap to only three points. Then came the decisive moment of the game. The supporting Dan Leavy thought he had scored for Leinster, but the television match official had noticed an infringement back at the start of the move. His eagle eyes spotted that flanker Leavy himself had held on to Aurelien Rougerie at a ruck to open the gap Leinster had first streamed through 60 metres back upfield.
Not only did Leinster have the try struck off but they also conceded a penalty, which Parra stroked over to put Clermont further ahead. Lopez banged over a drop-goal from distance to put Clermont more than seven points clear, only for Ireland centre Ringrose to score a fine converted try and cut the gap to two points. But the outstanding Fritz Lee won the latest in a series penalties at a ruck to halt a Leinster attack and Lopez's accurate boot did the rest to send Clermont into the final. Leinster fly-half Johnny Sexton: "I felt that we could still win it at half-time. We should have made them work harder for their scores - they got a 15-point head-start. "We were beaten by an impressive side, who have been impressive all year. We have to take our hats off and say they were better than us." Clermont's ex-England & Saracens wing David Strettle: "We always knew they would have a purple patch. We had to start well, hold on when they got on top after half-time and then finish strongly. "I think Saracens have got better since I left, but I can see in the two years that I have been here how important this tournament is to the club." Clermont Auvergne: Spedding; Strettle, Rougerie, Lamerat, Abendanon; Lopez, Parra; Chaume, Kayser, Zirakashvili, Iturria, Vahaamahina, Chouly, Yato, Lee.
Replacements: Penaud for Rougerie (56), Fernandez for Lamerat (65), Radosavljevic for Parra (69), Falgoux for Chaume (64), Ulugia for Kayser (53), Jarvis for Zirakashvili (64), Jedrasiak for Vahaamahina (69), Lapandry for Yato (53). Leinster: Carbery; McFadden, G Ringrose, Henshaw, Nacewa; Sexton, L McGrath; J McGrath, Strauss, Furlong, Toner, Triggs, Ruddock, Leavy, Conan. Replacements: Kirchner for Carbery (71), Gibson-Park for L. McGrath (64), Dooley for J. McGrath (60), Cronin for Strauss (49), Bent for Furlong (71), Molony for Triggs (60), van der Flier for Leavy (64). Not Used: R Byrne. Sin Bin: Nacewa (8). For the latest rugby union news follow @bbcrugbyunion on Twitter.
Washington (CNN) Russia appointed actor Steven Seagal as a "special representative" on US-Russian humanitarian ties, the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in statement on its official Facebook page Saturday. According to the statement , the action star's role will be to promote US-Russia relations "in the humanitarian sphere," adding that the role will include collaboration "in the sphere of culture, public and youth exchanges." The foreign ministry said the unpaid role will be similar to the United Nations' goodwill ambassador positions. Seagal, who became a Russian citizen in 2016, is a close friend of Russian President Vladimir Putin. He attended Putin's recent swearing-in ceremony in May. Seagal has been an ardent supporter of Putin, going so far as to defend his government against allegations of election meddling in the United States. He told Piers Morgan on the British ITV network's "Good Morning Britain" last year, "For anyone to think that Vladimir Putin had anything to do with fixing the elections, or even that the Russians have that kind of technology, is stupid." "And this kind of propaganda is really a diversion so that the people in the United States of America won't really see what's happening, " he added. In the interview, Seagal also praised Putin as "a great world leader" and a "brilliant tactician." In 2013, BuzzFeed reported that Putin suggested to President Barack Obama that Seagal serve as an honorary envoy of Russia to help improve relations between the two countries. Also that year, California Republican Rep. Dana Rohrabacher credited Seagal with facilitating meetings for a congressional delegation that visited Russia in the wake of the Boston Marathon bombings to investigate the suspects' backgrounds and discuss intelligence sharing issues. CNN has reached out Seagal's spokesperson for comment.
This will appear next to all of your comments This will NOT appear anywhere on Newser me Minister Youssef Chahed Только что состоялась ещё одна встреча в рамках нашего визита в Тунис - с Премьер-министром этой страны Ю.Шахедом, которая была посвящена планам наращивания нашего торгово-экономического и инвестиционного сотрудничества.
Мы выразили удовлетворение темпами роста товарооборота, договорились работать над тем, чтобы его структура становилась более сбалансированной. Этим вопросам будет посвящено заседание Межправительственной комиссии по торгово-экономическому и научно-техническому сотрудничеству, которое планируется в первой половине этого года здесь, в Тунисе.
Мы также напомнили нашим тунисским коллегам о том, что в прошлом году Российская Федерация предложила подписать программу торгово-экономического и научно-технического сотрудничества между нашими странами на 2019-2021 годы.
Мы попросили, и Премьер-Министр Туниса Ю.Шахед обещал это сделать, ускорить согласование этой программы, чтобы она могла быть одобрена на предстоящем заседании Межправительственной комиссии.
Также договорились ускорить ратификацию подписанного ранее межправительственного соглашения о сотрудничестве в сфере мирного использования ядерной энергии и подписание целого ряда других проектов и документов, которые касаются облегчения визового режима, автомобильного транспорта и сотрудничества в сфере охраны окружающей среды.
Тунисские коллеги также проинформировали нас о планах развития инфраструктуры своей страны. Они заинтересованы в том, чтобы российские компании, прежде всего занимающиеся строительством автомобильных и железных дорог, участвовали в соответствующих тендерах. Будем поощрять наших экономических операторов откликаться на такие предложения.
С удовлетворением отметили развитие сотрудничества между Тунисом и российскими регионами, в частности между Тунисом и Татарстаном. Президент Татарстана Р.Н.Минниханов посетил эту страну в октябре прошлого года. Состоялся бизнес-форум с участием бизнесменов Туниса и Татарстана. Такие контакты мы также будем всячески поощрять.
В целом беседа была конкретной, предметной и помогла лучше понять, как нам двигаться по пути дальнейшего развития нашего сотрудничества во всех областях.
The falls came after the head of the Eurogroup of eurozone finance ministers suggested that the Cyprus model, which involves a tax on bank deposits, could form a template in any future bailout. On Monday morning, hopes the deal would solve the crisis lifted shares. By 15:30 GMT, all major European markets had fallen into negative territory, joined by US stocks. The president of Cyprus, Nicos Anastasiades, later addressed his country in a television broadcast. The deal was "painful" but the best that could have been struck under the circumstances, he said. He said that controls limiting restricting the movement of capital would be temporary and he promised to protect the weak, saying that welfare payments would be met. Earlier, markets in Europe and the US moved downwards when Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the Dutch Finance Minister who as head of the Eurogroup played a key role in the Cyprus negotiations, said the deal represented a new template for resolving future eurozone banking problems. "If there is a risk in a bank our first question should be 'OK, what are you in the the bank going to do about that? '," he told Reuters and the Financial Times. He later added a clarification saying that Cyprus was "a specific case with exceptional challenges". The Cyprus deal puts the burden for dealing with problem banks on their shareholders and creditors - in this particular case, customers with large bank balances - rather than the government and taxpayers - and bondholders, who lend through financial markets. Our World Economics Editor, Andrew Walker, pointed out the more usual approach to failing banks in the current crisis has been for the state to inject new capital. He says that Cyprus's banks are unusual in that they have relatively low amounts of financial market investors which could be tapped. In the past, nations such as Ireland have pumped billions of taxpayers' money into propping up their banks, rather than risk upsetting large investors and spooking the financial system.
Mr Dijsselbloem said the pattern for bank rescues should see shareholders take the first hit, then bond holders, who lend money through financial markets, and only then should depositors with large bank balances be tapped. By Stephanie FlandersEconomics editor But Mr Dijsselbloem's remarks raised fears that other European countries with struggling banks may face the same solution as Cyprus, which agreed to force those with cash on deposit above 100,000 euros (Â£85,000), many of whom are Russian, to pay a substantial tax. Cyprus will receive 10bn euros ($13bn; Â£8.5bn) in bailout funds, but has agreed to a major restructuring of its banks. Small savers will be protected but Cyprus's second largest bank - Laiki Bank - will be wound up and split into "good" and "bad" banks, with its good assets eventually merged into the Bank of Cyprus, the country's biggest bank. The two banks will remain closed until Thursday, while all others will reopen on Tuesday after being closed for more than a week, Cyprus's central bank says. By Robert PestonBusiness editor The Cypriot government suggested that account holders with deposits of more than 100,000 euros should expect to lose about 30% of their balances. The UK's FTSE 100 index ended the day down 0.2%, while Germany's Dax gave up 0.5%, and France's Cac lost 1.1%. In New York, the Dow Jones was 0.5% lower. In Madrid, the market slipped 2.5% while the Milan index was down 2.27%. The euro was also driven lower, falling to a six-week low against the pound. The euro was down 0.6% to 84.74 pence.
Jeroen Dijsselbloem The new deal for Cyprus, unlike previous agreements, does not require the approval of the Cypriot parliament. The uncertainty over the future of Cyprus in the eurozone was sparked a week ago when its parliament rejected an earlier bailout deal, which also included a controversial bank levy. Despite the Cypriot economy's relatively small size, many analysts had been concerned that the crisis would spread to the wider eurozone, had Cyprus been forced to give up the single currency. There were fears that the country's possible exit from the euro would trigger a loss of confidence across the single currency bloc, and prompt investors to withdraw from other troubled economies, such as Greece. However, while Cyprus is now likely to remain in the eurozone, the country still faces significant obstacles as it attempts to recover from the crisis. The EU-IMF deal involves a massive restructuring of the Cypriot banking system, as well as austerity measures and tax increases. There has also been significant public anger in Cyprus at the intervention of European authorities, and the credibility of the Cypriot government has been questioned. "We see a risk that Cyprus' sovereign debt burden post-bailout might not be sustainable, as the country is likely to enter a deep recession caused by the shrinkage of the banking sector and severe deleveraging," warned Reinhard Cluse, an economist at UBS.
Two shots were fired at the man, who was on a bicycle outside St Edmund's RC Primary School and Nursery in Springhill, Birmingham. The man later fled and the school was locked "to maintain the safety of everyone", said police. A staff member's car was damaged but no-one was hurt. Police said the shooting appeared to be targeted. More updates on this story Officers were at the school on Thursday to reassure people. "It is not believed that the school or any of the children or staff were the target of the attack. "We are still searching for the victim, who is also thought not to have been injured, and the offender who made off in the vehicle," said West Midlands Police. Det Insp Richard Marsh said a number of people were outside the school at the time and he urged them to contact the force. "We are still trying to identify the vehicle and the public could have crucial information to assist our enquiries," he said. "We appreciate this will have caused some shock in the community, but we believe this was a targeted incident unconnected to the school. "We are still trying the establish the full circumstances behind what happened and we need the victim to come forward, along with the help of witnesses in the area at the time."
Elisabetta . and Francesca Grillo lived a life of luxury that can be seen 'portrayed . in glossy magazines' using Charles Saatchui's credit cards, the jury . was told during the trial. The . Italian sisters lavished thousands of pounds of the millionaire's money a shop til you drop New York . trip, a stay in the Ritz Hotel in Paris and dozens of items of designer . clothing. When asked about where they got their expensive clothes, the sisters would say they had bought bargains online. Scroll down for video . Cleared: Sisters Elisabetta (left) and Francesca Grillo who were today cleared of carrying out a £685,000 credit card fraud . But really the pair had secretly embarked on a four-year 'greedy and fraudulent free-for-all' using Charles Saatchi's credit cards, Isleworth Crown Court was told. Mr . Saatchi and Miss Lawson – who has her own . fortune of £20million – were so awash with cash it was only a chance . occurrence that uncovered the Grillo sisters' lavish spending. Cookery: Miss Lawson is pictured in her 2006 TV show Nigella's Christmas Kitchen . It . happened when the sisters ordered a taxi with a firm kept on account by . Mr Saatchi’s art company Conarco, and left it waiting for an age . outside the family home. Irritated . by its beeping, 70-year-old Mr Saatchi made enquiries. He was shocked . to discover it had been waiting to take one of his personal assistants . to a polo match in Berkshire. Mr . Saatchi’s finance director at Conarco, Rahul Gajjar, told the court . that although he had noted Francesca Grillo’s credit card spending .
creeping up – with her monthly limit leaping from £25,000 to £100,000 – . he had not yet thought to raise the matter. Only . when the taxi incident happened did he investigate properly and tell Mr . Saatchi that each month Francesca was spending on average £48,000 and . Elisabetta £28,000. Francesca . had spent more than £4,700 on flights to New York, where she spent . £1,850 at high-end fashion store Miu Miu and more than £2,000 on hotels. She . paid £613 at the Soho House Hotel in New York on June 3, and two days . later had shelled out £1,424 at the Gansevoort Hotel. In addition, she . also withdrew large amounts of cash while she stayed in the city. She also used the card to pay a £1,280 bill at the Ritz hotel in Paris on the same day that she bought a Chloe dress for £723. On June 12 last year she spent £5,385 at Miu Miu London, and £2,650 at designer store Prada. The relationship between the Grillo sisters and the couple collapsed altogether last year after Saatchi's finance director Rahul Gajjar, pictured arriving at court, discovered how much the Grillos had been spending on their credit cards . Elisabetta visited more high . street shops and fewer high fashion boutiques than Francesca – with Zara . and John Lewis among them – but still managed to rack up almost £5,000 . personal expenditure in the month, including cash withdrawals on the company . card. Among other luxury . brands the women blew thousands at Dolce and Gabbana, Chanel, Louis . Vuitton, Vivienne Westwood and the Four Seasons hotel group.
Over the course of a four-year period she splurged £58,744 in just 50 transactions at an array of designer shops and spas. But . other personal assistants not charged with any offence also spent money . – at Annabel’s nightclub, the Babington House country venue and on . Christian Louboutin shoes. Anthony . Metzer, QC, defending Lisa, said of the Grillos: ‘They believed they . were authorised to incur this personal expenditure.’ Mr . Metzer told the court that the Italian sisters worked long hours for . ‘modest’ salaries – £25,000 for Lisa and £28,000 for her sister – and . suggested it was common practice for assistants to be allowed to spend . on themselves. They would also be able to live rent-free at a flat owned by Miss Lawson in Battersea, central London, the court heard. The . jury was told Francesca's average monthly spend was £48,000 while . Elisabetta's was £28,000 - compared with the other personal assistants . who racked up bills of £8,000. Mr Saatchi's finance director Mr Gajjar confronted the sisters about their spending in the kitchen of the Saatchi family home in west London on July 3 last year. The pair admitted lavishing money on themselves but initially offered to make amends and pay it back before the police were called in.
Police called to Bramble Road in Witham, Essex, on Friday found a man had been burned on the face and hands. A spokesman said they could not say which of two suspected attackers was in custody for "investigative reasons". Last week police said they wanted to question two men about the attack and on Sunday released an e-fit. Police said the 56-year-old victim had gone down to collect his post from the communal entrance to the block of flats when he encountered two men banging on the door. A spokeswoman said it was now thought he was in "the wrong place at the wrong time" and "was not the intended target of this attack". The victim is receiving treatment at the specialist burns unit at Broomfield Hospital in Chelmsford. His injuries are not thought to be life-threatening. "The two suspects are described as a white man and a black man and if anyone saw them either in the area prior to this attack or afterwards we would urgently like to speak to them," a spokeswoman said.
FIFA vice president Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein of Jordan has announced that he is to stand for the presidency of the world governing body. Prince Ali, who is also a member of the FIFA Executive Committee and the head of the Jordan Football Association, will stand against incumbent Sepp Blatter and Frenchman Jerome Champagne for the top job in May this year. 'I am seeking the presidency of FIFA because I believe it is time to shift the focus away from administrative controversy and back to sport,' he said in a statement on www.jfa.com. FIFA vice president Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein of Jordan will run for football's top job . 'This was not an easy decision. It came after careful consideration and many discussions with respected FIFA colleagues over the last few months. 'The message I heard, over and over, was that it is time for a change. The world's game deserves a world-class governing body - an International Federation that is a service organisation and a model of ethics, transparency and good governance.' Blatter has held his position as FIFA president since 1998 and will be running for a fifth term at the 65th FIFA congress in Zurich on May 29. The governing body has been engulfed by controversy in recent months over the decision to award the 2018 and 2022 World Cups to Russia and Qatar. Prince Ali will challenge Sepp Blatter (right), who is running for a fifth term as FIFA president . American lawyer Michael Garcia produced a 430-page report into the bidding for the tournaments but quit as FIFA's ethics investigator after losing his appeal challenging the findings to clear Russia and Qatar to host the World Cups. The Executive Committee agreed unanimously in December that an 'appropriate' form of the Garcia report into World Cup bidding should be published.
Officials at a meeting in Morocco agreed to the proposal without a vote being taken - but nothing will be published until the Ethics Committee charges against three FIFA ExCo members - Angel Villar Llona of Spain, Belgium's Michel D'Hooghe and Thailand's Worawi Makudi - have been dealt with. 'The headlines should be about football, not about FIFA,' Prince Ali added. 'FIFA exists to serve a sport which unites billions of people from all over the world, people of differing and divergent political, religious and social affiliations, who come together in their enjoyment of "the world's game".' Football Association chairman Greg Dyke said: 'Personally I welcome Prince Ali's decision to stand for the FIFA presidency. It is very important that there is a credible candidate standing against Mr Blatter and Prince Ali is certainly that.' FA chairman Greg Dyke, pictured in July, has welcomed Prince Ali's decision to stand against Sepp Blatter . Prince Ali has served as president of the Jordan Football Association since 1999 and a year later founded the West Asian Football Federation which consists of 13 different nations. The 39-year-old was educated in the US at the Salisbury School in Connecticut, where he impressed as a wrestler, before moving to the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in the UK. He's served as a pathfinder in the Jordanian Special Forces and graduated from Princeton University in 1999. Ali is married to Algerian-born Rym Brahimi, now Princess Rym, who previously worked as a journalist for CNN and is the daughter of UN diplomat Lakhdar Brahimi. They have two children. Frenchman Jerome Champagne will also challenge to end Blatter's reign, which began in 1998 . Among his achievements in football is his championing of the lifting of FIFA's ban on the hijab in the women's game. Ali was among those FIFA officials who have called for the publishing of the Garcia report. Champagne is a former FIFA deputy secretary general.
Nominations have to be made before January 31.
An oil tycoon has been ordered to pay nearly $1 billion in a divorce settlement to his wife, making it one of the biggest payouts in history. Continental Resources CEO Harold Hamm was ordered by an Oklahoma County judge to hand over close to $1 billion to his ex-wife Sue Ann Hamm, according to a court filing made public on Monday. Special Judge Howard Haralson found that Hamm, 68, should pay Mrs Hamm a total of $995.5 million, with about a third of the funds, or $322.7 million, to be paid by the end of the year, the filing revealed. Harold Hamm was ordered by an Oklahoma County judge to hand over close to $1 billion to his ex-wife Sue Ann Hamm (pictured), according to court filings released on Monday . Forbes named the oil tycoon the 30th richest person in the U.S. in 2012 and 76th richest person in the world. His fortune is estimated at $14billion today . Hamm will then be required to pay the rest of the judgment, some $650 million, in installments worth at least $7 million per month. Sue Ann Hamm has already been awarded around $25 million since the case was filed in 2012. To secure the judgment, Judge Haralson has placed a lien on 20 million shares of Continental stock. The ruling, which is subject to appeal, comes after a ten-week divorce trial which ended last month. Hamm started Continental in 1967, and about 68 per cent of the firm's shares are in his name. His stake was worth more than $18 billion when the trial started in August. It's worth around $14 billion today. Since the couple wed in 1988, Continental has grown from a small-time driller worth less than $50 million into a $20 billion behemoth and one of Oklahoma's largest companies. Because Harold owned his shares before he and Sue Ann were married, they belong to him.
But under Oklahoma law, their 'active' appreciation since 1988 is subject to 'equitable distribution' with Sue Ann, a former executive at Continental who filed for divorce from Harold in 2012. Her legal team contends that the amount of marital wealth the court should divide is more than $17 billion, a sum that included most of Harold's stake in Continental a few months before the trial began. In a court filing from 2013, Mrs Hamm alleged that her husband was having an affair, which prompted her to file for divorce. Mrs Hamm, 56, has held key posts at Continental, but she no longer works for the company. Court filings showed that his attorneys argued that the couple's shared wealth is a tiny fraction of that amount. The couple never signed a prenuptial agreement. Harold Hamm's leadership at Continental is central to the case. The Hamms own four houses together including this vast property in an exclusive enclave of Nichols Hills, Oklahoma . High-life: Sue Ann Hamm and the couple's daughter Jane are pictured at a lunch for the Wall Street Journal Innovator of Year award . In court, his lawyers attributed most of Continental's success not to Hamm's business savvy but to factors beyond his control - that market factors such as rising oil prices, or decisions made prior to marriage caused Continental's growth. The trial ended on October 9. This is the second divorce for Hamm after he divorced his first wife, Judith Ann, in 1987. They have three children together. In 1988, Hamm married Sue Ann, an economist and lawyer. The couple had two daughters, Jane and Hillary. The oil magnate lives in Oklahoma City and owns homes in Enid, Oklahoma and Nichols Hills, Oklahoma. The vast Nichols Hills property is believed to be worth in the region of $3million. Video Source YouTube . Harold Hamm pictured with Mitt Romney during his run for the White House. The oil tycoon donated close to $1million to the Republican candidate's campaign .
Forbes named him the 30th richest person in the U.S. in 2012 and 76th richest person in the world. He had humble beginnings, growing up in rural Oklahoma where he was the 13th child of Oklahoma cotton sharecroppers. Mr Hamm spent his youth picking cotton, before starting his career at 20 by scrubbing the scum out of oil barrels. He worked his way up and was eventually able to drill his own wells. Fond of eating at burger bars, Mr Hamm has a reputation for being down-to-earth and drives his own truck. His big breakthrough came in the Nineties, when he helped discover the Bakken field of North Dakota, the largest new US oil prospect since the Sixties. Mr Hamm is a staunch Republican and donated close to a million dollars to Mitt Romney's presidential bid in 2012. Hamm leaves after he made a quick visit to the humble home (right) where he'd lived in as a boy in Lexington, Oklahoma .
MIAMI, Florida (CNN) -- Florida Law enforcement officials said Monday they had launched an investigation into a tragic boating accident near St. Augustine, Florida, that took the lives of five people and seriously injured seven others. CNN affiliate WJXT shows the scene of the deadly boating accident near Jacksonville, Florida, on Sunday. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission has taken over as the lead agency involved in the investigation. The incident took place on Sunday around 7:15 p.m., in the intracoastal waterway in St. Johns County, Florida, about 20 miles north of St. Augustine. According to FWC investigators, a 22-foot boat with 12 people on board rammed into the rear and right side of a 25-foot tugboat. "We are still investigating and haven't come to any conclusions yet," said Carol Pratt, spokeswoman for FWC. She said they still do not know who was driving the boat. They also are waiting for victims' next of kin to be notified before releasing any of their names and ages. The tugboat was at a dock and boat launch under construction on the Intracoastal Waterway in Palm Valley, said Jeremy Robshaw, a spokesman for St. Johns County Fire and Rescue. Robshaw said rescuers couldn't initially reach the end of the unfinished dock, but laid plywood sheets on the structure to get to crash victims. No one was onboard the tugboat, which is registered to F&A Enterprises in St. Augustine. The seven injured were taken to Shands Jacksonville Hospital in Jacksonville, Florida. Two patients remain in critical condition, one is considered serious and three are in fair condition. A hospital spokesman did not have information on the seventh victim. FWC told CNN that they hope to release more information on the incident and on their investigation.
As in any accident, toxicology studies will be done on the driver of the boat, to determine whether he or she was impaired, spokesman Carol Pratt told CNN.
By . Bianca London . PUBLISHED: . 05:08 EST, 26 September 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 05:13 EST, 26 September 2013 . Men may believe that whizzing around in an expensive set of wheels is the way to a woman's heart, but they couldn't be more wrong. The stereotype that women are turned on by flashy cars is in tatters as new research has shown that, while 48 per cent of men are convinced an expensive car makes them more attractive to the opposite sex, women actually labelled drivers of expensive sports cars as arrogant, self-centred and dangerous. New research aimed to establish whether the type of car you drive actually does influence perceptions - and the results could make you think twice before buying your next car. Sorry, Lewis Hamilton! Women label drivers of sports cars as 'arrogant, self-centred and dangerous' While men might believe a sports car gives them the edge, women overwhelmingly associated the drivers of these cars with more negative personality traits. Meanwhile, men tended to most associate negative personality traits with drivers of 4x4s, viewing owners of these vehicles as arrogant, rude, and self-centred. By comparison, women felt that saloon drivers (like Ford Mondeo, Renault Megane, VW Passsat) were likely to be hard working and safe drivers, while hatchback drivers were seen as being modest. Both sexes attributed the most positive personality types with eco- car drivers (such as Nissan Leaf, Toyota Prius), naming them as the most likely to be conscientious, intelligent and also the safest drivers on the road. Despite being one of the most difficult colours to keep clean, the research found that black is the car colour that is most likely to turn someone’s head. Not so fast!
While men might believe a sports car gives them the edge, women overwhelmingly associated the drivers of these cars with more negative personality traits and prefer those who drive eco-friendly cars . The research suggests that the perfect car for a man looking to attract a partner would be a black eco-car, such as a Toyota Prius or Nissan Leaf. Phill Jones, a spokesman for Motors.co.uk, who carried out the research, said: 'Our survey provided an interesting snapshot into how people perceive car drivers, with the bad boy sports car stereotype still holding true. 'The disparity between men and women suggests that the yummy mummy “Chelsea tractor” stereotype might be having a similar effect on men as sports cars appear to be having on women. 'While there is no doubt that owning the Batmobile or a Back to the Future Delorean would be a conversation starter if you’re looking to meet new people, in reality the car we buy is likely to make us feel more confident rather than make other people find us more attractive.' Opposite effect: While 48 per cent of men are convinced an expensive car makes them more attractive to the opposite sex, women labelled drivers of expensive sports cars as arrogant, self-centred and dangerous .
The basic reason is that his Catholic flock in Africa has increased faster there than in any other part of the world during the past 50 years. The Pope has just been forced to set up a new programme of evangelisation in Europe, where Catholics have been leaving the church in ever greater numbers. In Europe there is a serious problem of renewing an ageing priesthood. In West Africa his flock is flourishing, despite antagonism and even violence between Christians and Muslims in several countries. New vocations are booming. The Ouidah Catholic seminary is the burgeoning training ground for new African priests who - 150 years after the first Catholic missionaries from Switzerland established themselves there - are prepared to reverse the missionary direction and carry out pastoral work among Europeans in Europe. But Ouidah is also a centre for traditional African religions. It is the heartland of Voodoo, whose rituals and beliefs travelled to the Caribbean and to South America, particularly Brazil, during the centuries when slavery depopulated West Africa. By Virgile AhissouBBC Afrique, Cotonou Voodoo is completely normal in Benin. People across West Africa, especially Togo, Ghana and Nigeria hold similar beliefs but in Benin it is recognised as an official religion, followed by some 40% of the population. It has none of the negative connotations it has in the West and many of those who are officially Christian or Muslim also incorporate some Voodoo elements into their beliefs, especially in times of crisis. But Voodoo is more than a belief system, it is a complete way of life, including culture, philosophy, language, art, dance, music and medicine. Voodoo priests ask the gods to intervene on behalf of ordinary people but local adherents stress that they have nothing to do with sorcery or black magic. People here do not stick needles into dolls to cause misfortune to their enemies, as you see in some Western films. What is Voodoo?
In pictures: Voodoo priestess There is still a Voodoo temple filled with sacred pythons in Ouidah, not far from the huge Catholic seminary. Voodoo is a belief system with a culture which includes art, dance, music, rituals, medicine, and is expressed in several languages. Nearly half the population of Benin still follow traditional African animist religions such as Voodoo. Many who have converted to Catholicism still refuse to abandon their former beliefs entirely. The Catholic Church however has a problem with this. It is called syncretism, which means treating all religions on the same footing. Right-wing Catholic traditionalists denounced the late Pope John Paul II for allegedly "consorting with Satan" when he invited an African animist to take part in his groundbreaking interfaith prayer for world peace in the Italian city of Assisi, the shrine of Saint Francis, back in 1986. Pope John Paul's successor, Benedict, invited another African traditional religious leader to celebrate with him the 25th anniversary of that meeting only last month. But this time there were no public prayers together, only private meditation. The Catholic Church, which cannot tolerate the idea of Protestants and Catholics sharing the same communion table, has even greater difficulty in reconciling the worship of Jesus Christ side-by-side with African animists offering libations to spirits of the forest. The Pope travelled to Cotonou, the economic capital of Benin, with a larger retinue of advisers than usual on his travels. All the senior Vatican Cardinals who work in the Roman Curia were invited by the pope to join him for the six-hour flight. They included Cardinal Peter Appiah Turkson from Ghana, the head of the Vatican's Council for Justice and Peace, the body which monitors human rights records not only in African countries but around the world. Cardinal Turkson is the first Ghanaian to be appointed to the highest rank of prelates in the Catholic Church.
He is even considered to be a possible candidate to succeed Benedict XVI, when the 84-year-old pontiff dies. Another member of the Pope's retinue is Bishop Barthelemy Adoukonou, a former student of the Pope at the University of Regensburg in Germany, where he taught theology. Monsignor Adoukonou, promoted to the rank of Bishop as recently as last month, is rapidly gaining influence as an adviser in the highest ranks of the Roman Curia. One of Pope Benedict's restricted number of engagements in Benin - but one to which he to which he attaches great importance - is a meeting with 200 sick and disabled children, who are looked after by Catholic missionaries. He will address all the suffering children of Africa in a speech he plans to make where they live. Another high point of Pope Benedict's visit to Benin will be a meeting with the head of state, members of the government and members of the diplomatic corps in the presidential palace. About 3,000 people are expected to attend and Pope Benedict plans another keynote speech, in which he will refer to the many human rights abuses in Africa. He will refer also to the role of the Church during the democratisation of the country, following Marxist rule after its independence. Here, he also plans to greet some local leaders of traditional African religions who have been invited for the occasion. Vatican Radio has produced its first music CD on the occasion of the Pope's African visit. Five thousand copies will be distributed to representatives of local churches. It is called Afrika Tenda Amani and has been recorded by two popular West African musicians Papa Wemba and Bonga.
Media playback is not supported on this device The left-back, 27, said in the Sun on Thursday that he felt he and his team-mates are underpaid and that Spurs need to sign well-known players and "not ones you had to Google". Rose has now said the timing and manner of his comments was "ill-judged". "I forgive him and now we move on," said Pochettino. "Of course [he has a future at Tottenham]. Nothing has changed in my vision or perception here." Tottenham, who finished second behind Chelsea in the Premier League last season, have not signed any players so far this summer and sold right-back Kyle Walker to Manchester City in July for £45m. Rose said in his newspaper interview that Tottenham needed to sign "two or three players". "My words were were not meant to offend," added Rose on Friday in a statement released through his management company. "For that I would like to apologise to the chairman, manager, my team-mates and the fans." Rose, who signed a new five-year contract last year, joined Tottenham from Leeds United in July 2007. He has made 144 appearances for the club after becoming a first-team regular in 2013. Rose will miss the game against Newcastle with a knee problem but Spurs have been boosted by the news that Kieran Trippier's ankle injury is not as bad as first feared. The right-back limped off in Saturday's 2-0 friendly win over Juventus at Wembley. However, on Friday, Tottenham said Trippier has minor ligament damage, adding that "a short recovery time is expected".
The FSB intelligence agency said two attempted incursions had taken place over the weekend and a Russian soldier and an FSB employee had been killed. President Vladimir Putin vowed "further security measures" in response to Ukraine's "stupid and criminal" acts. Ukraine's president described the accusations as "preposterous". "Russian accusations against Ukraine of terrorism in occupied Crimea sound as preposterous and cynical as the statements of the Russian leadership about the absence of Russian troops in the Donbass [region of rebel-held eastern Ukraine]," Petro Poroshenko said. "These fantasies are only a pretext for making more military threats against Ukraine," he added. Russian intelligence also said it had smashed a Ukraine military intelligence network in Crimea and detained a number of people. They included a Ukrainian national named as Yevhen Panov, who is described by Russian sources as a Ukrainian military intelligence officer. Russian state TV has been running pictures from the FSB, showing rucksacks packed with explosives. Ukrainian "saboteurs", sent by the defence ministry, were supposedly intending to use them in Crimea. The claims of Ukrainian "terrorism" on the peninsula have sparked concern here that Moscow could respond with some kind of military action. The possibility has been discussed actively on social media, especially after President Putin's comment that he will not just "pass over" the death of two Russians. Others suggest that the incident will be used - or was engineered, depending on your viewpoint - to scupper the complex peace process in Ukraine. Straightaway, Mr Putin said more internationally-backed talks, due in the next few weeks, had been proved "pointless". So Russia has a reason to stall again on the Minsk peace process, maintain the unstable status quo in Ukraine and to blame Kiev for all of it. Russia says one of those detained is Yevhen Panov. Initial reports suggest he was a former military volunteer fighting for Ukraine in the east of the country.
However he has apparently more recently been associated with a charitable organisation. Ukraine has managed to contain the Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine and, in purely military terms, it is hard to see what Ukraine has to gain by provoking its larger, much more powerful neighbour. For all the talk about rapprochements and peace in eastern Ukraine, there has been very little concrete progress. Fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainians goes on every day. Just two weeks before Ukraine celebrates 25 years of independence after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, relations between Moscow and Kiev have taken another turn for the worse. Kiev is preparing to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Ukrainian independence on 24 August, and officials have suggested Moscow may try to disrupt the celebrations. Russia is preparing for a parliamentary election on 18 September. The FSB said Ukrainian forces had intended to sabotage key infrastructure in Crimea. "The aim of this subversive activity and terrorist acts was to destabilise the socio-political situation in the region ahead of preparations and the holding of elections," the spy agency said. It said the attempted incursions had been accompanied by "heavy fire" from Ukrainian territory, resulting in the death of the Russian soldier. The FSB employee died while trying to detain infiltrators, it said. Bombs, ammunition and mines had been found in the area where "terrorist attacks" had been foiled, it said. Mr Putin said there was no point in further negotiations with Ukraine and called on the US and European countries to put pressure on Kiev to change its behaviour. About 9,000 people are reported to have been killed in the conflict in eastern Ukraine that followed the Russian annexation of Crimea. The annexation, which was itself largely bloodless, followed a vote to secede at a referendum on self-determination on 16 March 2014 - a ballot which was not recognised internationally. The US and European Union imposed sanctions on Moscow in response to its seizure of the territory.
By . Katy Winter . PUBLISHED: . 08:57 EST, 8 April 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 11:56 EST, 8 April 2013 . A mother of eleven children has told how she feels misrepresented by a TV documentary after she and her husband were portrayed as pub-goers who live on takeaways. Amanda and Tony Allan of Sunderland starred in the Channel 4 programme '16 Kids and Counting', which highlights the lives of big families. After filming with the production company Lion Television for eight months, Amanda, 42, a former auxiliary nurse, was shocked when the programme was aired recently. Pictured (L-R) James, 13, Isobelle, 4, Katie, 16, Charlotte, 8, mum Amanda, 42 with Thomas, 15 mths, Tony, 46 with Lacey, 2, Abigail, 10, Laura, 18, Lillie, 5 and Daniel Selvey, 19 . She said: 'They recorded us on holiday in August, and down at Seaburn beach,' 'The crew would come up for days and film us doing the school runs, and me cooking meals. 'Then when it was edited, all it showed was us at the local pub - which we wouldn't call our local - having takeaways and buying socks' 'They said that the Welcome Tavern is our favourite venue, but we haven't even been going in that long because we only moved here a few months ago. 'I've never said it was my favourite venue, and we don't even go out very much.' Amanda, who has six children from her first marriage, and five to second husband of seven years, Tony, said last Tuesday's documentary portrayed their city in a bad light and focused on moments of filming that didn't reflect their real lives. Amanda said: 'I thought it would show how well we cope with a big family and how well behaved our children are.
'My friends have said seeing us on holidays and how we manage would have been more interesting. Amanda, has six children from her first marriage, and five to second . husband of seven years, Tony who featured with her in the documentary . 'I feel like they heard Tony ask me about having another baby, and hooked the whole programme on that. 'They focused on me making that decision - I have now decided I will try for another - and my 16-year-old daughter Katie saying she didn't want me to. 'My 18-year-old, Laura, who was on the show with her fiance Daniel Selvey, jumped in to say that my kids would like me to have another, but they cut that out, and she was really annoyed. 'They said it would be a heart warming documentary about every day life, I don't think it was that at all. 'We haven't said anything to Channel 4, but me and Tony have said to each other that we don't think we would be in it again.' When contacted, a spokesman for Channel 4 said: 'The documentary is a fair and accurate portrayal of what programme makers experienced during filming with the family. 'The family saw the film prior to transmission and said they were happy with it.'
More than 20 years after a New Mexico woman garnered headlines after she sued McDonald’s over a scalding cup of coffee, a 5-year-old girl has won a six-figure settlement in Buffalo federal court for a similar incident at a Thruway rest stop. The family of the young girl sued the owners of a Denny’s restaurant in Angola in 2012, took the case to trial and recently agreed to a court-approved settlement of at least $500,000. The girl, who was only 14 months old at the time, suffered first- and second-degree burns over her neck, chest and abdomen. Her parents, Jose Adames and Sally Irizarry of Puerto Rico, sued the restaurant’s owners after their daughter grabbed a hot cup of coffee and spilled it on herself in 2010. They claim the waitress was negligent in placing the coffee within the infant’s reach. “Sometime after the family is seated, a cup of coffee is placed on the table, which the infant was able to grab and dump on herself," the family said in court papers. The case went to trial last month, but midway through, an insurance carrier for G.B. Restaurants, the company that owned the now-closed Denny’s along the Thruway, offered to pay $500,000 to the family. The final settlement, approved by U.S. Magistrate Judge Hugh B. Scott, remains confidential but it is believed to be near the $500,000 previously disclosed in court papers. Lawsuits over hot cups of coffee became fodder for the ongoing national debate over personal injury lawsuits when 79-year-old Stella Liebeck successfully sued McDonald’s in 1992. Liebeck’s Styrofoam cup of coffee spilled on her lap outside one of the chain’s restaurants in New Mexico, causing third-degree burns.
When she filed suit against the chain, she became a lightning rod of sorts. But her lawyers will tell you that, in the end, the facts proved McDonald’s was negligent. They said the chain had a policy of serving its coffee at 180 degrees, a temperature hot enough to cause serious burns. They also say the company received more than 700 complaints from customers in what amounted to a clear red flag. In some ways, the Buffalo case mirrored the suit in New Mexico. There were claims about the coffee being kept at overly hot temperatures, and there was testimony during the trial from medical personnel who worked on the infant. The family also provided evidence that their daughter will require lifetime medical care at a cost of more than $340,000. “They continue to worry about her health and welfare now and into the future,” the family’s lawyer said of the girl’s parents. John W. McCandless, the Erie, Pa., lawyer who represented the infant’s family, and Robert W. Gallagher, who represented the restaurant owners, said they could not comment because of the confidential nature of the settlement. email: pfairbanks@buffnews.com BUFFALO, N.Y. (WIVB) – The family of a 5-year-old girl from Puerto Rico has reached a $500,000 settlement in Buffalo Federal Court after the girl suffered severe burns at a Denny’s restaurant in Angola. Tatyana Adames was 14-months-old when she and her parents stopped at the restaurant along the thruway for breakfast in June, 2010. According to court documents, Tatyana was seared by scalding hot coffee that an inattentive Denny’s waitress had placed within her reach. She suffered first and second degree burns to her neck, chest, and abdomen.
The family filed suit against the owners of the Denny’s in 2012, and the case recently went to trial. Then, Farmer’s Insurance, which covers the now-closed restaurant’s owners, offered to pay $500,000 to settle the suit. Court papers show the family accepted the offer, and U.S. Magistrate Judge Hugh B. Scott approved the final settlement. Although that final settlement is sealed, it is believed to be for the previously disclosed amount of $500,000. This case comes more than 20 years after a woman in New Mexico won her lawsuit against McDonalds after she spilled hot coffee on herself. In that instance, the 79-year-old woman suffered third degree burns from spilling her coffee on her lap. Her lawyers successfully claimed the chain was negligent in keeping its coffee at an excessive 180 degrees. In the case of Tatyana Adames, there were also claims that the coffee was kept at an overly hot temperature. Because of her injuries, patches of skin came off when Tatyana’s clothing was first removed after the spill. Her medical providers had to remove the rest of the dead skin while Tatyana was under “conscious sedation”. She was in the hospital in Erie, Pennsylvania for several weeks, far away from her home in Puerto Rico. She also now suffers from an inflammatory reaction when exposed to the heat of Puerto Rico, which makes her skin break out in red, painful, itchy rashes. A Denny’s handbook providing instructions for employees states that waitresses should “Never set hot items directly in front of a child”. Medical advocates estimate the lifetime cost of care for Tatyana’s injuries will exceed $340,000.
Scott Ashton, 44, died in hospital last Wednesday following an incident in the city's Shiprow on 18 May. Frances Thomson, 24, made no plea or declaration and was remanded in custody at Aberdeen Sheriff Court. Mr Thomson is expected to appear in court again next week.
By . Steve Robson . PUBLISHED: . 03:55 EST, 13 March 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 07:57 EST, 13 March 2013 . Fourteen people have died and eight are injured after a double-decker bus plunged at least 30ft from a bridge in China last night. The sleeper coach, travelling from the provincial capital Wuhan to Enshi, was carrying 22 passengers, most of whom were migrants, when it fell from the road crossing the Yangtze River. An investigation has been launched, but initial reports suggest the coach may have swerved to avoid a motorcyclist. Rescue workers continue to search through the wreckage of the coach for survivors . Initial reports suggest the bus may have crashed after swerving to avoid a motorcyclist . Authorities said most of the passengers on the bus were migrants and the victims have yet to be identified . Two of the injured are in a critical condition and are battling for life. Of the other six injured, four cases are serious but stable, the health bureau in Jingzhou City said this morning. The double-decker coach, owned by a transport company in Enshi, went through the guardrail of the Jingzhou Yangtze River Bridge and hit the river beach at around 7 pm. Authorities said they are yet to identify the victims. Death tolls from bus crashes can often be high in China as they are a popular form of transport for migrant workers. Fourteen people have died and eight were injured after the sleeper bus plunged from a bridge over the Yangtze River . The crash happened at around 7pm last night as the bus was crossing the Jingzhou Yangtze River Bridge . There were 22 passengers on the double-decker bus at the time and 14 of them were killed .
CNN senior international correspondent Nick Paton Walsh has won an Emmy award for outstanding writing for his reports filed from Syria and Afghanistan. The award-winning reports were "Aleppo Airstrikes," "Aleppo: Old City Fight," and "Afghan Women Self-Immolation." In its submission to the Annual News and Documentary Emmy Awards, CNN highlighted Paton Walsh's "poetic writing," saying it contrasted "with the sobering environments from which his stories are usually drawn." "His reports punch through the daily accounts of wounded and dead, and give us a fresh way to see the grinding pitilessness of war, and its quirky inconsistencies," the broadcaster said. "Aleppo Airstrikes" is the account of indiscriminate shelling in the Syrian city of Aleppo. Walsh's piece to camera sees him crouching as a government bomber jet flies above. "It's that sound that terrifies ordinary residents of Aleppo daily," he says. Of the lone infant who survives the strike, Paton Walsh observes: "A year old, he was born into Syria's bloody revolution, and may yet survive it still." In "Aleppo: Old City Fight," Paton Walsh goes right inside the fight for the historic old city. His report focuses on the improvised nature of the battle, with "pot-shots at nothing in particular" and what it could mean for the wider conflict. CNN said Paton Walsh's war reporting was "complemented by his sensitive stories about the plight of women in the developing world." In "Afghan Women Self-Immolation," the correspondent reports on an epidemic of self-immolation among young married women in Herat. The women take the drastic measure as a form of protest against the abuse they suffer at the hands of their husbands or in-laws. CNN said Paton Walsh's "delicate writing has a reverential tone, bestowing upon these sad burn victims in Herat the respect they seek."
Beirut-based Paton Walsh has worked for CNN since 2011, focusing on the Middle East, Afghanistan and surrounding region. He topped five other contenders to take home the award for outstanding writing at the awards ceremony, which was held in New York, Tuesday. More recently, Paton Walsh has reported from scenes of conflict in Egypt and Turkey and from Dagestan, where he secured an interview with the parents of the alleged Boston bombers. CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 also won an Emmy, for Outstanding News Discussion and Analysis for "Kids On Race: The Hidden Picture," while CNN's 2012 U.S. election night coverage saw it honored with an Emmy for "Outstanding Live Coverage of a Current News Story -- Long Form." Paton Walsh's previous awards include the British Press Awards' Young Journalist of the Year in 2000 and Amnesty International's Gaby Rado Award (2006) for a reporter at the start of their career for his work in the former Soviet Union. He also won Amnesty's television award for his work in Sri Lanka in 2010, while he was working for British broadcaster Channel 4 News. Read more from Nick Paton Walsh: . Taliban tightens grip on Afghan schools . Baby survives as family dies in Syrian onslaught . Afghan-army style justice fails to win over locals . A sniper's bullet, a dying child, a family's desperation . Heart-rending choices in Syrian warzone .
The 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami was the catalyst for a peace process in the restive Indonesian province of Aceh. Could Nepal's disaster also bring historic change? What's been agreed? Monday's 16-point agreement divides Nepal into eight federal states, the boundaries of which will be decided by a federal commission. The names of the states will be decided by a two-thirds majority vote in assemblies to be set up in each state. Nepal will have a parliamentary form of government with two houses. The lower house will have 275 members, 60% of whom will be directly elected, while 40% will be elected through proportional representation. The upper house will have 45 seats. The prime minister will have executive powers and be chosen from the biggest party or coalition in parliament. The country will also have a ceremonial president elected by parliament and provincial assemblies. A constitutional court will be set up for 10 years to resolve disputes. Did the earthquake focus minds? It's been nearly 10 years since Maoist rebels laid down their arms and joined Nepal's political process. Politicians agreed to write a new constitution by 2010, but have failed to come to an agreement. When the earthquake hit on 25 April, Nepal's prime minister, Sushil Koirala, was out of the country. It was several days before he and other politicians took a visible lead in directing rescue and relief efforts. There was a sense among Nepal's population that the political deadlock had affected the politicians' ability to respond to the crisis. They were under pressure to show they could deliver. However some believe the stronger parties took advantage of this to push through a deal which did not reflect the wishes of Nepal's smaller parties. What's the timetable? It's expected a draft constitution will be ready by July. It will then need to be approved by a two-thirds majority in parliament - the four parties who signed this deal have the numbers to do this.
They are the Nepali Congress, the UML, the Maoists and one of the parties representing the Madhesi ethnic group from the south. A federal commission will then have six months to draw up the borders of the eight provinces and submit a proposal for approval in parliament, though there are fears this process could drag on for years. What are the stumbling blocks? The deal has been criticised as incomplete as it has yet to decide on the boundaries or names of the new provinces. "The stumbling block is that the question of federalism, which has been at the heart of Nepali's political discourse for over five years now, has not been resolved," says Prashant Jha, author of Battles of the New Republic: A Contemporary History of Nepal. There are fears that the commission to decide the boundaries could be politically influenced. Many small political parties which represent ethnic groups and people from the southern plains, the Terai, have already voiced their opposition. It's unclear whether their demands for better representation will be met. Will it really happen? After years of deadlock over the new constitution this is a significant breakthrough which sees the end of the division between Nepal's Maoists, who have been campaigning for federalism, and the country's established political elite who have been reluctanct to cede power from Kathmandu. But the deal could fall through because it does not resolve the differences between the country's main parties and its marginalised social and ethnic groups who feel excluded from this deal. "Until the big parties reach out to these forces, we cannot call this a social contract which has the buy-in of Nepal's diverse groups," says Prashant Jha.
ISIS is using British female extremists to incite other UK women to carry out terror attacks, according to researchers, as fears are raised that pupils are still at risk of being radicalised in schools. Experts at King's College London say they have identified a group of around 30 British women in northern Syria, who are encouraging others to launch terrorist attacks in the UK. The International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR) has studied the social media accounts of female jihadis, and has found that instead of supporting their male counterparts, many are actively helping to recruit female would-be extremists, often encouraging them to carry out atrocities in the UK. ISIS is using British female extremists to incite UK terror attacks, according to researchers, as fears are raised that pupils are still at risk of being radicalised in schools, and authorities continue to hunt Hayat Boumeddiene (left), the wife of kosher supermarket killer Amedy Coulibaly (right) Details of the study comes as Britain and the rest of Europe remain on high alert following the shootings in Paris earlier this month. Authorities are still hunting Hayat Boumeddiene, the wife of kosher supermarket killer Amedy Coulibaly, who is thought to have fled to Syria to join up with Islamic State fighters. She is suspected of helping plan the Paris attacks, but had left France before the Kouachi brothers – Cherif, 32, and Said, 34, opened fire on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, arriving in Istanbul on January 2. Boumeddienee, who is suspected of helping plan the Paris attacks, is pictured (right) at passport control following her arrival in Istanbul on January 2 . Around 50 British women and girls are thought to have joined ISIS, with the majority based in the jihadist's stronghold Raqqa and aged between 16 and 24.
Among them are 16-year-old twins Salma and Zahra Halane who fled their home in Chorlton, Manchester, to follow their brother to Syria - where it is believed they have married IS fighters. Former public schoolgirl Aqsa Mahmood, 20, from Glasgow, is known to have been in Raqqa helping to organise religious patrols. Former public schoolgirl Aqsa Mahmood, 20, from Glasgow, is known to have been in Raqqa helping to organise religious patrols . It has previously been thought that women have travelled to Iraq and Syria to join ISIS ranks as wives, but ICSR's findings suggest they are playing a more active role. ICSR research fellow Melanie Smith, who heads the first known database of female foreign fighters, told The Observer: 'British women tend to incite [attacks], they say to people that can’t move to the Islamic State: "Why not carry out something at home?" 'That’s a common message: if you can’t leave your family behind or afford to move to Syria then carry out something.' Ms Smith added that women have often been recruited in the past to carry out suicide attacks. School inspectors are also expected to warn that children are still at risk from Islamic extremism, despite a crack down in the wake of the Trojan Horse scandal. Four separate investigations were conducted last year into allegations in Birmingham, which were originally sparked by the 'Trojan Horse' letter - now widely believed to be a hoax - that referred to an alleged plot by hardline Muslims to seize control of a number of school governing boards in the city. In June, Ofsted issued a damning verdict on the running of a number of Birmingham's schools and declared five failing, placing them into special measures. These schools were Golden Hillock School, Nansen Primary School and Park View Academy - all run by the Park View Educational Trust (PVET) - as well as Oldknow Academy and Saltley School.
In an update published in September, Ofsted said that these schools had not improved, with chief inspector Sir Michael Wilshaw saying that 'very little action' had been taken to address the serious concerns raised about each school's performance, amid slow progress in appointing new governors and senior leaders. Sir Michael is expected to warn a meeting of the education select committee later this month that he is still 'very concerned' about a continued risk of extremism in schools, Whitehall sources told The Sunday Times. Twins Salma (left) and Zahra Halane (right), both 16, fled their home in Chorlton, Manchester, to follow their brother to Syria - where it is believed they have married IS fighters . Nearly half of the 4,000 referrals to the Government's Channel programme, which aims to target children and adults who are vulnerable to radicalisation before they become terrorists, have reportedly been under 18. Some have these have been as a result of teachers cracking down on pupils feared to be at risk of fleeing the UK to fight in Syria. One headteacher said four children at her north London school had been reported to the Prevent programme, of which Channel is a part, including a 16-year-old girl who wanted to fundraise for ISIS, and a 15-year-old boy who had made a 'throwaway' comment about fighting in Syria. Ofsted chief inspector Sir Michael Wilshaw (pictured) is expected to warn a meeting of the education select committee later this month that he is still 'very concerned' about a continued risk of extremism in schools .
A glitch on the United Airlines website saw travellers offered return, first class flights from London to Newark for just $74 (£49). The round-trip first class tickets from Heathrow to Newark, just outside of New York City, were snatched up by lucky holidaymakers for just 491 Danish krone due to an apparent error on the site. By registering as a customer in Denmark, holidaymakers could snap up the deal, which would normally set them back $5,618 (£3,690) and $6,778 (£4,452). For a brief period of time on February 11, round-trip, first class fares from London to Newark were available on United.com for just £49 . It is unclear how the deal happened and it appears United has since made changes to prevent anyone else from purchasing the cheap tickets. One customer who snapped up the bargain fare said she simply logged on to United.com and changed her country status to Denmark. She then chose her dates and made sure to select business class or first class from the drop down menu, for example March 19 to March 25. Then, using a credit card without a foreign transaction fee, the purchase was completed and a confirmation email sent, although the customer did say she left her country as 'Denmark' when filling out her postal address. The unbelievable fare totalled 491 Danish krone, which comes to £49 or approximately US$74 . Despite the low costs, two customers reported 'miscellaneous' charges when they came to play, adding up to $326 (£214) to the price of the ticket. It is not known what these costs represent, but both customers said they were happy to pay as the price still worked out much cheaper than a full price first class ticket. MailOnline Travel attempted to secure the same deal at approximately 16:20 GMT, but found that selecting Denmark from the country drop down menu was no longer an option.
A second customer secured first class transatlantic flights for a total of 1,356DKK - around $206 or £135 . The country option was then turned back to United Kingdom. It is as yet unclear how many people snapped up the flights during the time of the glitch and whether the airline will honour the bookings. According to a statement provided to MailOnline Travel: 'United has temporarily suspended sales from its Denmark website because a third-party software provider applied an incorrect exchange rate and was misquoting the airline’s properly filed fares. 'This error in the application of the exchange rate primarily impacted individuals who live outside of Denmark and who were not traveling to or from Denmark but were attempting to book tickets using United’s Denmark site.'
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 08:02 EST, 19 May 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 09:59 EST, 19 May 2013 . Lord Feldman, the man allegedly behind calling Tory grassroots supporters 'swivel-eyed loons,' has been a loyal presence at David Cameron's side for thirty years. Yet he never gives interviews, has never stood for elected office, and is virtually unknown outside Westminster. But now, it is the sheer strength and longevity of Cameron's friendship with Lord Feldman which makes the furore so damaging for the Tory leader because it is widely assumed their views are shared. Centuries old: Tennis partners: David Cameron (back row, far right) and Andrew Feldman (back row, 2nd left). The pair first established their rapport as students at Brasenose College, Oxford, in the mid-1980s and have remained extremely close since then . The pair first established their rapport . as students at Brasenose College, Oxford, in the mid-1980s and have . remained extremely close since then. Profiles of the peer usually describe the 47-year-old as either as 'Mr Cameron's tennis partner' or 'the PM's oldest . political friend' – fuelling critics' claims that the Government is . being run by a socially elite clique of old 'chums'. The impression is enhanced by photos of them as young men, posing for the college tennis club team . (the pair are circled, left) and standing next to each other at the . summer ball, which they had helped to organise – Lord Feldman was chairman of . the committee, while Mr Cameron booked the entertainment.
Critics: Profiles of the peer usually describe him either as 'Mr Cameron's tennis partner' or 'the PM's oldest political friend' – fuelling critics' claims that the Government is being run by a socially elite clique of old 'chums' So who is who is Lord Feldman of Elstree, and how has he become so close to the seat of power? Born into a well-off family, he went to Haberdashers’ Aske’s Boys’ School in Hertfordshire, where he won a place to study Law at Oxford. It was at Brasenose College, Oxford, that he met Cameron. They organised a college May ball together and discovered they had a mutual love of racquet sports (another similarity shared between tennis-playing Tony Blair and Lord Levy). Lord Feldman urged Cameron to run for the Tory leadership as the dark horse candidate when Michael Howard announced that he was handing on the baton in 2005 . Since those college days, the friendship has been cemented, with Mr Cameron describing Lord Feldman as ‘one of my oldest and best friends’. Scandal: Feldman's most serious brush with scandal came in 2008 when he was entangled with George Osborne in the 'yachtgate' saga: both Feldman and Shadow Chancellor Osborne were guests on billionaire Oleg Deripaska's yacht Queen K . Like Cameron, Lord Feldman got a First in his final exams; then he took a job with management consultants Bain & Co. before, in 1991, being called to the Bar and practising as a commercial barrister at one of the country’s top chambers. His family owns Jayroma, a multinational textile company making ladies’ clothes, and in 1995, aged 29, he joined the firm, drawing a salary of £900,000 in one year alone.
It meant he was able to buy the £3million house in Holland Park, West London, where he lives with his wife Gaby and their three children round the corner from David Cameron’s house in Notting Hill. Tory figures describe Lord Feldman as likeable, friendly, extremely bright and unassuming. He skis regularly, enjoys yoga, and owns another house in Andalusia, southern Spain. It was Lord Feldman who not only urged Mr Cameron to run for the Tory leadership as the dark horse candidate when Michael Howard announced that he was handing on the baton in 2005 after the party’s third successive general election defeat, but also masterminded his campaign. Encouragement: Feldman urged Cameron to run for the Tory leadership as the dark horse candidate when Michael Howard announced that he was handing on the baton in 2005 . Lord Feldman helped run Mr Cameron’s bid with ruthless efficiency, calling in favours from his network of contacts in the business world and raising tens of thousands of pounds in the process. Through his family clothing firm, Lord Feldman himself donated £10,000 to the successful cause. He was appointed deputy treasurer of the party in 2005, and – ironically given the circumstances today – immediately let it be known that he wanted to end the dependency on major donors. ‘He’s not comfortable with individuals giving large amounts. He wants a wider base of people giving smaller amounts,’ said a party official at the time. But even before the Conservatives got into power, Lord Feldman made the wrong call. In 2007, he was chairman of the Leaders’ Club, a dining group for Tory donors who each gave a minimum £50,000 to party funds each year. They would have lunch or dinner in Mr Cameron’s office in the Commons and meet senior Tory politicians.
But this arrangement was in breach of Parliament’s rules, which do not allow party-political fundraising in the House of Westminster, and Mr Cameron was forced to ‘unreservedly apologise’ after he was rebuked by the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards, Sir Philip Mawer. In 2008, Lord Feldman was appointed chief executive of the Tory Party and was given specific responsibility for attracting party donors. Until now, Lord Feldman's most serious . brush with scandal came in 2008 when he was entangled with George . Osborne in the 'yachtgate' saga: both Feldman and Shadow Chancellor . Osborne were guests on billionaire Oleg Deripaska's yacht off Corfu when . Mr Osborne was accused of soliciting for a £50,000 donation to the . party – at a time when Feldman had been given responsibility for . 'widening the party's fundraising base'. Donations . from foreign nationals such as Deripaska are illegal and Mr Osborne . insisted neither he nor Lord Feldman had discussed donations with the . Russian, and the storm passed. In . January Lord Feldman said 'I did not know who Mr Deripaska was. I was going . over because I had been invited, and it’s a human weakness I’m afraid . because I was fascinated to see this boat. I had never seen a boat of . that size close up.' Rise: After the Tories entered Government in 2010, Feldman was made co-chairman of the party and later in the year became Baron Feldman of Elstree . After the Tories entered Government . in 2010, he was made co-chairman of the party and later in the year . became Baron Feldman of Elstree. Lord Feldman's . key party roles mean he will have been privy to some of the most . closely guarded secrets of the 'Cameron project' from the outset – no . doubt reinforcing the Prime Minister's feelings of personal loyalty.
Lord Feldman's importance to Mr Cameron, . who has publicly described him as 'one of my oldest and best friends', . was emphasised when he was tasked with 'prepping' the PM for his . appearance at the Leveson Inquiry into press standards. He played the role of Robert Jay, the counsel for the inquiry, by . peppering Mr Cameron with likely questions about his relationship with . newspaper owners. Colleagues regard the peer as 'virtually . indispensable' to the Prime Minister. 'He is direct, easy-going and has . an extremely sharp business brain,' says one. 'Plus, he is one of the few people around Cameron who can talk to him on the same level. Cameron values that. It would take a minor earthquake to shift him from his side.' In . 2007, Feldman was chairman of the Leaders' Club, a dining group for . Tory donors who each gave a minimum £50,000 to party funds each year - . they would have lunch or dinner in Mr Cameron's office in the Common . Lord Feldman, one of the Prime Minister's closest friends and political allies, was accused of making the 'swivel-eyed loons' remark to journalists at a London hotel. They reported that an unnamed 'close ally' of the Prime Minister blamed Tory activists for pressuring MPs to take hardline stances on Europe. They said he stated: 'There's really no problem. The MPs just have to do it because the [Tory] associations tell them to, and the associations are all mad, swivel-eyed loons.' But yesterday afternoon, after crisis talks with Mr Cameron, and amid growing claims on Twitter that the unnamed person was Lord Feldman, the peer issued a statement, saying the allegations against him were 'completely untrue' and he was considering legal action. 'I did not, nor have ever, described our associations in this way or in any similar manner.
Nor do these alleged comments represent my view of our activists,' he said. 'On the contrary, I have found them to be hard-working, committed and reasonable people, the backbone of the party.' Mr Cameron fully backed Lord Feldman. A No 10 spokesman said: 'The Prime Minister supports Lord Feldman's position. It is categorically untrue that anyone in Downing Street made the comments reported in The Times and the Telegraph.' Both The Times and The Daily Telegraph stood by their reports. A source at News International, which owns The Times, said: 'There is no doubt Feldman used the words loons and swivel-eyed.' A titanic trial of strength between No 10 and the two newspapers now seems inevitable. Defeat for Feldman would force him to resign and could inflict potentially catastrophic damage to Mr Cameron.
(The Frisky) -- It seems that all anyone is talking about lately is the economy, so why is money still such a tough topic to discuss with your nearest and dearest? They say married couples fight over money more than anything else, but what about when you just started dating? That's possibly even more awkward. Columnist says no woman should leave her house on first date without enough money to pay for her meal. The first date . Though Dr. Phil feels otherwise, my take on this has always been he (or she) who asks, pays. (The bloviating shrink says men should always be the ones to pony up.) And if you don't pay for the whole thing, you should at least offer to split the tab. Incredibly (to me), most women I spoke to thought I was an idiot and firmly believed the dude should always pay on a first date -- though for some this was a recent change of heart. Kate, a 33-year-old writer told me, "I tend to try to pay for myself, but as I get older and more comfortable with my awesomeness, I kind of wish and hope that the other person will be a little more old-fashioned about it." Good point. If someone's eating opposite Amazing Me, shouldn't she or he pay for the privilege? After all, I'm entertaining and cute and if you let me order dessert there may be some smooching in your future. Regardless of your feelings on the matter, whatever you do, don't leave the house without enough money to pay for at least your share. It's a first date so while he may seem great (and generous) on paper, you never really know what you're getting into until he's sitting across from you. Sure, he might be staring adoringly deep into your eyes, but then again, his pants might be held up with duct tape.
Do you really want to count on that dude to know the meaning of "gratuity?" What to say: "That's so generous of you -- can I at least leave the tip?" What not to say: "This princess doesn't pay for food!" Dates two-thru-six . Jennifer Kelton, CEO and founder of BadOnlineDates.com, has built a business on bad dating behavior. She explains her thoughts on the money issue: "While it's not expected, Let's face it -- we are hardwired to want the man to 'bring back dinner to the cave.'" Up until my current relationship, I've almost always been in the driver's seat finance-wise (and believe me, that's a pretty meager seat) so I've always furnished my own cave. I ask her if it's okay to date a guy just for a free ride or free grub? Kelton says no. "Being cheap is never attractive and I would say that after more than four dates the woman should pay the tip." Whoa! Just the tip? Apparently the women who called me a moron were onto something! However, if you're going to keep riding the free-food express, the least you can do is surreptitiously feel out his money situation -- if he's hurting, suggest cheaper restaurants or maybe cook for the guy. What to say: "That's so generous of you -- can I at least leave the tip?" What not to say: "Let's have the 2000 Perrier-Jouet, since this one's on you!" Dates six-thru-infinity . Up until the two of you really get to know each other, there's probably not going to be any urgent need to discuss finances in depth, but he can't keep buying you steak and foie gras dinners if he's on a cheeseburger and fries budget.
For all you know, you're out-earning him or he's supporting 12 Guatemalan orphans and is stretched to the breaking point. Then again, maybe he's a gazillionaire. At about date six (possibly sooner if they're really eventful dates! ), you should be getting to know a lot about every part of him -- including his wallet. There's no right or wrong way to approach this discussion, but just remember, financial compatibility is almost as important as sexual chemistry, though rarely as much fun. TM & © 2009 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved .
An attack by snipers on a Silicon Valley power substation last year is prompting the former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to launch a crusade to better secure and defend the nation's electrical grid. The former chairman, Jon Wellinghoff, now a San Francisco energy law attorney, called the little-publicized April 2013 attack on the substation a "very well planned, coordinated and executed attack on a major piece of our electric grid infrastructure." While Wellinghoff has expressed concern that the attack may have been a test run for a bigger strike -- possibly terrorism -- the FBI has declared the incident wasn't an act of terror and is still investigating the case, with no arrests made. The FBI considers the incident vandalism, said spokesman Peter Lee in San Francisco. "There is no nexus to terrorism at this time," Lee said. Nonetheless, Wellinghoff is urging Congress to fill a void in federal law that he says doesn't empower any federal agency to demand better security around electrical substations, which he describes as barely protected with a chain-link fence and cameras. Even those cameras don't capture details outside the fence, because they are more focused inside it, he added. Last year's sabotage was carried out by at least one sniper at a good distance from the fence, outside the camera's focus, Wellinghoff said. "We need to have a national coordinated plan, and we have to have a federal agency that is in charge," Wellinghoff said. So far, U.S. Rep. Henry Waxman, D-California, has joined the call for improved security. The matter was addressed at a December hearing of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee, of which Waxman is the ranking member. "Just this April, there was an actual attack on our electricity infrastructure," Waxman said, referring to the Silicon Valley shooting. "This was an unprecedented and sophisticated attack on an electric grid substation with military-style weapons. Communications were disrupted.
The attack inflicted substantial damage. It took weeks to replace the damaged parts. "The nation's critical infrastructure and defense installations simply cannot function without electricity. Yet it is clear that the electric grid is not adequately protected from physical or cyberattacks," Waxman said in a statement. In all, 150 rounds from an assault rifle were fired over almost 20 minutes at a Pacific Gas and Electric Company substation south of San Jose, California, knocking out 17 transformers in the post-midnight darkness of April 16, according to PG&E, Wellinghoff and CNN affiliate KTVU. To prevent a blackout to Silicon Valley, workers re-routed power, but it took almost a month to make repairs, the affiliate reported. Authorities also found an AT&T fiber optic cable was cut in an underground vault, causing a phone blackout, Sgt. Kurtis Stenderup with the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office told KTVU. By the time police arrived, the shooters, also suspected of damaging the phone line, were gone. At the time, the incident wasn't publicized, but since he stepped down as FERC chairman in November, Wellinghoff is raising public attention to the California sniper's attack to demonstrate the vulnerability of the nation's electricity system. Waxman is apparently endorsing Wellinghoff's initiative. Waxman is urging Congress to pass legislation that would "fix this gap in regulatory authority" and empower FERC to directly address threats to the nation's power grid. In 2010, the U.S. House passed such a measure, called the GRID Act, but the Senate didn't act on the proposal, Waxman said. The federal government relies on an energy industry organization "to develop reliability standards for the electric grid through a protracted, consensus-based process," Waxman said.
After the California vandalism, Arkansas also saw last year "multiple attacks on power lines and grid infrastructure that led to millions of dollars in damage and brief power outages," Waxman said. PG&E officials said they have redundancies built into their electric grid "that enable us to reroute power around damaged equipment and help keep the lights on for our customers," said spokesman Brian Swanson. "Since the incident occurred, PG&E has worked aggressively with federal and local agencies to improve substation security throughout our system," Swanson said. "The utility industry and stakeholders like the Edison Electric Institute are meeting with policy makers, government officials and law enforcement at all levels to engage in constructive dialogue and share information on how we can work together to protect the grid across the country." The institute, an association of shareholder-owned electric companies, says security and protection are "top priorities." "Electric companies are partnering closely with each other and with senior officials from all relevant federal and law enforcement agencies to protect the grid's most critical assets," said Scott Aaronson, the institute's senior director of national security policy. But he noted that "publicizing clearly sensitive information about critical infrastructure protection endangers the safety of the American people and the integrity of the grid." In the meantime, Wellinghoff is urging utilities to enact low-cost improvements such as replacing chain-link fencing with an opaque barrier that would block a sniper's vision of the substation. Wellinghoff is also recommending movable concrete Jersey barriers as a perimeter around the substations -- to stop any sniper bullets. He's also recommending utilities extend lighting beyond the fence yard, with more sophisticated cameras, so video can capture saboteurs outside the fence. The California sniper or snipers were 40 to 60 yards outside the substation fence, he said. "This isn't about this substation or this organized attack," Wellinghoff said of the California incident.
"This is more about the larger issue of physical security of these high-voltage substations nationwide and the need to ensure that some defensive measures start to be put in place."
The "Read On. Get On." report said children who fell behind could feel the impact for the rest of their lives. It said they were less likely to gain good qualifications and go on to further education. The coalition behind the report aims to have all 11-year-olds reading well within a generation. Organisations such as Save the Children and the Scottish Book Trust are part of the coalition. They want to see parents reading to young children for 10 minutes a day. Their report said that 40% of families in the lowest income bracket had fewer than 10 children's books at home and fathers from these households were half as likely to read with their children at age two as fathers in the highest income households. It said that this impacted on children later in life as those who were read to often as toddlers were more likely to become keen readers themselves. The Read on coalition said there were 220,000 children living in poverty in Scotland and they expected this number to rise. Neil Mathers, head of Scotland at Save the Children, said: "As a country we cannot continue with a situation where one in five poor children are not reading well at the end of primary school. It is unfair. "We know that getting every child reading well at 11 cannot happen overnight but it is possible within a generation if we work together. "Read On. Get On. is a mission to galvanise the nation so that parents, grandparents and volunteers play their part in teaching children to read. We want every child to be given a fair and equal chance to learn to read well, regardless of their background." While children are still reading books, the report found that the most commonly read material by children is now text messages, with websites and e-books growing in popularity.
By . David Mccormack and Rachel Quigley . PUBLISHED: . 09:10 EST, 9 November 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 11:49 EST, 9 November 2012 . He may have trust issues with women - but that certainly doesn't stop Josh Elliott from bedding them, according to new reports. It was revealed today that The Good Morning America anchor has been seen doing the 'walk of shame' from the home of WABC-TV anchor Liz Cho. The reports come just one day after the 41-year-old was described as being 'high-maintenance' and having 'serious trust issues with women stemming from a difficult childhood' - but friends of the star say he considers these rumours to be 'hurtful'. The couple were first reported to be in a relationship in September and a source told RadarOnline today: 'Josh has been seen sneaking out of Liz's apartment way early in the morning. 'It's been going on for at least three or four months, and she is in the middle of a really messy divorce.' A source told RadarOnline: 'Josh Elliott, right. has been seen sneaking out of local anchor Liz Cho's apartment way early in the morning. ' Ms Cho, 41, split from her husband Evan Gottlieb over the summer and moved out of their Yonker's mansion with her daughter to a Upper West Side apartment - where Josh has been seen leaving in the early hours of the morning. Josh is divorced from Priya Narang Elliot, the mother of his three-year-old daughter Sarina, while Ms Cho has a five-year-old daughter called Louisa Simone. Radar claimed this week: ‘It's . no secret that Josh has major, major issues with women. Josh had a . difficult childhood and as a result, has trust issues with females. 'He is extremely insecure and needs constant validation from everyone .
around him about how wonderful he is and what a great job he is doing.' Anchor: Josh Elliott put on a brave face this morning on GMA despite reports yesterday that he was high maintenance and a diva on set . Rumors: Liz Cho, right, is said to want more than a fling with Josh but he has 'trust issues with women' and doesn't want to commit . The TV hosts were first spotted having dinner together in Manhattan in September sparking rumors of a fledgling relationship, but at the time friends said it was not a serious romance and they had been on a few dates. The New York Post reported that Ms Cho and her ex-husband were embroiled in a nasty legal battle over renovation work done to their $2.2 million, nine-bedroom, four-bathroom Westchester mansion. Ms Cho split from her husband Evan Gottlieb, pictured, over the summer and moved out of their Yonker's mansion with her daughter to a Upper West Side apartment . Cathal Maguire, a Yonkers contractor, claimed that Ms Cho and Mr Gottlieb racked up a $430,875 bill for upgrades made to their home and then stiffed him for $100,875 of the work. Ms Cho and her spouse filed a counterclaim in state Supreme Court in White Plains alleging Maguire inflated prices, charged for work never done and did a shoddy job. The case is ongoing. Meanwhile, It was also claimed that Josh has repeatedly clashed with co-host Lara Spencer . over trivial issues, including how stories are covered, and the pair's off-air relationship is anything but amicable. The only woman he is said to have any time for is primary anchor Robin Roberts. 'The only female Josh hasn't fought with is Robin Roberts, because he respects her for her previous work at ESPN, the source told Radar.
'He does have a daughter from his former marriage to Priya Narang Elliot, and that relationship ended in divorce. 'He is high maintenance, and if viewers could see what he was like off the air, people would be truly shocked.' A Good Morning America spokesperson . described the allegations about Elliott as 'absolutely false', adding . they do not comment on the private lives of their anchors. Elliot . was given up for adoption at birth. Then at 12 his adopted parents . divorced and his father, who had told the family he was gay, died. In . recent years he has made contact with his birth mom Susan and, briefly, . with his biological father too. ‘I . got to thank Susan for my life, for not aborting me, for having the . strength to ask that she be blindfolded in the delivery room (she said . she never could’ve gone through with it, had she seen me) so she could . give me what she believed would be a better life,’ he told The Big Lead . in 2009. 'Trust issues with females': Josh Elliott has clashed with co-star Lara Spencer, right, but has a better relationship with Robin Roberts, left . Good Morning America is the most popular morning show in the country, but Lara Spencer, left, has reportedly clashed with her male co-hosts . The . upbeat vibe and jovial mood of ABC's Good Morning America is one of the . key reasons it has toppled rival NBC show Today in the morning ratings . battle this year. On . camera at least, Robin Roberts, George Stephanopoulos, Josh Elliott, . Sam Champion and Lara Spencer have created a winning formula. Robin . Roberts is currently absent from the show while she receives treatment . for the blood and bone marrow disorder MDS (Myelodysplastic Syndrome). She appeared via videotape on Monday’s show and said she 'can't wait to .
come back.' Roberts . is considered a steadying influence on the show and insiders say things are more fraught in her absence. Co-anchor George Stephanopoulos . particularly misses her professionalism and isn't a fan of Lara Spencer, . who has been standing in for Robin. Insiders on GMA claim that Josh Elliott has 'major issues' working with women .
A demonstration was held at the weekend by animal rights campaigners in Derby over the planned facility near Foston. Midlands Pig Producers (MPP) said allegations its pigs would be kept in cramped conditions were untrue. The farm would hold 2,500 sows and 20,000 piglets and use biogas from the slurry to produce electricity. MPP has finished giving extra information to Derbyshire County Council as part of the planning process. It said it had addressed concerns about animal welfare and emissions. A company spokesman said: "We are astonished at some of the highly misleading claims and accusations. "Claims that pigs will be crammed into narrow crates are simply not true. "Our acclaimed 360 Farrowers were named because the sow can turn around 360 degrees at will. "We urge people to either contact us, or refer to the planning application so that they may ascertain the facts of the matter for themselves." About 100 animal rights protesters marched through Derby on Saturday claiming the large-scale development would be cruel to pigs. Critics said that the only time the pigs would see the outside world would be on their way to slaughter. It has also been claimed the site could put small-scale farmers in the area out of business. MPP said the farm would observe the highest welfare standards and pointed out there was already a unit in the UK containing 3,500 sows. South Derbyshire District Council handed over duties for dealing with the application to the county council because of its waste implications. If planning permission is given, construction on the farm will take about a year.
A combination of hard work, raw talent and destiny took an impoverished Elvis Presley from a two-bedroom Tupelo, Mississippi, home, transformed him into a international icon and left his legacy at Graceland in Memphis, Tennessee. Graceland is the second-most-visited home in the United States after the White House. But Presley, who never forgot his humble beginnings, is also celebrated in Tupelo, where the Elvis Presley Birthplace Museum opened in 1992. The museum draws from 75,000 to 80,000 people each year to its exhibits, the house where Elvis was born and the church where he first sang gospel music. Tupelo will kick off this year's Elvis Week with Fan Appreciation Day on August 10, and Ben Portsmouth, last year's Elvis Ultimate Tribute Artist winner, will perform during the evening. Elvis week continues at Graceland from August 11 to 17, with daily events including a Memphis music tour, Elvis movie screenings, memorial services and concerts.
Ted Hughes: The Unauthorised Life, one of six titles up for the 2015 Samuel Johnson Prize, is accused of containing "significant errors" by Hughes' estate. Publisher HarperCollins said Jonathan Bate "regret[ted] any minor errors" but said it "stood by" his "masterly" tome. A spokesperson for the Samuel Johnson Prize declined to comment on the row. Bate, a professor of English Literature at Oxford, initially began work on his 672-page book with the qualified assent of the Ted Hughes estate and Hughes' widow, Carol. Last year, though, the estate informed the author it was withdrawing its co-operation because it feared he was straying from an agreement not to write a standard biography. In a statement issued by the estate's solicitor, Bate's book - serialised in the Times newspapers ahead of its publication on 1 October - is accused of containing "glaring factual inaccuracy and tasteless speculation". It draws particular attention to a claim made by Bate that Hughes' widow and son stopped off "for a good lunch" while accompanying his coffin from London to Devon in the hours after his death in October 1998. "The idea that Nicholas and I would be enjoying a 'good lunch' while Ted lay dead in the hearse outside is a slur suggesting utter disrespect," said Carol Hughes. The estate's solicitor, Damon Parker, said Carol Hughes had not read Bate's book but had been led to believe that "the portrait presented of her late husband [was] something of a caricature". He called on HarperCollins to apologise for the alleged errors, issue a retraction, and agree to make corrections to the biography's future and e-book editions. The publisher responded by saying Bate had made "every effort to corroborate all facts used in the book, which was made more difficult by the withdrawal of support for the project by the Ted Hughes Estate".
It said the book had been "written in good faith" and "verified by multiple sources", adding that "any errors found" would "of course be corrected in the next printing". This did not satisfy the estate, which told the BBC on Thursday it was "patently incorrect" for HarperCollins to say the academic had made "every" effort to corroborate facts. "There was nothing to prevent the author seeking confirmation from the poet's widow of the points which he has got wrong in his book," said Parker. He also said that Carol Hughes had "contacted the author privately" this summer with an offer to "check for factual errors", an offer that "was not taken up". The winner of the Â£20,000 Samuel Johnson Prize for non-fiction writing will be announced on 2 November. The recipient of last year's award, Helen Macdonald's H is for Hawk, went on to become a number one bestseller.
Alexander Worth was killed in the crash on an access road between Newlyns and Lodge Farms at North Warnborough. Matthew Cobden, of Long Lodge Drive, Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, appeared at Basingstoke Magistrates' Court. He only spoke to confirm his name, date of birth and address. Alexander, from Kings Worthy, died when the car crashed into fencing in August. The court heard Mr Cobden, 38, was taken to hospital with serious injuries after the crash. No other vehicles were involved in the incident. Speaking to Alexander's family, District Judge Philip Gillibrand, said: "Can I express my sympathy to you? I lost my brother in a road traffic accident. "I am afraid I could not face the hearing. I think you are very courageous, I offer my sympathies and also for your future." Mr Cobden has been given unconditional bail and the case has been referred to Winchester Crown Court for 26 July.
By . Tara Brady . She is the Houston Texans fan who was delighted to be photographed with NFL player Arian Foster. But after tweeting the picture, Jenni Bazard found out it wasn't him at all. Despite being ridiculed by sports fans on social media, Miss Bazard has had the last laugh. The footballer went to meet Miss Bazard this week so she could have a photograph with the real him. Can the real Arian Foster please stand up: The NFL player posed for this photo with Jenni Bazard . Afterwards he tweeted: 'For being such a good sport about the whole thing, I met up with @j__baz and gave her a picture with the real me.' The embarrassment began when Miss Bazard posted a photo of herself with the running back only to discover the man in the photo was actually a celebrity lookalike. Miss Bazard posed with the man at Pub Fiction in Houston at the start of April and shared the image the next day. 'Ran into @ArianFoster at Pub Fiction last night! So blessed to get a picture with one of my favourite #HoustonTexans!!' Bazard tweeted. It wasn't me! Foster was quick to let Bazard know he wasn't actually the man photographed . Houston Texans running back Arian Foster in action in San Diego last year. The star went to meet fan Jenni Bazard this week after her social media embarrassment . Foster seemed touched by the post, but quickly let her know it wasn't actually him. 'Lol I appreciate the love but that's not me,' he tweeted at Bazard. Though Bazard's mistake has already gone viral, she told KHOU that she took it in stride. 'When Arian Foster re-tweeted me and said that’s not him and then how many tweets I was getting after that, I was like "Oh what do I do? What do I do?"
'But I was in the car with my best friend and she was like, "You know there’s two ways you can do this. You can run and hide or you can go with it." Then I was like you know what, it’s really funny, really embarrassing, but really funny, so you know people are gonna take a stab at it anyway whether or not I take it down, it’s already up there.' Inspiration: Foster shared this message on Twitter before a fan criticized him . What do you want from me? Foster writes back to one of his critics . Final swing: Foster posted this humorous tweet in response to the fan's criticism . Foster's interaction with Bazard wasn't the only humorous exchange he had on Twitter that weekend. He tweeted an inspirational message that said: 'Luckily knowledge doesn't go anywhere. It's always there for the humble and hungry.' One of Foster's follower's criticised the post, writing: 'You're not a philospher bro. Seriously. You're a running back.' Foster quickly wrote a witty reply making fun of the fan's request. 'Me run fast. All day long. Yards. Touchdowns. Me catch ball. Run with ball to square space on grass. Make big guys miss,' he wrote.
(CNN) -- A Kentucky census worker who was found dead in September committed suicide and staged the scene to look like a homicide, authorities said Tuesday. The body of William E. Sparkman Jr., 51, was found September 12 near a cemetery in southeastern Kentucky's Clay County. He was wearing only socks. "A thorough examination of evidence from the scene, to include DNA testing, as well as examination of his vehicle and his residence, resulted in the determination that Mr. Sparkman, alone, handled the key pieces of evidence with no indications of any other persons involved," Kentucky State Police said. Sparkman's wrists were bound with duct tape, and a rope around his neck was tied to a tree, but his body was touching the ground, authorities said. He had "Fed" written on his chest in black ink. However, Sparkman's wrists were loosely bound in front of his body at shoulder width apart, allowing for "considerable mobility," said Kentucky State Police Capt. Lisa Rudzinski. He was also in contact with the ground, "almost on his knees," she said. "To survive, all Mr. Sparkman had to do was stand up." Lividity on the body -- marks made as blood stops pumping and settles in areas of the body -- showed that Sparkman died in the same position, Rudzinski said. His glasses were taped to his head, and that tape was underneath tape that held a rag in his mouth, she said. "Mr. Sparkman had extremely poor eyesight" and so would have needed his glasses secured, Rudzinski said. But the most compelling evidence came from the fact that Sparkman had obtained $600,000 in accidental-death insurance, which would not have paid in the event of a suicide, as late as May, she said.
In addition, he told a "credible witness" of his plans to commit suicide and stage the scene to make it look like he was slain because he worked for the federal government. The details were consistent with how Sparkman died and was found, Rudzinski said. The witness did not take action after Sparkman shared his plans out of a belief that he would not follow through, authorities said. "It was learned that Mr. Sparkman had discussed recent federal investigations and the perceived negative attitudes toward federal entities by some residents of Clay County," Kentucky state police said in a statement. Police believe that Sparkman's primary motive in staging the scene was to ensure that the insurance would be paid, Rudzinski said. His motive for committing suicide or any secondary motives might never be known, she said, as Sparkman left no note. "We don't know what Mr. Sparkman was thinking or why he ultimately committed this act," she said. Autopsy results showed no evidence of any cancer or terminal illness, officials said, although it was reported that Sparkman had previously had lymphoma. Police would not say who the beneficiary of the insurance was. Forensic analysis of the writing on Sparkman's chest showed that he had written it himself, Rudzinski said. Analysts found ink dots, made by writers on completing a letter, at the top of the letters, rather than at the bottom -- as would be expected if someone had made the writing on Sparkman. Despite a search by authorities, the black felt pen used for the writing has not been found. Police do not believe that anyone assisted Sparkman, she said. Sparkman had told the witness, whom police declined to name, that he intended to dispose of some of his personal effects, including his laptop computer and other items. Police have not found those items, Rudzinski said. Toxicology tests showed that Sparkman was not drugged or under the influence of any substance, she said.
The red rag removed from his mouth was similar to those found in his pocket and at the scene. DNA testing of the rags and the rope used in creating a ligature on Sparkman's neck, as well as 7 feet of discarded rope discarded near his body, found only Sparkman's DNA, she said. The police investigation is still open, and additional test results are expected in the next two to three weeks, authorities said. Authorities met with Sparkman's son and told him of their findings before publicly releasing them. "Our hearts go out to him," Rudzinski said. "He still lost his father at the end of the day." She would not say whether his son accepted the findings, saying she did not want to speak for the family.
New DNA technology could help reveal the killer in an unsolved murder of a mother and her three-year-old daughter. The technique, known as Snapshot, can generate a digital mugshot of the suspect by using samples such as blood and strands of hair left at the scene. Investigators in South Carolina have used the analysis, generated by Parabon Nanolabs, in a bid to get a breakthrough in the slaying of Candra Alston, 25, and her toddler Malaysia Boykin four years ago. Their bodies were found in the busy Brook Pines Apartments in Columbia on January 9, 2011. Unsolved: Investigators in South Carolina are hoping the DNA technique called Snapshot, generated by Parabon Nanolabs, leads to a breakthrough in the slaying of Malaysia Boykin, three, and Candra Alston four years ago. There were no witnesses to their deaths in January 2011 . Leads: There were no signs of forced entry at their home and police believe the toddler and her mother may have known the killer. More than 200 people have been interviewed in connection to their deaths . Police have never revealed how they died and would only confirm it was by different means. There were no signs of forced entry - leading detectives to believe they knew the killer or killers. The only piece of evidence left at the scene was an unspecified DNA sample that has, until now, been untraceable. As there were no witnesses, authorities turned to the forensic phenotyping and found the suspect was dark-skinned with brown hair and brown eyes. However the computer-generated image does not have an estimated height or age - traits which the company claim are 'very complex'. Speaking to Fox News, Parabon's director of bioinformatics, Ellen McRae Greytak, said: 'This is particularly useful when there are no witnesses, no hits in the DNA database and nothing to go on.
Prediction: Using the phenotyping technique, investigators have been able to determine that the suspect is dark-skinned with brown eyes and brown hair . 'Traditional forensic analysis treats DNA as a fingerprint, whereas Snapshot treats it as a blueprint -- a genetic description of a person from which physical appearance can be inferred. 'Traits are generally predicted with more than 80 percent confidence, and importantly, Snapshot also reports which phenotypes can be excluded with more than 95 per cent confidence.' Mark Vinson, a cold case investigator with the Columbia police department, said that more than 200 people were interviewed in connection with the mother and daughter's death. Around 150 of them submitted their DNA - but none matched the sample left at the scene.
Mariner Street car park, near the train station, will be cleared and replaced with a 725-bedroom student block, complete with nightclub, gym, office space, bars, restaurants and shops. The 22 storey tower would be the second tallest building in Swansea, next to Meridian Quay. Construction is expected to start later this year and finish by summer 2018. A report before Swansea council's planning committee on Tuesday said the tower "will be a bold addition to the city skyline". The report added there is a growing need for student accommodation in Swansea, with both Swansea University and Trinity Saint David universities expanding in the city. Swansea council leader Rob Stewart said the project "will be a major step forward" for High Street's regeneration, and will build on "the great work that's already been done."
Like a wounded animal lashing out in fury, ISIS is betraying hints of desperation in its latest video, which purportedly shows the aftermath of the beheading of U.S. hostage Peter Kassig, analysts said Sunday. And if there's news worse than the apparent brutal death of Kassig, it's that we should expect even more vicious videos to come from the group, also known by the acronym ISIL, said Haras Rafiq of the Quiliam Foundation, an anti-extremist think tank. "As we see the U.S. and the coalition making gains against ISIL, we will find that they try and show that they are still strong, try and show that they are just as barbaric as they have been, and unfortunately one of the things we'll see is that the videos will become more and more barbaric," he said. "I think it's a sign of desperation," he said. "I think it's a sign that they know and feel they are under attack, they're under siege and they're struggling." The video, released online Sunday, shows the aftermath of a beheading, in which the victim is not clearly recognizable. The White House confirmed that the video showed Kassig. Kassig, 26, who converted to Islam in captivity, also went by the name Abdul-Rahman Kassig. He went to the Middle East as a U.S. soldier and returned as a medical worker, feeling compelled to help victims of war. The video does show -- in gruesome detail -- the beheadings of what the group claims are pilots for the Syrian government, which is also battling ISIS forces. "It can't be said enough," said CNN's Nic Robertson. "This is the most barbaric they've done so far." The carefully produced video is clearly "a prize piece of propaganda for them," Robertson says. It also differs from others produced by ISIS.
It doesn't feature a Western hostage dressed in orange speaking to the camera before his death. Nor does it name the group's next victim. It is likely in part meant to scare Syrians and Iraqis into obeying ISIS' orders when it comes calling, said Rafiq and retired U.S. Army Lt. Col. Joe Ruffini, a counterterrorism expert. "What ISIS is telling them is, 'When we come in and tell you to do what we tell you, you know what the consequences are if you say no,'" Ruffini said. But it also comes at a time when the United States and its anti-ISIS allies are claiming their airstrikes and support for ground forces fighting the group are beginning to slowly turn the tide, said retired U.S. Maj. Gen. James "Spider" Marks. Has ISIS peaked? Terror group suffers setbacks in Iraq . It also comes during a visit to Iraq by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin Dempsey. "Clearly there are no coincidences," Marks told CNN on Sunday. "This is timed very specifically to those activities by the coalition and, I would say, the results of those activities." Since beginning airstrikes in August, U.S. officials have touted successes in disrupting ISIS communications and logistics, slowing its advances and forcing fighters to disperse into smaller formations. Last week, President Barack Obama said the fight was entering a new phase that would rely heavily on Iraqi ground troops and other local fighters. More recently, U.S. officials have suggested more openness to a role for U.S. ground forces in the fight. In testimony to the House Armed Services Committee on Thursday, Dempsey said commanders are "certainly considering" the prospect that U.S. forces might be needed to retake the Iraqi city of Mosul, currently held by ISIS. In Sunday's video, the narrator taunted Obama to do just that. Hostages tortured before beheadings .
When an American parenting blogger took a photo of her five-month-old baby seemingly peering out of a giant mug, an adorable new internet sensation was born. Dubbed 'baby mugging', mothers across the U.S. were quick to jump on the trend by uploading their own snaps. And now, the cute photo trend, which has swept Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, has landed in the UK. Mug shot: The 'baby mugging' trend, which was sparked by a parenting blogger in the U.S., has landed in the UK . Breakfast brew: These tots lay out whilst their parents snap them in, what looks like, giant tea mugs . The BabyCentre Community has been experimenting with the latest baby photo trend to a delightful effect. On Baby.co.uk, they write: 'No, baby mugging doesn’t mean stealing your baby’s dummy or favourite toy. 'The baby mugging craze involves . pretending your baby is sat in a mug, and then taking a photo of it. 'It . sounds strange, but the results are adorable.' I'm a little tea pot: This youngster looks adorable posing in what looks like a giant tea pot . Experimenting: The shots even feature wine glasses and pint glasses too . Bottoms up: This montage of baby mugging even shows the tot upside down in the coffee cup . To create the shot mothers have held a mug above their tots as they lay on the floor or bed so that only their face can be seen bobbing above the rim. Some also photographed their children upside down, to make it seem as if they are plunging headfirst into the mug. Some feature family pets too. Along with ceramic slogan mugs, creative parents have also used china teacups and even pint glasses. Peekaboo! The baby mugging trend has swept social media and parenting blogs in the UK .
Themed mugs: Some of the mugs have slogans and funny tag lines . It's a hard life: A lot of the babies are blissfully unaware of their parent's antics . Some . of the drinking vessels are printed with messages such as 'Keep Calm and Carry On' and 'I love you'. The youngsters' facial expressions, which include smiles, winks and frowns, also provide a source of entertainment and some are seen with their arms and legs enthusiastically waving in the air. The site also gives tips for parents who want to join the trend. They write: 'Want to mug your baby? Follow these simple instructions 'Choose a flat surface, like the floor or your bed. If you want the background of your photo to be uniform, cover it with a blanket then lie your baby on top. 'Hold your favorite mug up so it appears as if your baby is inside – and shoot!' Pets and all: This baby mugging montage even features the family's dog . Grow your own baby! Donna and Ben from Somerset's baby Arthur, is four months old and the apple of their eye . Sleep tight: Six day old Marleigh Jayne McLellan from Oxnard Southern California was sent in by an extremely proud Nana McLellan . Little poser: Harriet, the 3 month old daughter of Amie and Kai Tutton loved posing for her snap .
He is among several lawmakers to express frustration after three Republican senators opposed a bill to scale back parts of the US health law. The so-called "skinny" repeal is the Senate's third failed attempt to roll back Obamacare. It is considered a blow to Republicans who vowed for years to repeal the law. The legislation fell apart during the early hours on Friday, when Arizona Senator John McCain cast the decisive vote to reject the bill by 51 to 49 in the Republican-dominated Senate. He joined Senators Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins in opposing the plan. An estimate from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found the "skinny" repeal would have resulted in 16 million people losing their health insurance by 2026, with insurance premiums increasing by 20%. Mr Ryan said Republicans "should not give up" on the plan, but added that he would now turn his attention to overhauling the tax code. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, described the result as a "disappointing moment". He continued: "It's time to move on." Alabama Congressman Mo Brooks blamed Mr McConnell for the failure, telling CNN "the leadership at the top is responsible. The buck stops there". "If Mitch McConnell cannot get the job done on this, how is he going to get the job done on the rest of President Trump's agenda over the next three and a half years?" he asked. Mr Brooks added that Mr McConnell should pressure the Senate to pass a new version of former President Barack Obama's signature law - the Affordable Care act - or step down. Iowa Congressman singled out Mrs Murkowski and Mr McCain for the loss. He said Mrs Murkowski "was initially appointed to her position by her father" and that her write-in campaign in 2010 "was essentially a revolt" against Republican primary voters. Mrs Murkowski was elected to her fourth term last year. Congressman Paul Gosar, an Arizona Republican, was among several lawmakers to share his disappointment on Twitter.
Texas Senator John Cornyn tweeted it was up to Democrats now to protect Americans from a market collapse. Iowa Senator Joni Ernst tweeted she was "disappointed" the Senate could not repeal the "flawed law" while Georgia Senator David Perdue blamed "an unworkable budget process and politicians who put their political self-interests ahead of national interest". "The American people should be outraged and should demand real change now," he said in a statement. "It is extremely important that we get this fixed." But Republican Ohio Governor John Kasich applauded Mr McCain, Mrs Murkowski and Mrs Collins in a tweet on Friday, saying "Courage is contagious". President Trump lamented the failed vote during a speech at Suffolk County Community College in New York on Friday afternoon, but added "you can't have everything". He told the crowd he said from the beginning to "let Obamacare implode" first and then repeal it. "I turned out to be right," he added. A spokesman for Mr Obama weighed in on the debate on Friday, praising those who "mobilised, organised and made their voices heard". "President Obama still believes that it is possible for Congress to demonstrate the necessary bipartisanship and political courage to keep delivering on the promise of quality, affordable health insurance for Americans," Kevin Lewis said in a statement. Meanwhile, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer lauded the three senators who voted against the bill. "I have not seen a senator who speaks truth to power as strongly as well as frequently as John McCain," he said at a news conference on Friday. He also called Mrs Collins and Mrs Murkowksi tough women and said he spoke to Speaker Ryan on Friday about working on bipartisan legislation. By Anthony Zurcher, BBC News, Washington Instead of beating the drum for healthcare reform, the administration has been all over the map. A hastily announced ban on transgender individuals in the armed forces, issued by presidential tweet. A press conference to herald efforts to combat gang violence.
A campaign-style rally in Ohio with a focus on the threats of illegal immigration. A speech to a Boy Scouts gathering that was heavy on media bashing. In case that wasn't enough, over the past week the administration has been beset by internecine warfare. Mr Trump publicly questioned the effectiveness of his former campaign confidant, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, subjecting him to an increasingly angry barrage of tweets. Read Anthony in full The bill - officially known as the Health Care Freedom Act - would have eliminated parts of Obamacare, including the individual mandate requiring all Americans to have health insurance coverage or pay a fine, and the employer mandate, which requires the same of companies with 50 employees or more. It also would have temporarily repealed a tax on medical devices, defund the US women's group Planned Parenthood for a year and provide more money to community health centres, as well as given states more flexibility in complying with Obamacare regulations. But the pared-down measure would have left much of Obamacare untouched, including the expansion of Medicaid, a government health programme for the poor that faced deep cuts in earlier proposals. A requirement that all insurance plans cover essential health benefits, federal subsidies to help consumers pay for insurance as well as taxes on wealthy Americans also would have remained in place. The stripped down bill came after earlier Senate defeats for proposals to replace Obamacare and then to partially repeal it. Mr McCain said he had voted against the skinny repeal because it did not amount to meaningful reform and would not have improved care for Americans. There are not thought to be any further plans for a new bill to repeal Obamacare because the skinny repeal was seen as the only measure Republicans could get through Congress. However, lawmakers could revive the issue and take it up later in the year. Following the vote, President Trump tweeted: "As I said from the beginning, let ObamaCare implode, then deal."
Mr Trump's position on healthcare reform has varied - he has spoken out at various points for Obamacare being repealed, repealed and replaced, or being allowed to collapse by itself. In his statement, Mr McCain said Obamacare was in a state of "collapse", with healthcare premiums "skyrocketing" and providers "fleeing the marketplace". He criticised the way Obamacare had been passed by Democrats using their Obama-era majority and called for senators to "return to the correct way of legislating" with input from both parties. "We must do the hard work our citizens expect of us and deserve," he said. But Texas Senator Ted Cruz insisted the fight was not over. "Mark my words, this journey is not yet done," he said.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 08:00 EST, 14 May 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 12:30 EST, 14 May 2013 . CNN anchor Zoraida Sambolin revealed on . Tuesday that she has breast cancer and is getting a double mastectomy - . as she discussed Angelina Jolie undergoing the same procedure. Sambolin, 47, who anchors CNN's Early Start, said on the early morning show that - like Jolie - wanting to be there for her two children helped her make the decision. Sambolin, who is . engaged to White Sox Executive Vice President Kenny Williams, praised . Jolie as a 'brave woman' for sharing her decision to have the procedure. Scroll down for video . Anchor: Speaking on CNN on Tuesday morning, anchor Zoraida Sambolin revealed that she has breast cancer and will undergo a mastectomy as she discussed Angelina Jolie's procedure . Relief: She said she did not know how to break the news until Jolie gave her courage and an opening . WATCH THE FULL VIDEO AT CNN. 'I struggled for weeks trying to figure out how tell you that I had been diagnosed with breast cancer and was leaving to have surgery then Angelina Jolie shares her story of a double mastectomy and gives me strength and an opening,' she wrote on Facebook after the show. She said that she had been worried about how her nine-year-old daughter, Sophia, would react to the word 'cancer', but said she assured the young girl that she would not lose her hair or become ill, and Sophia was able to digest the information, she said. She told viewers that she is scheduled to have the surgery on May 28. 'I want to tell women to be vigilant and dedicated to their care,' she added. 'I have been and my prognosis is really good because of that.' Jolie revealed that she was forced to .
make the agonizing decision to have a preventative double mastectomy, . after tests showed she had an 87 per cent chance of contracting cancer. Taking action: Angelina Jolie, pictured with her fiance Brad Pitt, has revealed that she had a preventative double mastectomy after she learned she had an 87 per cent chance of getting cancer . Loss: Angelina's mother Marcheline Bertrand died from ovarian cancer at 56. When Angelina discovered her mother's cancer was hereditary, she said that she decided to reduce the risk . She . opened up about her experience in the New York Times, saying that she . made the decision to undergo the procedure in February after learning . she is a carrier of the BRCA1 cancer gene. The 37-year-old's mother Marcheline . Bertrand died at the age of 56 from ovarian cancer, which Angelina . revealed she had a high chance of contracting. Writing . in an editorial piece entitled 'My Medical Choice', Jolie explained her . decision, revealing that she had the initial procedure on February 16 . before having the reconstruction operation on April 20. The star's surgery was successful and doctors say Angelina's chances of developing breast cancer have now lowered to less than five per cent. 'I wanted to write this to tell other women that the decision to have a mastectomy was not easy,' she wrote. 'But it is one I am very happy that I made.' Support: Sambolin (second left) said she wanted to be there for her son (right) and daughter (center) Fiance: Sambolin is engaged to White Sox General Manager Kenny Williams, pictured together in March . Angelina praised the support her . fiancé Brad Pitt and their children, Maddox, 11, Pax, nine, Zahara, . eight, Shiloh, six, and four-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne, gave her . during treatment. 'It .
is reassuring that they see nothing that makes them uncomfortable,' she . wrote. 'They can see my small scars and that’s it. Everything else is . just Mommy, the same as she always was. And they know that I love them . and will do anything to be with them as long as I can. 'I . am fortunate to have a partner, Brad Pitt, who is so loving and . supportive. So to anyone who has a wife or girlfriend going through . this, know that you are a very important part of the transition. 'We . managed to find moments to laugh together. We knew this was the right . thing to do for our family and that it would bring us closer. And it . has.' Angelina assured that having the . double mastectomy hasn't changed the way she feels about herself and her . womanliness, and added that results of reconstructive surgery 'can be . beautiful'. At work: Sambolin jokes around with her co-anchor on CNN's Early Start morning show, John Berman . 'On a personal note, I do not feel any less of a woman,' she said. 'I feel empowered that I made a strong choice that in no way diminishes my femininity.' And she added that she had wanted to speak out about her experience so that other women could consider their options. 'I am writing about it now because I hope that other women can benefit from my experience,' she wrote. 'Cancer is still a word that strikes fear into people’s hearts, producing a deep sense of powerlessness. 'But today it is possible to find out through a blood test whether you are highly susceptible to breast and ovarian cancer, and then take action.'
By . James Chapman and Jason Groves . Last updated at 11:32 PM on 9th December 2011 . Nick Clegg is facing a mutiny from his own party after supporting David Cameron’s decision to wield the veto. The Deputy Prime Minister backed the Prime Minister’s negotiating position after being telephoned by him in the early hours of yesterday to discuss the unfolding events. But Mr Clegg apparently believed the veto would not be necessary, as France and Germany would roll over and make concessions to Britain to maintain treaty change at the level of all 27 EU countries. Showing the strain: Nick Clegg (right) has come under fire from his own party after backing David Cameron's decision to veto the eurozone rescue package (file picture) In Europe's periphery? Mr Cameron looks anxiously at German Chancellor Angela Merkel at yesterday's eurozone summit in Brussels after wielding the veto . The failure of the deal and use of the veto has left the overwhelmingly pro-EU Lib Dems close to a state of crisis – with senior ministers said to be ‘deeply concerned’. They fear the Coalition will be put under unprecedented strain and sources warned that any Tory moves to loosen ties with the EU further would lead to open revolt among the Lib Dem membership. Former party leader Lord Ashdown said: ‘There will be a huge price to pay and, as a consequence, the foreign policy priorities of this country for the past 40 years has gone down the plughole in a single night. 'That foreign policy has now been hijacked by the Eurosceptics in the Conservative Party aided by a Prime Minister who was not prepared to stand up for the national interest.’ Damning criticism: Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott (left) said it was a 'black day for Britain and Europe’, while former party leader Lord Ashdown (right) said there will be a 'huge price to pay' further down the line .
He told the Guardian: ‘As a consequence . we have lost control of the European agenda and the Prime Minister has . lost control of the demands for a referendum. This has been Gallic . payback time for the way in which Cameron went around Europe lecturing . Sarkozy on what to do.’ Prominent Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott, a close political ally of the Business Secretary Vince Cable, described the summit outcome as ‘a black day for Britain and Europe’. He said: ‘We are now in the waiting room while critical decisions are being taken. With the western economies and our banking system on the edge of a cliff, we should not be putting special pleading for special interests in the City of London above our vital national interest of working closely together with Germany and France to keep our economy and jobs all over Britain safe.’ Lorely Burt, chairman of the Lib Dem parliamentary party, said it was unclear why Mr Clegg had agreed to the decision. She said: ‘I gather Cameron phoned our illustrious leader before he decided to do this. There must have been reasons. I don’t see them at the moment.’ Lib Dem MP Martin Horwood said the UK . was facing a ‘worst-case scenario’ of isolation in Europe. Mr Horwood . said the result was not the ‘ideal outcome from a Lib Dem point of . view’. Labour leader Ed Miliband has accused David Cameron of leaving Britain 'on the sidelines of Europe' Furious: Mr Miliband, a staunch pro-European, said Mr Cameron caved into the demands of Tory Eurosceptics . But he blamed Tory Eurosceptics for pushing the Prime Minister into a corner.
He added: ‘It will make it more difficult for us to exercise the kind of influence that we all want over the future of the European single market and the future of the European economy.’ Lib Dem MEP Chris Davies accused the Government of adopting a ‘xenophobic’ approach to Europe. ‘Far from keeping Britain strong, Cameron has ensured that we will lose our influence at the top table,’ he said. ‘By seeking to protect bankers from regulation, he has betrayed Britain’s real interests and done nothing in practice to help the City of London. ‘The fear now must be that we will increasingly lose the opportunity to affect decisions being taken that are bound to affect us.’ Fellow MEP Sharon Bowles warned the UK face ‘revenge attacks’ from the rest of Europe. She said: ‘There is already mood music within the parliament that if the UK wants it some people will take a great deal of satisfaction in making sure we don’t have it.’ By contrast, Mr Cameron’s position in his own party has been greatly strengthened – though he will now face renewed demands for a referendum as the other members of the EU forge a fiscal union. UKIP leader Nigel Farage said it was tempting to say well done to Mr Cameron, but insisted he had 'gained nothing' London Mayor Boris Johnson – who piled . pressure on Mr Cameron in the run-up to the summit, and has been . increasingly touted as a leadership rival – said: ‘David Cameron has . played a blinder and he has done the only thing that was really open to . him to do.’ Eurosceptic MPs cheered the result – but made it clear that they would step up the pressure on Mr Cameron at Westminster to go further in distancing Britain from the heart of the new European project.
Tory MP Stewart Jackson, who quit the Government over Europe in October, hailed Mr Cameron’s stance as a ‘paradigm shift in our relationship with the EU’, which made a referendum more likely. Temporary truce: Boris Johnson, increasingly touted as a leadership rival, said Mr Cameron had 'played a blinder' He added: ‘There is going to be inevitable pressure for further repatriation of substantial powers, and people may well be asked before the end of this parliament for their view on an in-or-out referendum.’ The leading Eurosceptic Bill Cash said the decision to wield the veto was a ‘historic moment for Europe. He added: ‘We are now embarked on a very serious, responsible path towards renegotiating the whole of our treaty relationship.’
WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Hundreds of thousands of visitors to the National Mall crowded Metro stations around Washington on Tuesday, slowing movement to a crawl after the inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th president of the United States. A security tower stands over the crowd that came to watch Barack Obama's inauguration. "All of our stations are overcrowded," said Lisa Farbstein, spokeswoman for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. "It's taking hours for people to get back into the stations." Police were holding people outside some Metro stations until there was room for them to get in, Farbstein said. But as evening fell and celebrations moved indoors, observers said crowd flow on the Metro system was smoother, if still an effort in patience. As of 7 p.m. Tuesday, the Metro had counted 973,285 passenger trips, setting a record with several hours and many miles yet to go. "Throughout the weekend, we've effectively dealt with record-breaking crowds," said Metro General Manager John Catoe. "By 5 p.m., people had taken nearly 874,000 trips, breaking yesterday's ridership record with nine more hours of service to go." Monday's 866,681 passenger trips had been the Metro record. The Metro numbers were just one record-setting tally in a day that lived up to expectations in sheer crowd size alone. Crowds on the National Mall were so large that the National Park Service began closing portions of it by 9 a.m., three hours before Obama took his oath of office. A crowd of 1.5 million people packed the Mall for the inauguration, according to an analysis of satellite imagery provided to CNN by IHS Jane's, a leading information provider on defense, international risk and national security. Officials said the massive security for the event was running smoothly, although there had been what they described as minor miscommunications, such as a Metro station entrance being closed when it was not supposed to be.
The crowd was orderly, and there had been no reports of major incidents or concerns. FBI spokesman Jason Pack said there had been no arrests related to the inauguration so far. FBI and partner agencies investigated about a dozen reports of suspicious incidents or people, but none was anything serious. About 957 people visited the medical tents on the mall for various first-aid needs. Some security screening lines ran slowly, officials said, but there had not been any major systemic problems. Earlier in the day, federal officials were reviewing an unspecified threat to disrupt the inauguration, according to the Department of Homeland Security. The FBI was investigating two "streams of intelligence" suggesting that Somalia-based terrorist organization Al Shabaab may have been plotting an attack timed to coincide with the event, the FBI and Homeland Security said in a joint threat advisory obtained by CNN. Security officials made some readjustments to inauguration security as a precaution and did not change the threat level, an administration official said. The ceremony went off without incident. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice designated al-Shabaab, also known as the Mujahedeen Youth Movement, a "Foreign Terrorist Organization" in February. The State Department calls it "a violent and brutal extremist group with a number of individuals affiliated with al Qaeda. Many of its senior leaders are believed to have trained and fought with al Qaeda in Afghanistan." Also Tuesday, a false alarm prompted police to temporarily close a 25-mile stretch of the New Jersey Turnpike, authorities said. Investigators had received a tip that a man headed to Washington was threatening the inaugural, but they eventually determined "there is no danger to the public," FBI spokesman J.J. Klaver said. Two law enforcement sources said the man's mother phoned in a tip to authorities saying her son was traveling in a vehicle containing a bomb.
New Jersey State Police stopped a man in a vehicle on the highway Tuesday afternoon, questioned him and searched his vehicle, several law enforcement sources said. Officials said he never posed a threat. It's unclear what, if any, action might be taken against the mother. Tuesday in Washington, tens of thousands of police officers, federal agents and National Guardsmen were deployed on land, water and in the air in an unprecedented effort to make sure the inauguration was secure. The security effort involved Secret Service agents; 8,000 police officers from the District of Columbia and other jurisdictions; 10,000 National Guardsmen; about 1,000 FBI personnel; and hundreds of others from the Department of Homeland Security, the National Park Service and U.S. Capitol Police. Another 20,000 members of the National Guard were ready to respond if there was an emergency, said Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. Security planners drew up procedures to deal with improvised explosive devices, suicide bombers and the use of a weapon of mass destruction. A recent intelligence assessment, however, said a lone wolf would pose the greatest potential threat. Chertoff said an individual or small group planning to do harm is difficult to detect. "Whether the motivation is racism or some psychological disorder in an open society, it is impossible to keep a single individual from doing some damage," he said. Watch the anti-sniper detail prepare » . Federal officials acknowledged that the inauguration of the first African-American president could make an attractive target. Since Obama's election, the number of threats against him has increased, according to a recent federal intelligence assessment. The FBI has been especially aggressive in examining white supremacist groups. They have ramped up their anti-Obama comments, officials said, but it appears to be more talk than action. Because inaugural events are spread over four days, security is especially challenging. Organizers say they started their security planning the day after the last inauguration and ramped up their efforts in July.
CNN's Jeanne Meserve, Pam Benson, Kevin Bohn, Carol Cratty and Rob Frehse contributed to this report.
Lib Dem Baroness Hamwee had asked if the £1 pay rate "for people who have committed no crime" was "something that as a society we can be proud of". Baroness Williams of Trafford told the Lords the work by inmates was voluntary and was a way to "relieve boredom". She said it helped meet "recreational and intellectual" needs - and was not a scheme designed to save money. Baroness Williams, who faced jeers as she answered questions in the House of Lords, argued that any rights detainees had to work were curtailed, so their pay rights were "not the same as people who are not subject to immigration detention". Labour frontbencher Lord Rosser argued that a Freedom of Information request in May 2014 suggested that hundreds of detainees had been paid £45,438 for 44,832 hours work. "The saving of using detainees for £1 an hour, compared to paying employed staff on minimum wage, would be in the region of £300,000 a month. "Who gets the benefit of this apparently considerable saving each month by using detainees at immigration centres on just £1 an hour to do necessary work, as opposed to using employed staff on the minimum wage? Is it the government or is the firm running the centre who reap treat financial benefit?" Baroness Williams insisted the work at immigration removal centres was not about supplementing contractors, who she said were obliged to provide a minimum number of opportunities for detainees to participate voluntarily in paid activities. But after Lib Dem Lord Paddick received a similar reply, former Commons Speaker Lady Boothroyd pressed the minister: "The question that's being asked is who benefits? That was the original question and that's the question we're all waiting to hear the answer." Lady Williams replied: "Who benefits is the detainee."
She said that "this money is not wages as the ordinary working population would see it", adding that the rate is "being reviewed" and a report is expected at the end of the year.
The Grade I listed buildings at Cannington Court have been restored over the past three years. Staff will use the base to develop skills in smart metering, new nuclear projects, finance and human resources. Chief executive officer Vincent de Rivaz, said: "We are committed to developing the new skills and ideas to build a low-carbon society." Cannington Court is owned by Bridgwater College and has been leased to EDF Energy. When it is not used by EDF staff, the college will make use of the facilities for its students. EDF has used sustainable energy sources, such as ground source heat pumps and solar panels, to provide 50% of the building's power. At the scene, BBC business correspondent, Dave Harvey: On the face of it, a new training centre for a multi-national company is not big news. For the staff and the managers, it was certainly a big day in Cannington, as the French chief exec drove into Somerset with a government minister to do the honours. But for the rest of us? Well the opening of EDF's new national training centre is significant, for two reasons. One, it underlines the company's commitment to Somerset. As Vincent de Rivaz told me, they want to bring staff from Scotland, Suffolk and the South East to learn nuclear technology in Cannington. It matters also because it demonstrates how confident EDF was that Hinkley C would be approved. Vincent de Rivaz approved the multimillion-pound hub four years ago, before Hinkley C even had planning permission. He knew there were hurdles, but he never doubted it would go ahead. We are now told Hinkley C's final investment decision, the absolutely last green light, will come before Christmas. Mr de Rivaz is clearly losing no sleep over that decision. Cannington Court was also previously a Catholic industrial school for boys and an agricultural college.
Last month, EDF Energy confirmed it had reached an agreement with Chinese state-run energy firm China General Nuclear Power Corporation (CGN) on their level of investment for a nuclear power plant at Hinkley Point. Although CGN has confirmed it will pay Â£6bn towards the cost, EDF has not yet announced its final investment decision. Once this is confirmed the nuclear build will go ahead but, due to the long delays in the project, the plant will not be generating power in 2023 as initially planned. Anti-nuclear campaigners say the nuclear build deal is over-priced and will result in higher electricity bills for consumers. They also say nuclear power is unsafe and unsustainable.
The arch at Wembley was illuminated in the colours of France's flag and the whole stadium sang French national anthem La Marseillaise before England's friendly with France on Tuesday. Wenger attended the game at Wembley, having been in Paris on Friday when 129 people were killed there. "The football world has a big union and togetherness," said the Frenchman. "You always think after this kind of event - do you continue to play or do you stop your life?" The Stade de France, which was hosting France's friendly against Germany, was targeted as part of Friday's attacks Belgium's friendly with Spain on Tuesday and Germany's match against Netherlands were subsequently called off. Wenger said the decision to play Tuesday's game at Wembley was right and thanked "the English community" for their show of solidarity. He said: "It was fantastic for France and it showed the class of England to see the arch of Wembley in French colours. "Now we must get on with life and respond to the situation in a positive way. You can't stop everything. You have to focus on something else." Arsenal visit West Brom on Saturday (15:00 GMT), and Wenger said he will check that France international Laurent Koscielny is in the right frame of mind to play. "You could see he was not himself on Tuesday," said Wenger. "It has affected him deeply. He wasn't the same player. "I will talk with him to see if he is completely recovered and focused. It is a big game for us. If he is not completely committed or feels ready I will not play him." Newspaper reports on Thursday suggested Arsenal were set to offer forward Alexis Sanchez, 26, and record signing Mesut Ozil, 27, new contracts. Sanchez and Ozil are both under contract until 2018, and Wenger believes the club are in no rush to tie them down for longer. "We have some time. We are not in a hurry," he said.
"We want them to stay."
(CNN) -- Some people like Christmas. Some people love Christmas. And some people are so overcome by their love for the holiday season they decorate homes, gardens, even their vehicles in decorations so spectacular you have to worry about their energy bills. CNN asked people across the world to send in the most stunning and outrageous Christmas displays they had seen. We received submissions from the Dominican Republic to Russia, all of which displayed the inventiveness of people during the holiday season. The U.S., of course, is where outrageous Christmas displays have been elevated to an art form. Robert Ondrovic's image of his neighbor Kevin Lynch's house in Queens, New York, shows a house so festooned with lights and decorations it's hard to make out the front door. Lynch, a retired firefighter, reportedly used more than 300,000 lights and 350 figurines. "I was amazed at the display, including the total amount of lights and figurines," Ondrovic said. "Plus, Kevin plays Christmas music outdoors." Read more: 9 sparkling North American Christmas markets . But the U.S. now faces stiff international competition. In the Philippines, where Christmas celebrations are taken so seriously they begin in September, the light displays are so bright they seem like they could be visible from space. iReporter Marlo Cueto took some stunning images of families enjoying a beautiful light show in Pasay City. "I think the show's significance is to make people feel the excitement and happiness of Christmas in the middle of a busy district," he said. "It brings people together, friends and families." Meanwhile in the Caribbean, Misael Rincon sent in a series of colorful, Day-Glo shots of Christmas decorations in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. But while the decorations are playful, the sentiment behind them rings true for Misael.
"[Christmas is] a moment to share with family, the arrival of loved ones who are living outside the country," he said. "[It's about] love, faith and hope for the coming of God in a humble manger." Of course it's not just homes, stores and public spaces that benefit from a sprinkling of tinsel and fairy lights -- many like to deck out their vehicles as well. Paul Tamasi, from Cambridge, Vermont, spotted this decked out truck festooned with lights and couldn't resist taking a quick shot. "I saw this this truck drive by my restaurant," the pizza parlor owner said. "I jumped in my truck and followed it until I saw it make a stop. My hands got pretty cold capturing it!" And decorations don't have to be massive to have an effect. Daniel Incandela started collecting quirky Christmas tree ornaments three years ago. A "Star Wars" Stormtrooper with a Christmas hat is one of his latest finds to festoon his Christmas tree. "I have a fair share of decent Christmas decorations that range from Robots to a Harrods Bear to Elvis," he said proudly. At times the lights can serve a better, brighter purpose than merely entertaining the public. In the Philippines, Richelle Jagonia-Rivera captured a beautiful shot of Christmas lights in Tangub City, said to be the Christmas capital of the country's northern Mindanao region. Read more: The Philippines shows the world how to celebrate Christmas . Coming from a country still recovering from the catastrophic impact of Typhoon Haiyan, the lights for her were a reminder that the country can still celebrate the festive season. "There will always be Christmas spirit in the Philippines, no matter how many calamities have had hit the country," she said. "The Philippines has the festive spirit with hospitality at its best."
GOP Health Plan Would Leave 23 Million More Uninsured, Budget Office Says Enlarge this image toggle caption Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images The revised Republican bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act will leave 23 million more people uninsured in 2026 than if that act, also known as Obamacare, were to remain in place. The GOP bill would also reduce the deficit by $119 billion over 10 years. That's what the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reported Wednesday in its latest score of the American Health Care Act. The CBO's assessment shows that the deficit would fall and premiums would fall for some Americans, but the report also raises potential concerns about the bill. The agency reports that the bill could destabilize individual insurance markets in some states, leaving unhealthy Americans unable to buy insurance. The bill will now move on to the Senate, and should it pass that chamber, it will not look like this current AHCA version. As NPR's Susan Davis reported Wednesday, the Senate is likely to write its own version of the bill. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell also told Reuters he doesn't know what that path to passing the bill will look like. "I don't know how we get to 50 [votes] at the moment. But that's the goal," he said. A smaller deficit, but a far higher uninsured rate The $119 billion deficit reduction represents a decline from previous versions. When the CBO first scored the AHCA, it said the plan would save $337 billion over 10 years. Later revisions reduced those savings to $150 billion. By far the biggest savings would come from Medicaid, which serves low-income Americans. That program would face $834 billion in cuts. Cutbacks in subsidies for individual health insurance would likewise help cut $276 billion. But those are offset in large part by bigger costs, including the repeal of many of Obamacare's taxes.
Those tax cuts would overwhelmingly benefit the highest-income Americans, the Tax Policy Center, a Washington think tank, reported on Wednesday. The increase in the number of uninsured is also slightly lower than in the CBO's initial estimate. That report estimated that 24 million fewer would be insured in 2026 if this bill were to become law, putting the uninsured rate at around 18.6 percent. This revised bill would reduce that by around 1 million — a difference of less than half a percentage point. In contrast, the uninsured rate in 2026 would be around 10 percent under Obamacare, the CBO reports. More than half of that increase in the uninsured — 14 million — would come from reduced Medicaid enrollment. The CBO also notes that the AHCA could mean some Americans would buy policies that don't cover "major medical risks." Because of those policies' skimpy coverage, the CBO doesn't count those people as insured in this report. The Trump administration responded by saying it believes the CBO's numbers are unreliable. "History has proven the CBO to be totally incapable of accurately predicting how healthcare legislation will impact health insurance coverage," the White House said in a statement. The CBO did indeed far overestimate the number of people who would sign up for the Obamacare exchanges, as FactCheck.org's Brooks Jackson wrote in March. Likewise, it undershot on the number of Medicaid enrollees. (That said, Jackson added, the CBO predicted the uninsured rate relatively closely.) Difficulties for some addicted, pregnant or sick Americans The act could make obtaining health care coverage prohibitively expensive for some sicker Americans, the CBO found. That's because under the AHCA, states could get waivers exempting them from some Obamacare provisions, including what are called essential health benefits — a list of basics like mental health and prescription drugs that the Affordable Care Act required plans to cover. States could also get waivers that allow insurers to charge more for people with pre-existing conditions.
One challenge the CBO faced in creating these estimates was figuring out how many states would get those waivers, and the report acknowledges that this creates some uncertainty in the estimates. In the end, it estimated that around one-sixth of the population lives in states that would seek both of those waivers. Around half of Americans live in states that would seek no waivers, meanwhile, and the remainder live in states that would make "moderate" changes. In states that obtained both of those waivers, it would mean lower premiums for people buying individual insurance. But less healthy Americans in those states could face "extremely high premiums," the report said. "Over time, it would become more difficult for less healthy people (including people with preexisting medical conditions) in those states to purchase insurance because their premiums would continue to increase rapidly," the CBO wrote. Waiving essential health benefits could also make medical care much more expensive for people who are pregnant, addicted or have other mental health issues and who live in those states that waive those benefits. "In particular, out-of-pocket spending on maternity care and mental health and substance abuse services could increase by thousands of dollars in a given year for the nongroup enrollees who would use those services," the report says of people living in those states. Under current law, the CBO wrote, the markets will be "stable in most areas" because lower-income Americans buying individual insurance will be shielded from rising Obamacare premiums, thanks to subsidies. However, the report acknowledges that insurers have reduced their participation in the exchanges, leaving some Americans with no options for buying insurance. "The Affordable Care Act doesn't have a back-up plan for this situation," as Vox's Sarah Kliff and Sarah Frostenson reported Wednesday, so it's not clear how this could play out. Cuts to Medicaid Medicaid accounts for by far the biggest spending reductions under the American Health Care Act.
The bill would roll back the Medicaid expansion instituted under the Affordable Care Act, which extended the program to cover some Americans with incomes up to 133 percent of the poverty line. That expansion increased enrollment by 10 million, as NPR's Alison Kodjak previously reported. Rolling back that expansion would limit future enrollments. The AHCA would also give states a choice: Receive Medicaid funding via either a block grant or a per capita amount per enrollee. Together, these changes would create major cuts in enrollment for the program: 14 million fewer people by 2026, and $834 billion in spending cuts over a decade. Older, lower-income Americans get higher premiums Average premiums would be lower in 2026 than they would be under Obamacare, both in states that do and that don't seek waivers. But it's impossible to make a meaningful blanket statement about how premiums would change under this bill, as those changes differ vastly for different groups of people. For example, older Americans who make little money and buy individual insurance would see their premiums climb far beyond what they would be under Obamacare. A 64-year-old making $26,500 would pay $1,700 in premiums annually under Obamacare. In a state making those "moderate" changes to its market, that 64-year-old would pay $13,600, and in a state with no waivers, the cost would be $16,100. That's more than nine times that person's premium under the Affordable Care Act. However, younger Americans would see little change in their premiums, or even declines. Likewise, some people with higher incomes could see substantially lower premiums under this bill. For example, a 40-year-old paying $6,500 a year under current law could pay an estimated $2,100 in a state with "moderate changes" to its market. The bill moves on to the Senate The CBO's newly estimated deficit savings mean the bill can safely move on to the Senate.
The future of the bill hinged upon this report, as House Republicans passed their most recent version of the bill without waiting for the CBO to report its estimated price tag. Three weeks after passing the bill, however, they have not sent the bill on to the Senate yet, because they were waiting on this score. Budget rules dictate that if the bill's deficit savings had not reached $2 billion (and that $2 billion had to come from particular spending categories), the bill would be dead upon arrival. Republicans’ American Health Care Act would be devastating to older Americans who rely on the individual insurance market, according to an analysis by the Congressional Budget Office. The CBO found that the revised Republican bill does bring down overall premiums in the individual market by anywhere from 4 to 20 percent by 2026 compared with what they would be under current law. The variation depends on whether a state accepts waivers under the American Health Care Act, which would allow insurers to offer much skimpier health plans at lower premiums. States that take up such waivers would see lower premiums, although the health plans would provide fewer benefits. States that don’t adopt such waivers would have higher premiums, but their health plans would offer more benefits — a trade-off. But the CBO’s analysis includes a big caveat: Premiums would differ greatly based on age and income. In general, the older and poorer you are, the higher your premiums would be under the American Health Care Act compared with current law. The CBO offers an example of a single individual with an annual income of $26,500. If that person is 21 years old, he could benefit from the Republican health care bill. Under the Affordable Care Act (also known as Obamacare), he would on average pay $1,700 in premiums for insurance.
Under the Republican plan, he would pay $1,250 if he’s in a state that accepts regulatory waivers and makes moderate changes to market rules — although, again, this also means his health plan would likely be skimpier. If his state doesn’t take up a waiver, his premium would actually increase by $50 to $1,750. But if that person is 64 years old, he would be hurt by the Republican bill. Under Obamacare, he would also pay $1,700 in premiums for insurance. But under the Republican bill, he would pay $16,100 (about 60 percent of his annual income) if he lives in a state that doesn’t accept regulatory waivers, and $13,600 — still more than half his annual income — if he lives in a state that does adopt waivers to make moderate rule changes. That amounts to as much as an 850 percent increase in premiums from Obamacare to the Republican bill. A 64-year-old who’s making $68,200 a year could fare a bit better. Under Obamacare, he’s expected to pay $15,300 in premiums for insurance, because his income would be too high to receive the law’s tax credits. Under the Republican bill, the tax credit, which is now based on age instead of income, begins phasing out at $75,000. So his premium would drop to $13,600 — a bit below Obamacare levels — in a state that gets a regulatory waiver but would actually increase to $16,100 in a state that doesn’t get a waiver. Here’s how all of that looks in chart form: Older people with an annual income of $75,000 or more would get fewer to no subsidies under the Republican bill. So they would likely face higher premiums than they did under Obamacare, much like the lower-income consumer. The Republican bill accomplishes all of this in two ways.
First, it abandons Obamacare’s income-based tax credits (which give more money to people with lower incomes) to instead give anyone with an annual salary below $75,000 a tax credit based on age, with older people getting more money and a phaseout for higher incomes. But it also peels back an Obamacare rule that protects older people from higher premiums. Under Obamacare, insurers are generally only allowed to charge an older person about three times what they would charge a younger person — under the theory that older people are often sicker and therefore need to use more insurance. But under the Republican bill, the limit of three times would go up to five times, effectively letting insurers charge older people 66 percent more than they would under Obamacare. Republicans argue this is necessary because it would also let insurers charge younger people less, which would encourage younger and generally healthier people to come into the insurance pool — and therefore bring down the overall cost of health care by making it so more younger, healthier people are effectively subsidizing everyone’s care. The CBO found that’s broadly true: It would bring insurance premiums down in general, and it would cost at least some young people less to get signed up for a health plan. But it would do all of that at a very high cost to older, particularly poorer Americans. (Daron Taylor/The Washington Post) Health-care legislation adopted by House Republicans earlier this month would leave 23 million more Americans uninsured by 2026 than under current law, the Congressional Budget Office projected Wednesday — only a million fewer than the estimate for the House’s previous bill. The nonpartisan agency’s finding, which drew immediate fire from Democrats, patient advocates, health industry officials and some business groups, is likely to complicate Republicans’ push to pass a companion bill in the Senate.
The new score, which reflects last-minute revisions that Republicans made to win over several conservative lawmakers and a handful of moderates, calculates that the American Health Care Act would reduce the federal deficit by $119 billion between 2017 and 2026. That represents a smaller reduction than the $150 billion CBO estimated in late March, largely because House leaders provided more money in their final bill to offset costs for consumers with expensive medical conditions and included language that could translate to greater federal spending on health insurance subsidies. [What is in the Republican health-care bill? Questions and answers on preexisting conditions, Medicaid and more.] As GOP senators quickly distanced themselves from the updated numbers, what became apparent is the difficult balancing act congressional leaders face as they seek to rewrite large portions of the Affordable Care Act. Some senators are eager to soften portions of the House bill, including cuts to entitlement programs and provisions that would allow insurers in individual states to offer fewer benefits in their health plans or to charge consumers with costly medical conditions higher premiums. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), who did not issue a statement in response to the new budget score, suggested in an interview with Reuters that he still harbored doubts over whether his party could muster enough votes to pass any kind of health-care bill this year. “I don’t know how we get to 50 [votes] at the moment,” he said, referring to a situation in which Vice President Pence would cast the deciding vote. “But that’s the goal.” To avoid a filibuster by Democrats, Senate Republicans plan to take the bill up under budget reconciliation rules — which only require a majority vote but mean the legislation cannot increase the federal deficit within a 10-year window. The Republicans have been working for weeks on their own health-care bill and emphasize that they do not intend to simply follow the House’s lead.
“Exactly what the composition of [our legislation] is, I’m not going to speculate about because it serves no purpose,” McConnell told Reuters. Some, like Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.), said the CBO score would have no impact on his chamber’s efforts to write its own bill. [The three numbers you need to understand the CBO report on Republicans’ health-care bill] “Regardless of any CBO score, it’s no secret Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight,” Perdue said in a statement. “Doing nothing is not an option.” Instead of addressing the future number of uninsured Americans under the Republican plan — projected to immediately jump in 2018 by 14 million — House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) on Wednesday chose to focus on the CBO’s estimate that premiums overall would fall under the AHCA. “This CBO report again confirms that the American Health Care Act achieves our mission: lowering premiums and lowering the deficit,” Ryan said in a statement. “It is another positive step toward keeping our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare.” Congressional analysts concluded that one change to the House bill aimed at lowering premiums, by allowing states to opt out of some current insurance requirements, would encourage some employers to maintain coverage for their workers and get younger, healthier people to buy plans on their own. But those gains would be largely offset by consumers with preexisting conditions, who would face higher premiums than they do now. “Their premiums would continue to increase rapidly,” the report found.
The CBO estimated that states seeking waivers to strip the ACA’s “essential health benefits” would affect roughly one-sixth of the population and that obtaining maternity coverage outside a basic plan, for example, “could be more than $1,000 per month.” But Rep. John Faso (R-N.Y.), who supported the House bill, called the CBO’s assumption that waivers would affect that many Americans “grossly wrong.” “Frankly I doubt any state would try to take advantage of that provision,” he said. “I think that is completely out of the ballpark.” Asked why the House included the provision if no state would seek such waivers, he replied, “I’m sure it will be stripped out in the Senate.” The administration’s reaction came from Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, who questioned the congressional analysts’ latest numbers while noting that many Americans on the individual insurance market are paying more than double the premiums they were before the ACA was passed in 2010. “The CBO was wrong when they analyzed Obamacare’s effect on cost and coverage, and they are wrong again,” Price said. [Trump, House GOP ask appeals court to again delay decision on health-care law provision] Joseph Antos, a resident scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute who specializes in health-care policy, said the new estimate “is the same signal repeated,” conveying that the changes congressional Republicans envision would cut the price of premiums and trim the deficit while leaving more Americans without insurance. The AHCA’s proposal to cut spending on Medicaid — a federal program that covers roughly 69 million Americans — by $834 billion over the next decade is the thorniest political issue facing the Senate, Antos said.
“They’re going to have to do something on Medicaid, and that something is a real question,” he said. Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, said he was confident the Senate would be able to craft a bill that could pass muster in the House — even in light of the CBO’s analysis. He said that he expected senators to address the situation of the roughly 10 million Americans who now enjoy Medicaid coverage under the ACA “in a less conservative way” than the House and that the measure “would still have conservative support in the House when it came back.” Senate Democrats seized on the new budget estimate, arguing that their GOP counterparts would be foolhardy to press ahead along the same lines as the House’s final legislation. The bill was passed May 4 with no support from Democrats. “These were cosmetic changes. They thought they could put lipstick on a pig,” said Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), adding that it’s now obvious “we’re going to have well over 20 million people uninsured.” Several key outside groups, including those representing physicians, hospitals and patients, said in statements that the updated projections underscored the need for the Senate to shift course. The president of the American Medical Association urged the Senate to take a different approach. The CBO estimates “show that last-minute changes to the AHCA made by the House offered no real improvements,” Andrew Gurman said. And Rick Pollack, president and chief executive of the American Hospital Association, said the new numbers “only reinforce our deep concerns about the importance of maintaining coverage for those vulnerable patients who need it.” Mike DeBonis and Sean Sullivan contributed to this report.
By . Claire Bates . Last updated at 12:30 PM on 29th November 2011 . Nearly 100,000 people are living with HIV in the UK but a quarter of them are unaware that they have the disease, according to the Health Protection Agency. The latest figures show the number of sufferers has risen from 86,500 to 91,500 between 2009 and 2010. Of the 6,660 people newly diagnosed with . HIV in 2010, half came forward for testing after a time when treatment . should ideally have started. Nearly 100,000 people are living with HIV in the UK. This electron micrograph shows how HIV (orange) invades healthy immune system cells . Early treatment boosts chances of living longer with the precursor to Aids. Of the 680 people with HIV who died in 2010, two thirds had been diagnosed late. Heterosexual men were the most likely to be diagnosed late, at 63 per cent compared with 39 per cent of gay men and 58 per cent of heterosexual women. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) attacks the body's immune system, which we need to fight disease and infection. The virus specifically attacks CD4 cells. Although the body will try to produce replacements, the number will eventually decline and the immune system will stop working. Once the person acquires a life-threatening condition, such as pneumonia, they are said to have the last stage of HIV - Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). HIV is spread through bodily fluids - most commonly during unprotected sex. There is no cure but since the 1990s treatments have been developed to slow down the spread of the disease. This allows people to live with the disease for a very long time. In 2009, the World Health Organisation estimated there were 33.4m people across the globe living with HIV/AIDS. In 2010, more than 3,000 gay men were diagnosed with HIV - the highest ever annual figure.
One in 20 gay men are now infected with HIV nationally, rising to one in 11 in London. Today's data also suggests that a stigma is still attached to the condition, revealing that one in five people visiting a sexually transmitted infection (STI) clinic in 2010 did not accept an HIV test. The HPA is recommending that, in areas where prevalence of HIV is high, testing should be offered in places where it is not currently the norm. Testing should be offered to all people signing up with a GP and those admitted to hospital, but only with the patient's permission. Dr Valerie Delpech, consultant epidemiologist and head of HIV surveillance at the HPA, said: 'HIV is an infection which can nowadays be treated and those diagnosed promptly can expect to experience similar life expectancy as an individual without the infection. 'However, we are very concerned that a large number of people in the UK are unaware of their HIV status and are diagnosed late. 'We want to see increased access to HIV testing routinely offered in clinical settings such as new registrants at GPs and hospital general admissions, in areas of the country where rates of HIV infection are high. The cost of treating someone with HIV in the UK is estimated to be around £18,000 per year when they are not showing any symptoms. This is based on the price of care as well as triple-drug antiretroviral therapy. However, it costs £21,500 to treat patients who are showing symptoms and £41,000 for those with full-blown AIDS. Patients who have four drugs cost the NHS between £22,775 and £48,000 per year. The annual cost of providing HIV treatment and care in the UK could be as high as £758m by 2013, according to a study in PLoS One. 'We are also urging sexual health . clinics to ensure that HIV testing is offered as part of a universal . sexual health screen at every new attendance.'
Deborah Jack, chief executive of the National Aids Trust, said: 'The number of people who don't know they have HIV and are diagnosed late is a serious issue. 'Not only does it have a severe impact on health and reduce life expectancy, this largely accounts for the onward transmission of HIV as people aren't taking the necessary steps to avoid passing it on.' She added: 'People shouldn't be scared of HIV testing, but they should be scared of undiagnosed HIV. 'The advances in HIV treatment have been one of the biggest success stories in the 30 years since the virus first emerged, but too many people test too late and so fail to benefit from these drugs.' Sir Nick Partridge, chief executive of the Terrence Higgins Trust, said: 'HIV rates in the UK remain dangerously high and to bring them down we all have to take responsibility for our sexual health. 'We can't just rely on partners, or chance, to keep sex safe.' The HPA has previously predicted that by 2012 there will be 100,000 people living with HIV in the UK. The study comes just ahead of World Aids Day on December 1.
A message claiming Celtic were 'raped' in a Champions League tie and should not have been reinstated into the competition has appeared on the Twitter account of former Rangers player Vladimir Weiss. Celtic were reprieved by UEFA on Friday morning after it emerged their third qualifying round opponents Legia Warsaw fielded a suspended player in the second leg at Murrayfield in Edinburgh. The tweet, which was sent out to 81,000 followers on Slovakia international Weiss' official account, read: 'Un f***** believable Got raped 6:1!!! Should never be allowed to play champions league after that.. Embarrassing #f***celtic #watp'. VIDEO Scroll down for Celtic's reaction to being reinstated in to the Champions League . Controversial: This message relating to the decision to reinstate Celtic to the Champions League after third qualifying round opponents Legia Warsaw fielded an ineligible player appeared on the Twitter account of former Rangers player Vladimir Weiss . Blue blood: Weiss in action for Rangers against bitter rivals Celtic during his loan spell at the club in the 2010-2011 season. He is still pictured in Rangers colours on his Twitter profile background . Suspended: Bartosz Bereszynski, who was banned for three games following a red card, played three minutes for Legia Warsaw in the second leg of their Champions League third qualifying round tie with Celtic . The tweet prompted a backlash against the choice of words and was retweeted over 3,000 times. Winger Weiss played for Rangers on loan from Manchester City during the 2010-2011 season, making 35 appearances for the Ibrox club and scoring five times. A UEFA disciplinary panel took the decision to reinstate Celtic after their Polish opponents Legia fielded a suspended player, Bartosz Bereszynski, for three minutes of their third qualifying round, second leg tie at Murrayfield on Wednesday night. Legia won both legs of the tie - 4-1 at home and 2-0 away - to win 6-1 on aggregate.
But a UEFA disciplinary meeting convened before the European draws in Nyon decided Celtic should be awarded a 3-0 second leg victory - and advance on away goals - after Legia fielded suspended defender Bereszynski. Red carded against Cypriots Apollon Limassol in a Europa League game last season Bereszynski was supposed to serve his suspension in UEFA competition this season. Loan spell: Slovakian winger Weiss in action for Rangers against Valencia in the Champions League in 2010 . Success: Weiss (second left) with the Scottish League Cup after Rangers beat Celtic at Hampden Park in 2011 . Unregistered for the second qualifying win over St Patrick's Athletic, however, the first opportunity to serve his ban came with during the Celtic tie. His late appearance as a substitute in the second leg was reported to the governing body by the UEFA match delegate leading to his eligibility being investigated. After being reinstated into the competition, Celtic were drawn against Maribor in the play-off round. Weiss, who now plays for Lekhwiya in the Qatar Stars League, still has a picture of himself in a Rangers kit on his Twitter profile. The hashtag 'watp' refers to the popular Rangers chant and motto 'We are the People'. Doom and gloom: Manager Ronny Delia (left) and his backroom staff watch on during Legia's 2-0 win in the second leg at Murrayfield in Edinburgh . Down and out: Celtic's Charlie Mulgrew leaves the field after Celtic's heavy aggregate defeat . The comment led to criticism on Twitter, with one follower replying: 'bad choice of words, raped? REALLY?' Another responded: 'Not really comfortable with your use of the word "rape" here.' Alan Pardew, now manager of Newcastle United, was heavily criticised after using the word 'rape' on an episode of the BBC's Match of the Day 2 programme back in 2009.
Describing an ineffective challenge by Manchester City player Ched Evans on Chelsea's Michael Essien, Pardew said: 'Ched Evans is a strong boy but Essien knocked him off the ball. He absolutely rapes him there.' He was condemned by women's groups and was forced to issue an 'unconditional apology' through the BBC. CLICK HERE to start picking your Fantasy Football team NOW! There’s £60,000 in prizes including £1,000 up for grabs EVERY WEEK… .
By . Jonathan O'Callaghan . Spinning wind turbines might soon be confined to the recycling bin. That's because German company Festo have revealed their innovative design for a new wind turbine that can operate even in low wing conditions. Known as the DualWingGenerator, it uses . two pairs of wings to generate power even when the wind speed drops to . nine miles (14 km) per hour. Scroll down to watch video . The product is part of Festo's Bionic Learning Network and mimics the natural beating of a bird's wings. As one wing rises the other drops so that they help each other move even when the wind speed is low. The shape of the wings means they generate lift when wind passes over them. The motion of the wings is turned into electricity by an integrated circuit motor. As one wing rises the other falls, so it can operate even in conditions when wind speed is low . But it's the effectiveness of the turbine to operate at low wind speeds that really makes it impressive. It's possible that it could one day be used as an alternative to modern wind turbines. Festo's DualWingGenerator is the first flapping turbine of its kind . The DualWingGenerator is an evolution of Festo's SmartBird. The SmartBird's revolutionary design allows it to start, fly and land autonomously. Its wings not only beat up and . down, they also twist at specific angles, providing the ultra-light . model with 'excellent aerodynamic qualities and extreme agility'. Controlled by a radio handset, it can also simply glide through the skies if left to its own devices. Steering is achieved when the SmartBird, which weighs just 450 grams, moves its tail and turns its head from side-to-side. Inspired . by the herring seagull, scientists at technology firm Festo control the . up/down flapping motion of the wings by spinning two wheels inside the . robot's torso.
The former England paceman has been suffering from a "lower back issue", but is expected to feature in the five-match ODI series beginning next week. Ireland play the Afghans in three T20s in India, staring on Wednesday. "We're happy with the progress Boyd is making and feel confident that he will still make an impact on this tour," said Irish head coach John Bracewell. "We are lucky that we have cover at present." Bracewell added that bowler Tim Murtagh would be available for the ODI series following the birth of his second child. The matches in Greater Noida conclude with an Intercontinental Cup encounter on 28-31 March.
(CNN) -- As recently as 2011, Hillary Clinton was seen by many as a respected but polarizing figure: Smart and accomplished, sure, but controlled and somewhat humorless. In the infamous faint praise of her rival-turned-boss Barack Obama, she was "likable enough." Three years later, she seems somehow hipper, looser and more human. As we inch toward the 2016 election, she's presented a new online persona. While Clinton has embraced social media, it hasn't always loved her back, as seen most recently on her current book tour. The Internet has used every opportunity to turn her words and actions into memes, not all of them flattering. So what happened? How did Hillary Clinton suddenly go viral? You can trace the change back to October 18, 2011, when then-Secretary of State Clinton was traveling with her staff on a C-17 military plane from Malta to Tripoli, Libya. Nobody knew its importance at the time, but that's the day Reuters' Kevin Lamarque and TIME's Diana Walker snapped a handful of photos that would soon become iconic: Clinton, in oversize black shades and a no-nonsense expression, checking her BlackBerry at a makeshift desk as staffers mingled behind her. "Okay, nice image I thought, but we were about to land in Tripoli which was certain to yield the images that the world would really want to see," Lamarque wrote in a blog post months later. "Photographers, you never really know when your pictures will resurface and what use they will be to someone out there." 5 things to watch in Hillary Clinton town hall . Texts From Hillary . You know the rest. Six months later, the photos were all over the Internet, thanks to two journalists with an idea that started as a joke at a bar.
In April 2012, Stacy Lambe and Adam Smith launched a blog, Texts From Hillary, that showed fictional text-message exchanges between Clinton, from her seat on the plane, and a range of celebrities. There she was rejecting a Mark Zuckerberg friend request, telling a flirty Ryan Gosling to call her "Madame Secretary," blowing off Jon Stewart by saying she's already booked on Colbert and responding to Obama's "Hey Hil, whatchu doing?" with "Running the world." As the perfect vessels for deadpan mockery in the social media age, the posts and related Twitter feed soon were everywhere. Within days, Clinton invited Lambe and Smith to her office at the State Department, where she initiated a group photo of the trio texting on their phones. Although its makers shuttered the blog only a week later -- "Once you meet the subject of your meme it's very hard to top that," Smith told CNN -- Clinton's image was altered almost overnight. "During the 2008 Democratic primary, Barack Obama had a lock on young people, technology chic and the press. Hillary was regarded by kids as the lady who'd been around a long time, wearing headbands and pantsuits," Maureen Dowd wrote that week in The New York Times. "Now she's quick to laugh at herself and take advantage of the positive buzz," Dowd continued. Building a brand on Twitter . A few months after Clinton stepped down as secretary of state in early 2013, she joined Twitter. Her first tweet thanked Lambe and Smith for the inspiration and then said, "I'll take it from here #tweetsfromhillary." It was retweeted more than 10,000 times. And her Twitter bio became an instant classic of the form.
It reads: "Wife, mom, lawyer, women & kids advocate, FLOAR, FLOTUS, US Senator, SecState, author, dog owner, hair icon, pantsuit aficionado, glass ceiling cracker, TBD " Soon Clinton was posting childhood photos of husband Bill on his birthday, tributes to the late Nelson Mandela, a portrait of her with members of Russian band Pussy Riot and pleas for such pet causes as elephant poaching and empowering women in the developing world. "She has really embraced the platform in the right way. She has humanized herself and her brand," said Shama Hyder, CEO of the Marketing Zen Group. "Today, participating in digital media isn't a choice," Hyder added. "Your digital footprint is created regardless of your participation, and any smart politician knows that it is best to help curate that image vs. leaving others to define it for you." Clinton also has shown flashes of self-mocking humor, as when she tweeted a joke during the Super Bowl in February about how she enjoyed watching "someone else being blitzed and sacked" on Fox for a change. Today, Clinton, 66, has 1.5 million Twitter followers, many who may not even remember her eight years in the White House. At least for now, she seems more comfortable in her skin -- witness the photos of her wearing thick glasses and almost no makeup -- although that may change if she runs for president again. The Internet isn't always nice . But getting the attention of the Internet is not always a good thing. Anything Clinton says has the potential to go viral, for worse as well as better. In January 2013, Clinton was fighting back criticism before the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee during a hearing about the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya. "With all due respect, the fact is we had four dead Americans," she said.
"Was it because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night decided they'd go kill some Americans? What difference, at this point, does it make? It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again, senator." The Twitter-sphere quickly seized on the outburst, and within hours, #WhatDifferenceDoesItMake was trending. Not only did the hashtag spread, but so did a graphic of Clinton's 2008 campaign sign juxtaposed with the phrase "What difference does it make?" Earlier this month, as she promoted her new book, "Hard Choices," Clinton was trending again . In an interview with ABC's Diane Sawyer, Clinton said she and former President Bill Clinton were "dead broke" and "struggled to piece together the resources" for mortgages in pricey Washington and the New York suburbs along with their daughter Chelsea's tuition at Stanford University. Clinton sought to clarify her comment, saying simply that she and her husband have known periods in their lives when they struggled to pay off debt, but the damage was done. Her Twitter critics turned #HillaryIsSoPoor into a mocking hashtag. Once and future candidate? Criticism aside, should Clinton run for president in the 2016 election, digital-branding experts believe the reborn, tech-savvy Clinton will resonate better with voters, especially young ones. Marketing guru Marian Salzman believes the old Clinton hid her personality behind the security wall of public service. The new Clinton is undergoing a swift digital makeover, said Salzman, CEO of Havas PR North America. "How can she modernize, and fast? Get online and exude an ageless hipster style that takes away the pain of the proximity between her age and the age of Ronald Reagan (69) when he took office," Salzman told CNN.
"The sudden burst of intellectual energy, even in 140 characters, reinforces she is of these times and living the now." Salzman believes Clinton must be her authentic self on social media to appear more relatable to voters. "She needs humor and self awareness -- we don't want Mrs. Thatcher," she said, referring to the sometimes imperious former British prime minister. "She needs to be of the people, and with them." It can't hurt to keep posting more personal messages such as her "My most exciting title yet: Grandmother-To-Be!" tweet congratulating Chelsea and husband Marc Mezvinsky on expecting their first child. Hyder, of the Marketing Zen Group, believes Clinton still wants to be president and has realized "she can no longer sit on the sidelines" when it comes to digital media. "I believe it has helped her garner many new fans and will continue to play a huge role in building her brand," Hyder told CNN. "The last time Ms. Clinton had presidential aspirations, there wasn't a strong sense of her as a person. The public had a very one dimensional image. "Using digital media in this way allows her to present a fuller more human picture. If she does decide to run, it could be a decisive factor." CNN's Dan Merica contributed to this report.
An Australian government agency has labelled the Sydney siege a terrorist attack. In positive news for businesses affected by the December attack on the Lindt chocolate cafe, Treasurer Joe Hockey today labelled the siege a 'terrorist incident' for insurance purposes. The ruling under the Terrorism Insurance Act means that insurers will not be able to refuse claims because of terrorism exclusion clauses in their policies. Scroll down for video . The Australian government has designated the Sydney siege a terrorist incident for insurance purposes. Above, survivor and barista Elly Chen flees for safety that terrifying December 15, 2014, afternoon in an iconic photograph . Closed for business: The Martin Place cafe remains closed a month since the deadly siege, where manager Tori Johnson and barrister Katrina Dawson were killed and sixteen others were held hostage by gunman Man Haron Monis . Three insurances have registered claims relating to the siege to date, according to the Australian Reinsurance Pool Corporation. Mr Hockey said he was pleased the companies did not apply terrorism exclusion policies. Today's announcement follows reports one of the hostages is seeking a 'six figure sum' to speak to media outlets. Marcia Mikhael, one of 18 hostages held prisoner by the mad gunman Man Horan Monis, is reportedly seeking a 'six figure sum' for a televised interview. Gunman's chilling visage: Man Monis was pictured in the window of the Lindt cafe early on in the December 15 siege . The Shahada flag: Two hostages were pictured being forced to place the black Islamic flag in the window of the Lindt cafe store . Daily Mail Australia understands several hostages have held discussions with television networks about telling their story. The Federal and State governments are both conducting a review into the siege to examine what lessons could be learned. The NSW Coroner announced this week that an inquest will be held into the siege from January 29.
(CNN) -- Germany captain Michael Ballack enjoyed a dream return to the Bundesliga as his Bayer Leverkusen side claimed an impressive 2-0 victory at Borussia Dortmund on Sunday. Ballack, who rejoined first club Leverkusen during the summer after four years at Chelsea, played his part in a superb team performance as Leverkusen showed they will be one of the teams to watch this season. Swiss midfielder Tranquillo Barnetta opened the scoring for the visitors in the 19th minute and Brazilian Renato Augusto added a second goal just three minutes later to ensure the three points. In Sunday's other match, Mainz secured a surprise 2-0 home defeat over Stuttgart thanks to goals from debutant strikers Sami Allagui and Morten Rasmussen. Tunisian Allagui opened the scoring in the 26th-minute and Danish international Rasmussen -- who joined on loan from Celtic this week -- added the second two minutes after the interval. With the first round of matches now complete, Hoffenheim lead the table courtesy of Saturday's stunning 4-1 win over Werder Bremen. Three goals in a bizarre six-minute spell in the first half proved the difference between the sides after Torsten Frings had put Werder ahead from the penalty spot. Meanwhile, defending champions Bayern Munich got their season off to a perfect start on Friday as Bastian Schweinsteiger's last-gasp goal gave them a 2-1 victory over Wolfsburg.
By . Richard Shears . Last updated at 11:23 AM on 5th November 2011 . A two-year-old boy playing with his toy wheelbarrow was bowled over by a kangaroo which then pinned him down and tried to claw him to death. The screaming child's terrified parents ran at the animal and managed to chase it away - but not before it left Zakkiah Galea with severe wounds to his face and body. His mother Nicole Galea last night told how the aggressive kangaroo left her in fear that her son had received fatal injuries in the attack on the family's ten-acre property at Port Macquarie, in northern New South Wales. In hospital: Two-year-old Zakkiah Galea was playing in his garden in New South Wales when he was attacked by a kangaroo which tried to claw him to death . Mrs Galea, who is eight-months . pregnant, said: 'The kangaroo was on top of him. He was pinned to the . ground while it clawed at his forearms. 'I screamed at the kangaroo to get off him but it wouldn't - it just kept on attacking.' It . was only when Zakkiah's father, Andrew Galea, rushed to help his wife . fight off the kangaroo that the animal finally ran off into nearby . bushland. 'It turned on Andrew first before hopping away,' Mrs Galea told Sydney's Daily Telegraph. 'It was just awful to see Zakkiah. He had a bloody face and blood had soaked through his shirt. 'There was a deep puncture in his chest and a gash on the top of his leg. He had two large gouges from his mouth to his ear.'
Zakkiah's mother Nicole Galea said the aggressive kangaroo left her fearing that he had received fatal injuries during the attack on the family's ten-acre property at Port Macquarie . Native species: The kangaroo only hopped away when it was scared off by the boy's father (file picture) Last night, Zakkiah was recovering at home from his wounds that required 13 stitches. His mother said: 'He scared. He says he doesn't want to be attacked by the "tiger kangaroo" again.' Other people in the remote neighbourhood have been attacked by kangaroos, said Mrs Galea, and she suspected urban development was to blame - new houses forcing the animals into human environment. Peter Clark, of the National Parks and Wildlife Service, said people should be aware that kangaroos are wild animals of substantial size and power and might react instinctively and attack if they are startled. He suggested that people living close to kangaroos should fence off their properties and remove food, shelter and water opportunities. He also suggesting turning on water sprinklers to discourage the animals from gathering.
It was the day before Everton's return to Europe and Phil Jagielka was holding court in the media auditorium at Finch Farm. A naturally bubbly character, Jagielka was in high spirits as he focused on the imminent clash with Wolfsburg but it was only a matter of time before he knew the topic of conversation would change. He would have to confront a difficult summer and testing start to the new campaign. 'A little bit sticky,' was how he chose to describe the last four months. It was, perhaps, an understatement. Having been in the firing line for England's World Cup demise and scrutinised for the poor goals Everton had been conceding, lesser souls might have found it all too much. Phil Jagielka is not one to shy away from pressure, and has faced a difficult period admirably . Everton captain Jagielka was impressive against Liverpool in the Merseyside derby on Saturday . Jagielka scored a stunning goal from 25 yards to rescue a late point for his Everton side . Jagielka, though, is not someone who will ever hide. He is a character who will face up to issue and however hard he found the questions, he answered them impressively. He fights and doesn't give in. That is why, in the 91st minute of the 223rd Merseyside derby, he was scuffling around the edge of Liverpool's penalty area, trying to find a way of helping his team salvage something from a game that was slipping away. How Everton's captain delivered. Latching on to a headed clearance from Dejan Lovren, Jagielka crashed volley from 25 yards into the top corner of The Kop net, to leave Anfield – bar one delirious Blue corner – in stunned silence. It was, undoubtedly, the most spectacular goal scored by an Everton player behind enemy lines since Graeme Sharp's howitzer in 1984.
Simon Mignolet (left) is powerless to stop Jagielka's howitzer at Anfield on Saturday lunchtime . Everton players celebrate Jagielka's equalising goal, which rescued a point for the Toffees late on . Seasons, both individually and collectively, can be transformed in such dramatic moments and so high was the quality of the goal, Roberto Martinez labelled it the best he had seen at a live game. 'We pushed up a little bit and there was an opportunity about five minutes before when I elected to pass and I thought if one comes across again I'll swing one at it and thankfully the swinging worked,' Jagielka said modestly. 'It's been a frustrating season so far and to go one-nil down and to keep knocking at the door the way we did shows tremendous character. A point is decent, we'd have loved three. But we've got to make sure we keep the character strong because right now we're not picking up the right results.' Jagielka's performance, in front of England manager Roy Hodgson, may go some way to restoring his international place . Jagielka (right) admits he is no longer a starter in the England team, but his performance yesterday will have impressed Hodgson, sat observing in the Director's Box . Everton did not play well yesterday but, at the back, the combination of Jagielka and John Stones was solid and their respective performances would have been noted by England head coach Roy Hodgson, who was sat observing in the Directors' Box. Jagielka accepts he is no longer a first choice for England, given he was dropped for the recent games against Norway and Switzerland, but if he keeps playing in this manner, both club and country will feel the benefit. This has to be a catalyst for revival. 'We've performed ok but the results haven't shown it,' said Jagielka.
'So it's about the lads to come out and keep playing the way we are and keep having the courage to do the right things and hopefully they'll turn around.' He is proof of that. Jagielka (centre) heads for the degout as he celebrates with team-mates at Anfield .
By . Damien Gayle . Tragic: Kamaljit Sidhu leapt from a motorway bridge after her former partner put her through an ordeal of stalking and harassment, a court heard . The mother of a woman who leapt from a motorway bridge has condemned her daughter's stalking ex-lover for 'putting her through hell'. Ryan Dey, 23, refused to accept that Kamaljit Sidhu wanted to end their 18-month relationship and made threats towards her and her friends. He was arrested soon after Miss Sidhu jumped from a bridge over the M6 last autumn, and today he was jailed for two years after admitting stalking the 29-year-old. Passing sentence, a judge told how Dey had threatened to tell Miss Sidhu's family she had an abortion and that he had once beaten her up. Miss Sidhu's grieving mother Sarbjit Sidhu said 'evil' Dey put her daughter through an ordeal of 'control and abuse' in the weeks before she fell to her death. 'Does Ryan Dey really realise the damage he has inflicted on my beloved Kam, me and my family?' she asked in a statement released after the hearing today. 'We will never forget our baby Kam, I was unable to see her for the last time when she was put to rest and that has been difficult to deal with. 'Ryan Dey is evil, he is a bully and a coward and had put my daughter through hell with his control and abuse and will never be forgiven for what he has caused. 'As a mother and a family we want the world to know this can never be allowed to happen again, I do not want anyone else to go through what we have. Our lives have stopped and we can't breathe.'
She added: 'The police asked is there anything we can do, Mrs Sidhu, and my only answer to them was can you please give me my daughter back, we really miss her, her death has left a big hole in our lives.' Miss Sidhu, who was known to loved ones as Kammi, leapt to her death last October from a bridge over the M6 near to Great Barr in the West Midlands, where she lived with her family. In the weeks leading up to her death, Birmingham Crown Court heard, she had been hounded by Dey, a lorry driver from Oldbury, who had refused to accept that she had put an end to their relationship. He made threats towards her, contacted her friends and had searched various locations in Birmingham, where she worked, trying to find her. She went on to make comments on social media telling friends that she was afraid of Dey in the lead up to her death. 'He put my daughter through hell': Ryan Dey, left, was arrested soon after Miss Sidhu, right, jumped from a bridge over the M6 last autumn, and today he was jailed for two years after admitting stalking the 29-year-old . Judge Michael Chambers said: 'You had been in a relationship with Kam for the previous 18 months notwithstanding the other relationship you were in. 'You did not like her seeing or socialising with anybody else. You did not even like it when she was seeing friends in her own home. 'She sought to end the relationship but instead of accepting it you started persistently harassing her. 'It led her to becoming very frightened. You even hacked into her Facebook system and sent messages to her friends pretending to be her. 'She was living at home with her parents and you called their land line at all times of night and day. You repeatedly went to the address and waited outside.'
The court heard that on the night before Miss Sidhu's death, she had been out at a bar with friends following a job interview in Birmingham. But her 'demeanour changed dramatically' when she spotted Dey in the same bar with two men, leading her to drop down on all fours and hide from him. 'She continued the evening with her friends and she ended up on motorway bridge having been drinking,' the judge said. 'A message was written by her on a moisturiser bottle and said: "I loved you all. I just got weak. Sorry."' Afraid: The court heard that on the night before Miss Sidhu's death, she had been out with friends in Birmingham. When Dey arrived at the bar with two men she dropped down on all fours to hide from him . Miss Sidhu jumped to her death at 4.30am on October 25, hours after the incident in the bar. 'I'm satisfied that you did or said something to her that made her very frightened,' said Judge Chambers. 'Coupled with the background plus whatever had caused her to be so frightened of her significant factor which caused her to fall off that bridge. 'I'm satisfied she did take her life and you were a factor in that. 'What you did or communicate will never be known but from police interviews we know you threatened you would disclose to her family she had had an abortion and at least on one occasion you had beaten her up. 'She was a much loved and liked young woman with her life before her. Those close to her should understand any sentence does not reflect or measure the loss of a loved one.' Dey was arrested a month after Miss Sidhu's death and charged with harrassment and stalking.
Prosecutor Peter Grieves-Smith told the court that on the night she spotted him while out drinking in Birmingham she had already told her parents that he had been in touch with her and that if he called the house not to tell him where she was. Dey began calling the Sidhus repeatedly, leading them to disconnect their phone. 'They did not wish to speak to him,' the prosecutor said. 'But the effects of that meant when the victim tried to call her parents later that night she couldn't get through.' 'Much loved and liked': The court heard that Dey repeatedly hacked into Miss Sidhu's Facebook account, sending abusive messages to her friends . Friends who were out with Miss Sidhu that evening got the impression that she was on edge, said Mr Grieves-Smith. 'The effect of what he did by coming to the bar that night was that she was terrified. The victim continued to hide and eventually she returned looking distressed,' he said. 'That night she left the bar after she was satisfied he was gone and she was given a lift by a friend. It was not long after she was dropped off she fell from the motorway bridge. 'Something had occurred to make her manifestly scared. We might never know what that was.' The court heard Dey sent a string of threatening messages to Miss Sidhu on Facebook just hours before she died. Mr Grieves-Smith added: 'It was clear that one of the Facebook entries from the defendant at 1.30am that night said "I'm going to f*** you up". 'He repeatedly hacked into her Facebook account and could see who she was communicating with and what she was doing. 'A Facebook message on October 23 at 6.21am from the victim's account to a friend asked "What do you think about orgies and threesomes". 'The message had been sent from the defendant who had hacked into the account.
'The victim's friend told police the defendant had said "You stupid bitch I will tell your family all of the f***ed up shit you have done." 'He also took her mobile phone and the purpose of doing so was control. 'Bit by bit it as time proceeded it got worse and had led to the moment of the early hours of October 25 when she died.' Dey was sentenced to two years in prison at Birmingham Crown Court after avoiding a trial by admitting stalking and causing serious alarm or distress at a hearing last month. Following the sentencing today, detective chief inspector Kim Madill, from West Midlands Police Public Protection Unit, said: 'This has been a difficult, challenging and deeply upsetting case to investigate for all concerned. 'The investigation team has worked tirelessly to try and find some justice for Kamaljit and her family, following her tragic and untimely death. 'One can only imagine the fear and torment that Dey must have put her through to take such a course of action. 'Even though this conviction cannot bring Kamaljit back, hopefully the fact that Dey has admitted his crimes and is now facing a spell in prison will come as some comfort to her grieving family.'
Younes Tsouli, 31, was jailed for 16 years in 2007 for distributing bomb-making instructions and has used Human Rights Act to appeal against deportation . A jailed terrorist who wrote a letter from a British prison proclaiming jihadis as ‘heroes’ is trying to avoid deportation from the UK on human rights grounds. Internet jihadi Younes Tsouli, 31 – who was once described as Al Qaeda’s most influential cyber-terrorist – was jailed for 16 years in 2007 for distributing bomb-making instructions as well as beheading videos on the internet. Tsouli, who called himself ‘Terrorist007’, was posting the material for Al Qaeda in Iraq. His prison term came to an end last November, but he was re-arrested and detained ahead of his release as prison officials found a copy of an Al Qaeda magazine in his cell. A hearing at the Old Bailey last week cleared Tsouli of unlawfully possessing the material, and he was due to be deported immediately back to his native Morocco. But he has appealed against his deportation on human rights grounds, applying for asylum to the UK under Article 2 of the Human Rights Act, which states no one should be subjected to ‘torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment’. It is believed that Tsouli had been active in the global cyber-jihadi scene since he moved to the UK to study IT at a London college in 2001. The cyber-terrorist used to hack into respectable websites and use them as hosts for videos including the beheading of British hostage Ken Bigley and Americans Daniel Pearl and Nick Berg. Tsouli set up a website called YouBombIt which he described as a ‘platform just like YouTube to post videos of bombings of Coalition forces’ in Iraq and Afghanistan.
He has set up another called DeadZionists, and was in the process of setting up a third called Islamic Terrorism, when police raided his basement flat in Shepherd’s Bush in 2005. His websites and forums were being used by jihadis across the world to communicate. In July last year, the prison authorities intercepted a letter Tsouli had written to his father in Arabic, where he urged his family to join the jihad in Syria. In it he wrote: ‘This is a letter of advice to those members of my family who will learn their lesson and I hope that they are among those whom Allah has opened their hearts to what is good.’ Uncovered: Prison officials at Long Lartin prison in Worcestershire found the magazine inside Tsouli's cell . He quoted a saying of the Prophet Mohammed, which said: ‘Allah gives rewards to those who go out for jihad out of conviction and belief in Allah and his prophets. To those Allah will grant either victory or paradise.’ He also mentioned a recent religious ruling which was a ‘call to arms’ in Syria, adding: ‘Prepare for the war since its flames are rising.’ The letter was read out during last week’s hearing, where Tsouli was accused of possessing a copy of Inspire in his cell in September last year, two months after the letter was intercepted. The court heard the forensic tests done on the magazine had revealed that it passed around the prison, as fingerprints belonging to a number of terrorist inmates – including Abdullah Ahmed Ali, the leader of the gang that tried to blow up airliners over the Atlantic – were found on it. However, Tsouli was cleared as he argued the magazine formed part of legal material. He is being kept in detention while the Home Office fights his bid to stay. Tsouli was accused of possessing a copy of Al Qaeda magazine Inspire in his cell in September last year .
Jihadi John killed four US and UK hostages on camera under ISIS regime . A British jihadi who once hacked into the personal details of Tony Blair has tried to sell the identity of Jihadi John to The Mail on Sunday for £3,000. Junaid Hussain, 20, was jailed for six months in 2012 after publishing the former Prime Minister’s address and National Insurance number on the internet. In a series of online conversations, he told the MoS he would give us Jihadi John’s name and old Twitter details, with which we would be able to uncover his identity. Hussain, from Birmingham, said he needed the money to buy a car to move his family around IS stronghold Raqqa in Syria. He also claimed Jihadi John, pictured, who killed four US and UK hostages on camera, was of Arab origin, was born a Muslim and has been in Syria ‘for ages’. The Mail on Sunday refused to pay the money, and Scotland Yard has been informed.
Big brands are also using the hashtag to get noticed on May 4. Mark Hamill, who is reprising his role of Luke Skywalker, has posed with his children for a special Star Wars Day family portrait (above). And Darth Vader himself is joining in. Many global brands are using #MayThe4thBeWithYou to sell flight tickets, pizzas and camper vans. The British Museum is on the money for using an actual Star Wars exhibit to celebrate the big day. Former Dragons Den star Theo Paphitis has joined in the fun and attempted to plug his companies. Heathrow Airport is winning a lot of plaudits for its funny tweet featuring the Millennium Falcon and X-wing starfighters. We can't just ignore this cute tweet! Some charities are using the #MayThe4thBeWithYou hashtag to raise awareness for their respective charities. For some people, every day is Star Wars Day. Produced by Paul Harrison
Carnes, Mississippi (CNN) -- The deaths of two Mississippi teens are about to put a national focus on a little-recognized problem. Devon Byrd, 16, and Wade White, 18, were killed when a natural gas tank at a well production site exploded last fall in Carnes, in southern Mississippi. Local teenagers said the site is a popular hangout because it's quiet and secluded. But the dead teens' parents say the explosion could have been prevented if some warning signs had been posted -- "something simple as fences, gates and signs, probably very inexpensive, and certainly a lot less expensive that what a child's life is worth," said White's father, Phillip. Police say they don't know exactly what ignited flammable vapors inside the tank. When it exploded, the teenagers were killed instantly. Their bodies were found about 40 yards from the tank's base; the tank landed another 20 yards from them. Investigators say they found a lighter, but don't know whether it was involved. "I couldn't believe that my child was gone," White's mother, Wanda, told CNN. The White and Byrd families have an ally in their camp. The Chemical Safety Board, created by Congress, investigated the accident and found at least 40 other deaths involving oil and gas wells in the past 25 years. Most of them involved young people. The CSB says it found a patchwork of laws nationwide that don't uniformly address security around oil and gas wells. It's asking the industry to police itself by voluntarily installing fences and warning signs. "If these tanks are sitting out there in the middle of nowhere, no protection around them, no warning, they are just an accident waiting to happen," CSB Chairman John Bresland told CNN. Delphi Oil, the company that owns the tank that blew up, told CNN it could not discuss the accident because of pending negligence lawsuits filed by the families.
A spokesman called the boys' deaths tragic, but the company says it is complying with all rules. However, authorities tell CNN there are no state regulations requiring locked gates or no-smoking signs. "He may be in compliance," Forrest County Sheriff Billy McGee told CNN. "But there's nothing in the rules for him to be in compliance with." Carnes is about 40 miles north of the Gulf Coast. In nearby Laurel, city zoning laws require oil and gas tanks to be fenced in with warning signs, according to Emergency Management District Executive Director Terry Steed. The CSB asked family and friends of Byrd and White to help them make an educational video about the dangers of oil and gas production sites. It's called "No Place to Hang Out," and it's part of a national campaign starting this week to teach young people about the potential danger of tanks. But it also urges the industry to improve itself. "There's nothing we can do to bring Devon and Wade back, " said White's girlfriend, Maria Thompson, 16. "But if it can save someone else's life, I'd like to see it happen." "Like McDonalds," added another friend, Shawn Ashlee Davis. "They have to put 'Caution. This coffee's hot' (on their cups). I really think they need signs warning 'This is a dangerous place.' " Mississippi state Sen. Billy Hudson told CNN he plans to introduce a state law requiring barbed-wire-topped fences, locked gates and "Danger - Keep Out" signs. "There's no guarantees," Hudson said. "You could cut the fence with a bolt cutter, or you can shoot off a lock. But it'll be a deterrent, and it's a step in the right direction."
White's father says his son would be proud that friends and family are speaking out: "He'd be proud that we're trying to do something to keep other kids and other families from going through what we're going through."
A survey into the proposals for Union Terrace Gardens (UTG) was launched two weeks ago. LDA Design said the aim - including new access from surrounding streets - was to make UTG a "lively cultural hub". Aberdeen City Council said the survey showed 94% of people thought facilities would improve. It drew more than 1,400 responses, New access would be from Union Street and Union Terrace at the existing Burns Monument. The central lawn space would be retained, and there would be a new café pavilion opposite His Majesty's Theatre (HMT). Four years ago, councillors rejected plans for a £140m transformation of the gardens. Businessman Sir Ian Wood had offered £50m towards the cost.
Luis Suarez was also on target to take the combined tally for him, Messi and Neymar to 100 goals this season in all competitions. Messi scored his 20th and 21st league goals of the season as Barcelona took their unbeaten run to 36 games. Munir El Haddadi had opened the scoring early and Suarez got on the scoresheet in the closing stages. Barcelona took just eight minutes to take the lead as Messi's fine, aerial pass freed Suarez and his cross was tapped home by El Haddadi, who was deputising for the suspended Neymar. Eibar missed the chance to equalise when an unmarked Gonzalo Escalante volleyed wide from six yards out. The hosts were punished three minutes before half-time when Messi produced an excellent, low finish to double Barcelona's lead. They were awarded a penalty 15 minutes from full-time when Ivan Ramis was penalised for handling a Messi cross, and the Argentine sent the spot kick down the middle to make it 3-0. Suarez added the fourth when he beat defender Ander Capa and scored with a low shot with six minutes to play. Barcelona also managed their first clean sheet since early February as they closed out victory comfortably. Second-placed Atletico Madrid are eight points back after beating Valencia 3-1 in the evening game.
Relying on historical records and accounts from old timers, AL.com may have located the long-lost wreck of the Clotilda, the last slave ship to bring human cargo to the United States. What's left of the ship lies partially buried in mud alongside an island in the lower Mobile-Tensaw Delta, a few miles north of the city of Mobile. The hull is tipped to the port side, which appears almost completely buried in mud. The entire length of the starboard side, however, is almost fully exposed. The wreck, which is normally underwater, was exposed during extreme low tides brought on by the same weather system that brought the "Bomb Cyclone" to the Eastern Seaboard. Low tide around Mobile was about two and a half feet below normal thanks to north winds that blew for days. "I'm quaking with excitement. This would be a story of world historical significance, if this is the Clotilda," said John Sledge, a senior historian with Mobile Historical Commission, and author of The Mobile River, an exhaustive history of the river. "It's certainly in the right vicinity We always knew it should be right around there." This reporter, Ben Raines, used the abnormally low tides to search for the ship after researching possible locations. The remote spot where the ship was found, deep in the swampy Mobile-Tensaw Delta, is accessible only by boat. During my first trips after discovering the wreck, I documented it with photographs and aerials shot with a drone. Over the next week, I ferried a shipwright expert in the construction techniques used on old wooden vessels and a team of archaeologists from the University of West Florida to the site. All concluded that the wreck dated to the mid 1800s (the Clotilda was built in 1855), and featured construction techniques typical of Gulf Coast schooners used to haul lumber and other heavy cargo, as the Clotilda was designed to do.
The vessel also bore telltale signs of being burned, as the Clotilda reportedly was. In later years, the slavers bragged of burning the ship at the conclusion of their voyage in July of 1860 in an effort to hide proof of their human trafficking. Evidence of a fire on the wreck included a distinctive patina on wrought iron chain plates used to hold the masts and bowsprit in place, and charred beams and timbers in the ship's interior. "These ships were the 18-wheelers of their day. They were designed to haul a huge amount of cargo in relatively shallow water," said Winthrop Turner, a shipwright specializing in wooden vessels. "That's why you see the exceptional number of big iron drifts used to hold the planking together. That's also why the sides of the ship are so stout. They are almost two feet thick. The construction techniques here, no threaded bolts, iron drifts, butt jointed planking, these all confirm a ship built between 1850 and 1880." The team of University of West Florida archaeologists, led by Greg Cook and John Bratten, agreed. The men have made a career of exploring shipwrecks, including Spanish galleons sunk in Pensacola Bay in 1559 and slave ships sunk off the coast of Africa. They were contacted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration several years ago about searching for the Clotilda, but nothing ever came of the plan. After examining the aerials, images and historical documents I had assembled, the archaeologists visited the wreck on a chilly morning, temperatures just above freezing. Finding the Clotilda 44 Gallery: Finding the Clotilda "You can definitely say maybe, and maybe even a little bit stronger, because the location is right, the construction seems to be right, from the proper time period, it appears to be burnt. So I'd say very compelling, for sure," said Cook.
"There is nothing here to say this isn't the Clotilda, and several things that say it might be," Bratten concurred, adding that several bits of evidence assembled by AL.com make a strong case for further exploration. So far, the investigation is only visual, with no attempts made to dig up the hull or remove artifacts. Alabama laws governing ship wrecks carry stiff penalties, including the confiscation of boats and other equipment, for disturbing shipwrecks or military battlefields without permits. One of the key elements that suggests this may be the Clotilda comes from the location where it was found. The ship lies essentially where its captain, William Foster, said he burned and sank it in 1860. Even so, the archaeologists stressed, a conclusive determination can only be made by documenting any artifacts that remain in the hold, if such a determination can even be made. So far, the scientists have only examined the parts of the ship that can be seen above the mud that encases most of the hull. Turner, the shipwright, estimated that the bottom of the ship may be as deep as ten feet down in the mud, based on certain parts of the ship that are visible above the mud. Digging into the past will require both federal and state permits, and a lot of money. A crime and a mystery The Clotilda is the last ship known to have brought slaves into the country. The hunt for the ship has inspired numerous searchers over the years, but the Clotilda has long escaped discovery, until perhaps now. A small clarification for those familiar with the tale, the ship's name is the Clotilda, not the Clotilde. Newspaper accounts beginning in 1860 misspelled the name, and over the years it stuck. But the ship's license and the captain's journal make clear that Clotilda is correct.
A couple of details in the historical record may have helped keep the ship hidden for so long, mainly by sending would-be explorers looking in the wrong place, or leading them to disregard this wreck as a possible candidate. Those items will be discussed in greater detail below. From the start, the fate of the Clotilda was designed to remain a mystery, with the slavers attempting to destroy the ship after delivering 110 captives from "the Kingdom of Dahomey," which is modern day Benin, Africa, in 1860. Though slavery was still legal in the U.S. at the time, it had been illegal to import slaves into the country for 52 years, since Thomas Jefferson signed an 1808 law forbidding the practice. With the nation edging closer to civil war over the slavery issue, Alabama steamboat captain and plantation owner Timothy Meaher made an infamous bet that he could sneak slaves into the country, right under the noses of federal troops at the twin forts that guarded the mouth of Mobile Bay. Historian Sylvianne Diouf traced the evolution of the wicked scheme and the resulting journey in her excellent book, Dreams of Africa in Alabama, published in 2007. Attempts to contact Diouf were unsuccessful. The book primarily focuses on the story of the captives, who were freed just five years after they were enslaved, thanks to the end of the Civil War. The group, 110 strong, originally asked their captor, Meaher, to pay for passage back to Africa. After he refused, they appealed to the U.S. government, again to no avail. Ultimately, some members of the group bought a small piece of land north of Mobile from Meaher and created a community called Africatown, where some of the descendants of the original slaves still live. They spoke their native tongue, farmed using traditional African methods, and ran their own school.
Descendants of those brought to this country aboard the Clotilda are believed to be the only group of slave descendants who know precisely where their ancestors came from, when they arrived, and what vessel brought them here. Africatown was added to the national historic register in 2012. The last of those brought from Africa, Cudjo Lewis, died in 1935, but not before experiencing a small bit of celebrity. Diouf's book relies in part on interviews with Cudjo made before his death. Several -- but not all -- of the clues needed to find the ship were in the book. In the end, this ship was found where the Clotilda's captain, William Foster, stated that he set it on fire in his journal. Neither Foster or Meaher were ever convicted of the crime of slaving, though Meaher was arrested at one point for his role, and Foster was forced to pay a $1,000 fine for failing to register in port after an international trip. The disruption of the Civil War meant that the case against the men was abandoned. The Journey Thirty years later, Meaher was quoted extensively in a newspaper article in 1890 bragging about how they had smuggled their captives into the country. A state park on the edge of the Mobile-Tensaw Delta, about eight miles from where the ship was found, is named for Meaher's family, which donated the land and remains prominent in Mobile. In fact, I left from a boat ramp in Meaher State Park on my trips to find and explore the wreck of the ship the park's namesake may have sent to win his wretched bet. Meaher, the mastermind behind the scheme, was already a rich man, with a plantation and a steamboat that he captained up and down the Alabama River. He set out to bring slaves in for no reason other than to prove that he could do it.
He purchased the Clotilda, a two-masted schooner, for $35,000 and hired Captain William Foster to sail to Africa, purchase 100 slaves with about $9,000 in gold, and bring them back to Alabama. The ship's true mission was disguised by stops in Caribbean ports. The supplies needed to feed the captives on the return journey were carefully hidden beneath piles of lumber, to avoid discovery should the Clotilda be boarded by British, Dutch, or Portugese military vessels during the crossing. That lumber would later be used to build pens to house the captives. Foster's journal and insurance documents from the 1800s, maintained in the Mobile Public Library, provide a detailed account of the voyage beginning with a list of how many casks of rice, rum, molasses, beef, water, and other supplies were laid on to feed 110 captives on a return voyage. Written in the flowery language of the Victorian era, Foster's account has him "sallying forth" to meet with African slave traders. During the four-month journey, the Clotilda survived a collision with a Portuguese Man-O-War ship that had given chase, mutiny by the crew, and a storm that ripped a mast from the ship. The tale ends with the arrival back in Alabama waters, the tricks used to smuggle the prisoners past port officials in Mobile, and finally the burning of the ship after the captives were hidden in a swamp. Even as the men plotted the sinister voyage, they understood that the chances of discovery were high, and the price of being caught violating the federal slaving law could be death. They arranged to bring the ship to shore far from Mobile, at Point Aux Pins, a desolate stretch of shoreline along the Mississippi Sound.
Upon successful completion of the voyage, Foster was to send word to Meaher, who would dispatch a steam tug from Mobile to tow the large sailing ship upriver to offload the slaves at Meaher's plantation. But by the time the ship returned to Alabama, Meaher knew the scheme had been found out and worried federal officials might be lying in wait. The original plan had been for Foster to unload the slaves and then sail to Mexico, where the ship would be cleaned, and then disguised with new rigging, license papers and a new name. Instead, with the crew threatening another mutiny, Foster and Meaher agreed to burn the ship. It was, they decided, the only way to hide the telltale signs of human trafficking visible in the hold. Diouf, relying on historical accounts, imagines the scene this way, "He knew - and Meaher did too - that they might have been spotted, so they had decided to destroy the evidence, the telling signs of a slaving voyage: the partitions, the platforms, the empty casks of food and water, the big pots, the tubs, the blood, the vomit, the spit, the mucus, the urine, and the feces that soiled the planks, the awful smell that always floated around slave ships." Location, Location, Location One of the most definitive pieces of evidence that this wreck might be the Clotilda is its location, adjacent to the island where the captives were reportedly transferred to another boat. The details I used to pinpoint the wreck come from three men -- their lives separated by more than 100 years -- one of whom I interviewed. Russell Ladd has been travelling the Delta rivers since he was a boy. His family is one of Mobile's oldest, specializing in insurance for shippers. A large stadium in Mobile is named after Ladd's ancestors. Ladd still maintains the family's remote camp on Chuckfee Bay, accessible only by boat.
His grandfather, born in 1881, bought the land. The camp is located in the interior of the Delta, less than a mile from where the ship was found. I called Ladd in October to tell him I was hunting for the Clotilda and asked if he might have an idea where the wreck might be. "I think I do," Ladd said, before describing a fairly precise location to me. He described a spot I've been by many times, in an area where I often fish but have never noticed a wreck. When I asked why he thought it was there, he said, "Well, when I was a boy, we used to go up the Mobile River to fish various places. On low tide, we'd see this burned out ship and my father and his friends would say, 'There's the Clotilda.'" Ladd said the boat house where the family's boat was kept was on Bayou Sara, which flows into the Mobile River alongside 12 Mile Island, "so we traversed 12 Mile Island quite a bit. The whole delta was full of old gravel barges, wooden barges, that were in various states of deterioration. They used to just abandon those everywhere. But those were rectangular. I don't know of any other ships like this one, where it comes to a point. I always questioned Daddy about it." Ladd's father, born in 1907, and his grandfather, born in 1881, both fished and duck hunted in the Delta. While Ladd offered the location where the ship was found in our initial interview, he later said he was never sure if his father really knew or was just telling an inquisitive kid what he wanted to hear. At the dawn of the 20th century, the location of the wreck appeared to be an open secret locally, although records I've reviewed from others who hunted the ship reveal there were more than a half dozen wrecks people insisted were the Clotilda.
Photos of some of those wrecks from the early 1900s make clear they could not be the Clotilda for various reasons. And none of the wrecks in those records were located where this ship was found. (Similarly, none of the other wrecks are located where the captain said he burned the ship, as this wreck is.) In her book, Diouf writes "A man was posted near the burning vessel to make sure pieces of the wreckage did not float down the river, a definite sign that something shady had been going on. But it was a futile exercise because her hull remained visible at low tide for three quarters of a century." The survival of a significant portion of the hull is not unusual, as ships will only burn down to the waterline. Over time, the portion of the ship that had been visible on a normal low tide, particularly the ribs, surely rotted away, due to exposure to the elements. However, sections that remain continually underwater, or better still, buried beneath a layer of mud, could be expected to survive centuries, especially with the old growth longleaf pine used to construct the Clotilda and other ships built in Mobile in the 1800s. Ladd said it had been many years since he had been able to see the wreck. But Diouf's 75-year span where the burned husk was regularly visible dovetails nicely with Ladd's recollection of seeing the ship when he was a boy. The second part of the location evidence comes from the accounts of Capt. Foster and Timothy Meaher. In his journal, hand-written in a tight and slanted cursive, Foster describes towing the Clotilda into the Delta under cover of night by way of the Spanish River, so as to avoid detection in the port of Mobile. The Delta is a vast wetland, about 13 miles wide, and divided by dozens of rivers, creeks, bayous and islands.
Using Spanish River meant the Clotilda traveled up the east side of two islands, Pinto and Blakeley, and allowed Foster to bypass the downtown waterfront, which was already heavily populated in the 1850s. "I towed the Clotilda into Mobile Bay and up to 12 Mile Island and transferred the (captives) to a river steamboat the Czar and then I burned her and sunk her in 20 feet of water," reads Foster's testimony, suggesting he burned the ship next to 12 Mile Island, which is precisely where I found it. For his part, Meaher, in a newspaper interview 30 years later, added the detail that the ship was towed into "Bayou Connor" and burned. For several reasons, I don't think this was true, though I think Meaher might have believed it was. It's also possible this was another effort by Meaher to hide the location of the ship. The reference confused me at first because I didn't recognize the bayou's name. I earn part of my living as a nature guide, taking sightseers and fishermen into the Mobile-Tensaw Delta aboard my boat. I know the rivers and bayous well, but had never encountered a "Bayou Connor." It was only when I began searching through old maps that it made sense. There, on a map made in 1889, is Bayou Connor, branching off from Bayou Canot, just across from the tip of 12-Mile Island. Today, the whole area is known as Bayou Canot. The confluence of Bayou Canot and the Mobile River occurs directly above the northern tip of 12 Mile Island. The geography of the rivers coming together makes a big X on the map, with the apparent continuation of Bayou Canot wrapping around the east side of 12 Mile Island while the main channel of the Mobile River wraps around the west side.
It is possible that Meaher meant this lower section around 12 Mile Island, though technically, both sides of 12 Mile Island are considered to be the Mobile River, and Bayou Canot (then called Bayou Connor) meets its end at the confluence with the river just above the island, all things a steamboat captain such as Meaher would have known. I think a more likely scenario is that Meaher told Foster to move the ship off the main river into Bayou Canot and burn it, but then left aboard his brother's steamboat with all of the Clotilda's crew before the fire was lit. I suspect Foster, left behind with all the evidence of their crime, might have decided to burn the ship right then and there, in what was already a pretty secluded spot, rather than spend another hour taking the ship deeper into the swamp. The three primary documents for investigating this affair are Foster's 13-page description of the entire journey, the newspaper article about Meaher written 30 years later, and a handwritten document that may be the reporter's notes for the Meaher article. Those sources differ on the critical detail of where the ship was burned, though they agree that it was Foster who did the burning. We also know Meaher most likely wasn't around when the ship was burned thanks to his braggadocio in the 1890 newspaper article. There, he spins the story of how he crafted an alibi for his whereabouts during the days long affair of retrieving the Clotilda and transferring the slaves to his brother's steamboat. The breathless newspaper article begins by crediting Meaher's "desperate but successful undertaking" with creating the "only full-blood African colony in America," referring to Africatown, which had been established decades prior. The tale comes from "the venerable captain, from whose lips was learned the story of the importation of the last cargo of slaves in the South."
It describes Meaher's alibi plot this way: "His brother, the late Capt. Burns Meaher, who at that time commanded the steamboat the Czar, was instructed to fire up and proceed to the mouth of the Spanish River, which debouches into Mobile Bay about four or five miles east of this city, and there await the Clotilda's arrival. Capt. Meaher also issued orders that supper must not be served on the packet Roger B. Taney on her trip to Montgomery the following Tuesday night, until he boarded the boat at some point up the Alabama River." Meaher was the captain of the Roger B. Taney. He ordered the ship to leave Mobile without him for its weekly run upriver, planning to sneak aboard after the slave transfer had taken place, which he did. Getting back to the Taney quickly was key to making his alibi work. The newspaper article continues: "Under cover of night, Capt. Meaher and the Clotilda's crew were transferred to the Taney. The crew of the slaver were stowed away in an upper portion of the boat, locked in, and supplied with cards and whisky. It was 9:30 before supper was announced on the Taney that night, and when the captain took his seat at the head of the table his face wore a most nonchalant appearance, and gave forth not the slightest intimation that he had been engaged in other than the legitimate performance of his duties." Based apparently on the newspaper article and the handwritten notes mentioned above, a Mobile area man named Jack Friend spent thousands of dollars searching for the Clotilda in Bayou Canot in the late 1990s. Though Friend is now dead, I spent a day reviewing his extensive collection of papers related to the Clotilda and other shipwrecks in the History Museum of Mobile with historian John Sledge.
Employing a salvage company, side scan sonar, magnetometers, and divers, the team searched the length of Bayou Canot and came up empty. They did not, however, search the area where I found this wreck, though it was just a mile downstream from the area they did search. This same area was left off of an extensive study of Mobile Bay ship wrecks conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1983. That study included the lower Delta, but stopped about four miles south of the area where the wreck I found lies. Combining it all together, we have Ladd's reminiscence, which led me to the wreck of a large burned ship from the mid-1800s. That wreck, in turn, is located next to the island where Foster recounts unloading the slaves and scuttling the ship, and across the river from the bayou where Meaher says the ship was torched. "Even if the ship was actually burned in Bayou Canot, it wouldn't surprise me that her rope had parted during the fire and she drifted out into the main channel and washed up where you found it," said Sledge, the Mobile historian. "It is not very far, and it is downstream." Ship length While there are no pictures of the Clotilda, we do have measurements for its length and width. The ship was listed as 86 feet long, with a beam (or width) of 23 feet. With the keel line visible in the mud around the wreck, we were able to get a good measurement of the beam of the ship. It fit perfectly, at 23 feet and identical to the beam of the Clotilda. But the length was dramatically different. In fact, in my initial visit, I measured the wreck at 124 feet, including a section of the stern visible in the water.
I suspect this measurement may have encouraged other people hunting for the Clotilda to disregard this wreck as a possible suspect if they encountered it. Initially, it dissuaded me, as it appeared far too long to be the Clotilda. But as I sat on the bow of the ship staring toward the stern, I couldn't imagine how a vessel any smaller could have carried 110 captives and a crew of 14, plus supplies, on a four-month journey across the Atlantic Ocean. A schooner-style vessel that was 40 feet shorter than the wreck I was looking at simply would have been too small. So, I began researching how ships were measured in the 1800s. As it turns out, there were three critical measurements for sailing ships. There is the overall length, which is the first thing most people think of today when talking about the size of a boat. But the overall length is actually irrelevant when calculating how much cargo a given ship could hold, as only the portion of the ship sitting in the water supports the weight of the cargo. For old sailing ships, there were often two other measurements given: The length along the waterline, and something called "the Length Between Perpendiculars." These latter two measurements are designed to account for the fact that old sailing ships often had raked bows and sterns, meaning the ends of the vessel were slanted, with a portion of the front and back of the ship hanging over the water. These numbers were the most important to shippers in the 1800s, not the overall length. The Length Between Perpendiculars, was a measurement from the front edge of the rudder forward to the base of the ship's stem in the bow. This measurement, as opposed to the overall length, gave people in the shipping industry a good estimate of how much cargo a given vessel could carry.
Armed with that knowledge, I began looking up the "Length Between Perpendiculars" for various two-masted schooners from the mid 1800s. I found numerous examples of vessels with a Length Between Perpendiculars - or sometimes a waterline measurement - of 80 to 90 feet, and an overall length of 120 to 140 feet. Perhaps the most famous example would be the reconstruction of the slave ship Amistad, subject of a movie about slaves taking over a ship starring Morgan Freeman. The Amistad was 23 feet wide, exactly the beam of the Clotilda. The Amistad's overall length was 129 feet, while it's waterline measurement was 78 feet. These numbers match quite closely with the Clotilda, if we assume the 86-foot length was actually a waterline or Length Between Perpendiculars measurement. I found records for about a dozen schooners with measurements closely matching the Amistad and the Clotilda. Next steps "With the evidence in the stem, we can get an idea of preservation. With those chain plates, we can get some indication of mast placement. It appears to be a schooner," said Cook, the archaeologist. "If it turns out to be the last slaver, it is going to be a very powerful site for many reasons. The structure of the vessel itself is not as important as its history, and the impact it is going to have on many, many people." Cook said the first step is to gather input from the Alabama Historical Commission, state officials, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Then, he said, preliminary excavations and other tests by archaeological teams would be appropriate. Ultimately, the goal would be to identify the wreck, and then perhaps put the contents on display. My friend, outdoors writer Jeff Dute, first suggested we look for the ship, knowing many others had tried.
He visited the wreck with me the day Turner, the shipwright, explored it. Dute said that once he had seen the ship, his overall feeling was a profound sadness. "Just imagine what this trip meant for those people. Ripped from their homes, their country, then months in the hold of this ship, right here," Dute said. "That last voyage of the Clotilda is a horrible thing to contemplate. I just keep imagining, crossing the ocean, then getting dumped out here in this swamp while the ship that brought you here went up in a giant conflagration. How terrified they must have been." For my part, I think finding the Clotilda would be a fitting capstone for both Mobile's slaving history and the war that finally ended the practice. Mobile was a big port, even in the 1800s, with a big slave trade. A historical marker on a downtown street marks the site of the old slave market. And just a few miles away, on the east side of the Mobile-Tensaw Delta, lies the site of the Battle of Blakeley, the last battle of the Civil War, fought five years after the Clotilda was burned. It is easy, standing in the wintertime gloom of these Alabama swamps, to imagine that old ghosts haunt these bayous. Maybe this could help put some of them to rest. "I can't help but think this would be a stunning find. Mauvila and the Clotilda are the crown jewels of Alabama archaeology. In maritime history, this is major. This is an internationally significant discovery, if it is the Clotilda," said Sledge, the Mobile historian. "My main concerns are protecting the wreck from people picking over it. The fact that it is already exposed like that clearly shows it is getting a lot of wear and tear. And, of course, proving that it is actually the right ship.
If it is, it will be a beautiful thing to behold. This whole thing is pretty, pretty amazing." Ben Raines specializes in investigations and natural wonders. You can follow him or book tours with him via Facebook, Twitter at BenHRaines, and on Instagram. You can reach him via email at braines@al.com. You can watch Ben's most recent documentary, The Underwater Forest, here on Youtube. "We know exactly who was on it. The names of all the slaves that were on it, the captives who were on it, were all recorded," Raines said in an interview Tuesday after publishing news of his possible discovery at AL.com. "It is the only group of people brought into the country through slavery where we know exactly where they were brought in, where they were taken from in Africa, and where they ended up in the United States."
Washington (CNN) -- The Supreme Court offered its tentative endorsement of so-called "organizing agreements" between unions and for-profit companies, with some justices saying on Wednesday the longstanding practice can encourage good labor relations. At issue is whether the particulars of such an agreement between Unite Here Local 355 and the Mardi Gras casino in Florida violates a federal law that prohibits companies from giving labor unions-- seeking to represent workers-- anything "of value." Worker rights experts and business groups have called this one of the most significant labor relations cases in decades, and a high court ruling could have major implications for the future of the union movement in the United States. The gaming union entered into a "neutrality" agreement with the company, agreeing to work together to pass a ballot initiative legalizing slot machines in Dade and Broward Counties, a deal that ostensibly would benefit both sides. Unite Here independently spent more than $100,000 in an ad campaign supporting the measure. It also agreed not to strike or boycott. The casino in return allowed union members onto the premises, gave them employee contact information, and agreed to remain neutral in the organizing campaign. The high court debated in oral arguments whether this particular agreement violated the letter and spirit of the broader law, designed to prevent bribery, corruption and extortion in negotiations and organizing. A lower federal appeals court said "if the $100,000 bought the peaceful recognition provisions, then that's corrupt, and that is outside the exemptions that the law provides," said Justice Sonia Sotomayor. "Tell me how I deal with that niggling problem I have about the $100,000, because it does feel like a bribe to the employer." But Justice Elena Kagan said, "I would have thought that the premise and the policies of the labor laws are to encourage a wide variety of employer/employee agreements," she said.
"The idea is to get these parties together to reach agreements on a wide variety of things that matter to them, regardless whether the labor law specifically refers to that." The lawsuit was brought by Martin Mulhall, an employee of Hollywood Greyhound Track Inc., who opposed the union's efforts to get him to join. Backed by the National Right to Work Foundation, his lawyers said "backroom deals" between company and union management undercut his right of association and free choice. Section 302 of the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 makes it a crime for an employer to "pay, lend or deliver any money or other thing of value" to a union that wants to represent its workforce. "That's the danger that 302 exists to take care of, not that it's necessarily wrongful per se for a union to have lists of (employee) information or the use of property, but what will it do in return?" attorney William Messenger told the high court in an intense hour of oral augments. "And unions have compromised employee interests in exchange for this type of assistance. They certainly have extorted employers." Several justices suggested the casino and the union were engaged in a quid pro quo, but were not sure that amounted to an exchange of something of "value." "I mean, the union wouldn't promise that for nothing," said Justice Antonin Scalia. "It would get something in exchange such as, in this case, the right to go on the employer's property to recruit union members or some other thing of value from the employer, right?" But Richard McCracken, Unite Here's lawyer, said this neutrality agreement and the $1000,000 ad campaign were like so many others, including the pending deal to build a massive oil pipeline through the middle section of the United States. "The union, like so many construction unions that we know, is advocating in Congress for the passage of laws like the Keystone Pipeline Law. Why did they do that?
They do it because they want the jobs," he said. "That is a combination of interests funneled through the First Amendment's protection for mutual effort." Justice Anthony Kennedy seemed to agree, telling Messenger that his client's views run "contrary to years of settled practices and understandings." Unite Here represents about 265,000 active members in the United States and Canada, mainly in the hospitality, food service and manufacturing industries. The case is Unite Here Local 355 v. Mulhall (12-99). A ruling is expected by the spring.
The 29-year-old former Marseille centre-back will join Ivory Coast's Gervinho at the Chinese club, after he signed from AS Roma on Wednesday. "Looking forward to 'absolute beast defender' Mbia fully showing his strength," the club said on twitter. Mbia wrote on his Twitter page: "Proud to join Hebei China Fortune, ready for this adventure. Let's go."
By . Harriet Arkell . Passport: American-born Randall Cole, 44, says he had to answer 'clearly homophobic' questions when he attended a routine interview to get a British passport . A passport official has been suspended pending a disciplinary investigation after a gay man complained he was interrogated about his personal life in front of his four-year-old son during a routine passport interview. Randall Cole, 44, says he was grilled for half an hour by a Home Office employee in Chelmsford, Essex, about whether he had ever had sex with a woman, why his son's biological mother had given him up, and what passers-by thought when they walked past him and his husband with their two adopted sons. The American-born charity worker, who is married to a Brit and became a British citizen in May, said that when he objected to her questioning in front of his small child, the woman said: 'We can ask anything we want'. Mr Cole has filed a formal complaint to the Home Office, and the employee is currently suspended while an investigation is held into the matter. He said he was shaking after the interview, which was conducted in the middle of an open-plan office and left him feeling violated. The father of two adopted sons said that the atmosphere in the 'clearly homophobic' interview changed when he explained that he had two adopted children with his husband, Stuart Wales, 42, and the passport official realised he was gay. Despite him being accompanied by his son Samuel, four, Mr Cole said he was asked whether the children were biologically theirs, what Samuel and his brother Benjamin, eight, thought of their birth mother, and whether they were confused by their family set-up. Mr Cole said that he explained that even if the boys' birth mother were there too, if one of them fell over, he would run to him rather than her, but says the Home Office employee merely sighed and shook her head.
He told the Guardian: 'Then she said: "What do you think people make of you when they see you walking down the street with your kids?"' And he said she went on to quiz him about whether the boys called their biological mother 'Mum', forcing him to explain to his small boy about him coming out of his mother's 'tummy' but him and his husband being their parents. Mr Cole said the line of questioning in front of his son left him upset that he had 'failed to keep him safe'. He said that when he said he worked part-time, the woman dismissed him as playing the 'housewife' role in the couple, and then her questioning became even more personal. 'She said: "You must have had relationships with women in the past, though?"' He said at this point he objected, but she was having none of it. 'She became indignant and said: "We can ask anything we want, regardless of whether or not it makes you feel uncomfortable,"' he said. Chelmsford: Mr Cole has submitted a written complaint to the Home Office after his interview in the Essex town . Mr Cole, who married human resources manager Mr Wales in California but moved to Britain because of its reputation for tolerance, said the woman was clearly trying to humiliate him and put him in his place. He said she told him that he could refuse to answer questions but that his refusal would be noted in his application, and that she continued to press for answers on the point of whether he or his husband had ever been sexually active with women. The Home Office website says that during the interview for a first British adult passport: 'You'll be asked to confirm facts about yourself that someone trying to steal your identity may not know'. Passport interviews are routinely recorded.
This morning a Home Office spokesman said: 'People applying for their first British passport are required to attend an interview designed to detect and deter those trying to obtain passports fraudulently. Passport Office: The female employee has been suspended pending a disciplinary investigation (file image) 'Intrusive questions about someone's sexuality as part of an interview would be inappropriate and is not a reflection of our policy. 'HM Passport Office expects the highest standards of professionalism and integrity from our staff and takes allegations of misconduct extremely seriously. 'The member of staff in question has been suspended and a disciplinary investigation is now underway.' Human rights campaigner Peter Tatchell told MailOnline: 'It's truly shocking in this day and age that a Home Office official can behave in this intrusive and bigoted way. 'I'm delighted that the official has been suspended. No-one applying for a passport should be subjected to such humiliation for any reason. 'It shows that the Home Office needs to do more to train its staff to be sensitive and non-homophobic.'
(CNN) -- The government shutdown is in its second week, and the public debate in the United States is centered around how the crisis will be resolved and who is to blame. What do the polls say? What are the implications for the Republican Party, for House Speaker John Boehner and President Barack Obama? Not many are talking about the international implications. But they could be significant. Many in the international community have argued the U.S. government is dysfunctional or even broken. Friends are questioning whether America can be relied on or whether partisan politics will prevent it from acting when called upon. And with this comes some fear. America's adversaries may come to believe that they can act without consequence -- that America will, in the end, trip over itself. These perceptions are extremely dangerous, both for the United States and the rest of the world. They will limit American deterrence and weaken America's partnerships as friends and allies start to wonder whether the United States has their back. America has long been critiqued internationally both for doing too much and too little. In a study Chatham House is conducting on elite perceptions of the United States, many in Europe cast aspersions on the United States for its actions in Iraq and Afghanistan (wars into which the U.S. pulled others) or its use of drones. They also condemn America's perceived lack of leadership in Syria. They want Washington to act but cannot agree how. It is a no-win situation for America. One thing they are clear on: Europeans (and others, particularly in Asia) want a strong United States. One that provides moral leadership and enforces global norms. One that can be called upon to act, particularly in tough situations. Instead, events in recent weeks have only reinforced the international perception that America is in decline. The "declinist" debate has been raging for years, driven in large part by America's diminishing percentage of global gross domestic product (as against China's rise in particular).
However, with the recent economic recovery, such views were wavering, and the strength of U.S. innovation, entrepreneurship and technology, coming on top of the energy revolution, were persuading some that the United States was once again on the rise. In recent weeks however, these arguments have been overcome by the pictures of gridlock and weakness in Washington. First it was the story that Obama was "saved" by Russian President Vladimir Putin from an embarrassing loss in a congressional vote to attack Syria over its suspected use of chemical weapons. Then came the shutdown. And, for those in the private sector in particular, a developing fear that, come October 17, when the United States needs to raise its debt ceiling, it will instead drive itself and the world's economy off a cliff. The idea of America as a secure, stable, predictable state, where investment cannot fail to be reimbursed, would suffer a significant blow. Holders of Treasury bonds would no longer be assured of their returns. Chinese efforts to weaken the position of the dollar as the only reserve currency would get a boost. Investors would no longer have the gold-standard U.S. guarantee. But while perceptions are extremely important, they are not reality. As Sunday's anti-terrorist operations in Somalia and Libya show, America will act when it wants to. While the U.S. Treasury bond may seem less secure, it is still far stronger and better guaranteed than that of any other large economy. A nation moves when its interests, capabilities and will are engaged. America's interests have not changed. Its capabilities are still vastly superior to those of most other nations. The only question is America's will. Many internationally will continue to question U.S. power and influence. Its adversaries will surely continue to test these. America's allies and friends will be made nervous over its perceived decline.
But while the Washington gridlock and partisan politics make action tougher and more costly -- make it harder for America to rally friends and share burdens, and to deter and dissuade opponents -- it would nevertheless be dangerous to underestimate the United States. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Xenia Dormandy.
This past week in Johannesburg there was a funeral I wished I had been able to attend. Ahmed Kathrada, well-known African National Congress (ANC) activist and South African statesman, was laid to rest. The well-deserved tributes to the man, affectionately known as Kathy, who died at the age of 87 have been delivered. It was not the politics surrounding the funeral, with President Jacob Zuma being asked to stay away, that was the main attraction for me, even though I must confess I would not have minded being there to hear some of the speeches. I would simply have liked to be there to be part of an event that would mark the closure for a journey that started for me on 15 October 1989 in the Soweto township. I was on my first reporting trip to South Africa for the BBC and, after having been denied a visa for more than two years, I was finally granted one after the intervention of the redoubtable anti-apartheid activist Helen Suzman. As things turned out, it was the perfect time to have arrived in the country. Elizabeth Ohene: "I remember Ahmed Kathrada telling me he was trying to get used to being seen as an old man when throughout his political activist days and in prison, he was always 'the young man'." A week after I got there, it happened. The long-expected opening of the prisons to let out the leaders of the liberation movements started without any warning. That was the day, no, the night that Ahmed Kathrada and some of his colleagues were released from jail after 26 years. I was in Walter Sisulu's home in Soweto when he was brought home in the middle of the night.
Andrew Mlangeni, Elias Motsoaledi and Raymond Mhlaba jailed after the infamous Rivonia trials were also released along with Wilton Mkwayi, one of the leaders of the ANC's armed wing, Oscar Mpetha, the veteran ANC and South African Communist Party leader in the Cape, and Japhta Masemola, a Pan Africanist Congress leader. Their release was greeted with scenes of wild celebration around the country. Over the next fortnight, I met and interviewed almost all of them in their homes and thus started my intense relationship with South African politics. I had no choice, of course, but to follow the journeys of those men from then on. I remember I had this eerie feeling that they, having survived so many years of prison under difficult conditions, might not last very long in the outside world in South Africa. In my interview with Raymond Mhlaba, he talked about the difficulties of adjusting to the changed country he and his fellow inmates had been released into. He made a joke about how ironic it would be if he should survive Robben Island all those years only to be killed trying to cross the road in Port Elizabeth. Twenty-six years earlier, at the time he went into jail, there were very few cars on the roads he told me. Jafta Masemola was the first to die in a traffic accident a few months after gaining his freedom. I watched the funeral of Walter Sisulu on television from Accra and I was relieved he had survived to a grand old age. I remember Ahmed Kathrada telling me he was trying to get used to being seen as an old man when throughout his political activist days and in prison, he was always "the young man". When the news of his death was announced last week, I had a fleeting idea of going to his funeral but then as he was a Muslim, it was not likely I could make it to South Africa before he would be buried.
Then I thought to myself that even as a Muslim, if he were a Ghanaian, we would have found a way to keep his body in the morgue for a few days at least before burial. That would have provided the opportunity for old quarrels to be settled and fresh ones to erupt. There would have been time for some people to go to court to insist that President Zuma be allowed to attend the funeral. We would have had time to order a special cloth for the funeral and some enterprising folks would have ordered special t-shirts from China. But before I could get my head around the possibility that this one of the last of those men who were released on 15 October 1989, the funeral was over. I wonder if South Africa today was the one we all dreamed of in those heady days when the impossible happened and Ahmed Kathrada and his friends came home. I feel privileged to have been part of it. More from Elizabeth Ohene: Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa, on Instagram at bbcafrica or email africalive@bbc.co.uk
Prisoners are smoking e-cigarettes as part of a move which could lead to a ban on smoking in jails. E-cigarettes are now being sold in three prisons across the UK as part of a pilot to test whether the alternative could be used instead of cigarettes, BBC news reported. Last year, the prison service said it was committed to banning cigarettes across jails in England and Wales. Prisoners are smoking e-cigarettes as part of a move which could lead to a ban on smoking in jails . An e-cigarette brand is available in shops in women’s prison Eastwood Park in Gloucestershire, as well as men’s prisons Preston Prison in Lancashire and Stocken in Rutland. It was reported that 50 were sold across both male prisons in one week. The move comes after a Guernsey prison banned tobacco last year. The anti-cigarette policy was introduced at Les Nicolles prison following success on the Isle of Man. At Les Nicolles, prisoners now use e-cigarettes instead of traditional tobacco products. Guernsey Prison governor Dave Matthews said last year that the smoking ban at the jail had ‘gone very well’. He said: ‘We have removed tobacco but also provided prisoners with some assistance to try and give up their nicotine habit through the form of patches and the use of Quitline.’ Prisons across Britain currently allow inmates to smoke in their cells but not in communal parts of the jail or in exercise yards (file photo) Prisons across Britain currently allow inmates to smoke in their cells but not in communal parts of the jail or in exercise yards. Of the total prison population, a staggering 80 per cent of inmates smoke. The Prison Officers’ Association has been campaigning for a ban on smoking in all UK prisons since 2007. The POA said they were concerned that staff would be ‘forced to suffer the harmful effects of second-hand smoke’.
E-cigarettes have soared in popularity in the UK but any long-term impact on health remains unknown. Critics of the devices fear using them in public could ‘re-normalise’ smoking. An independent review recently found that almost one in 10 smokers had been able to quit thanks to cigarette replacements. A Prison Service spokesman told the BBC: ‘We are looking into whether disposable e-cigarettes are suitable for use in prisons and are currently conducting a trial in three prisons.’ A spokesman for the Prison Governors Association said ‘anything that could protect not only staff but other prisoners and visitors from second-hand smoke inhalation is obviously welcomed. ‘We will be watching this trial with interest to see just how successful it is.’
A schoolboy has been told he must stay in isolation until his 'extreme' haircut grows out, which could take months. Liam Pegg, 12, was separated from his classmates after staff ruled his 'mowhawk' style did not fit with uniform policies - despite having the cut for a year. The Year 8 pupil now has to stay in isolation and will not be allowed to go out and socialise with other students, even at break times, until his hair grows out - which could be months. But Liam's father Tim claims the youngster has had the hair cut for more than a year - and it is only now that teachers have chosen to take exception. Liam Pegg (pictured) 12, was separated from his classmates after staff ruled his 'mowhawk' style did not fit with uniform policies . Tim, a 30-year-old carpenter, said: 'His haircut is a mix of a mullet and a mohawk. He spikes up the top, but leaves the back flat for school. 'He has had this haircut for well over a year and no-one has had a problem with it before, so I don't understand why it has been raised as an issue now. 'It's hardly an extreme hairstyle. I would understand if he had dyed it bright pink and had it spiked up all over the place, but it isn't.' Liam arrived at Nailsea School, in North Somerset, on Monday to be told he was no longer allowed to attend lessons with his friends and must report to isolation. Staff at Nailsea School (pictured) ruled he would have to stay in isolation until it grows back which could take months . The school, which became an academy in September 2012 and has around 1,100 students on its roll, has been criticised for its strict dress code before . The punishment involves students being taught in a room on their own, where they are set work and supervised by a member of staff.
They are not allowed to go out and socialise with other students even at break time. The case is similar to that of Anthony Mousiou who was told he must study in isolation by Samuel Ryder Academy after his short-back-and-sides was just 4.5 millimetres too short and breached their uniform policy. Liam's parents, Tim and Claire, were informed their son had been placed in the special measure indefinitely when he arrived home from school. They say Liam has had the same hairstyle since he started at the school in September 2013. Mr Pegg added: 'We only found out that he had been placed in isolation when Liam came home and told us. We had no contact from the school. Liam's father Tim claims the youngster has had the hair cut for more than a year - and it is only now that teachers have chosen to take exception . 'He has been in isolation all day, every day, since Monday. He is not in the classes he should be, socialising with other students nor taking any exercise. 'Surely this is against his human rights. When we went up to the school to discuss it we were told he would have to stay in isolation until his hair grows back. 'The headteacher said that in his opinion Liam's hair cut was inappropriate and extreme. There is no legislation relating to pupils' uniform or appearance, which is left up to school's governing bodies to decide. But schools often impose bans on 'extreme' haircuts or colours as part of their broader uniform policy. The Department of Education does advise that pupils who don't comply to uniform rules can be disciplined in accordance with the school’s published behaviour policy. A head teacher may ask a pupil to go home briefly to remedy the breach. But if the student takes longer than is strictly necessary to effect the change, then the pupil’s parents must be notified and the absence should be recorded.
If a school is considering excluding a pupil in response to breaches of uniform policy then this must be in line with the legal requirements for exclusion. 'If he has to wait until his hair grows back, he could be in isolation for months. This is outrageous and is effecting his education.' The school, which became an academy in September 2012 and has around 1,100 students on its roll, has been criticised for its strict dress code before. A number of years ago it hit the headlines after it banned female students from wearing skirts after problems with ones that were too short. Head teacher Chris Wade said: 'The governors and staff at Nailsea School are united in setting high standards as we firmly believe our role is not just to enable students to pass exams, but to prepare them for life as an adult in their future work. 'It is also important to instill in students an awareness of rules so that they can be functioning members of society. I do not apologise for having these high expectations and for reserving the right to take action when our standards are not met. 'On this occasion it appears the parents disagree with the school about what is seen as acceptable but I remain open to discussing this in person with them. 'Ultimately if parents are not convinced that the rules we adhere to are of benefit to them or their children they may choose to attend another school.' When students join Nailsea School, parents sign a home/school agreement in which they promise to ensure the children follow the rules. The school's uniform policy says: 'If students arrive inappropriately dressed for school, they will in the first instance, be spoken to by their teachers and, if necessary, by their head of house. 'We reserve the right to send home any student whose clothing, hairstyle or personal appearance is inappropriate for school.'
When the Nugents realized their home was contaminated, they said they filed an insurance claim with Indiana Farm Bureau Insurance. Their claim was denied, they said, because of an exclusion for environmental pollution. The company declined to comment on the Nugents’ policy or claim, citing client privacy. The Nugents have now filed suit against Joshua Argue, his ex-wife Jelisa Argue, his real estate agent Lori Argue, who is also his mother, and her company, Carpenter Realtors. The Nugents are claiming breach of contract and fraud. On the sellers’ disclosure statement, the "no" box is checked next to the question: “Have there been or are there any hazardous conditions on the property?” “They knew that at the time we were bringing in an 8-month-old and two little girls, and sat there and just lied,” Chris Nugent said. America Tonight was unable to reach any of the Argues, but Carpenter Realtors President David Caveness gave this statement: “The agent was aware her son had a substance-abuse problem. Our agent has assured us she had absolutely no prior knowledge of her son's alleged manufacture of meth within the subject property. As she has stated to us, if she had known meth was being manufactured in the property, she would never have allowed her grandchildren to live in that home.” State Police arrested Joshua Argue in February for an alleged role in a stolen car parts ring. Held of Crisis Cleaning and Crawford of the Indiana State Police both recommend testing for meth before buying a home. Held said once the decontamination is complete at the Nugents’ house and the walls primed with a special sealer and painted, the family will have nothing to worry about. The Nugents say they’re not sure if they’ll ever have peace of mind in the home.
Most of all, the Nugents say they’re hoping to avoid bankruptcy so they can put the ordeal behind them. “I want my life back," Jenny Nugent said. "I want my kids’ life back.” Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. When Chris and Jenny Nugent bought their dream home in Indiana, they made sure to get the house inspected for mold and damaged pipes. But they never imagined they would also need to have the house tested for meth contamination. The Nugents said they used their life savings to take out a mortgage on the $144,000 cheery-looking home nestled on an acre of land in the quiet suburbs, enough room for them, their two young daughters and infant son. But after they moved in, they said everyone in the house started feeling ill. “They were sick every week,” Jenny Nugent said. “They would wake up. Throw up. Have digestive issues and then by noon, 1 o’clock start to feel better.” ABC News The Nugents said their daughters were missing school, the baby wasn't sleeping through the night, and even the family dog became ill and had to be put down. Jenny Nugent also said she noticed strange metallic smells around the house, especially in the kitchen. “It smelled like a handful of change,” she said. Jenny Nugent said a neighbor finally cracked the mystery, telling her she suspected the previous owner had cooked meth in the house. Nugent immediately got her home tested -- a simple procedure that costs $50. “I am so grateful that we were fortunate enough to have really good neighbors," she said.
"If it were not for them, we may have not known until one of our kids ended up in the hospital.” After two tests, the results were horrifying. The Nugents said the downstairs floor had methamphetamine levels nearly 18 times higher than what’s considered legally safe, including the room where baby Mason had been sleeping for 10 months. The family immediately moved out and eventually ending up in an apartment, but they said they felt forced to throw away most of their belongings for fear of contamination. “Those test results came back, I remember that night we just pulled up in the driveway and were like, ‘we’re never going back in there other than to get our clothes,’ and we haven’t,” Chris Nugent said. For Jenny, returning to the house is painful. She says she feels like she can’t even go inside without wearing protective gear. “It feels like a death happened, to be honest,” she said. “That’s how it feels to my husband and I.” When methamphetamine is smoked or cooked inside a home, invisible molecules of the drug sink into the carpet, walls and everywhere else, experts said. The meth residue is then inhaled or ingested, even absorbed through the skin. Exposure can cause symptoms like headaches, nausea and vomiting, according to the National Institute of Health. To be able to re-sell the house and recoup their savings, the Nugents had to hire a professional cleaning team, Crisis Cleaning, who handle meth decontamination, something most home insurance doesn't cover. “That’s something that’s happening even more than what I've ever seen before since I started doing this the last five years,” said Crisis Cleaning’s Donetta Held.
To decontaminate the Nugents house, the Crisis Cleaners cut out all the carpets, gave the house a professional vacuuming and then gassed it with a mix of potent chemicals that the cleaners say neutralize the meth particles. One pass-through is often not enough, sometimes they must de-contaminate a room several times. All in, the cost to clean the Nugents' home is expected to be about $10,000. Crisis Cleaning says they offered to clean the Nugents' home pro-bono. While this is a frightening scenario, the Nugents are not alone. Indiana was ranked number one in the nation in meth lab seizures last year, beating out Tennessee and Missouri, according to statistics that the Missouri State Highway Patrol complied from the U.S. Department of Justice’s National Clandestine Laboratory Seizure Report. Indiana State Police’s Meth Suppression Section said they conduct as many as four meth busts a day across the state. “It’s an ongoing battle,” said Trooper Nate Raney. “Everything that we do is to try to stay one step ahead of them.” To combat the meth house problem, the Indiana state police created an online registry that lists thousands of homes where meth or meth labs have been found, although they estimate that for every meth house they locate, two more are undiscovered. “We really don’t know how many meth labs are out there,” said Meth Suppression Section Commander Niki Crawford. “The problem is, when you find one that’s been thrown in a ditch somewhere, that meth lab was somewhere. Was it in a car? Was it in a hotel room? Was it in an apartment? Was it in a house?
We don’t know.” The best way to prevent a nightmare like the Nugent family's is to have a simple home meth test done on the house before you sign. “Just do the meth test,” Jenny Nugent said. “It’s $50. It will give you peace of mind. That’s the best recommendation I could make to anybody.” The Nugents are now suing the real estate agent, the real estate company, Carpenter Realtors, and the former owners of the house for breach of contract, claiming the agent who sold them the house, Lori Argue, knew meth was being used on the premises because the former owner is her son, Joshua Argue. When contacted by ABC News, the attorney for Lori Argue and her company said, “There is simply no evidence that Lori Argue or any representative of Carpenter had any knowledge of methamphetamine use or contamination on the real estate,” adding that the buyers had an independent home inspection prior to purchasing the home. Read the full statement from Lori Argue's attorney HERE Joshua Argue declined ABC News' request for comment, but his ex-wife Jelisa Argue told ABC News in a statement, “There was no meth being used or cooked in the house when I lived there; I’ve never used meth and I would never put my son or anyone else in that environment.” She added that after she and her son moved out, her ex-husband remained in the house for almost two years. Read her full statement HERE. “It causes a lot of anger. There are some days that are harder than others,” Jenny Nugent said. “I think what helps us get through a lot of the anger is the fact that we've had a lot of support from our friends and family.”
By . Simon Tomlinson . An Iranian actress has infuriated ultra conservatives in her home country after kissing the president of the Cannes film festival's on the cheek. Leila Hatami's peck has been seen by fanatics as an affront to the 'chastity' of the Islamic republic's women. A photograph carried by Iranian media shows Hatami pecking 83-year-old Gilles Jacob at the opening of this year's festival. Now Hizbullah Students, a group of university students with links to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard have filed a complaint with Iran’s judiciary for Hatami's prosecution. Scroll down for video . Iranian actress Leila Hatami pecks Gilles Jacob, the president of the Cannes Film festival, on the cheek in a move that has sparked outrage among ultra conservatives in her home country . ‘We, the undersigned, who are a group of student Muslim brothers and sisters, ask the cultural and media branch of the judiciary to prosecute Leyla Hatami for her sinful act of kissing a strange man in public, which according to article 638 of Islamic Criminal Justice carries a prison sentence,’ the petition read. ‘Furthermore, the action of this film star has hurt the religious sentiments of the proud and martyrs breeding nation of Iran and as such we also demand the punishment of flogging for her as stipulated in the law.’ Held in high regard: Hatami (second left) is on the jury at this year's Cannes festival in southern France, along with (l-r) Carole Bouquet, Jeon Do-yeon, Cannes Film festival general delegate Thierry Fremaux, Jury President Jane Campion and jury member director Sofia Coppola . Deputy Culture Minister Hossein Noushabadi weighed in, quoted by the website of state broadcaster IRIB, he said: 'Those . who attend intentional events should take heed of the credibility and .
chastity of Iranians, so that a bad image of Iranian women will not be . demonstrated to the world,' . 'Iranian woman is the symbol of chastity and innocence,' he said. He said Hatami's 'inappropriate presence' at the festival was 'not in line with our religious beliefs'. Born into a family with a background in cinema, Hatami gained worldwide fame for her role in Asghar Farhadi's A Separation, which won the 2012 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. She is on the jury this year at the annual Cannes festival in southern France but lives in Iran. Hatami is one of five women members on the Palme d’Or prize jury, which includes actress Carole Bouquet and directors Sofia Coppola and jury president Jane Campion. According to Iran's interpretation of Islamic (sharia) law, in place since the 1979 revolution, a woman is not allowed to have physical contact with a man outside her family.
Dafniya, Libya (CNN) -- Libyan rebels and troops loyal to Moammar Gadhafi shelled each other for hours on Saturday in clashes at the highly contested frontline of Dafniya, an embattled town just west of the besieged port city of Misrata. At least 11 rebels were wounded in the exchange of fire and treated at one of the two field hospitals in what has been the most active day in Dafniya this week, according to a CNN team. Heavy government shelling on Misrata and Dafniya began shortly after Gadhafi rallied his supporters in an audio message on state TV and threatened to take the fighting to Europe in retaliation for NATO's bombing campaign. "As soon as Gadhafi's speech ended, they started shelling Dafniya and around midnight there was a salvo of about eight rockets inside Misrata itself, and it continues on the front this morning," said CNN's Ben Wedeman, who was in Misrata Saturday. Gadhafi has vowed vengeance for NATO bombings in Libya. He said the Libyan military could be "like locusts, like bees" in Europe, potentially targeting homes and offices. "You are mistaken, you are involved in a battle that you don't know what you are going to face, so withdraw and run away," Gadhafi told a pro-government gathering in Tripoli. "Our people is able in one day to move the battle to the Mediterranean, and able to move the battle to Europe." Gadhafi referred to NATO, which began bombing military targets in Libya after the U.N. Security Council approved a resolution in March authorizing force by whatever means necessary -- with the exception of a ground invasion -- to protect civilians. Libyan government spokesman Moussa Ibrahim on Saturday reiterated Gadhafi's call for vengeance. NATO's "aggression is killing our children (and) Europe will have to face the consequences," he said.
"You will have people attacking Europe, joining terrorist organizations against Europe, and building a culture that makes legitimate all violence against Europe." Ibrahim claimed rebel fighters "have no popular support." "The rebels have no future," he added. "They know it and they are terrified." On Saturday, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the NATO mission in Libya is on track, with pressure on Gadhafi mounting and the rebel forces growing stronger. "We need to see this through, and we are in complete agreement that we will," she said alongside the Spanish foreign minister in Madrid Saturday. In Washington, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the United States was taking seriously the Libyan leader's remarks. "Certainly this is an individual who's obviously capable of carrying out these kinds of threats," he told reporters. "It's what makes him so dangerous. But he's also someone who's given to overblown rhetoric." He said the United States would continue to support NATO's mission of increasing pressure on Gadhafi to step aside. The events came one day after the African Union's special committee on Libya said it had officially presented a plan meant to help Libya find a way out of the current crisis. The proposal states that Gadhafi will not be part of the negotiation process, but stops short of saying he should step down. "It is envisaged to convene, soon, in Addis Ababa, (Ethiopia) negotiations between the parties to discuss these proposals," the group said in a statement. Committee members have met with Gadhafi and opposition leaders over the past three months. Another African Union-led attempt to broker peace between Gadhafi and the rebels fell through in April. The French government was in talks with Libyan rebels about supplying them with weapons and ammunition, a Libyan opposition military spokesman in Misrata said Thursday.
The French government has not confirmed the claim, which follows an acknowledgment earlier this week that its military has previously dropped light weaponry to rebels elsewhere. CNN's Ben Wedeman and David McKenzie contributed to this report.
NEW YORK (CNN) -- While President Obama takes plenty of heat over his plans to overhaul domestic policies, critics have also taken aim at his foreign policy approach, particularly as it relates to human rights around the globe. Human Rights Watch advocacy director Tom Malinowski says Obama should have met with the Dalai Lama. Human Rights Watch advocacy director Tom Malinowski said Wednesday that while the administration appeared to have "gotten the balance right" on Myanmar, the military junta-ruled Asian nation formerly known as Burma, by starting a dialogue while maintaining sanctions, "China is a different matter." "And that's where we've seen the tension play out in the most acute way, with several signals that have been sent suggesting that the administration is putting human rights issues to one side," Malinowski said on CNN's "Amanpour." "And most recently, the, I think, symbolic mistake of the president declining to meet the Dalai Lama before his own visit to China later next month." Watch the discussion » . The Tibetan spiritual leader, who fled to India in 1959 and established a government in exile there, visited the United States earlier this month. China considers Tibet a renegade province and accuses the Dalai Lama of inciting violence. The timing of a presidential meeting with the Dalai Lama is considered largely symbolic, and Malinowski said the president's delay "sent a message to the Chinese government that perhaps this isn't as high a priority for the United States as it has been in the past." Malinowski also criticized the U.S. special envoy to Sudan, retired Air Force Maj. J. Scott Gration, who had suggested wooing the Sudanese government with "cookies" and "gold stars, smiley faces, handshakes, agreements, talk, engagement" to change its attitude about Darfur, where genocide and famine have killed hundreds of thousands of people.
"It's a really dumb thing to say," said Malinowski, who previously served in the administration of President Clinton. "Governments like this, they are not children, and they do not react to cookies and gold stars," he said. "They act on their interests, and historically, as you know from Bosnia, to all the places where we have successfully defeated this kind of violence, governments respond to pressure." Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir, a candidate for re-election next year, has been indicted on war-crimes charges by the International Criminal Court. Despite Gration's comments, the Obama administration has not yet articulated a Sudan policy. But Louise Arbour, president of the International Crisis Group and a former U.N. human rights commissioner, told "Amanpour" that talking rather than pressuring governments over human rights can be beneficial. "If you have a policy of engagement, which I think very much is the one put forward by the Obama administration, you may give an impression that you're softening," said Arbour, who is also a former war crimes prosecutor. "It's very easy to look tough, right? You don't talk to anybody, you repudiate everything, you slam all the doors and you accomplish nothing, or very little. And we have a lot of precedence for that. "When you have a policy of reinforcing diplomatic initiatives, engagement, it may look soft, because you have to put on the table a multiplicity of issues, not just a single one. But on balance, I think there's more chance on some of these all important initiatives than just by looking tough and achieving nothing." Arbour added, however, that the engagement approach to human rights abuses will not create fast change from the abusive regimes.
Noting the glacial pace of transformation in Myanmar, where democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, has been held under house arrest for nearly two decades, Arbour said "it's going to be very slow." "You can't have 20 years of extremely adversarial, confrontational posturing, and then say, well, we're ready to talk and be friendly, and assume that the other side's going to roll over," she said. "It's just not going to work that way." "There have to be very slow processes, but I think Aung San Suu Kyi herself has been encouraging more engagement. She wants to have contact with the junta and with foreigners, and it's happening. These are small steps. They're certainly in the right direction."
You don't get invited out on a US nuclear aircraft carrier all that often, and after writing this I might not get invited back for a while. On the flight deck of the USS George Washington the noise is like nothing I've ever experienced. A few feet from where I am standing, 11 F/A-18 Super Hornets are lining up to be launched. The first one is hooked on to the catapult; there is a massive crescendo as its engines roar to full re-heat. Then, in a cloud of white steam, the 15-tonne jet is thrown down the deck and off the end of the ship like a toy. Seconds later, the deck crew in their multi-coloured smocks are calmly lining up the next one. Watching the US Navy close up like this, it is hard not to be slightly awed. No other navy in the world has quite the same toys, or shows them off with the same easy charm. But as I stand on the deck filming my report on how "the US is practising for war with China", I can see my host from the Navy public affairs office wincing. You get used to hearing the PR rhetoric: the US Navy "is not practising for war with any specific country". But the US Navy has not assembled two whole carrier battle groups and 200 aircraft off the coast of Guam for a jolly, either. This is about practising what the Pentagon now calls "Air Sea Battle". It is a concept first put forward in 2009, and it is specifically designed to counter the rising threat from China. A few minutes later I am standing on the bridge of the George Washington with Rear Adm Mark Montgomery, the commander of Carrier Strike Group Five. The forces under his command are practising for what he calls an "anti-access, area denial" scenario.
"When we talk about our capabilities," he says, "we are talking about our capabilities to operate in unrestricted way in the waters of our choice". "As some countries have been developing increasingly complex anti-access weapons, we have to develop our tactics, techniques and procedures to continue to operate in an unfettered manner." Rear Adm Montgomery won't discuss the specifics of the exercise. But his ships and aircraft face an increasingly complex web of threats, from beneath the water, from air, land, from cyberspace and from space. "It's generally understood that some countries have the ability to remove satellites or to limit satellite communications," he says, "so we have to practise working in a communications-denied environment." China's People's Liberation Army Navy is still no match for the US Navy, and won't be for a very long time. Instead, China has been developing other weapons designed to keep America's precious carriers far away from China's shores. These include new quieter submarines, long-range hypersonic anti-ship missiles and, perhaps most worrying, very accurate medium range ballistic missiles that have been dubbed "carrier killers". As if on cue, an alarm bell starts ringing. A voice comes on the public address system: "This is a drill, this is a drill! Black smoke, black smoke!" The George Washington is under simulated attack. Part of the ship is reported to be on fire. Teams rush to contain the damage. For the last 10 years, China's most important, and oft-repeated, political slogan has been "peaceful rise". It is designed to reassure Beijing's neighbours its growing military might is no threat. But since President Xi Jinping came to power last year, there has been a distinct change. China is now asserting claims well beyond its own coastline. Its ships are aggressively patrolling the Senkaku, or Diaoyu, islands in the East China Sea, long controlled by Japan.
It is spending billions building new islands in the South China Sea. Spratly/Paracel islands A flashpoint with global consequences Senkaku/Diaoyu islands How uninhabited islands soured China-Japan ties In August a Chinese fighter jet confronted a US surveillance plane in international airspace over the South China Sea, repeatedly buzzing it and, according to the US Navy, closing to within 20ft (6m). According to Rear Adm Montgomery, all this makes the US Navy's role in the region even more vital. "The US Navy is one of the single greatest contributors to the security and stability of the Asia Pacific region," he says. "We have been for nearly 70 years". "I think the US Navy plays a good role whether it is in the South China Sea, the East China Sea, the Philippine Sea, stabilising things, assuring partners and dissuading adversaries from taking actions that are non-transparent or illegal." China's leaders would no doubt disagree. Beijing's long-term aim is to dominate the waters close to its shores. If the US Navy tries to stop it, might that not make conflict more likely? But from Tokyo to Taipei, Manila to Hanoi, there are governments that are very happy to see America's great carrier battle groups sailing these waters.
(CNN) -- A three-goal blitz in nine minutes sent Arsenal second in the English Premier League as they finally ended their hoodoo against champions Chelsea by winning 3-1 at Emirates Stadium on Monday night. Goals from Alex Song, Cesc Fabregas and Theo Walcott put Arsene Wenger's side two points behind leaders Manchester United, and ended a run of five successive defeats to Chelsea. Branislav Ivanovic pulled a goal back for the visitors, but it wasn't enough to end their miserable run of form as they continue to search for their first win since early November. The Gunners were handed a boost before kickoff as Spain midfielder Fabregas was restored to the starting lineup, as well as Dutch striker Robin Van Persie, but Chelsea's French forward Nicolas Anelka was absent with a knee injury. Football's heroes and villains of 2010 . The first half was a scrappy affair as Chelsea sat back and invited their opponents to attack them, with neither side creating much in the way of goalscoring opportunities. But that all changed five minutes before the break as Samir Nasri forced Chelsea keeper Petr Cech into a fine save with an effort that was curling towards the top corner. And just four minutes later Arsenal were ahead. Song exchanged passes with Wilshere, before picking up a loose ball in the area and driving it into the corner of the net. The home side came roaring out of the traps in the second half, as Walcott latched onto a loose pass from Michael Essien and drew Cech before squaring to Fabregas, who stroked the ball into an empty net on 51 minutes. Little more than a minute later the roles were reversed as Fabregas clipped a ball through to Walcott, who fired low past Cech from the edge of the area.
Chelsea gave themselves a glimmer of hope on 57 minutes as Ivanovic glanced Didier Drogba's curling freekick into the net, but despite committing plenty of men forward the champions couldn't fashion a way back into the match. Nasri and Abou Diaby had chances to compound Chelsea's misery, but both squandered late opportunities. Chelsea's defeat is bound to heap more pressure on their Italian manager Carlo Ancelotti, who has presided over a wretched run of just one win in eight games. "We have to wake up because we are asleep," he told Sky Sports after the game. "We did not play well but Arsenal did and they deserved to win. We must stay focused and continue to work hard." Arsenal boss Wenger said: "We were disciplined, played for each other and were less nervous and perhaps less adventurous at some stages. "Let's hope the game has strengthened our belief and that we can challenge for the championship."
London (CNN) Britain's Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have revealed further details about their wedding -- including how the bride's parents will be involved, the timing of their honeymoon and how they plan to remember Harry's mother, Princess Diana. Meghan's mother and father, Doria Ragland and Thomas Markle, who split up when she was young, will both attend. In the days before the wedding, they will fly into the UK to spend time with the British royal family, including Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh, according to Jason Knauf, communications secretary to Prince Harry. Meghan will spend her last night as a single woman at a hotel in an undisclosed location. Then, on the morning of Saturday, May 19, a car will take Meghan and her mother to Windsor Castle before her father walks her down the aisle of St. George's Chapel at 12.00 p.m. (7.00 a.m. ET). Knauf said Meghan is "delighted to have her parents by her side on this important and happy occasion." Read More LONDON -- Meghan Markle's divorced parents will meet with Queen Elizabeth II and other royals before her May 19 wedding to Prince Harry and will have special roles in their daughter's wedding, a palace spokesman said Friday. At the wedding, the royal couple also plan to honor the memory of the late Princess Diana, Harry's mother, who died in a Paris car crash in 1997. Officials didn't predict the weather - springtime in England can be glorious or horrid, sometimes on the same day - but they outlined plans for a celebration designed to spread from the privileged environs of Windsor Castle throughout Britain and the world, via television and the internet.
Here are some of the plans disclosed by Harry's press secretary, Jason Knauf, during a briefing at Buckingham Palace: Meghan's Parents To Take Part In Wedding Markle's parents, Thomas Markle and Doria Ragland, will arrive during the week before the May 19 wedding so they have time to meet Harry's family. Knauf says they will visit with the queen, her husband Prince Philip, Harry's father Prince Charles and his wife Camilla, and with Harry's brother Prince William and his sister-in-law Kate. Ragland will travel with her daughter by car to Windsor Castle on May 19 and Thomas Markle will walk his daughter down the aisle of St. George's Chapel for the ceremony. Knauf says Markle is "delighted" that her parents will be by her side. He did not say whether Markle's half brother and half sister will attend the wedding. ___ Princess Diana's Family Will Have A Role The press secretary says Harry is "keen to involve his mother's family in the wedding" and that all three of Diana's siblings will be present. One of Diana's two older sisters, Jane Fellowes, will give a reading during the ceremony to represent Diana's family. ___ No Maid Of Honor Markle, an American actress who came to prominence in the TV series "Suits," will not have a maid of honor during the ceremony. Harry has chosen William as his best man. ___ Young Bidesmaids And Page Boys Knauf says all the bridesmaids and page boys will be children. That may mean a role for Prince George, 4, and Princess Charlotte, 3, the children of Prince William and the Duchess of Cambridge. But don't bother looking for Prince Louis - born in late April - as the youngest prince will not attend the wedding.
___ Don't Ask About The Dress Palace officials are determined that the style and designer of Markle's wedding gown will be kept secret until the moment she gets out of the car to walk into the chapel. They say this tradition is very important - but that won't keep speculators from trying to guess who has received the most important dressmaking assignment of the year. ___ Separated The Night Before The press secretary says Harry and Markle will spend the night before the wedding apart. They have been living together in recent months since announcing their engagement. They will spend their first night as a married couple in Windsor Castle. ___ Good Wishes For Prince Philip's Health Palace officials say they're hopeful that 96-year-old Prince Philip, Harry's grandfather, will be well enough to attend the wedding festivities . The queen's husband has been recovering from hip replacement surgery and has not participated in any public events since being discharged from the hospital in mid-April. ___ Follow The Wedding At Home The palace plans to publish the Order of Service on its website the morning of the wedding so people watching it on television will be better able to follow what's taking place inside the church. ___ Delayed Honeymoon Knauf would not reveal where the newest royal couple will spend their honeymoon, but he said they won't be leaving right after the wedding. Instead they plan to make their first public appearance as a married couple during the week following the ceremony. In the past, they have traveled in Africa together. --- Royal Photographer Alexi Lubomirski, the photographer who snapped Harry and Meghan's engagement photos, will be back behind the lens for the wedding. A mutual friend suggested Harry and Meghan check out Lubomirski's Instagram where the fashion photographer posts his work with some of world's most famous faces including Julia Roberts, Beyoncé and Angelina Jolie.
The tell-all autobiography of Little House On The Prairie author Laura Ingalls Wilder has emerged as a surprise publishing hit, with readers rushing to snap up the gritty account of pioneer life. First published in November by the tiny South Dakota Historical Society Press, Pioneer Girl: The Annotated Autobiography, offers an unvarnished view of life in the Midwest in the 19th century, a marked departure from the bucolic imagery of the beloved Little House series. The not-safe-for-children tales include stark scenes of domestic abuse, love triangles gone awry and a man who lit himself on fire while drunk off whiskey. Scroll down for video . Runaway hit: Readers have been rushing to snap up copies of Laura Ingalls Wilder's no-holds-barred autobiography Pioneer Girl, which hit the shelves in November . Real pioneer girl: A handout photograph shows Little House On The Praire author Laura Ingalls Wilder, whose autobiography depicts an unvarnished view of the 19th century Midwest . Wilder and her daughter Rose Wilder . Lane, herself a well-known author, tried and failed to get an edited . version of the autobiography published throughout the early 1930s. The . original rough draft has been preserved at the Laura Ingalls Wilder . Historic Home and Museum in Mansfield, Missouri, for decades but hadn't . been published. The children's series of 11 novels published between 1932 and 1943 never presented an entirely romanticized version of life on the prairie - in Little House In The Big Woods, Laura and her sister Mary gleefully help dissect the family pig before bouncing its inflated bladder back and forth in the yard.
But the series also left out or fictionalized scenes that Wilder deemed unsuitable for kids, including much of the time the family spent in Burr Oak, Iowa, and Walnut Grove, Minnesota, according to Pamela Smith Hill, a Wilder biographer and the lead editor on the autobiography. 'So you can read Pioneer Girl as nonfiction rather than fiction and get a better feeling of how the historical Ingalls family really lived, what their relationships were and how they experienced the American West,' she said. TV hit: Wilder's series of 11 novels published between 1932 and 1943 were adapted for TV in the 1970s. The show ran for nine seasons . Wilder details a scene from her childhood in Burr Oak, in which a neighbor of the Ingalls' pours kerosene throughout his bedroom, sets it on fire and proceeds to drunkenly drag his wife around by her hair before Wilder's father - Pa in the children's books - intervenes. Scenes like that make Wilder's memoir sound like it's filled with scandal and mature themes, 'which isn't exactly true either,' according to Amy Lauters, an associate professor of mass media at Minnesota State University-Mankato. 'It's just that that first version was blunt, it was honest. It was full of the everyday sorts of things that we don't care to think about when we think about history,' Lauters said last August. 'And it's certainly not the fantasized version we saw on Little House on the Prairie the television show.' The autobiography preserves Wilder's original rough draft - misspellings, idiosyncrasies and all - but adds extensive annotations. Little House lovers can learn about the three girls that Wilder combined to create the Nellie Olson character, or how extensive the damage was in Minnesota during the grasshopper plague of the 1870s, which forced Pa in On The Banks Of Plum Creek to set out in search of work.
'In some ways, I came to think of the annotations in Pioneer Girl as almost an encyclopedia about Laura Ingalls Wilder's life and work,' Hill said. Hard knock life: Caroline and Charles Ingalls, known as Ma and Pa in the series, had financial problems and bounced from one apartment to the next . Speaking to AFP this week, Nancy Tystad Koupal, the director of the publishing house, said they decided to release Wilder's first draft because it painted an honest picture of American pioneers' hardscrabble life, warts and all. In the TV show, the character of Laura Ingalls Wilder was played by Melissa Gilbert . 'At the time, life was hard. Violence was typical. It was part of the pioneers' life,' Koupal said. The author's large family struggled financially and could not afford to buy a house of their own, forcing them to bounce from one apartment to the next. 'They had to flee in the middle of the night to avoid paying rent,' Koupal said. In another episode from her adventures in the Midwest, Wilder tells about a sick woman whose drunk husband tried to rape her. The author only escaped by fighting back. Wilder's books were adapted for TV in 1974 by Michael Landon who also starred on the show. It ran for nine seasons, comprising more than 200 episodes. The 'Little House' books and TV show were enjoyed by several generations of Americans readers and viewers, which could explain the unexpected success of the new memoir. With sales being bolstered by news stories and radio segments about the new book, it has climbed up the Amazon bestseller list, and even briefly overtook Chris Kyle's American Sniper for the top spot last week. As of Wednesday afternoon, Wilder's memoir remained at the top of the US History books list and in fifth spot on the overall list of best sellers. Since its publication two months ago, orders for the autobiography have exploded.
Manuscript: The original manuscript of Pioneer Girl was written on tablet paper with lead pencil . An initial print-run of 15,000 was sold out within a few weeks. The historical society then placed orders for another 15,000 followed by another 45,000 books. The editor of the book, Pamela Smith Hill, took it upon herself research the events and dates mentioned in Wilder's original manuscript to make sure all of the information was accurate. 'We had to check if her memory was correct,' Koupal said. 'It is her autobiography, but she wrote it when she was 60, and sometimes, memory fails.'
Former world No 1 Tiger Woods will drop outside the top 100 in the rankings on Monday for the first time in more than 18 years. The 39-year-old American is down at No 96 and a world ranking official revealed that he is likely to slip to No 102 when the list is adjusted after this weekend's tournaments. Woods posted an 82 at the Phoenix Open in January, his worst round as a professional, as he slumped outside the leading 50 in the rankings for the first time in more than three years. Tiger Woods (left) pictured with girlfriend Lindsey Vonn at the Alpine World Ski Championships last month . Tiger Woods plays his tee shot on the 17th hole at the Farmers Insurance Open on February 5 . Woods (right) walks the fairway with Rickie Fowler before withdrawing from the event with a back injury . Since then the 14-time major winner has continued a downward slide that resulted in him failing to qualify for this month's WGC-Cadillac Championship, an event he has won seven times. Woods is yet to make a decision on whether he will play at the Masters, which begins on April 9. Woods was ranked 433rd when he turned professional in September 1996. He then jumped to 75th after landing his first victory as a professional at the 1996 Las Vegas Invitational, the first of 79 PGA Tour titles. Woods is interviewed at the Greater Milwaukee Open in Wisconsin in September 1996 . Woods (right) receives the green jacket from Nick Faldo after winning the Masters at Augusta in 1997 . Woods first moved to world No 1 when he finished 19th at the 1997 US Open. The American spent a record total of 683 weeks at the top of the rankings until he lost the No 1 spot to Australia's Adam Scott in May 2014. Current No 1 Rory McIlroy has been top of the rankings since August.
Rovers were trailing 2-1 when Grant Hanley's effort crossed the line before it was hacked clear by Jamie O'Hara. Referee Tony Harrington waved away appeals and Bowyer has urged Football League chiefs to mirror the Premier League and bring in technology. "There's a massive prize in this league at the end of the season," said Bowyer. Bowyer, whose side are winless this season, added: "The rewards are massive, yet we haven't got technology in this league. Hopefully this is an opportunity for the powers that be to do something about it. "Cricket doesn't just have it at one game, tennis is not just at Wimbledon. They are open-minded, and the powers that be need to know it would make the game better. People are banging the drum and today is a great example, an opportunity to do something for the good of the game. Media playback is not supported on this device "We are in the professional game. For the amount of money at stake why can't it go all the way through the League?" Goal-line technology was introduced in the Premier League in 2013-14 and Fulham manager Kit Symons admitted he has long been an advocate of its use in the Championship. "I've had a look at it, it looked like it did cross the line but I'm not going to apologise for us getting a bit of luck," Symons told BBC London 94.9. "It clears up any grey areas. I'd encourage it."
By . Mark Nicol . PUBLISHED: . 17:05 EST, 23 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 17:58 EST, 23 November 2013 . The Royal Household last night defended hiring out the ballroom at Buckingham Palace to investment bank JP Morgan for a lavish dinner hosted by the Duke of York. The bank paid an undisclosed fee to hire the ballroom and made donations to the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and the Royal Ballet, which provided entertainment. Among the 100 guests were banking executives, Tony Blair, former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and Indian industrialist Ratan Tata. Prince Andrew, Duke of York, is at the centre of a new 'Palace for hire' row . A Palace spokeswoman said the event was part of Prince Andrew’s ongoing work to ‘support British prosperity’. But Keith Vaz, chairman of the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee, said: ‘I understand the Palace needs to cut costs and raise money, but dining there should be a privilege rather than being open to the highest bidder. ‘The security implications are also an issue.’ The Household’s relationship with senior corporate figures was previously questioned after St James’s Palace was rented out, apparently at a cost of £30,000 a day, during the London Olympics. Buckingham Palace said that the State Apartments were occasionally used by outside organisations to generate income to pay for the upkeep of its properties – a recommendation made in a recent parliamentary report. The Royal Ballet performed at the Buckingham Pallace event . The event in the ballroom on October 30 was reportedly arranged by a personal friend of Prince Andrew called David Mayhew, who is one of JP Morgan’s most senior staff.
JP Morgan declined to comment last night but a Palace spokesman said: ‘Events at Buckingham Palace, of which there have been around 200 in the past year, are hosted by members of the Royal Family in conjunction with a variety of organisations. ‘Re-charging the costs of the event where appropriate is standard practice.’
(CNN) At one of Nevada's infamous legal brothels, a 20-year-old woman recently signed up for work -- but not to have sex. Instead, Katherine Stone, who dreams of one day becoming a lawyer, planned to sell something other women working at the bordello couldn't offer: Her virginity. Like the brothels themselves, Stone's choice has been controversial, particularly for those who believe a woman's virginity should only be shared for love. But in Stone's eyes, that's exactly what she's doing. 'I love my family' In 2014, Stone's family home in Seattle, Washington, was destroyed by a fire. Without insurance, Stone and her family found themselves forced to remain in the scorched property. Then came the day when she noticed an ad on Facebook, and "I found out all about the brothels and the money," Stone says. "It made me think, 'Wow, it's a chance at fixing all that I need to fix.'" JUST WATCHED Legal brothel owner: I don't have to recruit Replay More Videos MUST WATCH Legal brothel owner: I don't have to recruit 01:29 While prostitution is practiced across the United States, Nevada is the only state where it's a legal activity. Any Nevada county with a population below 700,000 can host a brothel and, as of 2015, there were 19 brothels operating in the state. Brothel tycoon Dennis Hof owns seven of Nevada's legal bordellos, and that's who Stone turned to last year for help. Hof -- who says he receives two to three similar requests a week -- agreed to sell Stone's one-time service with the understanding that he'll take a 50% cut from the profits of the final bid. In an effort to salvage her family's damaged home, Stone packed her bags and left home for the first time to live at one of Hof's brothels.
"People say you are suppose to do it for love," Stone says of the cultural ideals around losing one's virginity. "But if you think about it, I am doing it because I love my family." 'I obviously value myself' Like the brothels themselves, Stone's decision has been controversial. "I read an article about myself online that made me cry," Stone recalls. "It was a Christian lady; she said I had no self-respect, which I disagree with completely. I mean, I obviously value myself." At the moment, Stone says, her virginity bid is a little over $400,000 -- and she's still waiting to accept an offer. "I'm waiting for a man who I feel a connection with so that the experience can be special for both of us," she says. "It's really not just about the money." While she waits, Stone is still "contracted by Dennis Hof to legally provide services to gentlemen who are seeking experiences" other than intercourse, she says. "I have done small simple parties. Massage parties, stuff that has been very PG-13. My first experience I had here was the scariest one. It was all really new." JUST WATCHED How much I really earn as a legal prostitute Replay More Videos MUST WATCH How much I really earn as a legal prostitute 01:07 Even after her virginity is auctioned, Stone says she has no intentions of leaving the ranch. "I anticipate to continue working at the ranch for the next five years," she says. "I plan to go to law school in the future." 'I have the right to choose' Hof himself has been heavily criticized, with some lambasting him for exploiting women in need. The businessman and reality TV personality employs over 500 women at his ranches in Nevada, with roughly 30 working every weeknight at the famous Moonlite Bunny Ranch.
As for Stone's contract, "it's controversial; there is not any question about that," Hof says. But, he continues, "It is her choice. I don't think it is a good idea for a girl to drink six tequilas and lose her virginity on the bathroom floor in a frat house If she wants to (sell) it, I think that's great." If that sounds like something a pimp would say, Hof wouldn't disagree. "In the strictest sense, I am a pimp," he says. "I am a guy that brings customers to a girl. The difference is I have a license to do this." Stone would argue she has the same. "I have the right to choose what I do with my body," she says. "And in this troubling economy, do you blame me?" After a devastating fire claimed her home, a young Washington woman has made an important decision many have viewed as extremely controversial. 20-year-old Katherine Stone has decided to auction off her virginity for the sake of her family. Stone’s family home in Seattle was destroyed in a fire in 2014. They had no insurance so due to financial complications, they were forced to stay on the burned out property. Later, Stone came across a Facebook ad for a legal brothel in Nevada. Prostitution is legal in some counties in the state. Stone turned to Dennis Hof, who owns at least seven brothels in Nevada, each one of them legal. “I talked to my people and I talked to her and she convinced me that this is something she wanted to do,” Hof told InsideEdition.com. With support from her mother, Stone said goodbye to her old home and made her way to one of Hof’s brothels, where she now lives. “I was definitely scared throughout the whole thing,” Stone told InsideEdition.com.
“I was intimidated because I was brand new to the sex industry.” Despite her fears, she said all of the ladies who work at Hof’s brothel are supportive. “It’s just a good environment; we have fun here,” she said. The current bid for Stone's virginity has reached $400,000, but no offers have been accepted just yet. According to Hof, she is looking for Mr. Right. “She hasn’t found the right situation,” said Hof. “She’s had guys that she’s liked that didn’t have enough money and she’s had guys that had enough but she didn’t like them.” Hof said due to Stone’s situation, he won't accept any of the profits. Stone said she’s waiting for someone to make her feel comfortable with what she’s doing and, while there have been negative criticisms online, Stone won't let it affect her. “The whole time I’ve been here, I’ve come to terms with what I’m doing,” she said. “I’m definitely ready." Copyright (c) 2016 CBS Studios Inc. All Rights Reserved.
By . Rob Cooper . Last updated at 4:12 PM on 7th February 2012 . Behind bars: 'The She-Devil' Margaret Gilheaney who has been jailed for ten years following the attacks . A mother-of-two nicknamed 'The She-Devil' after being involved in savage unprovoked attacks on two men with her feral teenage children has been jailed for 10 years. Margaret Gilheaney, 36, was arrested after the first victim, Jordan Daley, was battered with a bottle by her son Joseph, 19, in their 'dirty and smelly' £30,000 terraced property in Accrington, Lancashire. He needed 51 stitches and was scarred for life following the attack which happened as he celebrated his 18th birthday. The mother-of-two was then also involved as a father-of-three was stabbed 14 times. Matthew Howard, 27, thought he was going to die after being attacked by Margaret and her daughter Isabel, 18. He was dragged out into the alleyway and abandoned. He suffered a collapsed lung, nerve damage and was left disabled. While he was in hospital he missed the birth of his youngest child three days later when he was in hospital. Both attacks were meted out for pleasure by the teenage children at separate rowdy parties. After Margaret and her children were jailed one neighbour said: 'People called her the She-Devil . because of all the problems at her house and none of us are surprised . her brood turned out to be little horrors too.' Her daughter Isabel was jailed for six years while her son Joseph was given eight years. Sarah Booth, prosecuting, told Burnley Crown Court that as Mr Daley, 18, tried to leave the party in August 2010, at the grim family home but Gilheaney and his friends followed him outside and attacked him. The victim was repeatedly hit and kicked while he lay on the ground screaming for help.
Miss Booth said: 'He believed he was knocked unconscious and a witness described everyone piling on top of the victim and the defendant. 'Another onlooker told how Mr Daley ended up with a hole in his lip, his nose split in half and with deep cuts all over his face and body. Jailed: Joseph and Isabel, both 19, who carried out the attacks on Jordan Daley and Matthew Howard in Accrington, Lancashire . 'Mr Daley and his friends finally got away, were chased as they left and he went to hospital, where he had 26 stitches to his face and 25 in his arms.' The court heard police later made several arrests. Then last February, while Gilheaney was on bail, Mr Howard was attacked as he tried to leave the family's 'dirty and smelly' home. Miss Booth said Maughan locked the door, became aggressive and clenched his fist as if he was going to punch him. The victim took a 'pre-emptive' strike before a brawl broke out. The prosecutor added: 'Mr Howard felt what he thought were punches to his back, felt warm and weak and turned to see Margaret and Isabel Gilheaney with a machete type knife. 'He collapsed on the floor on his back, felt numb all over and couldn’t move his leg. Isabel Gilheaney passed the knife to her partner who continued the attack. Grim: The 'dirty and smelly' mid-terrace property, worth £40,000, where Margaret Gilheaney lived with her children . 'Maughan wielded the weapon towards the victim’s face, Mr Howard put up his arms to protect himself and was gashed. She-Devil: Roseanne Barr stars in the 1989 film . 'The victim thought he was going to die and drifted in and out of consciousness. He pleaded with the defendant to stop, telling his assailants he had three children.
'Maughan tried unsuccessfully to pull him up by his neck and the three defendants then dragged him into the back yard, down a step and left him in the back street. He believed he was going to die there alone in the alley.' Margaret later called an ambulance but falsely claimed she had just come across Mr Howard in the street. Mr Howard said of his attackers : 'I feel the public will not be safe if they are released.' The court heard when questioned by police, Margaret Gilheaney claimed self defence and her children denied any involvement. However, she admitted violent disorder and wounding with intent to do grievous bodily harm. Isabel, who lives with her mother and has racked up 20 previous convictions, admitted wounding with intent. Joseph, who has 35 previous . convictions, admitted wounding with intent and affray. He also admitted . chasing two neighbours down the street with a two-and-a-half foot . machete in a separate incident. Isabel’s boyfriend Martin Maughan, . 19, from Accrington, was also jailed for three years four months for . wounding while convicted robber David Cammack, 28, who is already . serving four years jail for a shop raid, was given another 12 months for . violent disorder. Passing sentence Judge Jonathan Gibson said Joseph should be regarded as a 'dangerous offender.' Behind bars: Martin Maughan, 19, who admitted wounding, and David Cammack, 28, who was guilty of violent disorder .
The hosts went ahead after 24 seconds when Blair Henderson got on the end of Michael McKenna's cross before slotting in from close range. Stirling went close but Moses Olanrewaju's effort was superbly blocked by Johnny Fairbairn. Brian Martin was sent off after handling in the area but Stirling were unable to equalise, with Sean Dickson missing from the spot.
The company exported 279,000 packets to the country in 2013 - up from 46,000 in the previous year. The Canadian market now makes up about 40% of Mackie's export sales turnover. The figures were announced as Commonwealth Games Secretary Shona Robison visited a store in Toronto which stocks the Perthshire firm's products. Ms Robison has been in the country as the Queen's Baton Relay continues its journey through Canada. Ms Robison said: "This is another terrific example of a Scottish firm making a big impact on the international stage, and it's great to see Scottish brands on supermarket shelves abroad. "Mackie's have been working extremely hard to gain a foothold in Canada and this has resulted in tremendous sales figures - a six-fold increase in one year is remarkable." Ronnie Wilson, commercial director for Mackie's Crisps, said: "The response to our crisps in Canada has been tremendous, and our Scottish provenance has proven to be a key selling point in this market. "Following the introduction of our dedicated Canadian packaging at the beginning of this year, which is bilingual and features a prominent saltire flag, we now have scope to broaden our distribution into mass grocery channels. "Furthermore, we are about to launch 13 new lines into the Canadian market - in addition to the nine lines we already supply there." Mackie's Crisps was founded in 2009 as a joint venture between Aberdeenshire-based Mackie's of Scotland and Perthshire potato company Taypack.
(CNN) -- Africa is poor, corrupt and rural. Right? Think again. A team of young documentary makers is hoping to burst the myth of Africa as a dangerous backwater by shining a light on some inspiring projects taking place on the continent. When filmmaker Nosarieme Garrick hit the streets of New York to ask passersby: "What do you know about Africa?" the overwhelming response was "not a lot." "It's very big, very hot. Most of Africa's impoverished. I'm pretty ignorant to Africa," admitted one man. "I know about some human rights violations, some wars and genocides," was the bleak answer from another woman. It was a dismal reflection of many Western stereotypes surrounding Africa -- one that Nosarieme is determined to change. Watch: Fighting Hollywood stereotypes . My Africa is: hopeful . The 27-year-old hopes to launch an eight-part documentary series 'My Africa Is' -- showcasing the continent through the eyes of its insiders. "The four things that come to mind when people think of Africa are population, problems, poverty, and promise unfulfilled -- headline media reports on the continent. But that's not the whole story," Nosarieme, originally from Nigeria and now living in Washington, said. The ambitious project would cover 13 cities across sub-Saharan Africa. Organizers are trying to crowdsource funds through the Kickstarter website and hope to start filming in October if they reach their target. "Between the 1980s and now the image of famine and wars has been ingrained in people's minds. That's a narrative that's going to be hard to shift," Nosarieme said. "That's not to discount the fact that this stuff does happen. But what I wasn't seeing was the solutions." See also: South African ballet dancer confounds stereotypes . Nigeria the troubled oil giant .
First up in the documentary series is Abuja in Nigeria -- a country that until the election of President Goodluck Jonathan last year had largely lurched from one military coup to the next. This is Africa's most populous country and its leading oil producer. Yet few in the country have benefited from the oil boom with more than half the population still living in poverty. See also: Congo's designer dandies . The President was recently forced to sack bosses from state-owned oil company NNPC amid corruption allegations . Then there's the ongoing violence between Muslim and Christian groups in the north, with even Pope Benedict XVI weighing in to call for an end to the brutality. Put simply, when it comes to Nigeria, the headlines aren't great. Getting on the Photowagon . But according to Nosereime, that's only half the story. "Nigeria is going through a turbulent time," she admitted. "But there's a rising youth who are trying to educate each other." Indeed the trailer for the first My Africa Is show, the focus is on Photowagon -- a Nigerian photography collective "on a mission to show the giant of Africa through the lens." Launched in 2009, their powerful images paint a very different image of Africa. It's a well-rounded collection that captures the frivolity of everyday life, such as market scenes and football matches. But doesn't shy away from some of the more familiar and gruesome notions of Nigeria such as terrorist attacks and military clampdowns. The 'other' Nigeria . Photowagon co-founder Aisha Augie-Kuta says her mission is to "conquer sports photography as a northern Nigerian female" -- a bold statement for a "very conservative" country. But the gung-ho 33-year-old appears undeterred as she takes 'My Africa Is' to a Nigeria vs Argentina football match in the capital Abuja.
Traditional dancers and hip-hop singers entertain the crowds during half-time, while ecstatic fans hug each other with each goal. It's an image of Nigeria that couldn't be further from the grim headlines. Aisha admitted that if you believed the Western media, you wouldn't step foot inside Africa. "They see us as a continent without hope," the mother-of-three said. "For Africans, we see hope on the street everyday. But on the news you don't see that. It's always about the negative stuff. "Instead, what we see is a lot of poor children dying from malaria or polio. If you listened to the news everyday you'd have no hope from the bombings or corruption. Don't get me wrong, it is happening. But it's not a constant. It's not the Nigeria we in Lagos or Abuja are living in." See also: South Africa's underground youth culture . The 33-year-old said the country had come a long way since she was growing up under a military regime in the northern state of Kebbi. Aisha remained optimistic about democratic change in the west African country, particularly for women, but was also realistic about its pace. "There's a lot of opportunity and hope as to where we can be," she said. "But at the same time there's a lot of uncertainty about how much change the government can bring in."
Liverpool are heading for Miami to do battle with arch rivals Manchester United on Monday after a comfortable 2-0 win over a dismal AC Milan side in Charlotte. Goals from Joe Allen and Suso made it three wins out of three for Brendan Rodgers' men in the International Champions Cup. Liverpool were already assured of top spot in their group following Manchester City's 5-4 defeat to Olympiacos on penalties earlier in the day after it had finished 2-2. VIDEO Scroll down to watch some of Liverpool's highlights from their pre-season US tour . Great start: Joe Allen is congratulated by Rickie Lambert after his opener for Liverpool against AC Milan . Young star: Raheem Sterling looks to take the ball of Milan midfielder Michael Essien . Spurned: Rickie Lambert missed a penalty for Liverpool, a great chance for an early goal in his Reds career . LIVERPOOL: Mignolet, Kelly (Johnson 60), Toure (Sakho 60), Coates (Skrtel 60), Robinson Enrique 60), Lucas (Gerrard 60), Henderson (Suso 46), Allen (Can 60), Lambert (Peterson 60), Ibe (Coutinho 60), Sterling (Coady 46). Goals: Allen (17), Suso (89). AC MILAN: Abbiati (Gabriel 46), Abate (Zapate 80), Bonera, Rami (Mexes 66), De Sciglio, Essien (Cristante 66), Muntari (Poli 80), Saponara, Niang, Pazzini (Balotelli 46), El Shaarway (Honda 66). Referee: David Gantar . However, they made no mistake in front of a 70,000-strong crowd at the Bank of America Stadium as they easily dealt with the challenge of Milan, who had already been heavily beaten by Olympiacos and Man City.
Rodgers used no fewer than 21 players to ensure his squad is ready for the first showdown with United since Louis van Gaal's appointment as David Moyes' successor. With Daniel Sturridge ruled out with a minor knock sustained in training and £20million new boy Lazar Markovic sidelined by a tendon problem, Liverpool made five changes following the win over Manchester City in New York. Brad Jones, Jose Enrique, Steven Gerrard, Philippe Coutinho and Sturridge were replaced by Simon Mignolet, Jack Robinson, Lucas Leiva, Jordon Ibe and Raheem Sterling. Lightning-quick teenage wingers Ibe and Sterling lit up the opening 45 minutes as their pace tormented Milan's overworked backline. Liverpool were in control from the start and took the lead in the 17th minute. Big crowd: Kolo Toure lead the team out in Charlotte on Saturday . Relaxed: Already in the final, Brendan Rodgers was able to give Steven Gerrard a rest . Allen's work rate created the chance as he dispossessed former Chelsea midfielder Michael Essien and burst clear. The Wales international fired against the woodwork and Sterling's effort from the follow up was blocked by Christian Abbiati. The ball fell back into the path of Allen, who volleyed home in style. Sterling was then denied by Abbiati before Kolo Toure made a crucial tackle to thwart Giampaolo Saponara at the other end. Ibe, who enjoyed a beneficial loan spell at Birmingham City last season, showcased his exciting potential. The youngster was on the receiving end of some rough treatment from former Portsmouth man Sulley Muntari but he picked himself up and battled on. Keeping tabs: The Liverpool manager and his backroom staff observe the game . Ibe began the attack which should have yielded a second goal in the 27th minute.
He raced 50 yards before linking up with Lambert and Sterling, who was pulled to the ground by Adil Rami. Lambert, who never missed in his 34 penalties for Southampton, took responsibility but his spot-kick was kept out by Abbiati. Milan did threaten just before the break but Mignolet grabbed Mbaya Niang's strike at the second attempt and Allen dealt with the danger after Stephan El Shaarawy raced into the penalty area. Suso and Conor Coady came on for Henderson and Sterling as Rodgers began to rest players with one eye on Monday's final in Miami. There were eight more changes on the hour mark with the introduction of Steven Gerrard receiving a rapturous ovation from the 70,000-strong crowd. The raft of subs dented the flow of the game and chances were at a premium. Making an impression: Jordan Ibe (left) battles with Mattia De Sciglio for possession . Ibe continued to shine with another classy burst down the left as he got the better of Rami but Milan survived. Gerrard sparked panic with a through ball to Suso which triggered a thundering collision between Gabriel and Mattia De Sciglio. The Liverpool skipper went close from long range before Milan threatened to restore parity. Mbaye Niang went clean through but Mignolet raced out and made a brave sprawling save. Muntari's strike was then deflected wide before Liverpool killed off the Italians in the 89th minute. Coutinho raced into space down the left and teed up Suso, who swept a low left-footer into the far corner. Mignolet's stunning finger tip save denied Bryan Cristante deep into stoppage time as Liverpool march on to Miami on a high.
By . Glen Owen . PUBLISHED: . 17:39 EST, 18 January 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 18:47 EST, 18 January 2014 . Unite's Len McCluskey attended a meeting where NHS 'leverage' campaign was allegedly proposed . Doctors have reacted with anger after leaked documents revealed plans by union militants to intimidate GPs over health reforms. Unite's 'leverage team' – the dirty tricks unit which bullied managers and their families during last year’s Grangemouth oil refinery dispute in Scotland – intends to deploy the same tactics against doctors involved in 'privatising' the NHS. At a recent Unite executive meeting attended by controversial general secretary ‘red’ Len McCluskey, there was a proposal that ‘the next comprehensive leverage campaign will be focused on [the] defence of the National Health Service’. According to leaked minutes, the leverage team suggested taking action at a ‘local level’ by using ‘direct intervention to target private health care companies and commissioning bodies’. Under the Government’s health reforms, the bodies, partly staffed by GPs, are responsible for putting local medical contracts out to tender – and are therefore seen by Left-wing opponents as being in the vanguard of privatisation. During the Grangemouth dispute last autumn, the sinister leverage unit – staffed by campaigners who describe themselves as ‘industrial terrorists’ – personally targeted executives of the Ineos chemical company which owns the plant by sending mobs of protesters to their homes. One director embroiled in the row over pay and conditions said he had feared for the safety of his wife and two young children after 30 Unite activists descended on his drive during the school holidays and told his neighbours that he was 'evil'. And the daughter of another company boss had 'Wanted' posters denouncing her father posted through her front door in Hampshire.
During the Grangemouth dispute (pictured) the sinister leverage unit personally targeted executives of the Ineos chemical company which owns the plant by sending mobs of protesters to their homes . Last night, Tory Health Minister Dan Poulter condemned Unite’s plan, saying: 'We take threats to doctors and nurses very seriously.' 'Unite may have walked all over Ed Miliband and taken over the Labour Party, but we will not let them do that to our NHS.' Leading GP Michael Dixon, the president of NHS Clinical Commissioners, said: 'This plan is deeply worrying. It will be the patients who suffer from attempts to intimidate hard-working doctors.' 'Nobody deserves to be threatened just for trying to improve patient care.' Last night, a Unite spokeswoman said that while the executive had discussed the plan, it was 'just a proposal. She added that defending the NHS from the 'savagery' of the Government was 'one of the most serious issues facing the country'.
(CNN) -- King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia has left a New York hospital to recuperate at his home in the city, the official Saudi Press Agency said Wednesday. The king left the New York Presbyterian Hospital / Weill Cornell Medical Center Tuesday night, the news agency said citing the Royal Court. The statement did not say how long Abdullah will remain in New York. Abdullah first underwent successful surgery on November 24. He had a successful follow-up back surgery on December 3 to stabilize several vertebrae in his spine, the agency said earlier. The king traveled to the United States for treatment of a herniated spinal disc and a blood clot that was causing him back pain, Saudi state media reported. Abdullah, 86, had named Crown Prince Sultan to administer the state's affairs in the monarch's absence, the state-run Saudi Press Agency reported at the time. The top three figures in the kingdom -- Abdullah, Sultan and Prince Nayef, the country's interior minister and second deputy prime minister -- are all sons of King Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud, who founded modern Saudi Arabia in 1932. Abdullah has ruled the oil-rich kingdom since the August 2005 death of his half-brother, King Fahd. But Abdullah ran most of the kingdom's affairs for a decade before that on behalf of his ailing half-brother. Since coming to power, he has sought to establish rules and procedures for many Saudi institutions, giving him a reputation as a reformer in the highly conservative nation.
(CNN) -- The Achilles heel of America's policy against terrorism is its failure to counter the narratives that inspire individuals to become extremists and terrorists. That's why -- despite the skill and numerous successes of our military, intelligence and law enforcement agencies -- the type of tragic events seen most recently with the stabbings of soldiers in London and outside Paris, and the April bombing of the Boston Marathon, will continue to occur. We're failing to use a key weapon that needs to be used. There's no question that the United States has been extremely effective tactically against al Qaeda and other terrorist groups since 9/11. Our military, intelligence and law enforcement agencies have done what they were charged with doing, from routing them in Afghanistan to hunting down Osama bin Laden to thwarting plots against New York. But this isn't enough. For as long as extremists are able to attract new recruits, they'll keep producing replacements for those killed or apprehended and the battle will never end. This is why the strategic tool known as "countering violent extremism," or CVE, has to be used alongside special operations, drones and other weapons. As an FBI Special Agent, I interrogated dozens of senior terrorists. It quickly became clear that part of al Qaeda's effectiveness in gaining recruits was in their tailoring their rhetoric and their messenger to the personality, location and likely local grievances of their target. Extremists won't use a Yemeni railing about U.S. "crimes" in Iraq to try to appeal to American-Somali youths in Minnesota. They'll find someone with as close a background as possible, and who understands grievances that resonate, such as foreign powers intervening in Somalia's affairs. Once a person is recruited they are indoctrinated with the group's counterculture. Asymmetrical groups like al Qaeda often develop their own countercultures, with certain religious texts, events and a consciousness that allows them to in many ways create their own religion within Islam. It isn't an ideology.
That's factually inaccurate and gives it undeserved credit. It's a false narrative. As I travel around the world today, I've seen how that counterculture, once centered in Afghanistan and Pakistan, has worryingly spread to places like Nigeria and Southeast Asia. Its spread is helped by today's new technological tools: Recruitment is not just happening in training camps and in secret meeting rooms, but in Internet chat rooms and through social media. That has been a major factor in the increase in homegrown terrorism in the West, seen horrifically on May 22 on the streets of London and April 15 at the Boston Marathon. In his recent speech on terrorism, President Obama told the nation that the values the United States holds will ultimately defeat the terrorists. This will be the case as long as we take the steps to effectively deploy our message. We need to counter extremists in the same manner that they recruit: Targeting extremists with the ideal medium, messenger and message. A mistake the United States has been making to date is in repeatedly making broad gestures toward the Muslim world and the U.S. Muslim community, making the argument that the United States is a friend. These broad messages don't have an impact on those who need to be targeted. The United States is working on developing a CVE program, but it has mistakenly spread the domestic portfolio across a range of agencies, from the Department of Education to the FBI. This makes it difficult to have a clear and effective strategy, and also hampers efforts: Charging law enforcement with both collecting intelligence on suspected extremists as well as handling community engagement programs creates natural conflicts and means that neither job can be done effectively. The ideal situation is one in which the federal government provides support to local efforts to deal with local extremists and recruitment factors, not by imposing a strategy dictated from Washington.
This requires local communities -- whether in New York or in Sana'a, Yemen -- to step up and take the lead in increasing the resiliency of their communities against these groups by identifying what the extremist narratives are and where they're spreading -- and then by countering them. When people are being recruited because of alleged local or tribal grievances, it is community leaders who are the best messengers to counter that narrative. When it's a distortion of Islam, it's the duty of religious leaders to take the lead. Sometimes it's former extremists, who have taken the same path and have credibility, who can be the most effective messengers. The best CVE programs, such as Singapore's, do this. They have a focused aim of reducing the pool of potential recruits and the appeal of violence, and they target accordingly. When done correctly, CVE should not be an excuse for broad social work or for anthropological studies; it's a focused counterterrorism weapon. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Ali Soufan.
(CNN) -- I was living in Syria when the statues of Saddam Hussein in neighboring Iraq came toppling down. Saddam, who had arrogantly had his name inscribed on bricks at the ancient city of Babylon, did not expect his rule to end so abruptly, so humiliatingly. And at the University of Damascus, students told me that they expected Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to fall soon, too. They were not alone. With 250,000 U.S. troops amassed in Iraq in 2003, George W. Bush's White House had contemplated rolling American tanks into the Syrian capital. The Middle East was to be reshaped in the image of American democracy. But events in Iraq, Afghanistan, and North Korea distracted the Pentagon, and the "democratic domino theory" did not come to pass. Ten years after Iraq, did the war give birth to the Arab Spring? Yes, the Iraq War had indirect connections to the Arab uprisings that swept the Middle East and northern Africa in 2011. For one, the fall of Saddam must have psychologically empowered Arab opposition activists who saw that a Ba'thist dictator and his sons could be removed from power. FULL COVERAGE: The Iraq War, 10 years on . But it is a mistake to suggest that Arabs across the region were directly inspired by the fall of Saddam -- if that were true, they would have risen a decade ago. Why wait until 2011? The answer is that other, more direct developments led to the ongoing Arab revolutions. First, in the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001 atrocities, Arab governments used the ensuing "war on terror" to quell domestic dissent. When opposition Islamist parties questioned the legitimacy of Arab dictators, they were portrayed as al Qaeda sympathizers to the West, and their imprisonment in Cairo or Riyadh or Tripoli didn't raise international eyebrows. The violence of radical Islamists failed to topple strongmen in Egypt and Syria in the 1960s and 1980s.
And once again, from 2001 to 2011, government repression of less radical, nonviolent Islamists signalled to a younger generation of Arabs that Islamism could not overthrow autocratic regimes. WATCH NOW: Iraq's phantom WMD . Second, as the "war on terror" unfolded, Islamists continued to fail in their decades-long pursuit to gain political office, and the widespread corruption and nepotism of regimes in Tunisia, Libya and Egypt sunk deeper, US support for Arab dictatorships also came into question. Then U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice put it best in June 2005: "For 60 years, my country, the United States, pursued stability at the expense of democracy in this region here in the Middle East, and we achieved neither." These were not just empty words. The U.S. government identified civil society organizations and financially supported NGOs through the "democracy promotion" agenda. During the Bush administration, annual funding for these programs exceeded the total amount spent on such programs in the entire decade to 2001, according to the 2009 budget report from the Project on Middle East Democracy. Funding for the mostly secular democracy activists was bolstered by the training provided for them in use of social media in mobilizing people. The invention and popularity of Facebook and Twitter helped young Arabs bypass communications controlled by their dictators. Even if this U.S.-funded training in creating political parties, electioneering, communication and media training only reached a small portion of the population, is it any wonder that English-speaking, elite, urban Arabs took to Facebook and Twitter to help overthrow dictators? Yes, there were local grievances and the uprisings were homegrown. The Arab uprisings belong to the Arab youth. But they were also responding by using modern technology to amplify the mood music of Western belief that Arabs too could create free societies. They were not an exception. WATCH: Lingering effects of war on Iraqis .
Why else were Arab protesters' attention focused on the Obama White House as they demanded the president call on Mubarak to depart? As Turkey pressured the White House to oppose Mubarak, Saudi Arabia pressured Obama to support Mubarak -- and in that way the uprisings revolved to some degree around the messages sent from the U.S. government. The Arab Spring was going to happen with or without Saddam Hussein, but it would not have happened had it not been for the attacks of September 11. In fact, in many ways the Iraq War has prevented more from being done to aid the uprisings, hindering global resolve in attending to the killing fields of the full-blown civil war in Syria. OPINION: Media's failure on Iraq still stings . It is the ghost of Iraq that prevents the U.S. from leading attempts to topple the brutal Assad regime in Damascus. Regime change has consequences, as we learned in Iraq. There will be no new commitments to "nation build" again, or re-train police and security forces in a far off Arab land. The sectarianism, tribalism, Jihadism, border skirmishes and threat of chemical weapons use in Syria reminds U.S. policymakers of the American and Arab blood and treasure sacrificed in Iraq. And to what avail? The ongoing loss of life in Syria is a direct result of U.S. foreign policy blunders in Iraq. Syrians are the victims of America's Iraq adventure. So as we ponder the last decade and current Arab uprisings, let us not gloat about the "success" of Iraq. Iraq is not a success. It is now an ally of Iran, home to a prime minister who persecutes his own political opposition, and unashamedly supports the Assad regime in Syria. Egyptians, Yemenis, Libyans, and Tunisians were not inspired by America in Iraq. The opinions expressed in this opinion piece are solely those of Ed Husain.
(CNN) -- As a drone with a sensitive camera scans an expanding search area for missing University of Virginia student Hannah Graham, investigators are widening their scope to include other missing persons and murder cases. A suspect in custody has been connected to previous sexual assault allegations, and DNA evidence has linked him to the disappearance and death of another young woman in the same area where Graham vanished. At least four women have gone missing there since 2009. Graham, 18, was last seen in Charlottesville's Downtown Mall area on September 13. Investigators believe suspect Jesse Matthew, 32, was the last person with her. He is charged with abduction with the intent to defile. There have been no signs of Graham since. As the search for her and the investigation of Matthew continue, this is what we've learned so far: . Who is Hannah Graham? She's a native of Northern Virginia and tall -- 5 feet, 11 inches with a slender build. Graham has light brown hair, blue eyes and freckles. She was wearing a crop top when she was last seen. She's a second-year University of Virginia student making straight A's, her parents say. And she is a member of the ski team. She had been co-captain of her high school softball team. "She was extremely smart, very witty, very athletic; she was musically inclined," her former coach Craig Maniglia said. She was studying pre-med, he said. There are also photos from a recent trip to France and comments from friends in French on what appears to be her Facebook page. Where was she the night she vanished? On the evening of September 12, she was seen at a party before friends saw her at an apartment complex a couple of blocks away. That was shortly before midnight, according to a timeline compiled by CNN affiliate WVIR.
About 12:45 a.m. on September 13, a surveillance camera caught her outside of a pub, about three-quarters of a mile from the apartment complex. Other surveillance cameras captured her, as she ran past a gas station, walked past an Italian cafe and then by a jewelry store. At 1:20 a.m., she texted her friends to say she was lost and trying to find a party, WVIR reported. She and a man were seen having drinks at a bar between 1:30 and 2 a.m., WVIR reports. Police believe she may have been under the influence of alcohol, making her less able to defend herself. What is being done to find her? This is the first time in the state's history that an aerial drone has been used in a missing person search. Authorities are also offering a $100,000 reward for information leading her safe return. More than 3,000 tips to Graham's possible whereabouts have poured in. Police have asked owners of large parcels of property in surrounding counties to search their land and report back. More than 1,200 volunteers have searched around Charlottesville for clues leading to Graham. And the search area has expanded to include U.S. Route 29, outside of Charlottesville, where other women reportedly disappeared. Where is Hannah Graham? What other cases have come up in the investigation? DNA evidence has linked suspect Matthew to the death of a second woman, Virginia Tech student Morgan Harrington, who disappeared in 2009, authorities said. She was 20 at the time. Her remains were found on a farm months later. Investigators are also checking other unsolved homicide and missing person cases for possible connections: Those of Cassandra Morton, whose body was found in a wooded area near Lynchburg in November 2009; Samantha Ann Clarke, who was last seen on September 13, 2010; and Virginia Tech students Heidi Childs and David Metzler, who were shot to death in 2009.
Route 29 seems to be a ghoulish common denominator. Harrington and Clarke disappeared along the corridor, where Graham also may have vanished. Alexis Murphy of Lovingston, Virginia, also vanished there. All the women were between 17 and 20 years old, CNN affiliate WVIR has reported. Another man, Randy Taylor, was convicted in Murphy's case in August 2013. He maintains he is innocent. And this week, his lawyer, Michael J Hallahan II, asked that evidence in the case be re-examined. "This is not a fishing expedition, but rather this request is based upon evidence presented at Randy Taylor's trial and based upon these new developments relating to Matthew in the news," Hallahan said. "Maybe it's him (Matthew), maybe it's not. It doesn't hurt to check." In addition, in 2010, Harrington's case was connected to the 2005 kidnapping and sexual assault of another woman in Fairfax, Virginia. That woman survived her ordeal and provided police a description to make a sketch. Whether the drawing of an African-American male resembles Matthew would have to be left up to interpretation. Authorities check unsolved cases for ties to Graham disappearance . Has Jesse Matthew been in trouble before? Matthew has been accused of sexual assault twice before, when he was in college over a decade ago. A woman reported she was raped on the campus of Liberty University in Lynchburg on October 17, 2002. Matthew was a student at the evangelical Christian college for three years and played on the football team. However, no charges were filed because the woman didn't want to go forward with the case, and investigators determined there wasn't enough evidence to arrest Matthew. Matthew told authorities that the woman consented. There were no witnesses. This week, a "criminal incident information" report was released by Christopher Newport University in Newport News, Virginia, pointing to a sexual assault allegedly involving Matthew on September 7, 2003.
Matthew quit the school's football team after the allegations and later left the school. When Virginia police first looked for Matthew for questioning in the Graham case, he went to a police station, and there he asked for legal representation. Days later, after police obtained an arrest warrant, Matthew was found more than 1,000 miles away on a Texas beach. He did not fight extradition in a Texas court and was taken back to Virginia. CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Mike Ahlers and Ed Payne contributed to this report.
Wolves' Kurt Gidley, 34, became the first rugby league player to wear a camera during Thursday's 22-8 defeat. Television viewers were told at half-time that the device had been removed because of "technical issues". "I don't know if it had any effect on what he did, but the camera went at half-time," said Wire coach Tony Smith. "Kurt wanted to get on with playing footy. I don't think things were going great for Kurt at that stage. He needed to get it off and just get on with playing." The camera, which was mounted on a vest behind a hole in Gidley's shirt, was worn to try to give viewers a unique perspective of the contact sport. Gidley had said before kick-off that the experimental idea "painted a target" on him. Wolves are bottom of Super League and without a win after five successive defeats, but Smith said the technology could not be used as an excuse. "I hope they got some good footage from it," he added. "I think it was done for all the right reasons to try and give people a perspective of rugby league from a different angle." Sky Sports, who broadcast live Super League, have said they will continue with the experiment. "We had a few technical issues with the camera which could not be resolved in the half-time break," a spokesperson said. "Kurt was happy to continue wearing it and it was a decision made by our production team and Warrington, not his, to take it off. "After we have reviewed the game and the camera we will certainly look to give it another go."
By . James Tozer . PUBLISHED: . 05:07 EST, 3 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 03:32 EST, 4 November 2013 . Two teenage girls knocked down and killed by a car in the early hours of yesterday may have been murdered. Jasmine Allsop, 14, and her friend Olivia Lewry, 16, were hit yards from the younger girl’s family home, apparently after attending a party. Police were yesterday questioning a 20-year-old man, who is understood to have known both girls, on suspicion of their murder. Friends: The girls, named locally as Olivia Lewry (left) and Jasmine Allsop (right), were hit by a car in Gosport . The girls were hit by the Honda Civic . around 20 yards from the terraced house in Gosport, Hampshire, as they . walked home at about 4.15am. Jasmine – known as Jas – died at the scene, while Olivia was taken to hospital with severe injuries but died later yesterday. Friends . and neighbours gathered yesterday near the scene of the tragedy to . mourn the pair. Jazmine Bates, 16, said: ‘They were lovely, bubbly girls . and everyone around here knew them. ‘They . were best friends and were always together. It’s so sad. Everyone is . shocked and I don’t think anyone can believe what has happened. ‘They . were good girls and easy to get along with. They didn’t have any . enemies. They were loved by everyone. ‘There will be a lot of tears.’ Sasha Ewing, also 16, said: ‘They were happy girls who were always out with mates and having a good time. Flowers have been left at the scene where two girls were killed in Gosport .
Forensic officers gather evidence at the scene in Gosport where two girls were killed . Forensic officers close off the road where two teenagers were mowed down . Forensic officers bag up evidence after two teenage girls were killed in Gosport . Police officers put up a sign urging people to come forward if they have any information about the deaths . Police officers at the scene in Ann's Hill Road in Gosport where a teenager died . ‘It’s . such a shock - one minute they were here and now they are not.’ Blonde-haired Jasmine attended Brune Park Community School in Gosport, . while Olivia had recently started studying for her A-Levels at St . Vincent College in the coastal town. Damien . Bannon, 19, who knew both girls, said: ‘I believe the girls had been to . a party and were standing outside the house talking when the car hit . them. The driver was a friend of theirs. ‘I still can’t believe it. It’s . such a tragedy.’ Mr Bannon, . a decorator, said Jasmine’s older brother Reece was ‘distraught and . angry’ at her death. ‘He was very fond and protective of his little . sister,’ he added. Arron . O’Sullivan, 28, said: ‘This is such a tragic waste of young lives, . especially so close to Christmas. I’m still shaking because of the . shock.’ Schoolfriends who . asked not to be named described the girls as ‘bubbly, outgoing, and . extremely popular.’ One said: ‘They loved being the centre of attention . and were very sociable. They were always listening to popular chart . music or dubstep.’ Meanwhile devastated neighbours laid flowers at the scene and spoke of their shock.
Investigation: Police seal off Anne's Hill Road where two teenagers were hit by a car . A 20-year-old man from the Gosport area was arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving . Police gather evidence at the scene where two girls were killed . A . message on one bunch said: ‘In love and memory of Olivia and Jaz. Thinking of you. Lots of love Regan, Taylor, Kayleigh and Tom.’ Family . friend Victoria Berry, 45, who lived opposite Jasmine’s former Gosport . address, described the teenager as an ‘absolutely gorgeous girl’. She . added: ‘What has happened to her and her friend is an absolute tragedy . and a huge loss to all that knew and loved her. ‘It’s hard to believe that I’ll never see her again.’ On . Facebook, Chelsea-Lee Evans wrote: ‘I can’t imagine how hard it is for . all of your family and friends. I love you both and R.I.P my angels.’ Tara Hebberd posted: ‘2 beautiful girls have lost their lives. R.I.P Jas and Olivia sleep tight.’ Forensic officers have been at the scene gathering evidence where the two girls were hit . The . street was cordoned off by police yesterday as scene of crime officers . in white overalls examined the scene, marked with yellow and red cones. Detective . Superintendent Dick Pearson, from Hampshire Constabulary, said: ‘This . is an extremely tragic incident which has resulted in the death of two . young girls. ‘I currently . have a team of detectives and other officers, including expert road . collision investigators, working on this case to fully investigate the . circumstances surrounding the deaths of these two teenage girls.
‘I would appeal to anyone who knows anything which could help this murder investigation to contact my team as soon as possible.’ Sorry we are unable to accept comments for legal reasons.
It may be banned for ordinary people in Iran, but Facebook has at least one member in the country. Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei appears to have become one of the website's newest members. Despite banning it due to its use by activists to rally government opponents in 2009, a page purporting to be for Khamenei himself launched a few days ago with the name Khamenei.ir. Ayatollah Khamenei has joined Facebook despite banning the rest of Iran from the site due to government opposition in 2009 . The 73-year-old's page displays pictures of him alongside speeches and pronouncements he has made. While there are several other Facebook pages already devoted to Khamenei, the new one - whose number of 'likes' was today close to 10,000 - appeared to be officially authorised, rather than merely the work of admirers. The page has been publicised by a Twitter account of the same name that Iran experts believe is run by Khamenei's office. Both U.S-based social media sites are blocked in Iran by a wide-reaching government censor but they are still commonly used by millions of Iranians who use special software to get around the ban. In 2009, social media were a vital tool for those Iranians who believed the re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was rigged. Facebook was used to help organise street protests of a scale not seen since the Islamic Revolution of 1979. The protests - which the government said were fuelled by Iran's foreign enemies - were eventually stamped out by the security forces and their political figureheads remain under house arrest. The cover photo for the supreme leader shows Khamenei being driven through the streets with hundreds of supporters surrounding his vehicle . Another picture shows Khamenei alongside Imam Kohmeini in the first days of Iran's Islamic Revolution movement .
Khamenei's Facebook page has so far shared a picture of a young Khamenei alongside the founder of the Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, in the early 1960s. It shares a similar tone, style and content with accounts devoted to disseminating Khamenei's message on Twitter and Instagram and to the website www.khamenei.ir, a sophisticated official website published in 13 languages. Experts said the social media accounts showed that Iran, despite restricting access to such sites inside the country, was keen to use them to spread its world view to a global audience. 'Social media gives the regime leadership another medium of communication, one that can share their message with a younger and far more international demographic,' said Afshon Ostovar, a Middle East analyst at CNA, a U.S.-based research organisation. Iran has yet to comment on whether Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has joined Facebook or not . Iran is locked in a decade-long dispute with the West over its nuclear programme, which the U.S. and its allies suspect is aimed at developing a bomb, something Iran has repeatedly denied. Iran, the West and regional states are also often opposed on issues such as the violence raging in Syria and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Iranian authorities have said they are trying to build a national intranet, something sceptics say is a way to further control Iranians' access to the global web. Tehran tried to block Google Inc.'s email service this year but soon reopened access. Iranian authorities had no immediate comment on the site, which apparently went online last week but only recently gained prominence among social media watchers. Despite the possibility that it is a hoax, the page has generated at least 170 comments - laudatory and derogatory, and nearly all in Farsi - that highlight the deep political divisions in Iran and possibly opposition fervor from expatriate Iranians.
One post compared Khamenei to a celebrated ruler of ancient Persia, Cyrus the Great, who significantly expanded the Persian empire 2,500 years ago. Another wrote: 'Mr. Khamenei, how are you visiting this page? With proxy?' It was a reference to Iran's blocking of Facebook and many other Western social media sites, and the efforts to bypass the restrictions using proxy server links from outside Iran. The U.S. State Department said Monday it will keep tabs on the page, but had no comment on whether it was genuine or not. Spokeswoman Victoria Nuland joked that Washington is curious how many 'likes' the Khamenei page receives. But much about the page - including an informal photo of Khamenei riding in a car - suggested it was not sanctioned by Iran's top leader. It is also highly unlikely that Khamenei would endorse a banned outlet such as Facebook. The Net is not unknown territory for Iranian leaders, however. Khamenei, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and others have official websites. Also, some senior Iranian clerics issue religious opinions by email.
Members were balloted over job security at the university's medical school. UCU Scotland said three-quarters of those who took part in a ballot voted for strike action. A petition will also be handed in on Tuesday. The university expressed disappointment at the announcement. UCU Scotland said all four members of staff now at the centre of the dispute were of Asian ethnic origin, which the union said raised the question of whether the process had been discriminatory. A University of Aberdeen spokesman said: "We are disappointed that the UCU has decided to take strike action, and that they have chosen a date for the strikes which occurs during the student exam period. "We will not allow our students' exams to be disrupted and have made arrangements to make sure this does not occur. "Of the staff that were placed at risk of redundancy as a result of restructuring in the School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition, the remaining four have been offered alternative employment on their current salary and grade. As a result, we no longer believe there will be a need for any compulsory redundancies. "Regarding the concerns of UCU over the process that was followed, it is important to point out that the University of Aberdeen is an equal opportunities employer and takes this responsibility very seriously."
By . Helen Collis . PUBLISHED: . 04:58 EST, 19 September 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 05:33 EST, 19 September 2013 . With $12,000 cash in his backpack, an early morning motorbike ride to the jewellers and a big smile on his face, Matthew Camp was off to buy his girlfriend a special engagement ring. But that dream was shattered because unbeknown to him a faulty zip on his bag meant that for miles, his hard earned cash was streaming out behind him. And for fisherman Matthew Camp, the cash truly was the result of hard work, sweat and sacrifices. Good intentions: Matthew Camp planned to buy his girlfriend Tabitha Bohn an engagement ring with his recent paycheck from a good season as a scallop fisherman . After days and even weeks away at sea, aboard the scallop boat the FV Nancy Elizabeth, at last the boat had had a big haul. It was a welcome relief in a job which at times brings in nothing at all. When the ship docked on Sept. 9 in Cape May County, New Jersey, Mr Camp, 32, immediately cashed his check, stuffed the bills into his backpack and headed south on the Garden State Parkway at 8am. According to Philly.com, it wasn't until he reached Lund's Fisheries, close to his home in Lower Township, that the horror of what had happened hit him. Every hard-earned dollar was gone. His plans were ruined; he called his girlfriend Tabitha Bohn. He was 'sick to his stomach' Miss Bohn told Philly.com. 'This season had been good, finally. Last season had been bad and we were at our wits' end. Sometimes he can go out for a month and not even make a paycheck,' she told the news service.
Mr Camp only realised all his hard-earned cash was gone after travelling south on his motorbike along the Garden State Parkway to Lund Fisheries . Mr Camp turned his motorbike around and retraced his tracks searching desperately for his money. Some luck, fortunately, was on his side, as a team of highway workers on a roadside project had scooped up $4,000 and handed it in to police. But the rest was gone, presumed taken by opportunist motorists. Mr . Camp, a father-of-four, had received a phone call from a person . claiming to a driver in a silver Dodge pickup, and claiming they had the . cash, Miss Bohn told Philly.com. But the couple weren't sure if it was a cruel prank. No money was handed in to the police. 'It can't possibly feel good to spend someone else's hard-earned money,' she said. His dream was shattered when the $12,000 cash for his scallops, which he stuffed into his backpack, fluttered away in the wind because of a faulty bag zip . As Mr Camp prepared to set off on another long fishing trip, his sister Michelle Godin spoke to the news service, and told them he was angry and embarrassed at what had happened. She stressed he was a hard-working, honest, family man who has to leave his loved ones for days on end for a dangerous job to make ends meet. New Jersey State Police have urged people to contact them with information. Read more here: Cape May County fisherman's bounty lost on land .
London (CNN) -- An advertisement for Marc Jacobs perfume featuring teenage actor Dakota Fanning has been banned in Britain because it "sexualized children." The ad, for Marc Jacobs "Oh, Lola!" fragrance, featured Fanning, the child star of "War of the Worlds" and "I am Sam" wearing a short dress and holding an oversized bottle of the scent in her lap. Four readers complained that the photograph -- which appeared in two British magazines in August -- was "offensive and irresponsible," for showing Fanning, 17, "in a sexualized manner." Britain's advertising regulator, the Advertising Standards Agency (ASA) agreed with the complaints, and has banned the picture from use in the UK. Coty UK, the perfume's manufacturer insisted that the ad "did not show any private parts or sexual activity" and said it was "provoking, but not indecent." But the ASA ruled that Fanning "was holding up the perfume bottle in her lap between her legs and we considered that its position was sexually provocative." In a statement, it said that while it accepted that Fanning was 17, "we considered she looked under the age of 16," and that her outfit and pose "drew attention to her sexuality." "Because of that we considered the ad could be seen to sexualize a child. We therefore concluded that the ad was irresponsible and was likely to cause serious offense." It is not the first time the ASA has banned advertisements featuring Hollywood stars -- in July, the watchdog ruled against a make-up ad starring Julia Roberts, on the grounds it had been airbrushed too heavily.
BEIJING — Ten people were arrested in suspicion of killing and dismembering a wild panda and selling its meat, according to Chinese state television. Police found the panda's skin, bones and 22 pounds of meat in a raid on a house in Yanjin, Yunnan province, in December, CCTV reported. Two of the suspects are brothers who told police they were hunting for an animal that killed their goat. On finding the creature in a tree, they shot at it and found the falling animal to be a giant panda. When the injured panda climbed another tree, they shot at it again, causing its death. The account was confirmed to another Chinese journalist by the Yunnan Forestry Bureau. DNA tests revealed the panda was an adult female, CCTV said. A piece of a wild giant panda fur is measured after 10 suspects involved in killing the panda were detained by police in Yanjin county, Zhaotong city, southwest China's Yunnan province on May 13. Yang linhua / Imaginechina via AP The grisly case provoked strong reactions on social media. “How can people be so heartless towards such adorable animals?” asked Sina Weibo user, Jiwuge. However, Netease user Xiazi said: “Without the existence of buyers there would not be this killing.” There are only about 1,800 wild pandas left in China, CCTV said. Julia Zhou and Alastair Jamieson contributed to this report. BEIJING (AP) — Police in southwestern China arrested 10 people for killing a female wild giant panda and buying and selling its parts, state media said Wednesday. Female pandas eat bamboo at Chengdu Panda Breeding Research Center in Chengdu in southwest China's Sichuan province Wednesday, May 13, 2015.
Police in southwestern China arrested 10 people for killing (Associated Press) Five panda cubs eat special milk porridge served in separate bowls during feeding time at the Chengdu Panda Breeding Research Center in Chengdu in southwestern China's Sichuan province Wednesday, May (Associated Press) The giant panda is an endangered species that tops China's list of protected animals. Poaching them is rare, but panda parts are believed to fetch high prices on the black market because of their rarity. China Central Television said forest police in Yunnan province recovered panda skin, meat, bones and an internal organ from the poachers and vendors. If convicted, the suspects could be jailed for years. Authorities told the official Xinhua News Agency that one suspect, identified by his family name of Wang, set up a trap after he found his sheep had been killed by wild animals in December. After he found the trap was broken and his brother spotted footprints of a wild animal, the two men tracked down the panda and killed it, according to the media report. The men sold 35 kilograms of giant panda meat and its four paws for 4,800 yuan ($800) to one buyer, and that the parts were sold again to others, Xinhua said. A recent census shows the wild panda population grew by 268 to a total of 1,864 in China since the last survey ending in 2003. The World Wide Fund for Nature has said poaching, a traditional threat to wild pandas in China, has declined but economic development has become a major threat. Hydropower plants, roads, and mining projects disrupt the animal's natural habitat. Still, Chinese officials say poaching rare animals and smuggling their parts remain a problem and that authorities are stepping up efforts to crack down on acts endangering rare animals.
By . Katy Winter . PUBLISHED: . 09:51 EST, 25 July 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 09:11 EST, 8 August 2013 . The research shows that poor quality or inadequate sleep can effect many different aspects of skin cells . It is well known that sleep is essential for health, with lack of shuteye associated with everything from weight gain to cancer. But now research has proven the long suspected link between insufficient sleep and accelerated signs of ageing. The study, conducted by University Hospital Case Medical Centre in Ohio investigated the impact of chronic lack of sleep has on skin function and appearance. They found that poor quality sleepers lost 30 per cent more water 72 hours after a skin barrier disruption, such as exposure to UV light than those who regularly have good quality sleep. Crucially for women concerned with the signs of ageing poor sleepers had twice the amount of intrinsic signs of ageing such as fine lines, reduced elasticity and uneven pigmentation, as well as recovering slower from sunburn. They also reported less satisfaction with their skin's appearance and had a dulled skin sensory response. Further breakthroughs for the importance of night time repair of skin comes from cutting edge research from scientists on the process of Catabolysis. Dr Nadine Pernodet, ‎Executive Director of Skin Biology Research at Estee Lauder explains: 'Catabolysis is a natural purification process that helps skin cells eliminate internal debris that can cause cellular damage.' It is getting older coupled with environmental stressors that generate this internal debris within cells, which can cause cellular damage and prevent cells from functioning effectively. Sleep is essential to skin repair which keeps it looking youthful and even . Skin cells, like the entire human body, have a natural 24 hour rhythm, repairing themselves at night and protecting themselves in the day.
The research, commissioned by skincare brand Estée Lauder, is the first to show that Catabolysis is at its peak at night in line with the circadian rhythm of our bodies and that as you age, the process becomes less efficient and desynchronised with the night. Healthy skin cells maximise natural repair at night and thus suffering from chronic lack of sleep will negatively effect your skin. Sleep expert Dr Guy Meadows from www.thesleepschool.org debunks some myths How much sleep do you actually need need? The average amount of sleep people need to wake up feeling refreshed and to cope during the day is 7-8 hours. Genetic variation means that their are long and short sleepers and so sleep needs can range from 4 to 10 hours. Genetics also determine the time that you sleep such as whether you are an owl or a lark. Women are three times more likely to suffer from poor sleep than men (75 to 25 per cent). Can you train yourself to have less sleep? Contrary to what many people believe you cannot train yourself to need less sleep. People who believe they need more sleep than they actually do and spend to long in bed could be weakening their sleep quality. For these people, paradoxically decreasing the amount of hours spent in bed could help to improve depth and quality of sleep. What are long-term effects of not enough sleep? Research tells us that good sleep helps to protect your immune system and prevent you from getting coughs and colds. It helps you to eat healthily and lose weight by regulating the hormones that control appetite. It also regulates your daytime mood and so helps you to combat feelings of stress, anxiety and depression more effectively. Good quality sleep is also the answer to youthful looking skin by lessening the formation of wrinkles and preventing acne. In the long term, good quality sleep has been shown to limit your risk of conditions such as heart failure, Alzheimer's, diabetes and cancer.
The fear of not sleeping drives us to stop living our lives such as avoiding going out at night with friends or sleeping in the spare room . What are your top tips for the perfect sleep? 1. Let go of the props – sleep is a natural physiological process that can’t be controlled and trying to do so by engaging in unnatural rituals or becoming reliant on props (e.g. warm baths and milk etc) can lead to further sleep anxiety. Follow a normal wind down of turning of the TV, getting ready for the next day, brushing your teeth, washing your face, reading in bed if you want to and then turning out the light. To achieve your best nights sleep you should limit alcohol consumption, especially close to bedtime . 2. Be mindful – Worrying about past poor quality sleep or imagining how bad things will be in the future if we don’t sleep only helps to increase night time arousal levels. Mindfulness grounds us in the present moment by noticing things objectively and without judgment and as a result can promote sleepiness. Take a moment to notice the touch or your pillow on your face or the movement of your breath and if your mind wanders off, gently return it back to what you were observing in that moment. 3. Welcome thoughts and emotions – fearful thoughts such as 'If I don’t sleep, I wont be able to cope' or strong sensations such as anxiety or a racing heart, are a common aspect of insomnia. However, it is often our unhelpful attempts to avoid them such as watching TV or drinking alcohol in the middle of the night that actually keep us awake and fuel them further. Learning to change your relationship with them by getting to know them and even welcoming them when they arrive, helps to reduce their power over you and lessen your struggle with sleep.4.
Timing and drive – when we can’t sleep we try to catch up by going to bed earlier, lying in or napping for long periods during the day. Whilst this may help you to cope in the short term, it often leads to a weaker sleep wake cycle. Start to go to bed and get up at ‘roughly’ the same time most nights, as this will help to keep your body clock on time and promote the natural drive to sleep. If you fancy a nap, then limit it too less than 20 minutes.5. The Bedroom – if you are awake at night choose to stay in bed and conserve your energy by lying still and being calm and relaxed. Be mindful and welcome your thoughts and emotions. The key is learning how to be in bed with all of your fears, rather than spending all night struggling with them or getting out of bed to avoid them.6. Live your life – the fear of not sleeping drives us to stop living our lives such as avoiding going out at night with friends or sleeping in the spare room. Commit to making small actions everyday that take you closer to what is important to you in your life, whilst experiencing your insomnia. Doing so takes away the justification for struggling with sleep in the first place and paradoxically promotes sleep. 7. Lifestyle and environment – Live a healthy lifestyle that promotes sleep. For example, drink a moderate amount of caffeine and stop by 2pm. Limit alcohol consumption, especially close to bedtime. Exercise regularly during the day or early evening and for the reasons of enjoyment and health promotion, rather than to get you to sleep. Sleep in a cool, quiet and dark room. Advanced Night Repair Synchronized Recovery Complex II claims to clean out dirt or dead skin cells from deep in your skin while you sleep . Estée Lauder have used this research into the importance of sleep in skin cell repair to develop an industry first anti-ageing product.
Advanced Night Repair Synchronized Recovery . Complex II works to aid the process of Catabolysis at night, resulting in younger looking skin with long-term use. The patented Catabolysis Technology contains algae and yeast extract to support the skins purifying process and Chronolux Technology which helps support the natural synchronization of the skins nighttime renewal process. The serum is applied before bed and washed off in the morning. Estée Lauder's iconic original Advanced Night Repair has been one of the best-selling anti-ageing products for the past 25 years and one of the first products to harness the fact that the skin repairs itself at night. The Daily Mail's Beauty Editor Elsa McAlonan was one of the first industry experts to try the £48 serum ahead of it going on sale next week, she said: 'The product is supposed to slow down the look of premature ageing, dramatically reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles, and improve the appearance of radiance and evenness. 'In tests, 83 per cent of women felt their skin looked healthier, and found it gave them a fresher, more rested look. Don't expect to look ten years younger after one night, but you should see a difference after a week.'
David Cameron has branded Islamic State terrorists who killed British aid worker Alan Henning 'brutal and repulsive' as the Prime Minister led a wave of global revulsion over the murder. He vowed to 'hunt down' and bring to justice the man who wielded the knife, who has become known as Jihadi John - as Barack Obama, Nick Clegg and Muslim leaders all spoke of their disgust. Mr Henning, 47, a father-of-two, was filmed being murdered in a video posted on the internet three weeks after he was last paraded in front of a camera. Scroll down for video . David Cameron has branded the Islamic State 'brutal and repulsive' tonight after British aid worker Alan Henning was filmed being beheaded by the terrorist dubbed Jihadi John . In a strongly-worded statement, Mr Cameron said: 'We will do all we can to hunt down these murderers and bring them to justice.' He added: 'My thoughts and prayers tonight are with Alan’s wife Barbara, their children and all those who loved him. ‘Alan had gone to Syria to help get aid to people of all faiths in their hour of need. 'The fact that he was taken hostage when trying to help others and now murdered demonstrates that there are no limits to the depravity of these ISIL terrorists. David Cameron received a security briefing this morning before calling the slaying of Alan Henning 'completely unforgivable' Aid worker Alan Henning, 44, a father-of-two, was kidnapped by Islamist rebels on Boxing Day last year . This morning, Downing Street revealed that Mr Cameron was meeting with officials from the intelligence agencies, the military and the Foreign Office at his official country residence Chequers to discuss the killing. Later this morning, he called the slaying 'completely unforgivable' adding that there was 'no level of depravity to which they will not sink'. 'No appeals made any difference,"Mr Cameron told Sky News.
'The murder of Alan Henning is absolutely abhorrent, it is senseless, it is completely unforgivable. Anyone in any doubt about this organisation can now see how truly repulsive it is, and barbaric it is,' he said of IS. When asked whether he believed the extremists would kill more of their Western hostages, Cameron suggested the only way to stop them was through military action. 'The fact that this was a kind, gentle, compassionate and caring man who had simply gone to help others, the fact they could murder him in the way they did, shows what we are dealing with,' he said. Nick Clegg took to Twitter to praise Mr Henning, saying he worked to 'selflessly help those in need' 'This is going to be our struggle now. We must do everything we can to defeat this organisation. We must take action against it. We must find those responsible.' Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg praised Mr Henning on Twitter, saying: 'Sincere condolences to Alan Henning's family. Barbaric actions of ISIL are held in complete contempt. 'We are resolved to defeat this evil. Alan Henning was a man moved to selflessly help those most in need and we should remember that above all else at this difficult time.' Labour leader Ed Miliband said: 'The murder of Alan Henning by ISIL is appalling and barbaric. 'He was an aid worker, helping those in need. Those who killed him have revealed only their lack of humanity and brutality. 'My thoughts and deepest condolences are with his wife Barbara, his children and all those who knew him. 'We will do everything we can to support the efforts of the Government to bring those guilty of this terrible act to justice.' U.S. President Barack Obama said: 'The United States strongly condemns the brutal murder of United Kingdom citizen Alan Henning by the terrorist group ISIL.
'Mr Henning worked to help improve the lives of the Syrian people and his death is a great loss for them, for his family, and for the people of the United Kingdom. 'Standing together with our UK friends and allies, we will work to bring the perpetrators of Alan's murder - as well as the murders of Jim Foley, Steven Sotloff and David Haines - to justice. 'Standing together with a broad coalition of allies and parteners, we will continue taking decisive action to degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL.' The American ambassador to the UK Matthew Barzun said this morning: 'Today, we stand with the UK in joint determination, resolve and commitment to achieve justice for Alan Henning.' Imams had joined forces before Mr Henning's execution to appeal to the terrorists to release the former taxi driver from Salford, who left his job to travel to Syria to take help to victims of its civil war. Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of the Ramadhan Foundation, a Muslim charity, called Henning 'a British hero.' His 'barbaric killing is an attack against all decent people around the world,' Shafiq said. Dr Shuja Shafi, Secretary General of the Muslim Council of Britain, said: 'This reported murder is a despicable and offensive act, coming as it does on the eve of the Muslim festival of Eid Al-Adha. 'It is quite clear that the murderers of Alan Henning have no regard for Islam, or for the Muslims around the world who pleaded for his life. Barack Obama condemned the killing, and reiterated his promise to 'degrade and ultimately destroy' ISIS . 'Alan was a friend of Muslims, and he will be mourned by Muslims. In this period of Hajj and this festival of Eid, Muslims remember the mercy of God and the emphasis God places on human life. 'Alan Henning's murderers have clearly gone against that spirit of Islam.
Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family.' Hanif Qadir, founder of Active Change Foundation – the organisation behind the #Notinmyname campaign said: 'The fact that they have chosen to commit this barbaric act on the eve of the Eid al-adha, a global expression of forgiveness and mercy among Muslims, only demonstrates the extent of the evil and barbaric nature of these criminals. 'They have not shown any ounce of mercy or compassion and are therefore totally against Islam and are hell-bent on killing innocent individuals and must be stopped. 'As a British Muslim I urge every other Muslim in the UK to stand up and refute these terrorists and distance themselves from this brutality and false Islam.' In footage released on social media, Mr Henning is shown being beheaded by Jihadi John, the Islamist fighter who was also behind the killings of U.S. journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, and British aid worker David Haines. Former Foreign Office minister Baroness Warsi, the first Muslim woman in the Cabinet, tweeted her condolences, saying the Mr Hennning was the 'true martyr.' Liberal Democrat party president Tim Farron said: ‘Alan Henning should be remembered for what he was - a kind hearted, selfless man who wanted to help others. My prayers are with his family.’ Inspire, an anti-extremist campaign group of British Muslim women, described Mr Henning's death as 'an affront to all Muslims across the world'. Co-director Sara Khan expressed her 'heartfelt condolences' to the family of the aid worker, who she described as an 'amazing man, a man of courage, a man of dignity, a man of integrity'.
She said: 'The only thing that the killing of Alan has achieved is greater revulsion for ISIS and the fact that more people from across our world, within our communities, Muslims and non-Muslims alike, are united in their stance against their barbarity and inhumanity. Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of the Ramadhan Foundation, a Muslim charity, called Alan Henning (pictured) 'a British hero.' 'The murder of Alan Henning is a brutal and criminal act of terror that is an affront to all Muslims across the world.' Former head of the Army, General The Lord Dannatt said the deaths of hostages were sadly 'part of the harsh price' to be paid in confronting the 'abomination' of IS. 'Our Government is now standing up to its responsibilities and part of the harsh price, while this takes time, is that sadly if they have hostages in their hands, these atrocious things seem to be happening and seem to be going to continue to happen,' he told BBC Radio 4's Today. He renewed his call for the UK to extend military operations to Syria, where the US and other allies are conducting air strikes, saying this country was 'practically not doing enough'. 'Dealing with half a problem is not going to solve the problem,' he said. 'If the Americans have found a way to be able to do this then actually we should be doing it.' This morning, Mr Cameron met with officials from the intelligence agencies, the military and the Foreign Office at his official country residence Chequers to discuss the killing. Afterwards, a Downing Street statement said the Prime Minister had raised a second video showing a British ISIL fighter unmasked delivering a further message - and that police were investigating 'urgently' for 'possible terrorism offences' relating to it. A second video, published by Islamic State last night, shows an injured British fighter challenging David Cameron to send ground troops to Iraq.
The fighter is believed to be a former Morrisons security guard who flew to Syria . It comes after footage emerged last night of an injured British fighter challenging David Cameron to send ground troops to Iraq. In a rant directed at ‘that despicable swine David Cameron’, the unmasked jihadi said: ‘Send them all, send your reserves and your backup and we’ll send them back one by one in coffins.’ It is understood the jihadist in the video is former supermarket security guard Omar Hussain. The 27-year-old from High Wycombe previously worked for Morrisons as a security guard. He lived with his mother and brothers before travelling to Syria in January 2014. The Downing Street statement said: 'The PM was clear that we must keep doing all we can to ensure that these terrorists are found and brought to justice for their heinous crimes and we will keep working with our US partners and those in the region to do this. 'ISIL’s brutality will not persuade us to change our approach. 'Indeed, the senseless murder of an innocent man only reinforces our resolve to defeat this terrorist organisation and to eradicate the threat they pose to Britons - whether those in the region or here on the streets of the UK. 'At the meeting, the Prime Minister also raised a second video released last night which shows an apparent British ISIL fighter unmasked delivering a further message. 'The police are urgently investigating the contents of the video, including possible terrorism offences relating to it.'
(CNN) -- The age of the virtual assistant is here to stay with Microsoft adding the voice of Cortana to its Windows Phone 8.1. I'm old enough to remember the days when certain computing tasks required a steep learning curve. Now it seems almost magical that I can tell my virtual assistant to remind me to take out the garbage when I get home or call my mom when I get busy. The best part is that when it speaks to me, it does so in a way that allows me to believe, for a brief moment, that I'm interacting with another person. That's because these virtual assistants sound so human. For the creators of artificial intelligent systems, it's critical to build them so that they can facilitate emotional connection with users. When machine interactions with humans feel effortless, natural and "real," that's the ultimate metric of success. We're just getting started. Today's artificial intelligence systems are just scratching the surface of what's possible for personal assistants, advisors and maybe, in some cases, true companions. Indeed, the machine-human relationship in the movie "Her" may not seem so far-fetched in the decades to come. Future virtual assistants will offer far more capabilities and can be personalized for each person. Why should we settle for the voice that companies choose for us? We've known for quite some time that typically female voices are preferred, based on their ability to be heard in a clear manner across a broad range of devices. Of course, female voices also tend to be trusted more than male voices. However, if there is one request heard over and over again, it's for more and varied choices in the persona of these virtual assistants, along with greater control over their spoken voice. Creating text-to-speech, or TTS, can be a difficult task. The more human the system needs to sound the more data needs to be collected. Often times this requires massive amounts of linguistic and acoustic information, based on recordings of real humans.
Fortunately, the technology is rapidly evolving. Future modeling techniques, where TTS voices are made from mathematical models of its human counterparts, will be lifelike enough to simulate human speech. They will also allow more rapid voice creation, allowing a previously unachievable level of personalization, where each person could even pick his or her unique voice for a virtual assistant. Modeling technology will also make possible the combination of different voice traits. For example, the deep qualities of a voice similar to James Earl Jones could be combined with the unorthodox speaking style of someone like Jack Nicholson. Microsoft took a page from the gaming world by basing Cortana on the character from the Halo video game series. Perhaps future voices in our devices will be as readily available to manipulate to create a cacophony of recognizable personal assistants from favorite film and TV actors, radio hosts, family members, comedians -- the sky would be the limit. Whether it's a character from our favorite game or movie, or a persona created by users themselves, we could allow our virtual assistants the freedom to keep us entertained as well as informed. While there is a fine line between personalization and novelty, I see us on a collision course for having more intelligent conversations with our digital assistants in the years ahead. The gadget-oriented systems of today will continue to grow and adapt to our ever-expanding needs, and the more they learn about us, the more they can assist us. When looking at the challenges facing humanity, whether it's eradicating disease, solving our planet's renewable energy needs, or even colonizing other worlds, it's worth pondering if it will be the humans or the intelligence systems that we create that will tackle these problems. And will we be listening if it's the virtual assistants that are doing the work?
The International Ski Federation [FIS] imposed the punishment after ruling she helped to "manipulate" results to ensure her place at the Sochi Olympics. Mae, who represented Thailand, and five officials were punished after an investigation into four Slovenian races which took place before the January qualification deadline for the Games. The Court of Arbitration for Sport will now consider the appeal. The Singapore-born British violinist competed for her father's nation at the Sochi Winter Olympics and under his surname 'Vanakorn'. She finished 67th and last in the Giant Slalom - more than 50 seconds slower than Slovenian race winner Tina Maze - and 11 seconds behind the 66th competitor. A CAS statement said: "The Court of Arbitration for Sport has received two appeals from Ms Vanessa Vanakorn, filed against the decisions taken by the Hearing Panel of the International Ski, in relation to her qualification for the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games." Last month Mae told BBC Sport that her ban was "nonsensical".
The blast targeted a vehicle carrying members of the Central Reserve Police Force in the Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh state, reports said. Officials say the death toll is likely to increase. The Maoists say they are fighting for communist rule and greater rights for tribal people and the rural poor. Their insurgency began in the eastern state of West Bengal in the late 1960s, spreading to more than one-third of India's 600-plus administrative districts. Chhattisgarh is often hit by Maoist violence. Former Indian prime minister Manmohan Singh described India's Maoist insurgency as its "greatest internal security challenge". Major military and police offensives in recent years have pushed the rebels back to their forest strongholds and levels of violence have fallen. But hit-and-run attacks are still common, killing hundreds of people every year.
BAGHDAD, Iraq (CNN) -- Thousands of people marched in central Baghdad on Saturday to protest a proposed U.S.-Iraqi security agreement that would extend the presence of U.S. troops in the country after the end of the year. Thousands staged a mass march through Baghdad, Iraq, on Saturday to protest a planned U.S.-Iraq security deal. The political party of Iraqi cleric Muqtada al-Sadr called for the rally. At one point, several speakers at a podium addressed the mass of people, urging the Iraqi government to reject the proposal. "End the U.S. occupation of Iraq!" one speaker shouted in English. Hazem al-Araji, a senior al-Sadr aide, told protesters their voices would be heard in America. "Thanks to you, to these voices and the millions of voices, George Bush will hear these millions of calls in his 'Black House' -- in which you shouted out, 'No, no, America!'" he said. Watch protesters wave flags, swarm street » . "This talk and these words are that of the leader, Muqtada al-Sadr: Baghdad is free, free! America, get out. This voice does not reach the Green Zone. We want to hear everyone who is occupied in that area saying Baghdad is free, free, America get out!" al-Araji exclaimed. Protesters clogged several streets in the capital, waving Iraqi flags and kicking up dust. The demonstration, the largest in Baghdad in several months, was largely peaceful. Pentagon spokesman Geoff Morrell said in Washington on Thursday a draft status-of-forces agreement authorizing the U.S. troop presence in Iraq had "been agreed upon by U.S. and Iraqi negotiators" and was being reviewed by the two governments.
A U.N. mandate authorizing the U.S. troop presence in Iraq expires December 31, and U.S. officials are examining "contingencies" in case the Iraqi government is unable to sell the status-of-forces deal to the country's various factions, a senior Bush administration official said this week. The same official said negotiations on the pact had finished and the text was final. The official said the "final" draft calls for U.S. troops to be out of Iraqi cities by June 2009 and out of Iraq by the end of 2011 unless the Iraqis ask the United States to stay. The U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the discussions, said negotiators had also "reached a compromise" on the issue of U.S. troops remaining immune from Iraqi law -- an issue that was a major hurdle in the talks. Baghdad has sought the power to arrest and try Americans accused of crimes not related to official military operations, plus jurisdiction over troops and contractors who commit grave mistakes in the course of their duties. The United States has insisted its troops and contractors remain immune from Iraqi law. CNN State Department Producer Elise Labott contributed to this report.
China's stated budget for this year was $120bn (Â£70bn), but the US report said the actual figure was closer to $145bn. The US called on China to be more open about its plans, amid high tension with other regional powers over disputed islands in the South China Sea. China often accused the US of hypocrisy as their budget dwarfs Beijing's. The American military budget was about $600bn in 2013. The annual US report on China's defences usually gives a rough estimate of spending, with last year's quoting a figure of between $135bn and $215bn. But officials say this year they have a much better understanding of the way China operates. The Pentagon said Beijing was spending money on upgrading its arsenal of drones, warships, jets, missiles and cyber weapons. Beijing's main focus, it said, was still on a potential confrontation in the Taiwan Strait. But it was also increasingly focusing on the territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. China claims islands and rocky outcrops throughout the seas that are also claimed by countries including the Philippines, Vietnam and Japan. The US said China's lack of openness caused serious concern for other nations in the region. "Absent greater transparency from China and a change in its behaviour, these concerns will likely intensify as [Chinese] military modernisation programme progresses," the report said. Beijing has not so far responded to the criticism.
By . Mark Duell . PUBLISHED: . 12:09 EST, 4 December 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 18:28 EST, 4 December 2013 . A paranoid schizophrenic who killed his flatmate and cut off his head was today jailed for life. Karl Addo, who was suffering from delusions of persecution, will serve at least six and half years for killing Sergio Marquez - but may never be released from Broadmoor Hospital because he is so ill. The 30-year-old killer had suffered years of mental illness which led to the extreme complex that he was being assaulted by gangs with special powers and been injected with drugs. Jailed: Karl Addo (left), who was suffering from delusions of persecution, will serve at least six and half years for killing Sergio Marquez (right) - but may never be released from Broadmoor Hospital because he is so ill . Addo - who is now being held at the high-security psychiatric hospital in Crowthorne, West Berkshire - believed Spanish waiter Mr Marquez was part of a gang and that he wanted to kill and torture him. Fearing for his life, Addo snapped on the day he had been told to leave the flat in Bournemouth, Dorset, and brutally killed 23-year-old Mr Marquez. He hit him with a cleaver and stabbed him in what was a ‘prolonged horrific and very violent attack and his body was terribly mutilated,’ Nigel Pascoe QC, prosecuting, told Bournemouth Crown Court. Several doctors assessed Addo as being profoundly mentally ill and borderline insane. He mutilated the body of Mr Marquez to stop him recovering from his injuries, the court heard. Sentencing Addo, a judge told him it was common ground he was dangerous. He said Addo would serve the minimum term but also imposed an indefinite restriction under the Mental Health Act.
‘The result of the sentence I have imposed is that the public now has the double protection provided by the Mental Health Act and the involvement of the parole board,’ Mr Justice Burnett said. Family: Sergio Marquez with his mother Maria Carmen Marquez Torres, who said her son was 'a kind, good-hearted and beautiful man who touched the lives of everyone who met him' ‘You will be detained for at least six and half years but will not be released unless the relevant authorities conclude that is it safe to do so. Praise: Sergio Marquez was a 'bright 23-year-old Spaniard who was living and working in Bournemouth' ‘Given all that I have heard, you must recognise that there is a real possibility that such a conclusion will never be reached.’ Engineering graduate Addo, who was born in Britain but had also lived in the US, absconded from the Huntley Mental Health Centre in Central London where he was a voluntary patient the day before a mental health tribunal in October 2011 decided he should be sectioned. Addo then ‘disappeared’ from mental health services before he moved to Bournemouth in May 2012. He killed Mr Marquez, a hotel waiter, on July 17 last year - nine months later, the court previously heard. The headless body of Mr Marquez, which had also been eviscerated, was found by other flat mates who ran screaming from the flat. Police officers arrested Addo nearby covered in blood, the court was told. He had fled the flat when the others had returned. Flatmates told police that Addo had been acting strangely, that he used to steal food from them and had used book pages as toilet paper. He had not paid his rent and had been told to leave by the landlord, the court heard.
Mr Marquez had sent a note about his anti-social behaviour and Addo resented it, the court heard. The victim had tried to defend himself from the attack but was cornered in a room. A neighbour heard some of the attack and Mr Marquez saying ‘please Karl, please Karl’, furniture being dragged around and then Addo laugh, Mr Pascoe said. Reaction: Residents are talked to by police near the scene of Mr Marquez's death in Bournemouth in July 2012 . He was decapitated and disemboweled after he died, the court was told. Addo, of no fixed abode, pleaded not guilty to murder on Monday but guilty to manslaughter through diminished responsibility. 'The brutal killing of this young man has had a profound and lasting impact upon his mother and family' Mr Justice Burnett . The prosecution said the plea was acceptable because Addo had been severely mentally ill when he killed Mr Marquez, who lived in Coin near Malaga in Spain and had come to England to find work. The judge paid tribute to Mr Marquez. ‘He was a bright 23-year-old Spaniard who was living and working in Bournemouth. 'In particular, he wished to improve his English and so his general prospects, not least because of the very difficult economic position in Spain in recent years. Emotional: Maria Carmen Marquez Torres (right) poses with her partner Francisco Segado Ramos following the death of her son Mr Marquez (left) ‘The brutal killing of this young man has had a profound and lasting impact upon his mother and family.’ Speaking after the case, Mr Marquez's mother Maria Carmen Marquez Torres said: ‘Sergio was a kind, good-hearted and beautiful man who touched the lives of everyone who met him. ‘I have lost my son and the world has lost a wonderful man.
I believe that I have received justice for me and for Sergio. ‘No sentence would ever be sufficient and nothing will ever compensate me for the loss of my son, but I find comfort in the fact that Mr Addo will not have his freedom for a long time and inflict this pain on any other family.’
The universe as we know it may not be the only one in existence. In fact, it could be one of a number of parallel universes making up a ‘multiverse.’ In this scenario, there could be multiple versions of you in different universes – ones doing exactly the same thing, and others where your 'twin' has made completely different life choices. It may be stretching the imagination, but theory has gained traction following the major discovery of gravitational waves on Monday. Scroll down for video The discovery of these gravitational waves could solidify the idea that our young universe went through inflation. That theory is linked to the idea that the universe is constantly giving birth to different, parallel universes . Earlier this week, astronomers detected what happened in the first billionth of a trillionth of a trillionth of a trillionth of a second after the Big Bang. This very brief moment of time at the beginning of everything is when the universe expanded very rapidly - a theory called cosmic inflation. According to Albert Einstein when something very explosive like this happens it leaves ripples in space-time known as 'gravitational waves'. Gravitational waves from cosmic inflation generate a faint but distinctive twisting pattern in the universe. Shown here is the pattern observed with the Bicep2 telescope, providing evidence for cosmic inflation after the Big Bang, although the results have been called into question . Enlarge . This graphic shows the universe as it evolved from the Big Bang to now. Nasa scientists believe that the universe expanded from subatomic scales to the astronomical in just a fraction of a second after its birth . Astronomers announced on Monday that they ripples in the fabric of space-time that are echoes of the massive expansion of the universe after the Big Bang. Predicted by Albert Einstein nearly a century ago, the discovery of the ripples, called gravitational waves, would be a crowning achievement the understanding of how the universe began and evolved.
The ‘multiverse’ theory is based on the fact that these gravitational wave point to a particularly powerful type of inflation of the early universe. In some regions of physical reality inflation, continues and in others it stops. In the regions where it has stopped someone looking back on this time would see a 'bang' - the birth of their universe. The ‘multiverse’ theory is based on the fact that these primordial gravitational wave point to a particularly powerful type of inflation of the early universe. ‘In most models, if you have inflation, then you have a multiverse,’ said Stanford physicist Andrei Linde speaking at a conference on Monday. Theorists argue that every kind of universe is out there in the aftermath of the Big Bang, from our familiar universe to universes that have completely different physical properties. 'When it comes to inflation, universes beyond our own come wrapped up as part of the package – what we see as our universe is what remained after inflation ceased in this part of reality,' Colin Stuart, author of 'The Big Questions in Science', told MailOnline. 'What's just been found is “a smoking . gun” for inflation – the most concrete evidence we have to date that it . actually happened. So the multiverse is looking more likely than ever.' Scientists, from left, Clem Pryke, Jamie Bock, Chao-Lin Kuo and John Kovac smile during a news conference at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge to announce their groundbreaking results on gravitational waves . The term ‘multiverse’ was invented in December 1960, by Andy Nimmo, then vice chairman of the British Interplanetary Society. It is based on the theory of eternal inflation, which suggests that shortly after the Big Bang that formed the universe, space-time expanded at different rates in different places.
According to eternal inflation theory, this gave rise to bubble universes that may function with their own separate laws of physics. The idea of other universes out there may seem strange, but scientists say it can help solve some problems of fundamental physics. For instance, the long-standing mystery of why nature appears to be fine-tuned for the emergence of life can be explained by the picture of a multiverse. Some scientists argue that intelligent observers exist only in those rare areas in which the conditions happen to be just right for life to evolve. The rest of the multiverse remains barren, but no one is there to notice it. Another multiverse theory suggests that if space-time goes on forever, it must start repeating at some point, because there are a . finite number of ways particles can be arranged. The multiverse theory could explain a number of processes that have stumped cosmologists for years. For example, there is the 1998 discovery that galaxies in our universe seem to be spreading apart at an accelerating rate. This goes against the rule that mutual gravitational attraction should be slowing them down. If there were multiverses, our universe may happen to be one in which the dark energy is relatively weak. It could also resolve the dilemma in ‘superstring’ theory. At its most basic level, describes all subatomic particles as vibrating filaments and membranes of energy. The string theory only works in ten or eleven dimensions. 'Such a multiverse might even explain the very reason we exist at all,' said Mr Stuart. 'The natural forces at work in our universe, like gravity, for example, seem strangely fined tuned for life. Cosmologists studying a map of the universe from data gathered by the Planck spacecraft concluded that it shows anomalies that can only have been caused by the gravitational pull of other universes . 'Tinker with the settings of nature even slightly and that creates a universe devoid of stars, planets and people.
How come all the settings are perfectly suited for living things? 'It seems an extremely unlikely coincidence. However, if there really are a multitude of other universes out there, each with their own settings, at least one of them will have the right settings for life. 'Our existence moves from being highly improbable to inevitable. In fact, if the number of other universes is infinite, there are an infinite number of copies of Earth out there, with an infinite number of copies of you, reading an infinite number of identical versions of this article.' Last year, scientists were able to create a map of light from when the universe was just 380,000 years old . Last year, scientists said that they had found the first 'hard evidence' that other universes exist. Cosmologists studying a map of the universe from data gathered by the Planck spacecraft concluded that it shows anomalies that can only have been caused by the gravitational pull of other universes. The map shows radiation from the Big Bang 13.8billion years ago that is still detectable in the universe - known as cosmic microwave radiation. Scientists had predicted that it should be evenly distributed, but the map shows a stronger concentration in the south half of the sky and a 'cold spot' that cannot be explained by current understanding of physics. Laura Mersini-Houghton, theoretical physicist at the University of North Carolina, said: ‘These anomalies were caused by other universes pulling on our universe as it formed during the Big Bang.’ A multiverse could resolve the dilemma in 'superstring' theory. At its most basic level, the theory describes all subatomic particles as vibrating filaments and membranes of energy. But string theory only works in ten or eleven dimensions and we only experience four .
We're used to seeing professional athletes putting fitness gear through its paces in adverts, but now a sports brand has turned to every day runners in their latest campaign. Adidas has released a new video showing women running around London and the joy the sport brings them. While they may never be as fast as elite athletes like Paula Radcliffe, they can still strive to be the best they can be - and discover the beauty of scenery around them on their run. One of the 'real' runners featured in the film is Sophie Christabel, 25, from Bow. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO . Why I run: Sophie says she loves the sport because it clears her mind . A lawyer by day, the running enthusiast writes a fitness blog (BePrettyFit.com) in her spare time, telling readers about her top running tips, products and challenges. 'I run to clear my mind - it's a great time to be alone and think. I also run as I like using my body and testing it's potential,' she said.. 'I got into running at university initially to lose weight, but discovered so many other benefits to it once I had started and haven't stopped since. She added: 'I love running in London and seeing so many famous landmarks when you're running - it's very inspiring. I like seeing the architecture change as you run through different areas - you can always find somewhere new. 'It's such an honour to represent every day female runners and to be part of something that will hopefully inspire other women to run in London too.' It's not all about Olympians: The blogger is one of the 'real runners' Adidas have featured in their new campaign .
The film shows London runners as they weave their way through the capital, taking in the sunrise over London Bridge, the urban scene of Hackney Wick and the bustling markets of Elephant & Castle, as the singer's voiceover says: 'This is my way, my city, and I will always find a way through.' As part of the campaign, Adidas has been encouraging runners to tweet pictures of themselves wearing their Boost trainers and revealing where their run has taken them with the hashtag 'fromwhereirun'. Adidas' latest campaign uses real runners over elite sport stars . Women are running in more numbers than ever before and Adidas wanted to create something that speaks directly to them . So far, Tweets have shown runners around the world pausing to take in the view as they run across fields, through cities, over mountains and around athletics tracks. Adidas brand director Nick Craggs said: 'We know that women are running in greater numbers than ever before and we wanted to create something that speaks uniquely to them. 'The project was completed at every stage by London-based women who run the streets for their own individual reasons; united by a mutual love of running and the city they choose to do it in.' The video is narrated by chart-topping singer Foxes, real name Louisa Allen, who has previously modeled for adidas' Energy Boost footwear and says she loves 'the whole sexy sportswear vibe'. Sexy sportswear: Chart-topping singer Foxes has previously modeled for Adidas, and is now the voice of their latest advert for Energy Boost footwear . London calling: The film shows London runners as they weave their way through the capital . 'I always loved what Sporty Spice wore and the way she dressed. I am particularly keen on the boost range, it feels like running on clouds, which is great for on tour when I'm trying to keep fit,' she said.
Foxes says she isn't that keen on hitting the gym and prefers running around London Fields with her friends. 'It is quite hard to keep my fitness up because I am so busy. The best time for me to work on my fitness is when I am on tour because that way I am able to explore different cities by running around them.' As part of the campaign, Adidas has been encouraging runners to tweet pictures of themselves wearing their Boost trainers . The project was completed at every stage by London-based women who run the streets .
We Welcome You Our Mission The Cash Hyde Foundation’s mission is to fight cancer with smiles, prayers, positive energy and provide information and financial support for children with cancer and their families. What We Do Create childhood cancer awareness in our communities. Collect donations and organize fundraiser’s to financially assist the foundation with its projects and financial support for children with cancer and their families. Collect donations and organize fundraiser’s to financially assist the foundation with its projects and financial support for children with cancer and their families. Help families in need organize fundraisers so they can concentrate on fighting cancer. Purchase and donate DVD’s and CD’s to patients at Children’s Hospitals. Donate custom made Reggae Runners (Little Tikes Cars with IV poles mounted to them) to patients at Children’s Hospitals around the country. Raise money to purchase a trailer for families to use at Primary Children’s Hospital. Maintain an open forum and blog on the foundations website for donors to stay informed , communicate and educate. Cash Hyde Foundation Video Cash Michael Hyde 2008 - 2012 When Cashy was 20 months old Radiologist’s at Community Medical Center in Missoula, MT. Discovered a 4.5 cm. Stage 4 Brain Tumor in Cashy. He was transported on Life Flight to Primary Children’s Hospital in Salt Lake City, UT. Cashy was placed on the 2nd floor NTU intensive care unit. Cashy went into emergency open brain surgery the following day to try and remove the tumor. The surgeon’s only removed 10% of the tumor for biopsy because it had grown around his optic nerves. After the surgery Cashy lost his eyesight from the pressure of the tumor on his optic nerves. Oncologist’s diagnosed Cashy with a Malignant and Aggressive Cancer classified as a PNET Brain Tumor.
PNET’s are part of the Blue Cell Cancer group that our aggressive and have a high fatality rate. The Oncologist recommended that Cashy receive 3cycles of Chemotherapy followed by 3 cycles of High Dose Chemotherapy with Stem Cell Rescue. This protocol is aggressive and will take 6 to 8 months to complete. We were told that we needed to do the treatment at Primary Children’s Hospital in Salt Lake City, UT and that Cashy would have to stay in the hospital for weeks at a time. We returned home to Missoula for 6 days to pack are basic belongings and prepare ourselves for the Battle of a Lifetime! There are no words to describe watching chemotherapy take effect on someone you love. Chemotherapy kills cancer cells very aggressively unfortunately it kills healthy cells the same. If cancer has ever touched your life or the life of someone you know, I don’t have to tell you how devastating it is. From the day Cashy’s tumor was discovered he has marveled the medical profession and defied odds countless times. Cashy is considered a Miracle to thousands of people around the world and many Doctors and Nurses. Along the way Cashy regained his vision, survived seizures, and many PICU emergencies. There were many ups and downs along the way but each day Cashy would fight with a smile earning him the title “THE BOY OF STEEL.” Unfortunately on October-12-2011 the Hyde’s were told that Cashy’s brain tumor was back and that he must begin Proton Beam Radiation at the Loma Linda University in California. With radiation treatment Cash has a 30% chance of 5 year survival and risk of Leukemia Cancer, Blindness and severe Brain damage. In June 2012, we drove from Missoula, MT to San Francisco, CA so Mike could speak at the High Time Cannabis Cup.
We also had a booth for the foundation to spread Cashy's story and pediatric cancer awareness. It was also Cashy's fourth birthday and we had a blast going to the beach, the science museum, we drove through the Redwood forest and rode the gondola up the mountain to see some really huge trees! While we were in San Francisco, we teamed up with United Patients Group and they donated/helped assemble and sticker 10 reggae runners to children’s hospitals in the bay area. During our trip to San Francisco, Cashy had started throwing up and acting more tired than usual. He continued to complain about a pain in his lower abdomen, sometimes he would scream it would hurt him so bad. We had several tests done to rule out different things it could have been; radiation enteritis, tumors in his abdomen, blockage or constipation. He had CT scans done with barium enema studies, he had ultrasounds, lab tests, and all the tests came back negative. After two more weeks and his condition only worsening, we did what we feared the most and ordered an early brain MRI even though he had been cancer free at the end of May. July 27th, 2012 Cashy’s MRI revealed a 2.7cm brain tumor in the same location as the previous two tumors. We were devastated but we’re hopeful that we would be able to save him with a natural treatment plan using cannabis oil, the Gerson Therapy and other immune boosting remedies. We had exhausted our options with chemotherapy and radiation as he had went through and received all the heavy hitter chemo drugs and the top notch radiation therapy offered. We made the decision that we wouldn’t put him through any of that ever again. No more brain scans, no more IV’s, no more Ports, no more Central Lines, Lab tests or hearing and kidney tests and most importantly “No More Pokes,” as Cashy had asked.
We honored his request even though we knew what the outcome would likely be. Cashy Fought hard for five more months, he never received one more poke, like we had promised. He never set foot in the hospital ever again. Cashy passed away November 14th, 2012 in the arms of his daddy while wearing a pair of his favorite monkey pajamas. He forever changed our family and many lives of others who have followed his amazing journey. Cashy’s legacy will live on for years and years to come. He will never be forgotten. Fundraisers & Donations This Battle would not have been possible without the financial support we received from the fundraisers & donations that were put together by family, friends and strangers all across Montana, and other States thanks to Cashy’s Facebook friends. We were able to leave work for 9 months and concentrate on helping Cashy fight Cancer as a Family. We were able to be at the hospital 24hrs a day and Cashy never had to be alone. We are very thankful for all that everyone has done. Camp Cashy Since Salt Lake City is 500 miles from our home in Missoula we brought down the family camp trailer and camped out at Primary Children’s Hospital for 9 months. We were very fortunate to have it considering some families sleep on the floor and in the waiting rooms. It was nice to get out of the hospital and take a break. We called it Camp Cashy and it was our piece of Montana in Utah. Big Brother Colten Big Brother Colten is the Rock of our family and played a great role in this battle. Colten can make anyone smile and loves flirting with nurses, so I guess you could say he was in his element at Primary Children’s. Kalli and I would switch each day and one of us would take Colten and go swimming or just hang out. Colten made us keep our spirits up and stay positive.
Doctors said 2-year-old Cash Hyde would likely die after they found a stage 4 brain tumor surrounding his optic nerve just a year ago this week. And he nearly did. After being subjected to seven different chemotherapy drugs, the little boy from Missoula, Montana suffered septic shock, a stroke and pulmonary hemorrhaging. Cash was so sick he went 40 days without eating. His organs were threatening to shut down. His father, Mike Hyde, intervened, slipping cannabis oil into his son's feeding tube. In Montana, medical marijuana is legal. Hyde had used it himself to treat his attention deficit disorder. When Cash was diagnosed in May 2010, Mike got him a marijuana card and purchased the drug from his own supplier. Cash, now 3, made a miraculous recovery at Primary Children's Hospital in Salt Lake City, but his father's bold action -- taken behind doctors' backs -- has raised serious questions about a parent's role in medical treatment. Hyde said he believes it was the marijuana oil that helped Cash eat again and that the drug -- illegal in most states, including Utah, can cure cancer. "Not only was it helpful," Hyde, 27, told ABCNews.com. "It was a godsend." Dr. Linda Granowetter, a professor of pediatrics at New York University and chief of the Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, told ABCNews.com that Hyde's intervention was "fascinating" but "somewhat bothersome." Granowetter said she agrees that cannabis -- the chemical form, THC can be found in the prescription drug Marinol -- is effective in treating adult nausea that accompanies chemotherapy. But there have been no clinical trials in children. "Its virtue is we know exactly what you are getting and how much," she said. "I think that the fact that he didn't have the rapport and ability to be honest with the doctor is very troubling.
Care is impeded when there is not complete trust." Hyde, who quit his job as a car salesman when Cash was diagnosed with cancer, said he was afraid Cash's doctor might take the marijuana away. "When you are told your kid has cancer, whoa," said Hyde, 27. "Then they tell me they have to do aggressive chemo and he's probably not going to make it. It's a lot to take on." He had read claims by researchers online about cannabis's properties: "It's one of the best nausea and pain medications on the market," he said. Because there are no pediatric oncology facilities in rural Montana, where Cash's tumor was discovered in a CT scan at the local emergency room, he was rushed to Salt Lake City, the nearest treatment center. He was given the highest possible doses of chemotherapy for two months. He lost his appetite and threw up eight to 10 times a day. "When he started the chemo, he was so sick," said Hyde. "For the first six weeks, he was blind. But his tumor was shrinking… It's the nastiest thing to see someone you love go through this." Doctors had inserted a gastric feeding tube to administer cancer-fighting drugs and to help with his nutrition, but when August came the family experienced another medical "rollercoaster ride," according to Hyde. "The G-tube burned out the inside of his stomach," said Hyde. "He didn't even have the will to eat." By September, Cash had stopped eating for 40 days. "He was suffering terribly, and the doctors said it was the best they could do for him," said Hyde, who asked doctors to stop the chemotherapy drugs. Instead, Hyde boiled up marijuana he had purchased in Montana with olive oil and measured 3 mm. doses that he poured into his son's G-tube twice a day. Because it was illegal to use medical marijuana in Utah, Hyde never told his doctors.
Cash Hyde Makes 'Miracle' Recovery' "In two weeks he was weaned of all the nausea drugs, and he was eating again and sitting up in and laughing," according to Hyde, who said doctors called his son's recovery "a miracle." NYU's Granowetter said cannabis "certainly can increase appetite and improve mood but the idea that it can cure cancer is ludicrous." She said the drug is most effective in teens who have previously used marijuana. "In young adults or children who have not had it before, it can make them paranoid." "It's awfully hard to gauge if a child would have a bad reaction," according to Granowetter, who said she would welcome clinical trials on children. "We know from research that 30 to 60 percent of parents with children are giving them alternative meds like vitamins, shark tooth and herbs from Chinatown," she said. "That's why we spend a lot of time asking parents what else they are giving kids and trying to be non-judgmental and work with them and guide them." She said most pediatric oncologists are "open-minded" about alternative treatments. Mike Hyde said he did eventually tell the Utah doctors, who were surprised by how Cash bounced back with no permanent organ damage. They say the boy has a 50 to 80 percent chance that the cancer will come back, according to Hyde, who has since started a foundation to help children with cancer. "We were told I was one of the best dads," said Hyde, who lived with his wife and their other 6-year-old son in a camper in a parking lot for the nine months of treatment. "Every encounter in Salt Lake City, we were positive and never quit fighting. I was told he was going to die, but I knew he hadn't stopped the fight." For more information on Cash and how to help other children with cancer, go to the Cash Hyde Cancer Foundation.
The actor said he was "thrilled" to be asked to portray Tommy Butler in The Great Train Robbery: A Copper's Tale. The drama will follow A Robber's Tale, which will view the heist from the perspective of its perpetrators. Luke Evans will star in that film as Bruce Reynolds, the raid's key planner. Broadbent said it would be "great fun" to play Butler, "a fascinating copper of the old school", in the drama, to air later this year. "I have such strong memories of the massive impact of the actual robbery and it is wonderful to find out from the script so much of the real story." Chris Chibnall, executive producer and writer of the Great Train Robbery dramas, said Broadbent was "a dream piece of casting". The actor won an Oscar in 2001 for playing the husband of writer Iris Murdoch in Iris and a Bafta in 2007 for playing the campaigner Lord Longford. Butler, whose astuteness earned him the nickname "Grey Fox", led the investigation into the Great Train Robbery which resulted in several of the robbers receiving lengthy sentences. He retired in 1969 and died the following year at the age of 57.
MOSCOW (AP) — A Russian reconnaissance aircraft was brought down by a Syrian missile over the Mediterranean early Tuesday, killing all 15 people on board, the Russian defense ministry said. It blamed Israel for the crash, saying the plane was caught in the crossfire as four Israeli fighters attacked targets in northwestern Syria. The Russian military said the Il-20 reconnaissance aircraft was hit 35 kilometers (22 miles) off the coast as it was returning to its home base nearby. "The Israeli pilots were using the Russian aircraft as a shield and pushed it into the line of fire of the Syrian defense," Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said in a statement. Russia said it would make an "appropriate response" to Israel. The military said Israel did not warn it of its operation over Latakia province until one minute before the strike, which did not give the Russian plane enough time to escape. A recovery operation in the Mediterranean Sea is underway, Konashenkov said. For several years, Israel and Russia have maintained a special hotline to prevent their air forces from clashing in the skies over Syria. Israeli military officials have previously praised its effectiveness. Russia has been a key backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad and it has two military bases in the country, including one close to the Mediterranean coast. The Israeli military said earlier on Tuesday that it had no reaction, saying it does not comment on "foreign reports." Syrian air defenses inadvertently shot down a Russian surveillance plane over the eastern Mediterranean Sea, Moscow has said, blaming what it called reckless actions by Israel that led to the deaths of 15 Russian servicemen. The Russian Defense Ministry said in a statement on September 18 that Israeli pilots conducting attacks on targets in Syria "used the Russian plane as a cover, exposing it to fire from Syrian air defenses."
"The blame for the downed Russian plane and the death of the crew lies fully with the Israeli side," Shoigu told his Israeli counterpart, Avigdor Lieberman, in a phone call, the ministry said in a statement. "The Russian Defense Ministry, through various channels of coordination, has repeatedly called on the Israeli side to refrain from strikes on Syrian territory that create a threat to the safety of Russian servicemen," Shoigu added, according to the statement. The Israeli military rejected the accusation, saying Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's forces were to blame. Russian President Vladimir Putin, meanwhile, refrained from directly accusing Israel of responsibility for the incident while speaking alongside Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban following their talks in Moscow. He said the plane was downed following a "chain of tragic accidental circumstances." Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said earlier in the day that Moscow could take "commensurate measures in response" to "the irresponsible actions of the Israeli military." Putin said Russia's response would be focused on the security of Russian personnel in Syria. "These will be steps that everyone notices," he said, calling the deaths of the servicemen "a tragedy for everyone, for the country, for the loved ones of our fallen comrades." Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed sorrow for the death of the Russian soldiers, his office said in a statement on September 18. Netanyahu told Putin during a phone call that Syria bears responsibility for the downing of the jet. He also noted that Israel is determined to block Iran from establishing a military presence in Syria and transferring weapons to its proxy Hizballah militia for use against Israel, the statement said. State-run Russian news agency RIA Novosti said that the Israeli ambassador to Moscow had been summoned to the Russian Foreign Ministry on September 18.
The accusation against Israel came hours after the Russian Defense Ministry said that the Ilyushin Il-20 aircraft went off radar 35 kilometers from the Syrian coast at about 11 p.m. local time the previous day. The Ilyushin disappeared from radar at around the same time that Israeli F-16 fighters attacked Syrian facilities in Latakia Province, the ministry said.​ It said the plane was returning to Hmeimim air base in the northwestern Syrian province of Latakia, where the bulk of Russia's armed forces in the country are stationed. Hmeimim is Russia's main base for air strikes on rebel groups in Syria. Fragments of the plane were found 27 kilometers west of the city of Banias, Russian authorities said, adding that some remains of the crew had been recovered as well. In Washington, U.S. President Donald Trump said that the Russian warplane was likely shot down by the Syrian regime. "It sounds to me and it seems to me based on a review of the facts that Syria shot down a Russian plane. And I understand about 14 people were killed and that’s a very sad thing but that’s what happens," Trump said at a joint press conference with Polish President Andrzej Duda. Earlier, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said it was an "unfortunate" incident and a reminder that a political resolution to the conflict was needed. "Yesterday's unfortunate incident reminds us of the need to find permanent, peaceful, and political resolutions to the many overlapping conflicts in the region and the danger of tragic miscalculation in Syria's crowded theater of operations," Pompeo said in a statement on September 18. Russia has given Syrian President Bashar al-Assad crucial support throughout the Syrian conflict, which began with a government crackdown on protesters in March 2011. Several countries are conducting military operations in Syria, in some cases supporting opposite sides in the conflict.
Communication lines have been set up between countries to mitigate the risk of unintended military confrontation in Syria. Russia and Israel have largely maintained friendly relations in recent years, and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has visited Putin in Moscow several times to discuss the Syria conflict. Israel is not backing a specific side in the Syria conflict, though it has admitted to conducting air strikes in the country targeting Iran and its allies, including Hizballah. "These weapons were meant to attack Israel, and posed an intolerable threat against it," it said. Before announcing its plane was shot down by Syrian forces, Russia had said rocket launches were detected from the French frigate Auvergne nearby around that time, though the French military denied any involvement. Israel claimed that its jets were already inside Israeli air space when Syrian forces launched the missiles that struck the Russian aircraft. Konashenkov said the plane was downed by Syria using an S-200 air-defense system that Russia had provided. Earlier, the official Syrian news agency SANA reported that missiles were fired at several locations in Latakia Province late on September 17. State media said the explosions were suspected to have been caused by Israeli strikes. With reporting by Interfax, Reuters, AP, RIA Novosti, TASS, AFP, and the BBC
Could you give up the internet for Lent - or even for good? Following various reports about companies stealing information and complaints about oversharing on social media, a web hosting firm has created a nine-step guide on how to disappear from the web completely. It includes deactivating accounts, removing links from search results and how to remove yourself from various lists - and for people who'd rather just stay hidden than disappear, the guide also gives tips on how to use the internet anonymously. The infographic, pictured, from London-based WhoIsHostingThis, details the nine steps needed to remove yourself from the web. It includes deactivating accounts, such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google+ . 1. Close your Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and LinkedIn accounts. 2. Search for yourself online and close any accounts you'd forgotten about. 3. Falsify information on accounts that can't be closed or deleted. 4. Unsubscribe from mailing lists. 5. Delete search engine results. 6. Contact websites directly and ask them to remove details about yourself. 7. Ask data clearing houses - companies that collect and sell data to other firms - to remove your records. 8. Ask to be unlisted in phone books and online directories. 9. Delete your email accounts. 'Social media has made everyone’s life an open book - one that’s open a bit too far in some cases. ‘For [people] concerned about their personal information potentially costing them jobs and relationships, the decision to ‘pull the plug’ is an increasingly attractive one,' said London-based WhoIsHostingThis (WIHT). ‘While it might seem impossible to keep your private life private, the truth is you can disappear online with a little effort and dedication.' There are a number of sites that can help users delete their information, such as DeleteMe and JustDelete.me.
However, for people who want to do the job manually, WhoIsHostingThis' infographic details the nine steps needed to disappear from online completely. The first step involves deactivating primary accounts, such as Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and LinkedIn. WIHT’s infographic gives step-by-step instructions for each account. In the second stage, WIHT recommends users search for themselves, pictured. This will reveal which sites a user has signed up for in the past, but no longer uses such as a MySpace. Search engines can help people track down their old web activity . The third step in WIHT's nine-step plan involves uploading false information into the accounts that can't be deleted, including fake names and locations, pictured. This has the double benefit of removing traces of the user, but also letting the user continue to use the web under an alter ego . In the second stage, WIHT recommends users search for themselves online. This reveals which sites a user has signed up for in the past, but no longer uses, such as a MySpace. The third step in WIHT’s nine-step plan involves uploading false information into the accounts that can’t be deleted, including fake names and locations. Step four involves unsubscribing from mailing lists using emails in an inbox and junk folder as a starting point. Step four involves unsubscribing from mailing lists that send emails to an inbox, or junk folder, pictured . The final two steps involve contacting phone companies and online directories, and asking to be made unlisted before deleting every email address, pictured . If, while searching from their name on Google, users find various links that include information about them, they can ask the search engine to remove them. Google has a URL removal tool, for example. However, Google is not obliged to remove links - especially if the website is owned or hosted by another company.
In this instance, WIHT recommends contacting the website directly and asking them to remove any references. There are also services, known as data clearing houses, that collect information from sites to sell to advertisers, for example. WIHT admits this is one of the most difficult places to remove data from but suggests being persistent with phone calls and letters. The WIHT infographic also details tips on how to keep on top of online data, and how to browse anonymously using DuckDuckGo . The final two steps involve contacting phone companies and online directories, and asking to be made unlisted before deleting every email address. ‘In order to maintain your new-found anonymity, you must master reputation management, learn to use dummy accounts, and take advantage of anonymous searching - on sites such as Duck Duck Go,’ explained WIHT. 'Disappearing from the internet isn’t for everyone. But if you’re serious about your privacy, your security, and your reputation, taking the time to make yourself invisible online is worth the time and trouble.’
Couldn't stay away: Michael Bloomberg will return to lead the company he founded in 1981 . Michael Bloomberg . will return as head of Bloomberg LP after the outgoing president became frustrated with the former mayor's increasing presence at the office, according to a report. Bloomberg will replace Daniel Doctoroff, the company said Wednesday, despite the widely held expectation that he intended to dedicate his life to philanthropy after leaving office just months ago. The life of leisure, it seems, is not for Bloomberg. The New York Times reports that Bloomberg has become an 'increasing presence' at the office, leaving Doctoroff 'frustrated with how the leadership dynamic had shifted.' The privately held company, in which Bloomberg is the . majority shareholder, said Doctoroff would step aside as . president and chief executive at year-end. Bloomberg, whose fortune is estimated at more than $32 . billion, had expected to spend much of his time on philanthropic . efforts after leaving office in late 2013. Those efforts have . included fights for public health and gun control. 'This is a sad day for me and my company,' Bloomberg said in . a statement. 'I really wanted Dan to stay and continue in his . leadership role. But I understand his decision.' Bloomberg, who stepped down as New York mayor last December, . added he 'never intended to come back to Bloomberg LP' after 12 . years as New York's mayor. However, the Times reports that the initial 'few hours a day' he said he'd spend at Bloomberg's Manhattan offices soon turned into six and seven hours everyday in which he'd play an increasing role in decision making. Doctoroff told Bloomberg his intention to step down two weeks ago and refused his billionaire boss's invitation to stay. Still pals: Though Bloomberg's right-hand man Daniel Doctoroff is stepping down over frustrations with the power shift since the former mayor left office, the two remain friends. Here, they participate in the ice bucket challenge .
Moving on: Doctoroff stressed he was not leaving for anotheropportunity, but would focus more of his time on non-profitactivities. He also accepted Bloomberg's invitation to join theboard of the Bloomberg Philanthropies . 'So why have I decided to leave now?,' Doctoroff said in thememo. 'Simply put, while Mike never intended to come back fulltime, after he left City Hall and started to get to know thecompany again, he rediscovered what an exciting and incredibleplace this is. So he naturally wanted to be more involved.' Doctoroff became Bloomberg LP president in 2008 and CEO in . July 2011. During that period, the company's revenues increased . from $5.4 billion to more than $9 billion, he said in a memo to . the company's employees. Doctoroff, 56, a former New York deputy mayor, told the New . York Times that he informed Bloomberg two weeks ago that he . intended to resign. Bloomberg encouraged him to stay. 'This wasn't the plan,' Bloomberg told the Times. 'It was . his idea. If it was up to me, he would have stayed.' Bloomberg started the company in 1981, using a $10 million . severance package he received after he was laid off after . investment bank Salomon Brothers had been acquired. He had . headed equity trading at Salomon. During Doctoroff's tenure at the company, the numbers of . subscriptions for its terminals have grown from 273,000 to . 321,000, the company said in a statement. The company expanded . from providing financial information to markets for legal, . government and alternative energy information. Doctoroff stressed he was not leaving for another . opportunity, but would focus more of his time on non-profit . activities. He also accepted Bloomberg's invitation to join the . board of the Bloomberg Philanthropies, the former Mayor said in . the statement.
Media playback is not supported on this device Jones says his squad has a "small and good group", but need to develop more if they are to win the World Cup in 2019. "We need to get eight or nine guys who are consistently leaders, and we don't have that at the moment," Jones said. "We need eight or nine to be a World Cup-winning side, and that's what we are aiming to be." He added to BBC Radio 5 live: "I think it's a reality of the way society is - every sport faces the same problems. "Nowadays guys don't go to university, they don't go out and work, they are in more sheltered environments such as academies." And Jones says the England coaches are working to try to develop more figures who could potentially lead the side. "We have a number of players now who have started individual leadership plans," Jones added. "We will see those players develop over the next period of time." Having skippered England to an unbeaten year in 2016, hooker Dylan Hartley will again captain the side in the Six Nations - fitness-permitting - with Jones highlighting playmaker Owen Farrell as a likely replacement should he be unavailable. "Owen makes sure the standards are kept high, as does [fly-half] George Ford," Jones said. "Certainly if Dylan wasn't ready Owen could be a very strong candidate." Full Six Nations fixture list here
(CNN)The death of a 14-year-old shot by police just blocks from his school is the latest flashpoint as political tensions mount in Venezuela and pockets of anti-government protests erupt throughout the country. Kluibert Roa Nuñez, a high school student, was killed Tuesday when he got caught between protesters and national police in the western city of San Cristobal. A police officer fatally shot Kluibert, officials say. The government and the opposition alike have condemned the teen's killing, but Venezuela's recent history of violence and sharp political polarization hang over this shooting. Already protesters opposed to President Nicolas Maduro's government are pointing to the teen's death as a fresh rallying cry. And Maduro has blamed protesters for the violence that led to the shooting. A year ago, San Cristobal was the birthplace of anti-government protests that spread nationwide. The standoffs between security forces and protesters lingered for weeks and became violent, with more than 40 deaths, according to the government. Three witnesses at Tuesday's protest said that Kluibert was not a protester and had inadvertently come across the confrontation after leaving school. Vivian Nuñez, the slain teen's mother, told CNN en Español her son was walking four blocks from his school when a riot broke out around him. The protesters -- mostly students from a nearby university -- were running from police at the moment that Kluibert walked into the area, according to the witnesses, who spoke with CNN en Español. The teen tried to protect himself by ducking under a car but suffered a direct shot from an officer's firearm, the witnesses said. CNN has not independently confirmed how the shooting unfolded. The governor of the state of Tachira, where San Cristobal is located, declined to comment on his government's version of events. The teen's death sparked several protests around the country Wednesday.
In Caracas, demonstrators outside the justice ministry held up notebooks smeared with red paint to symbolize the blood of the country's youth they say has been spilled. "A bloody notebook. This is what we, the students, have -- ideas," protester Hilda Rubi said. "We say to Mr. Nicolas Maduro, 'Are you afraid of the students? These are our weapons: a notebook, pens, thoughts and ideology.' " The Venezuelan government responded quickly to the killing, detaining and identifying the national police officer who shot the teen. The interior ministry named Javier Mora Ortiz, 23, as the shooter. Attorney General Luisa Ortega Díaz announced Wednesday that Mora is formally charged with intentional homicide, and that nine protesters were also arrested in San Cristobal. Interior Minister Carmen Melendez, speaking on state television, vowed that the officer would be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. She appealed for calm, asking students to remember the 43 deaths recorded in clashes last year. The police has been reformed since then, she said, calling the national police force a "protector of human rights." "This is an isolated incident that does not represent the behavior of the new, humanist police," Melendez said. To protesters, and to the family of the slain teen, these comments seem to be insincere, or outright lies. Erick Roa, the father of the slain teen, told CNN en Español's Fernando del Rincon that he wants the full weight of the law to be applied to the officer but is not comforted by the government's actions. The officer's quick confession might be part of a strategy to get a lenient sentence, Roa said. He is afraid the justice system will go easy on Mora because he is a police officer. "This was a murder; this was a homicide committed by this man, and he should pay with the full weight of the law," he said.
The father also questioned the government's claims of what kind of projectile killed his son. The interior minister said Mora shot Kluibert with a shotgun loaded with rubber pellets. Roa said that if the weapon was indeed a shotgun, it was loaded with lead pellets, not rubber. The coroner's report said that a firearm caused the fatal wound, without detailing whether it was rubber or lead pellets, the father said. The government also said that police provided first aid to the injured teen, something that witnesses deny. Roa pleaded for police to "be guardians" while on duty, saying he hopes another child won't become a victim. The fury over Tuesday's shooting echoes the arguments made by pro- and anti-government groups in the past. Maduro framed the boy's death around the actions of the protesters in San Cristobal. He described a group of "hooded youths" who were "being violent," beating police and pelting officers with rocks before police responded with force. Critics of the government turned to one of their most powerful tools -- social media -- to accuse the security forces of abuses and to share photos they say back their allegations. Tweets were tagged with #SOSVenezuela, #PrayForVenezuela and #MaduroAsesinoDeEstudiantes, literally accusing the President of killing students. Government supporters tweeted under the banner #ApoyoRotundoAMaduro, or "complete support for Maduro." All this turmoil comes during an economic crisis in oil-rich Venezuela. Venezuelans have endured years of shortages of basic goods, products and services. Consumers have to stand in line for hours for staples such as milk, chicken and cornmeal. Even toilet paper and condoms are scarce. Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, is overvalued.
The official exchange rate is 6.3 per dollar, but dollars are being exchanged in the black market at 190-to-1 creating all kinds of problems for foreign companies, including American ones. Last week, the mayor of Caracas, Venezuela's capital and largest city, was arrested and accused of plotting to overthrow Maduro's government. In fragile economy, Venezuela arrests opposition figures: Why you should care . Mayor Antonio Ledezma, one of the opposition's most visible leaders, was arrested in a raid by federal agents. The opposition says the mayor's arrest is an attempt to divert attention from the country's economic woes. CNN's Kay Guerrero, Miguel Escalona and Catherine E. Shoichet and journalist Osmary Hernandez contributed to this report.
By . Simon Jones . Sunderland have made further enquiries about Cardiff's Jordon Mutch and hope to agree terms with Fiorentina for Marcos Alonso despite interest from West Ham. Sunderland were reported to have agreed a £1.5million deal for the Bluebirds midfielder in June. The 22-year-old was Cardiff's top goalscorer last season and was not keen to drop back down to the Championship. The club are looking to wrap up many deals early on, with Billy Jones and Jordi Gomez already signed. Top boyo! Jordan Mutch was Cardiff's top scorer last season but wants to stay in the Premier League . The Black Cats had also mooted a swap deal for Alonso, who made 20 appearances at the Stadium of Light last season, with Modibo Diakite moving in the opposite direction. However, Fiorentina are more interested in a swap plus £2million cash after French defender Diakite spent part of the campaign on loan there. West Ham and Swansea have also shown interest in 23-year-old defender Alonso, especially if the Hammers fail in their bid to land Nice left-back Timothee Kolodziejczak. Staying on? Marcos Alonso (R) made 20 appearances on loan with Sunderland last season .
A first-ever success at the ABAX Stadium moved Uwe Rosler's men to within four points of second-placed Bolton, who have a game in hand and face Oldham Athletic on Saturday. Fleetwood took command in a first half they dominated, former Peterborough man David Ball laying on a simple 24th-minute opener for Bobby Grant before Ashley Eastham was left with a similarly easy finish three minutes from half-time after fine work from George Glendon following a quickly-taken corner. It took hosts Posh an hour to pose any sort of attacking threat on a day where their last mathematical hope of making the play-offs disappeared. Craig Mackail-Smith saw a penalty shout ignored after being clattered by Alex Cairns, but he fired past the Fleetwood keeper to halve his side's arrears in the 68th minute. Mackail-Smith tapped home following a brilliant burst and low delivery from the left by Marcus Maddison. And the striker came closest to snatching a draw when heading a Michael Smith cross straight at Cairns with seven minutes to go. Match report supplied by the Press Association. Match ends, Peterborough United 1, Fleetwood Town 2. Second Half ends, Peterborough United 1, Fleetwood Town 2. Junior Morias (Peterborough United) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by Markus Schwabl (Fleetwood Town). Corner, Fleetwood Town. Conceded by Luke McGee. Attempt blocked. Wes Burns (Fleetwood Town) right footed shot from the left side of the six yard box is blocked. Corner, Fleetwood Town. Conceded by Andrew Hughes. Anthony Grant (Peterborough United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Foul by Bobby Grant (Fleetwood Town). Attempt blocked. Craig Mackail-Smith (Peterborough United) right footed shot from very close range is blocked.
Substitution, Fleetwood Town. Markus Schwabl replaces George Glendon. Foul by Craig Mackail-Smith (Peterborough United). Nathan Pond (Fleetwood Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Attempt saved. Chris Forrester (Peterborough United) header from very close range is saved in the bottom left corner. Substitution, Peterborough United. Paul Taylor replaces Andrea Borg. Lewis Freestone (Peterborough United) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by Wes Burns (Fleetwood Town). Substitution, Fleetwood Town. Cameron Brannagan replaces Kyle Dempsey. Ashley Eastham (Fleetwood Town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul. Marcus Maddison (Peterborough United) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by Ashley Eastham (Fleetwood Town). Corner, Fleetwood Town. Conceded by Lewis Freestone. Conor McLaughlin (Fleetwood Town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul. Craig Mackail-Smith (Peterborough United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Foul by Conor McLaughlin (Fleetwood Town). Foul by Anthony Grant (Peterborough United). Cameron Brannagan (Fleetwood Town) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Substitution, Fleetwood Town. Wes Burns replaces Ashley Hunter. Goal! Peterborough United 1, Fleetwood Town 2. Craig Mackail-Smith (Peterborough United) right footed shot from very close range to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Marcus Maddison. Corner, Fleetwood Town. Conceded by Michael Bostwick. Foul by Anthony Grant (Peterborough United). David Ball (Fleetwood Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Anthony Grant (Peterborough United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Kyle Dempsey (Fleetwood Town). Substitution, Peterborough United. Chris Forrester replaces Leonardo Da Silva Lopes. Leonardo Da Silva Lopes (Peterborough United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Foul by Bobby Grant (Fleetwood Town). Attempt saved. Marcus Maddison (Peterborough United) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner. Andrea Borg (Peterborough United) wins a free kick on the left wing. Foul by George Glendon (Fleetwood Town).
My time covering transport at BBC London has nearly mirrored his in office - and so as he departs I thought it timely to put down some non-definitive thoughts. Recently I asked Mr Johnson if he enjoyed dealing with the transport - his answer was quick: "Of course, it's the best bit." But it has not been without its ups and downs and controversy. And while there have been flamboyant quotes - remember the "grit-snow lasagne" - what has changed? Over the last eight years, even his most fierce critics would acknowledge there has been huge investment in transport. Crossrail is due to open, the Tube upgrades have continued and the underground service seems better although overcrowding continues to be a problem. While the mayor seems reluctant to highlight Tube reliability as an achievement, according to Transport for London (TfL) figures, it has improved. There have been many bumps - for example the Jubilee line upgrade - which initially hit problems as the PPP contractor Tube Lines struggled, and weekend closures were extremely unpopular. The solution - something else not mentioned very much - was to kill off the PPP by buying the shares of Bechtel and Amey (Ferrovial) from Tube Lines for Â£310m. In effect it brought the upgrade back in house. There have also been run-ins with the unions as huge changes were implemented on the Tube. Mr Johnson changed tack on ticket office closures which he initially opposed. He also tried to get through a Night Tube - as yet there isn't an official start date. And he never sat down with the transport unions, preferring TfL bosses to do the talking. Elsewhere, the Overground has been a big success story as has the rise of contactless payments for example. Of course, TfL has only been able to do these projects as it based its business plan on increasing fares at inflation +1%.
So this all came at a price for commuters, who were paying for future investment - today - with higher fares. While sometimes you got the feeling some projects would probably have happened anyway - the mayor's mission was selling the point that higher fares were needed for higher investment. Although towards the end of his eight years, it felt like fares were as high as they could go. And don't forget he relied on central government cash to increase them just in line with inflation. And there is the question if Mr Johnson was hard enough in driving through efficiencies at TfL. Could there have been more savings? If there is a Boris Johnson legacy, then cycling infrastructure is probably it. Segregated cycle superhighways are now opening and there is political consensus to continue building them. The mayoral candidates do not want to be seen to be undoing the work done. In that sense, his legacy is as political as it is physical. But it was not a straight-forward route. In the first term of Mr Johnson backed un-segregated "blue paint" bike lanes which no-one really liked. Cycle Superhighway 2 encouraged cyclists onto a dangerous junction at Bow roundabout. It encouraged cyclists but gave them no protection. The cycling lobby, The Times paper and many cycling bloggers demanded more. The turning point came in the mayoral election of 2012, when Mr Johnson changed his policy to segregated bike tracks and promised a cycling commissioner to drive them through. A horrendous number of deaths in 2013 also increased pressure on the mayor to act. He deployed traffic police onto the most dangerous junctions. Today, segregated bike tracks are opening. And the cycle hire scheme, which was meant to be at "no cost to the taxpayer", will according to the London Assembly have cost Â£225m by 2016. And the construction of the cycle tracks have added to one of the big problems facing the next mayor - congestion. Mr Johnson called it "operation juddering climax".
And there's no doubt congestion has got worse - something the next mayor will need to tackle. Again he switched policy from "smoothing traffic flow" of the first term and dismantling the Western Extension of the Congestion Charging Zone, to giving over road space to cyclists. Eventually that created a "bikelash" even though City Hall tried to point out congestion was being created by an increase in white vans, construction and the huge increase in private hire cars due to apps like Uber. While air quality has gone up the political agenda, it is still a huge problem with thousands of Londoners dying each year prematurely due to bad air. London experimented with "dust suppressants" and "green walls" but while City Hall says they are tackling pollution levels, they still breach EU limits. Clean air campaigners say that Boris Johnson has failed to get a grip on this problem and his plans for an ultra-low emission zone are too far off. I have lost count of the number of outlandish ideas that have been mooted and then withered. Odd schemes like the tunnel under Hyde Park or a bike track on the side of rail tracks. Then you'd hear an idea like a cable car over the Thames - and they would actually deliver it. It is the most expensive urban cable car in the world and don't forget it's built with some regeneration money from the EU and TfL cash - but at the moment it is essentially a tourist attraction. One day it might be a regeneration tool but the number of commuters using it is tiny. Could you lump in the New Routemasters in as an expensive vanity project? Certainly the mayor's opponents never liked them and thought it would be better to buy hybrids off the shelf. Overseas sales never materialised and they have had all kinds of problems with hybrid engines and non-opening windows.
But when you speak to some Londoners there is a kind of begrudging affection for them and it was the use of the Routemaster as a political tool during the 2008 election that got Mr Johnson elected. And so they will always probably polarise opinion. If there's one project that is the mayor's pet it is the Thames Estuary Airport. If there is such a thing as small talk with a mayor - this is the area it will usually veer into. And it was his pet project from very early on in his first term. He took journalists out into the estuary to look at potential sites. He lobbied the Airports Commission, and then attacked it when it rejected his idea. It has been derided as a folly - but it is probably the one transport project that is now wedded to his future career. This has been eight years of huge investment in London transport. I have lost count of the number of new infrastructure projects and tunnels I have seen funded in part through higher fares. There have been policy changes and switches in focus. And a mix of the pragmatic steady hand on the tiller and the more outlandish. But ultimately it will be commuters who'll judge Boris Johnson's eight years in charge of London's transport.
By . Bianca London . PUBLISHED: . 10:08 EST, 6 January 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 05:50 EST, 8 January 2014 . Double leather, extreme knitwear, pink tie-dye and men sashaying down the catwalk in crop tops? It could only be Men's Fashion Week. This morning saw the fourth London Collections: Men kick off in the capital and, so far, the AW14 offerings have been nothing short of outlandish. The . London event sees 60 menswear . designers showcase their wares for the coming season in front of . assembled press, stylish celebrities and buyers from over 45 countries - and is a showcase . for what is a Â£6.5bn fashion industry. Scroll down for video . Top of the crops! Men's Fashion Week kicked off with a bang in the capital today and Astrid Andersen's show was full of crop tops and one shoulder leotards . Today saw the likes of Astrid Andersen and Topman Design showcase their collections to fashion enthusiasts including David Gandy, Nick Grimshaw and Dermot O'Leary. Astrid Andersen's 'athletic' collection was full of grey sweats, one-shoulder leotards, camel tones and long-haired models donning furry bombers. The vibe was very much an urban one with American football style jerseys gracing the catwalk. 'If high fashion designers had a say in the NBA,' wrote fashion editor Nick Carvell. Jaw dropping fashion: Designs by Bobby Abley at the MAN show at London Mens Fashion Week were literally mouth opening . Shout out loud fashion: The models appeared to have their mouths clamped open as they took to the runway in horns . Urban vibes: Models walked the runway at the Astrid Andersen show during The London Collections: Men donning American sports style attire in hues of blue - tipped to be a hot color for AW14 .
Is this what your man will be wearing next winter? Pink tie-dye and double denim were the order of the day at Lou Dalton show during The London Collections: Men AW13 shows . Roll up, roll up! Topshop Design showcased an abundance of wooly knits complete with full roll neck collars - style icon Nick Grimshaw was a fan . Trench love: High shine, wet look rain coats made their way down the Topman Design catwalk and the finale came complete with its own rain downpour . It's raining men! The dramatic finale at Topman Design saw a real live downpour . Over at Topman Design, thick wool and chunky roll necks were the order of the day - which were a hit with GQ's Most Stylish Man of 2013, Nick Grimshaw. 'I loved the giant oversized sort of Margiela jumpers with roll necks,' he told the men's fashion bible after the show. Matthew Miller sent punky models down his catwalk complete with lip and nose rings and, once again, layering and knitwear were heavy hitters. Slimline biker jackets with oversized back zips added an androgynous effect. Hotly anticipated Jonathan Saunders sent models down his catwalk in head-to-toe colour and confirmed that layered-up bombers are going to be bang on trend next season. 'An exceptional collection from Jonathan Saunders for AW14. Glitter and harlequin designs. Yum,' said fashion blogger Simon Glazin. The eclectic shows were watched by stylish A-listers, David Gandy, Dermot O'Leary and Tinie Tempah and the best is yet to come - over the next three days, weâ€™ll see seasonal offerings from big hitters Alexander McQueen and Burberry (which FEMAIL will be live streaming right here for your viewing pleasure). And with fashion week comes super-fashionable parties.
Last night Domenico Dolce and Stefano Pilati kicked off the week in style at their Bond Street store where Kylie Minogue danced the night away. Mulberry and Tommy Hilfiger are hot tickets for the week and Superdry will be hosting the biggest party of LC:M, which will include a catwalk show showing both men's and women's collections followed by a star-studded party hosted by man of the moment Nick Grimshaw. This little piggy: A seemingly Disney inspired outfit was a hit on the runway at Men's Fashion Week today . Dressing up: There were plenty of monastic, hand-painted kimonos from Craig Green . What is there to hide? Matthew Miller sent punky models down his catwalk and, once again, layering and knitwear were heavy hitters . Seeing stripes: It was cricket stripes and head-to-toe colour on Jonathan Saunders's hotly anticipated catwalk . Colour pops: Colour bursts and chessboard knits were on offer at Jonathan Saunders, who confirmed that layered-up bombers are going to be big next season . Frow: Nick Grimshaw, who was recently crowned GQ's Most Stylish Man, took his seat on the front row at today's shows alongside fashion week regular Tinie Tempah . Eye candy: Model David Gandy and X Factor presenter Dermot O'Leary also made an appearance to check out the latest men's fashion . One for next year's X Factor wardrobe? Dermot O'Leary pensively eyes up a piece from the Lou Dalton show .
Snoop Dogg, Martha Stewart to Host Weekly 'Dinner Party' Show on VH1 VH1 is uniting two of the most unlikely dinner party guests for its newest unscripted show. The Viacom-owned cable network has gone straight to series on Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party, a weekly series in which Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg throw a joint dinner party. The series is set to debut in the fall. Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party will feature the lifestyle exert and Emmy-winning TV host and rapper-producer Snoop Dogg throwing a weekly dinner party in which they invite celebrity friends over for what VH1 describes as a "half-baked evening of cocktails, cooking, conversation and fun where nothing is off limits." Snoop Dogg to Guest Star in MTV's Pot Comedy 'Mary + Jane' The VH1 series marks the first joint collaboration for Stewart and Snoop Dogg. The duo most recently were on ABC's $100,000 Pyramid and have had previous shared appearances on Comedy Central's Justin Bieber roast as well as Stewart's talk show. The series is created and exec produced by Stewart and Kim Miller Olko for Sequential Brands Group, Snoop Dogg and Ted Chung for Merry Jane and SallyAnn Salsano for 495 Productions (Jersey Shore). VH1's Nina L. Diaz, Trevor Rose, Paul Ricci, Fernando Mills and Paula Aranda will executive produce for the cabler. "At our dinner party, we will exemplify America's fascination with food, entertaining and celebrity," Stewart said. "Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party will redesign the traditional food competition shows in a new, different and very funny way." Added Snoop Dogg: "My homegirl, Martha, and I have a special bond that goes back. We’re gonna be cooking, drinking and having a good time with our exclusive friends.
Can’t wait for you to see how we roll together!" Snoop Dogg Taps Wiz Khalifa, Too $hort, Swizz Beatz & More for 'Coolaid' Album Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party marks the latest collaboration for Snoop Dogg with Viacom; he recently boarded VH1 corporate sibling MTV's scripted pot comedy Mary + Jane as an exec producer as well as recorded the theme song for the series, in which he'll also guest star. For Salsano, the series foray marks her latest series for Viacom following CMT's Party Down South, Spike'sTattoo Nightmares, MTV's Snooki & Jwoww, Jersey Shore, Disaster Date as well as VH1's Wedding Wars, Tool Academy and more. "We're thrilled to partner with Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg, two of pop culture’s biggest icons," VH1 and Logo president Chris McCarthy said. "Good parties are filled with fun, food and unexpected guests. Wait 'til you see what happens at Martha & Snoop’s Dinner Party; it will be unforgettable." The series comes as VH1 continues to undergo a programming refresh under McCarthy. The music-themed cable network's recent pickups include Hip-Hop Squares from exec producer Ice Cube; a late-night talk show hosted by Marc Lamont Hill as well as a talk show hosted by Amber Rose. VH1 has been doubling down on content of late, reviving America's Next Top Model and handing out a straight-to-series order based on Star Jones' saga at The View starring Vanessa Williams in addition to ordering the original film The Breaks as an ongoing scripted drama series. One, two, three and to the four, Snoop Doggy Dogg and Martha Stewart at the door.
VH1 has ordered a new unscripted series starring Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg with the working title “Martha & Snoop’s Dinner Party.” The series will feature the lifestyle maven and the D-O-double-G teaming up each week to host a dinner party with celebrity guests. It is set to premiere this fall on the Viacom-owned cable network. The series is created and executive produced by Stewart and Kim Miller Olko for Sequential Brands Group; Snoop Dogg and Ted Chung for Merry Jane; and SallyAnn Salsano for 495 Productions. Stewart and Snoop Dogg recently appeared together on ABC’s “100,000 Pyramid.” Snoop Dogg has been a guest on Stewart’s talk show, and both appeared on last year’s Comedy Central roast of Justin Bieber. “At our dinner party, we will exemplify America’s fascination with food, entertaining and celebrity,” Stewart said. “‘Martha & Snoop’s Dinner Party’ will redesign the traditional food competition shows in a new, different and very funny way.” Snoop Dogg added, “My homegirl, Martha and I have a special bond that goes back. We’re gonna be cooking, drinking and having a good time with our exclusive friends. Can’t wait for you to see how we roll together!” The hip-hop star is also an executive producer of the upcoming scripted comedy “Mary + Jane” through his Merry Jane company for VH1 sibling MTV. “We’re thrilled to partner with Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg, two of pop culture’s biggest icons,” said VH1 and Logo president Chris McCarthy. “Good parties are filled with fun, food and unexpected guests.
Wait til you see what happens at ‘Martha and Snoop’s Dinner Party’; it will be unforgettable.”
By . Sam Webb . PUBLISHED: . 04:35 EST, 25 April 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 07:57 EST, 25 April 2013 . The BBC once again faces questions over product placement of top clothing brands on news programmes after two presenters were seen wearing the same £550 jacket in the same bulletin. Both Jeremy Bowen and Ian Pannell sported £550 waxed biker jackets from prestige manufacturer Belstaff on the 10 o'clock news on Tuesday. It is not the first time questions have been raised over the broadcaster's journalists wearing expensive brands. Scroll down for video . Prominent: Jim Bowen (right), seen here wearing the distinctive Belstaff jacket during his report about kidnapping from Syria. His colleague was seen in the same jacket in the same edition of the 10 o'clock news . The BBC has come under scrutiny for prominent clothing branding in news broadcasts on two other occasions . Wardrobe coincidence: BBC Boston Reporter Ian Pannell wearing the same Belstaff Jacket . In 2011 the BBC was accused of . allowing its presenters to advertise Berghaus clothing by ‘the back . door’ – after negotiating a deal to buy Berghaus jackets at a 45 per . cent discount. The waxed biker jacket starts at £550 and goes up to £8,-000 for a python skin version . The Corporation was reported to have spent thousands kitting out staff on its most popular programmes in a range of the brand’s latest jackets and fleeces. Presenters such as BBC news anchor George Alagiah, diplomatic correspondent Peter Hunt and scientist Professor Brian Cox were seen in the jackets bearing the brand’s red and blue logo alongside the name Berghaus. And in 2008 viewers noticed a number of staff reporting from chillier climes were wearing jackets from outdoor brand North Face.
Its instantly-recognisable logo with the curved stripes has been seen on screen in a variety of locations across the U.S. and Europe, providing invaluable publicity for the manufacturer. Wearers included economics editor . Evan Davis and business presenter Declan Curry when they covered the . Davos Summit in Switzerland. it was also worn by David Grossman when he was . reporting on the New Hampshire Primaries in the U.S. A Corporation spokesman said the two reporters wearing the same jacket was simply a 'coincidence'. She . added: 'The BBC has no links with Belstaff and it would be wrong to . suggest the BBC ever agrees to clothing discounts in exchange for on-air . promotion.' Belstaff also made the famous 'Milford' coat for Bernard Cumberbatch as Sherlock Holmes in the hit BBC show Sherlock. The coat had been discontinued, but after the success of Sherlock, Belstaff re-launched it in August 2010. George Alagiah in a Berghaus jacket. The BBC was accused of allowing its presenters to advertise Berghaus clothing by 'the back door'- after negotiating a deal to buy jackets at a 45 per cent discount . And again: BBC News reader Evan Davis in Davos wearing a North Face Jacket with a prominent logo in 2008 .
Tasered teen: Bryce Masters isno longer in a medically induced coma and is speaking with family members . The Missouri police officer who used a stun gun on a 17-year-old during a traffic stop says he smelled marijuana in the vehicle and saw him recording the incident on an iPhone. Bryce Masters has been upgraded from critical to serious condition at a hospital where he was taken Sunday after the Independence police officer used a Taser on him. A spokesman for Masters' family says he went into cardiac arrest and was being treated for a lack of oxygen to his brain. According to a search warrant application, the officer smelled marijuana inside the car. Police said they later found drug paraphernalia. Police say Masters was pulled over because of a warrant attached to the license plate of the vehicle and was combative when ordered to get out. The Kansas City Star reports Masters began slowly recovering overnight Wednesday. Family attorney Daniel Haus characterized the recovery as a miracle. Masters' family has said his heart stopped after he was shocked with the stun gun during a traffic stop on Sunday in Independence. Bryce suffered some memory loss and doctors do not yet know what the long term affects will be. Police say he was combative and wouldn't comply with the officer's demands. They say he was pulled over because of a warrant associated with the license plate on the car, which belonged to someone else. 'They are seeing some signals that their son may make a fairly remarkable recovery, basically coming back from the dead,' Haus told the Kansas City Star. 'It looks like whatever the doctors did with this medically induced coma, this new procedure where they lower the body temperature, was exactly what he needed,' Haus added. The FBI is investigating after a police officer used a stun gun to subdue Bryce Masters in suburban Kansas City, Missouri, on Sunday afternoon after stopping a car he was driving because it had a warrant attached to it.
The officer, identified by the police department as Tim Runnels, has been placed on administrative leave. An eyewitness filmed the incident on her cell phone. In the footage you can see the officer dragging the Bryce's body to the sidewalk, then standing with his foot on the teen's back (ringed) Police said in the statement that Bryce became uncooperative and physically resisted getting out of the car, prompting Runnels to warn Bryce he would use a stun gun. Police said the stun gun was used on Bryce while he was still in the car but he was able to get out of the car on his own. The confrontation continued outside the car and both Bryce and Runnels fell to the ground. The teen then suffered a 'medical emergency' and needed resuscitation, prompting a call for an ambulance, police said. But eyewitnesses gave a different account to Fox4KC. Michelle Baker filmed the incident on her mobile phone when she heard screams outside and says she saw the Runnels Taser the teen when he was inside his car. In a cell phone video taken by Baker you can see the officer dragging the teen's body to the sidewalk, then standing with his foot on the teen's back. You could tell the kid was going into convulsions. 'He turned him over and his head was dangling like this and he had blood coming out,' said Baker. Curtis Martes, 17, says the teen was coming over to play XBox with him. 'I hear him say from my porch he's like 'I can't roll down my window it's broke,' said Martes. 'He was like 'what am I being arrested for?' The cop just grabbed him and said 'you're under arrest,' said Martes. The officer, identified by the police department as Tim Runnels, has been placed on administrative leave.
The footage, shot on Sunday, shows him walking up to the Bryce's body (left) and stepping over it right) He is then (pictured) seen raising his foot as Master lies on the ground. 'He like threw him on the ground busted his face up. He kept like nudging him with his foot,' said Curtis Martes, 17, who watched the event unfold . He said the officer Tasered the teen then pulled him out of the car. 'He like threw him on the ground busted his face up. He kept like nudging him with his foot,' said Martes. 'Several times, the cop put his foot on the kid like he was stepping on his neck, but it was on his back,' said Robert Baker, who lives nearby told The Kansas City Star. 'I think (the officer) was wrong, because the kid tried to explain to him that his window won't roll down.' The FBI's Kansas City office will investigate whether Runnels used excessive force, which falls under the bureau's civil rights program, the FBI said in a statement. Independence police pledged to cooperate with the investigation. Masters is the son of a Kansas City police officer. Bryce Masters with his mother. The family issued a statement Monday asking that the U.S. Department of Justice investigate the confrontation . The FBI's Kansas City office will investigate whether Runnels used excessive force, which falls under the bureau's civil rights program, the FBI said in a statement . 'We would conduct a thorough investigation, regardless of who the parents are,' Independence police Maj. Paul Thurman said. Colin Masters, Bryce's brother, told 41 Action News the teen may have stopped breathing for more than five minutes. 'We've been getting a lot of support from friends and family,' Colin explained. 'He had probably 30-40 people at the hospital with him yesterday so everyone's banking on Bryce being the strong kid that he is and coming back to us.
Eyewitnesses gave a different account to that of the police. Pictured: Michelle Baker filmed the incident on her mobile phone (left) and Curtis Martes, 17, (right) says the teen was coming over to play XBox with him . The door is seen open on the car that Bryce was driving when he was Tasered on Sunday . The family issued a statement Monday asking that the U.S. Department of Justice investigate the confrontation 'because of significant inconsistencies between public statements made by the Independence Police Department and information made available to the family in the form of statements of eyewitnesses and video and audio footage of the occurrence.' The family's attorney, Daniel J. Haus, said they would have no further comment until the federal investigation is complete.
But there are strict rules about their usage, which has led some to come up with innovative ways to fly such vehicles more safely. "I'm using a dog leash for a small dog," says roboticist Sergei Lupashin as he demonstrates a new kind of consumer-friendly drone at the Ted (Technology, Entertainment and Design) conference in Vancouver. By tethering it, he hopes the Fotokite, as it is called, can avoid some of the issues faced by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), which are banned without a special licence because of safety and privacy concerns. "It doesn't rely on GPS [ Global Positioning System], sophisticated machine vision, radio, it doesn't even use a compass. Most crashes today happen because of GPS, radio or piloting issues," says Dr Lupashin. "Should something happen, the leash gives a robust fail safe - the vehicle reduces thrust and it automatically comes back to the operator," he adds. The inspiration for the device came during street protests in Bolotnaya Square in Moscow, when he realised it could be an invaluable tool for reporting protests around the world. "For journalists it is good to get that perspective, to show the scale of the event without adding to the tension," says Dr Lupashin. But he also sees potential for amateur and professional photographers, archaeologists, architects and even as a toy for children. His prototype device uses a shop-bought quadrocopter with "a basic action camera attached" which, in turn, is connected to a standard dog lead. It can shoot both video and stills. Drones have long been associated with the military, but increasingly they are finding their way into civilian life, for a wide range of uses including delivering medicines in the developing world, for farming and as a low-cost way of getting broadband to remote parts of the world - something both Facebook and Google are actively pursuing.
They are also useful tools for both professional and amateur photographers, providing the opportunity for a bird's eye view of people and places. "Aerial photography is a fascinating new application for small, unmanned vehicles but the remote-controlled ones are very complex and can be difficult to use. They are also dangerous," says Dr Lupashin. The safety issue took centre stage last month when an Australian triathlete was injured by an aerial drone taking pictures of the race she was competing in. A drone on a lead is likely to be treated with far less suspicion, says Dr Lupashin. "People treat you normally - it is like a flying pet. It always has a physical connection to the operator," he says. The BBC, along with other news organisations, already uses drones for filming, but it is constantly looking to update its kit. Andy Armstrong, a consultant looking at emerging broadcast technologies, recently tested the Fotokite for the BBC. Its ease of use and portability makes it useful for journalists in the field, he says. "Anyone who's walked a dog without losing it can operate Fotokite," he adds, although he notes that "to get really stable shots you need almost completely still air". Its lack of anonymity could also be a problem though. "There are certain scenarios where you wouldn't want to attract that much attention," he says. Jake Berger, a BBC programme manager, wanted a UAV that would be able to safely film aerial shots of the crowds at an open-air theatre show. "The fact that Fotokite was tethered - flown on a retractable dog leash - meant it was suitable," he says. "Unfortunately, the British weather confounded us on the day of the performance - it rained continuously for about six hours. "This would have both blown the electronics on Fotokite and risked electrocution from lightning."
Currently the use of commercial drones in the US is banned by the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA). Anyone wishing to use one has to obtain a special licence. The question of whether a tethered drone would be exempt from this is unclear. According to Ben Gielow, general counsel for the Association for Unmanned Vehicles Systems Internet, even a drone on a lead would be against the law. He says the FAA told one company that wanted to fly a tethered drone that "until we have new regulations in place, the only path for you to fly your aircraft in the National Airspace System (even tethered) is to obtain the special airworthiness certificate in the experimental category". Others though, who are developing similar tethered drones, say they have been told by the FAA that such UAVs would be exempt from current guidelines. The reality is that, in the US at least, there are no clear rules yet about the use of UAVs, tethered or not. "The FAA has been dragging its feet for four years and are now faced with an explosion of this technology. People can buy inexpensive, sophisticated systems off the internet and it doesn't have the resources to govern or control these unmanned aircraft," said Mr Gielow. There are guidelines governing the use of model aircraft in the US - they must always be: This led the FAA to ban Texas-based search-and-rescue group EquuSearch from using a remote-controlled plane to help search for missing people. In response the group has launched legal action challenging the validity of an FAA ban and similar cases are also going through the courts. "Their frustration is that if they were using such an aircraft for fun it would be allowed but because they are using it for search and rescue it isn't," says Mr Gielow.
The lack of clarity about the use of UAVs has led to anger among US manufacturers who fear being left behind by other countries, such as the UK, France and Israel, which have much clearer guidelines regarding drone use. The US Congress has given the FAA until 2015 to create such rules, and this month it opened its first test facility in North Dakota. But, for the time being at least, it seems that much about the use of such unmanned flying vehicles remains up in the air.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 16:49 EST, 30 April 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 02:35 EST, 1 May 2013 . An elderly man broke down in tears on Monday as a jury heard how he was almost carved in half by a mentally-ill man with two power saws on a New York City subway platform. Michael Steinberg, 70, choked on his emotions at the first day of trial in his suit against an MTA contractor - whom he blames for leaving the power tools unattended - at Manhattan Supreme Court. He was attacked by Tareyton Williams as he stood on the platform at 110th Street and Broadway in the early hours of July 6, 2006. He has said he does not blame Williams for the attack. Instead, he holds Five Star Electric . Corp. responsible for failing to lock down the tools and for its staff . for not coming to help him during the bloody attack. Victim: Michael Steinberg, pictured recovering in hospital after he was attacked by a saw-wielding madman on a subway platform in 2006, has sobbed in court as the jury heard the details of the horror . 'I almost died,' Steinberg told the New York Post outside the court. 'I don't want to live through this . again. It's just because they don't . want to reach a settlement of any kind.' His lawyer, Ronald Landau, added: 'There was nobody and nothing to prevent anybody - crazy person, . sane person, thief, nonthief - from walking over to those power tools . and just lifting them off.' Landau added that Williams had been acting bizarrely before the attack, yelling and pacing. At court on Monday, the contractor's . attorney, Barbara Sheehan, said a worker was just two or three feet of . the tools, when Williams grabbed two saws and unleashed his attack. 'What we have is an unexpected, .
unforeseeable action by somebody who did something that really none of . us could really conceive of,' Sheehan said. Locked up: Tareyton Williams, pictured, apologized to Steinberg before he was sentenced to 18 years in prison. The victim said he does not blame Williams - rather the MTA contractor for leaving the tools unguarded . Weapon: Police remove one of two sawzall saws from a garbage can after they were ditched Williams . Williams was sentenced to 18 years in . prison for the attack and, before he was locked up, he apologized to . his victim. Steinberg said he forgave him. Mr Steinberg said he must now take Valium pills before using the subway to calm him. On the night of the attack, Mr . Williams calmly walked towards the 4-foot-11 Mr Steinberg with the two . chainsaws and began cutting into his chest. The two power saws, called Sawzalls, sliced through his ribs and punctured his lung. The elderly New York native begged his attacker to stop carving, offering him cash and credit cards, but he ignored the pleas. Finally he stopped, said 'now I will take your credit cards and your money' and walked calmly away. At the time, Mr Steinberg told the media how construction workers had ignored his cries for help. Scene: The former postal worker was in the 110th and Broadway station on his way to work when he was attacked with the two saws, and he said contractors just stood back and failed to help him . 'I screamed for help. 'Please help! Please help me!' The people (construction workers) heard me. They just looked. They never stopped to help me, and that disturbed me more than anything else. I begged for somebody to call an ambulance and to get this guy off me,' he explained to the Post.
Doctors said if the saws had cut just a millimetre deeper, the postal worker would have been dead. Williams was arrested after punching a man walking his dog later that day and pleaded guilty to senseless assault. Steinberg, who was forced to quit his job, said the Transit Authority or Five Star Electric Corp. have never apologized for allowing the near fatal attack to take place.
It may be a foregone conclusion in the minds of many that accused Boston bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is guilty of murder. A horrific crime: multiple killings, including that of a child, and more than 200 maimed or wounded. What may be less clear is Tsarnaev's role in the attack, and whether, if convicted, he will be sentenced to death. As both sides prepare for his November trial, court filings and arguments by prosecutors and the defense provide a glimpse into their opposing strategy for the penalty phase of the case. The government says it has video showing Tsarnaev placing a backpack near the finish line, then using his cell phone, moments before the first bomb went off. He walked away and the second bomb went off in front of the camera, officials say. There is also the note Tsarnaev scribbled on the boat he was hiding in, claiming the Boston Marathon victims were payback for U.S. wars in Muslim lands. Excerpts of the note open the grand jury indictment. "I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished;" Tsarnaev wrote. "We Muslims are one body, you hurt one, you hurt us all;" "Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to said (unintelligible) it is allowed;" and "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." In seeking the death penalty, prosecutors cite as an aggravating factor Tsarnaev's "betrayal of the United States." They claim that after Tsarnaev received asylum from the United States, the defendant "enjoyed the freedoms of a United States citizen; and then betrayed his allegiance to the United States" by killing and maiming its people.
Leading the defense team is Judy Clarke, a longtime public defender who has represented some of the nation's most notorious criminals, including "Unabomber" Ted Kaczynski, who killed three; Jared Loughner, who shot and killed six people and critically wounded Rep. Gabby Giffords; and Susan Smith, the emotionally disturbed mother who drowned her two children. Kaczynski and Loughner pleaded guilty and were sentenced to life imprisonment. In the Smith case, Clarke argued that her client's abusive childhood and depression tormented her, causing her to "snap." Although it convicted Smith of murdering her sons, the jury spared her life. "She enjoys a wonderful reputation, she fights very hard for all her clients," said former U.S. attorney David Kelley, who prosecuted terrorism cases in New York's Southern District. "She's the model for all defense lawyers." Humanizing Tsarnaev is a priority for his defense team, said David Hoose, a criminal defense lawyer who represented Kristen Gilbert, a former Veterans Administration nurse convicted of killing four patients. The jury in that case did not vote unanimously to impose the death sentence. Gilbert was thus sentenced to life in prison. "There's always a story to be told, " Hoose said. "It's not a story that excuses or justifies what was done. but it explains and allows us to understand as human being to human being what led someone to the point in their life where they could undertake such an act that virtually everyone else finds incomprehensibly horrible." The defense has great leeway in presenting its case for the penalty phase. "The Supreme Court has held that pretty much anything related to the defense background, or character, or to the circumstances surrounding the crime" is admissible, Hoose said. Hoose said he believes Tsarnaev, who was 19 when the crime happened, has a good chance of avoiding the death penalty.
"This is a young kid, still impressionable, only a year and a half over the minimum that he would have to be even to be eligible for the death penalty, who is clearly under the influence of an older brother who has been radicalized and who has become extremely violent. What do you do as a younger sibling when that kind of thing is going on in your family?" In a recent court filing, the defense lawyers sought information prosecutors obtained from the federal government's surveillance of Tamerlan Tsarnaev. "Any evidence tending to show that Tamerlan supplied the motivation, planning and ideology behind the Boston Marathon attack, and that his younger brother acted under his domination and control, is material," the defense argued. Tsarnaev's defense team declined to comment to CNN, but in a status hearing this week, they called the Tsarnaev family dynamic key to their case. "If the government indictment is true, this is about a family," defense attorney David Bruck said. The defense objects to having an FBI agent monitor conversations between Tsarnaev and his siblings during prison visits. Judge George O'Toole has indicated he agrees with the defense, but deferred ruling to give prosecutors time to respond. Since the federal death penalty was reinstated in 1988, three people have been executed: Timothy McVeigh, for the Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people; Juan Garza, for three murders connected to drug trafficking; and Louis Jones, for the kidnapping and murder of a female soldier. According to the Federal Death Penalty Resource Counsel Project, juries have handed down 74 death sentence verdicts since the death penalty was reinstated. However, a judge has formally applied the sentence only 71 times. The disparity comes from defendants' convictions that were overturned or death verdicts that were vacated before formal sentencing by the judge. The liberal-leaning nature of Boston-area juries also will bear watching in Tsarnaev's case. Massachusetts banned the death penalty in 1984.
Hoose said in an area that is heavily Catholic, many are inclined to follow the lead of Pope Francis, who opposes capital punishment. In a Boston Globe poll taken in September, 57% of Boston respondents supported a life sentence for Tsarnaev. Thirty-three percent favored the death penalty. Lillian Campbell, whose granddaughter, Krystle Campbell, was killed in the marathon bombings, told CNN's Chris Cuomo, "When they came out with this part about the death sentence I said, well, I don't really care what they do with them. Because whatever they do, it's not going to bring her back," she said. "I'll never forget her, ever, no matter how much they say. Or what they do with the guy who did it. So I wouldn't wish anyone dead. I wouldn't." "Even after what he did?" asked Cuomo. "Even after what he did," Campbell replied. Prosecutors in the case declined to speak with CNN. Former federal prosecutor Allison Burroughs said, given the nature of the crime, it's not surprising the government is seeking the death penalty. "If not in this case, then when?" Burroughs said. However, she said winning a death penalty verdict in Massachusetts is so unlikely it may not be worth the time and resources involved. Others say the government made the right decision. "The death penalty attaching to a case of terrorism where people are maimed and killed is certainly a reasonable option," said Gerry Leone, the former Middlesex County District Attorney who prosecuted "shoe-bomber" Richard Reid in 2002. Reid pleaded guilty before going to trial. Although Leone said he thinks the defense has a chance of beating the death penalty, the prosecution strategy should be clear. "The prosecution keeps harping on and keeps drilling home the facts. And the facts are horrible here. Two-hundred-sixty plus people who were hurt and maimed. Three people dead.
A police officer in the aftermath of those actions executed," Leone said. "The government will keep pounding home the facts in this case, which are just horrible from a human perspective." Richard Burr, who represented Timothy McVeigh, knows what it is like to lose a capital case. McVeigh was executed in 2001. "In any case where there is huge public injury, there's pressure on political leaders to seek the death penalty. There may be pressure on jurors to return a death penalty, even against their better wisdom." The key, Burr said, is to present the jurors with a detailed narrative of the defendant's life that can evoke some mercy. "Clarke and her team are masters at getting at a defendant's life story," Burr said. Yet "she is also attuned to the critical need for the capital defense team not to ignore the victims." "The death penalty deprives people of their humanity," Burr added. "We have to try to help remind everybody that we're all in this together."
By . Tracey Cox . It's National Orgasm Day, don't you know? Well, if you didn't know one thing you will be sure of (especially if you're female) is that reaching that magical point during sex isn't always so easy. For many, there's no problem but for plenty of women there can be obstacles in the way of reaching climax. Fear not though because there are ways to make sure that love making isn't boring and offers as much fun for you as it does your partner. Here's Sexpert Tracey Cox's tips for helping yourself out in the bedroom. Don't be miserable in the bedroom: Help yourself to orgasm by reading up on Tracey's top tips . Change your attitude . The most common obstacle to having an orgasm is your attitude to sex. If you’ve been brought up to believe it’s ‘bad’ or ‘dirty’ or even ‘unladylike’, you probably feel uncomfortable touching yourself or letting your partner touch you. The ‘good girls don’t’ inhibition factor is a big problem for some. Remember that sex and pleasure is normal and allow yourself to get carried away. Enjoy! If you really can't, do think about booking a few sessions with a female sex therapist (check out the Psychological Society) Accept you have to learn how to orgasm . Female orgasms aren’t automatic. You’re . not going to accidentally have one while doing the ironing. It’s also . extremely unlikely that you’ll have your first orgasm with a partner. Practically all women have their first on their own. So if you’re . waiting for some magical lover to transport you to heaven, stock up the . cupboards – you’re in for an awfully long wait. Instead, invest in a few . good sex books that focus specifically on the emotional barriers to . orgasm.
Keep reading and researching until you feel good about sex, . confident that you understand how your body works and know the basic . techniques most women use to orgasm. Accept responsibility for your own pleasure . Do you think it’s his responsibility to ‘give’ you an orgasm? No-one can ‘give’ you an orgasm; you have to ‘take’ one yourself, by guiding and telling him how to do it. It’s not like a five-course meal where he slaves in the kitchen and you get to do nothing but lie about until you’re ready to savour the results. Orgasms happen when both of you know what you want and how to get it. Teach yourself how to masturbate . You’ll learn more about your body and its response system if you use your fingers but using a vibrator is also a good idea. Any good department store sells personal massagers, ostensibly designed to massage shoulders but more often bought to massage clitorises. The saleswoman won’t know what you’re buying it for. Remember though, you’re not putting it inside but holding it against your sensitive parts. Also do teach yourself to climax using your hands. Unless you want to always use a vibrator with your partner, you need to know how to do it manually. Teach him how to do it . Once you’ve masturbated yourself to orgasm, it’s time to tell him how to do it otherwise how is he supposed to know what you like? God sex is your own responsibility - don't expect to be able to lie back and let your partner do all the work . Change how you see your own body . Many women don’t orgasm because they think their partners can’t possibly find them attractive and spend too much time thinking about that during sex, rather than focusing on what's going on.
Let’s get one thing straight right now: an overwhelming majority of men are turned on by a naked woman’s body, no matter what shape it’s in. However, if you aren’t happy with yours, do something about it. Join a gym, get a make-over, eat healthily, then splash out on some new clothes. But accept what nature has handed out: ignore the faults, play up the good bits and learn to love every centimetre. Stop trying so hard . A watched pot never boils. Your mind should be focused on how pleasurable the sensations are, not on ‘Please God, let me have one’. The more you worry about it, the more your body will tense and make orgasm impossible. Try a bit of reverse psychology. When you masturbate or make love, tell yourself you’re not allowed to have an orgasm, that this session is strictly for ‘research’ purposes. You’ll relax more and may well end up scoring a goal. Tracey Cox knows it all when it comes to sex . Rethink your relationship . ‘You’re fat’, ‘No wonder you can’t have an orgasm, you’re no good at anything’, ‘You’re not a real woman’, ‘You’re frigid’ – if your partner says or insinuates negative things about you, your body or your inability to climax, getting rid of him is the simple solution to your problem. Tracey . has an academic background in psychology, has written 14 books on sex, . relationships and body language and has hosted many TV shows on these . topics across her career to date. Join the conversation on Tracey's FEMAIL blog, or visit Tracey's website.
ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- The Bigfoot in the freezer is made of rubber, a Web posting asserted Tuesday. The frozen creature reputed to be Bigfoot turned out to be made of rubber, an enthusaist reports. The initial promoter of two hikers' claim that they found the body of Bigfoot in Georgia said he has determined that the discovery was a hoax. The body turned out to be rubber, and the two men who claimed that they found it, Matthew Whitton and Rick Dyer, have admitted that it was a costume, said a posting Tuesday on the Web sites of Searching for Bigfoot Inc. and Squatchdetective. The posting purportedly was written by Steve Kulls, who maintains the Squatchdetective Web site and hosts a similarly named Internet radio program, where the find was announced weeks ago. In addition, Stanford University anthropologist Richard Klein said Monday that he was not aware he had been identified as participating in the project and would not be involved in any effort to examine the purported Bigfoot carcass. Whitton and Dyer announced last week that they had found the body of a 7-foot-7-inch, 500-pound half-ape, half-human creature while hiking in the north Georgia mountains in June. They said they put the carcass in a freezer and had spotted about three similar living creatures. "We were not looking for Bigfoot," Whitton, a Clayton County, Georgia, police officer, said Friday during a news conference. "We wouldn't know what we were doing if we did." He and Dyer insisted that scientific analysis would bear out their claim. The hoax was discovered after an "expedited melting process," Kulls wrote. "A break appeared up near the feet area as the team and I began examining this area near the feet, I observed the foot which looked unnatural, reached in and confirmed it was a rubber foot."
Kulls said he contacted Tom Biscardi, the self-described "Real Bigfoot Hunter" who has been searching since 1971 for the creature of legend and appeared alongside Whitton and Dyer at the news conference. "Later that day, Tom Biscardi informed us that both Matthew Whitton and Ricky Dyer admitted it was a costume," the posting said. Whitton and Dyer reportedly agreed to sign a promissory note and an admission of the hoax and meet with Biscardi at their hotel on Sunday. But when Biscardi went to the hotel, the two had left, Kulls wrote. "At this time, action is being instigated against the perpetrators," the posting said, adding that the motives behind the claims were unknown. iReport.com: Do you believe in Bigfoot? The posting said Biscardi's organization, Searching for Bigfoot Inc., "is seeking justice for themselves and for all the people who were deceived by this deception." Kulls did not immediately return a call to the Squatchdetective contact number. A woman answering the phone at Searching for Bigfoot Inc. said Biscardi had been ill and said she was not sure when he would be returning calls. A number listed as belonging to Matthew Whitton was disconnected as of Tuesday. Efforts to locate a phone number for Dyer on Tuesday were unsuccessful. Dyer and Whitton failed to show up Monday for a scheduled appearance on CNN's "American Morning." Kulls said that at the time he first interviewed Dyer on July 28 for the radio program, he suspected the duo's motive was financial. On August 12, he said, the two "requested an undisclosed sum of money as an advance, expected from the marketing and promotion."
Two days later, after signing a receipt and counting the money, Dyer and Whitton showed the Searching for Bigfoot team the freezer containing what they claimed was the body: "something appearing large, hairy and frozen in ice," Kulls wrote. Dyer, he said, insisted on holding the news conference and told Biscardi he would not release the body unless the briefing was held Friday. On Sunday, the research team was able to extract some hair and burn it. The hair sample "melted into a ball uncharacteristic of hair," Kulls wrote. Biscardi then gave the group permission to expedite the melting process, and the rubber foot was discovered, Kulls wrote. Meanwhile, Klein, the Stanford professor, said Monday that he was "sorry that my name and Stanford's name have been brought into this." Klein's name was mentioned Friday as one of four scientists, two of them Russian, who would analyze the corpse. Klein said he was unaware that Biscardi had identified him. He said he had been contacted by Biscardi in the past and responded to a request to examine bones that were identified as coming from a deer. "He seems like a nice enough guy," Klein said, "but I can't imagine why anyone would devote their lives to proving the existence [of Bigfoot]. Anything has a remote chance of being true, but there is virtually no prospect of this animal being real." CNN's Peter Dykstra contributed to this report.
In Silicon Valley-speak, “on demand” means requesting a service—laundry, a ride, a massage—right now. All you have to do is push that button. But of course you still have to wait for the ride to come; no one has figured out (yet) how to make it materialize out of thin air. Now Uber wants to approximate that feeling by letting you schedule your ride ahead of time. When you need it, goes the idea, your ride just appears. Starting today, business travelers in Seattle will be able to schedule rides 30 minutes to 30 days in advance. It’s the first step in what the company says will be a global rollout of the feature. “Even though we’re an on-demand company, we totally get it,” says Tom Fallows, Uber’s director of global experiences. “Sometimes you just want that extra reassurance that your Uber will be there when you want to leave.” After tapping on UberX in the Uber app, users will see a new option to schedule a ride to within a 15-minute window. You’ll set their pickup date, time, location, and destination, and you’ll be able to edit details up to 30 minutes before the pickup time. You can also cancel anytime without a penalty so long as your ride isn’t already on the way. Uber says it will send you reminders 24 hours ahead of your ride, and again 30 minutes before. Passengers will also get a notification after the ride is on the way that includes, among other information, whether or not surge pricing is in effect. Since surge pricing is a strictly real-time computation, Fallows says, users see only the base fare when they initially order a scheduled ride.
But if you’re not willing to pay the surge pricing, you have a five-minute window to cancel without a penalty after the driver is on the way. Wait longer than five minutes and the standard cancellation fee applies. (The amount varies by city: It’s $5 in San Francisco and Seattle, for instance, and 5 euros in Paris.) What the Driver Sees Meanwhile, the process on the driver’s end remains exactly the same. “The most efficient way to do this by far is for us to send your ride request to the nearest driver at the right moment,” Fallows says. “So from their perspective, it’s a normal ride.” Uber does the technical heavy lifting to decide when to send the ride request out, says Fallows, which includes examining such signals as where all Uber drivers on the network are at that moment; where those drivers are headed and likely to be in the next few minutes; and how long it would take those drivers to arrive at your pickup location. Traffic is another factor, Fallows says, as is the likelihood of a driver accepting your request. Scheduled rides go live today in Seattle, with other “top business travel cities” following soon, according to Uber. At launch, the feature is available only to users who have a business profile set up on the service, and only on the UberX tier. The announcement comes shortly after Uber’s archrival, Lyft, said it was testing a similar feature among its own employees in San Francisco. Lyft said it would like to offer scheduled rides to regular customers but has no definite plan for releasing the feature. Passengers will be able to schedule a ride up to 30 days in advance, a reversal of Uber's long-held attitude that it is an on-demand service.
Mass shooting in Orlando: Why Pulse is more than just a gay bar An Uber car in San Francisco in May 2015. Passengers will soon be able to pre-schedule rides. Passport, check. Toothbrush, check. Scheduled Uber pickup, check. The ride-hailing company announced that users on their way to the airport, or in need of any pre-scheduled ride, will be able to reserve one up to 30 days in advance. The service started Thursday in Seattle, the home of Microsoft, and will expand to other “top business travel cities,” Uber wrote on its blog. Uber is not the first ride-hailing service to offer this feature. Lyft announced in May it has started to test a similar program in San Francisco, while Gett has offered scheduled-ahead service for more than a year where it operates, USA Today reported. As these companies upend the taxi and limousine industries, Uber’s announcement shows that it, Lyft, and Gett have found that they shouldn’t discard too many taxi and limo features in the name of “on-demand.” “Even though we’re an on-demand company, we totally get it,” Tom Fallows, Uber’s director of global experiences, told Wired.com. “Sometimes you just want that extra reassurance that your Uber will be there when you want to leave.” Through Uber’s new feature, a user will be able to schedule a ride 30 minutes to 30 days in advance. The feature will be offered to start just through Uber X, its less expensive, private vehicle option. A user can cancel any time before their ride is on its way, at no cost to them. Pre-scheduling won’t impact drivers, who will not be able to match with riders ahead of time, according to The Boston Globe.
And users won’t be able to avoid surge pricing, in which the cost of a ride climbs at peak hours, either. Schedule-ahead service is a reversal of Uber’s long-held stance about how, and when, it serves its customers. “Uber is an on-demand service,” it writes on its website, on a page titled “Can I make a reservation?” “Use the Uber app to request a trip when you’re ready to ride. There’s no need to make a reservation in advance.” Travis Kalanick, Uber’s chief executive, reaffirmed this mindset in September, when he spoke one-on-one with Salesforce CEO Mark Benioff at the cloud computing company’s Dreamforce conference. “Do you schedule time with your shower?” said Mr. Kalanick, when asked by Mr. Benioff if Uber would introduce scheduled rides, reported Forbes. And yet, ever since it started six years ago, Uber said it has received requests from customers for pre-scheduled rides “so they can rest assured that an Uber will be available when they need it, even if it’s for a 4 a.m. ride to the airport,” wrote Uber in Thursday’s blog post. Taxis and limos have long offered schedule-ahead services. In fact, it’s a foundation of the limousine industry. Gett, which operates in Europe, Russia, Israel, and New York City, recognized this when it launched the service more than a year ago. Lyft was next. It started to pilot service in San Francisco about two weeks ago, and plans to expand it to other cities sometime this summer, reported PC Magazine. Lyft, though, will allow users to reserve a ride up to 24 hours in advance, compared to up to 30 days through Uber.
Uber introduced pre-scheduling in part to keep up with its rivals. Yet it’s also an indication that ride-hailing companies are learning they can’t do away with too much of the traditional model. “If you want to really, truly upend the market, then you have to focus on perfecting the tools people use to create change,” wrote Kevin Harrington, the inventor of the infomercial, in a Forbes article. “In the end, companies don’t upend markets – customers do.” Uber’s working on making it easier for you to get a ride when you need it. “Ride-scheduling,” unveiled June 9 on a trial basis in Seattle, is the latest feature to be added, according to the company’s blog. Advertisement While the new feature allows riders to schedule a pickup request up to 30 days in advance, it doesn’t allow riders to match with drivers ahead of time. Since launching its ride-sharing application six years ago, the company said on its blog that riders have wanted the ability to arrange a pickup in advance. The company said it did not have a specific date when Boston would receive the new feature, but “other top business travel cities” will soon be added. Uber is also limiting the new feature to users it identifies as “business travelers.’’ To use the function, users will have to select “uberX” in the app, followed by a “Schedule a Ride” option. After filling out the appropriate information, such as pickup date and time, confirmation will be sent to the user. The company says they’ll send reminders 24 hours and then again at 30 minutes before the requested pickup time. Advertisement The driver’s information will be shared once a match is made, like the app currently does with unscheduled rides, Uber said.
The ability to schedule a ride is a complete turnaround for Uber. According to Forbes in 2015, Uber’s Travis Kalanick told Salesforce Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff that Uber had no plans to introduce a scheduling capability. Roughly two weeks ago, ride-share rival Lyft also announced plans for testing ride-scheduling capabilities. According to an announcement posted May 23 on its blog, Lyft users in San Francisco can schedule rides up to 24 hours in advance. Uder’s scheduling proposal comes on the heels of another announcement — guaranteed uberPOOL arrival time. In a June 7 blog post, the company stated that uberPOOL users will see an “arrival time” estimate as opposed to the current travel time estimate. If you miss your “arrival time,” Uber will give you $2 off your next uberPOOL ride. Currently, uberPOOL arrival time is only offered in Los Angeles, but the company hopes to expand it to other cities soon. Uber said it also does not have a specific date to roll out the new uberPOOL feature in Boston. Seattle will be the first city where Uber offers scheduled rides to app users with a business profile. Uber will allow riders to schedule a ride as early as 30 days in advance. The new service will be first offered to business travelers in the Seattle area starting at 11 a.m. Thursday, though the company has promised quick expansion to other cities. Hoping to please meticulous planners with loaded calendars, Tom Fallows, Uber’s director of global experiences, said the service is aimed at those who “want an extra degree of assurance Uber will be there when they head out,” such as travelers with early morning flights. “They sleep better knowing their Uber ride is arranged,” Fallows said. To schedule a trip, app users with a business profile choose a route and set a date and time.
Scheduled rides are priced like a normal Uber ride and subject to surge pricing. “If you’re requesting the ride at 8 a.m. on a Monday morning and it’s super high demand, surge may apply just like it normally would,” Fallows said. “We send riders a push notification on the way, notifying them if there’s any surge.” Passengers can modify their scheduled rides before the driver has been dispatched. Once the push notification is sent and the driver is en route, users will have 5 minutes to cancel without penalty, Fallows said. Initially, scheduled rides will be available only on UberX, but Fallows said the company plans to expand it to black cars and other Uber lines soon. Uber chose to launch in Seattle because developers here built the system and the city has a lot of business travelers, Fallows said. Although scheduling is a simple concept, Fallows said the architecture that runs the dispatching system requires complex algorithms that determine the right time to ask a driver to pick up a scheduled ride. The algorithm weighs proximity, traffic obstacles and the likelihood a driver will accept a scheduled ride, among other factors. The best driver for a given ride won’t always be the one nearest to the person requesting it, Fallows said. For example, “We may know a driver who currently has a passenger in the car is headed to drop them off nearby your house or pickup location,” Fallows said. “The best driver to be offered your ride is not an available driver 10 blocks away, but is a driver who is currently occupied but will soon be free two blocks away.” Fallows said Uber’s engineers in Seattle will be watching how the new feature is used and eager for feedback from customers. “There’s nothing like having things happen in your own backyard to excite you about building and testing,” he said.
Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. My headline may be a bit misleading. Albert Einstein, the Nobel prize-winning physicist who gave the world the theory of relativity, E = mc2, and the law of the photoelectric effect, obviously had a special brain. So special that when he died in Princeton Hospital, on April 18, 1955, the pathologist on call, Thomas Harvey, stole it. Einstein didn’t want his brain or body to be studied; he didn’t want to be worshipped. “He had left behind specific instructions regarding his remains: cremate them, and scatter the ashes secretly in order to discourage idolaters,” writes Brian Burrell in his 2005 book, Postcards from the Brain Museum. But Harvey took the brain anyway, without permission from Einstein or his family. “When the fact came to light a few days later, Harvey managed to solicit a reluctant and retroactive blessing from Einstein’s son, Hans Albert, with the now-familiar stipulation that any investigation would be conducted solely in the interest of science,” Burrell writes. Harvey soon lost his job at the Princeton hospital and took the brain to Philadelphia, where it was carved into 240 pieces and preserved in celloidin, a hard and rubbery form of cellulose. He divvied up the pieces into two jars and stored them in his basement. Just when you think this story can’t get any weirder, it does. As Burrell explains (emphasis mine): After [Harvey’s] wife threatened to dispose of the brain, he returned to retrieve it and took it with him to the Midwest.
For a time he worked as a medical supervisor in a biological testing lab in Wichita, Kansas, keeping the brain in a cider box stashed under a beer cooler. He moved again, to Weston, Missouri, and practiced medicine while trying to study the brain in his spare time, only to lose his medical license in 1988 after failing a three-day competency exam. He then relocated to Lawrence, Kansas, took an assembly-line job in a plastic-extrusion factory, moved into a second-floor apartment next to a gas station, and befriended a neighbor, the beat poet William Burroughs. The two men routinely met for drinks on Burroughs’s front porch. Harvey would tell stories about the brain, about cutting off chunks to send to researchers around the world. Burroughs, in turn, would boast to visitors that he could have a piece of Einstein any time he wanted. (I know, right?!) To fast forward a bit: Come 1985, Harvey and collaborators in California published the first study of Einstein’s brain, claiming that it had an abnormal proportion of two types of cells, neurons and glia. That study was followed by five others (the most recent published just this month), reporting additional differences in individual cells or in particular structures in Einstein’s brain. The researchers behind these studies say studying Einstein’s brain could help uncover the neurological underpinnings of intelligence. But that premise is nonsense and the studies are bunk, at least according to Terence Hines, a professor of psychology at Pace University. A couple of weeks ago, Hines presented a poster at the Cognitive Neuroscience Society annual meeting outlining all of the ways in which each of the six studies is flawed.
Some highlights: –In the original 1985 report, Harvey and his collaborators found that in Brodmann Area 39 — a region where the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes meet — Einstein’s neuron-to-glia ratio was significantly smaller than it was in the same area in 11 control brains. But the control group was not all that well controlled: the brains came from people age 47 to 80 years old, whereas Einstein died at age 76. The controls brains were also fresh, whereas Einstein’s had been languishing in basements and beer coolers for three decades. Perhaps most problematic, counting cells is a subjective business, and the researchers performing the cell counts were not blind to which tissue was Einstein’s and which was not. –In 1996, Harvey partnered with a scientist from Alabama and counted neurons in Einstein’s Brodmann Area 9 — part of the frontal cortex — as well as those of five controls. There were no differences in the number of neurons or the size of neurons, the study found, but Einstein’s tissue was thinner than controls. More densely packed neurons, the authors speculated, means that cell-to-cell messages travel shorter differences, which might mean faster processing speed overall. That’s quite a stretch. As Hines calls out in his poster, the finding was based on just one square millimeter of Einstein’s brain. What’s more, the authors admit to not reporting any of the ways in which Einstein’s brain was similar to controls. –In 1999, Harvey and Canadian collaborators got Einstein’s brain into one of the world’s most prestigious medical journals, The Lancet. Based on old photographs that had been taken of Einstein’s brain before it was cut up, the researchers claimed that Einstein had an abnormal folding pattern in part of his parietal lobe, a region that has been linked to mathematical ability.
They also reported that his parietal lobes were 15 percent wider, and more symmetrical, than those of control brains. Once again, though, the researchers were not blinded to which photographs showed Einstein’s brain. And though the authors were quick to make links between these supposed differences and Einstein’s mathematical prowess, Hines points out that Einstein wasn’t, in fact, a great mathematician. The underlying problem in all of the studies is that they set out to compare a category made up of one person, an N of 1, with a nebulous category of “not this person” and an N of more than 1. With an N of 1, it’s extremely difficult to calculate the statistical variance — the likelihood that, for example, Einstein’s low neuron-to-glia ratio is real and not just a fluke of that particular region and those particular methods. Even if the statistics were sound, you’d still have the problem of attributing skills and behaviors to anatomy. There’s no way to know if X thing in Einstein’s brain made Einstein smart/dyslexic/good at math/you name it, or was just an X thing in his brain. It makes me angry to think of all that was wasted in these investigations. There was the monetary cost of the studies — money that could have been spent on work that was not doomed from the outset to fail. There was a personal cost, in that Einstein’s family was essentially strong-armed into agreeing to participate in research that Einstein explicitly did not want to participate in. And there was a public cost, too. In popular-press accounts of these studies over the years, the public was misled about the findings and their supposed scientific value. I’ve made this error, too, by the way.
In 2012 I wrote an uncritical, cringe-worthy report on preliminary data from a neuroscience conference comparing brain images of Temple Grandin, one of the most famous people with autism, with those of three controls. The researchers claimed to find several distinctive features in Grandin’s brain that could explain her exceptional nonverbal intelligence and her way of thinking in pictures. Here’s how smart Einstein was — he understood all too well the public’s obsession with him, our obsession with celebrity and special-ness. He knew that if given the chance, scientists would pore over his brain’s neurons and glia, sulci and gyri, and make grand pronouncements about what makes a genius. And he knew it would be bullshit. As Einstein supposedly wrote, but probably didn’t really write, on a blackboard in his Princeton office: “Not everything that counts can be counted, and not everything that can be counted counts.”
By . Martin Robinson . PUBLISHED: . 06:29 EST, 21 February 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 06:37 EST, 21 February 2013 . New details: Secret documents have revealed that Jimmy Savile gave money to children and claimed it back on BBC expenses . Jimmy Savile made several secret payments to children at the height of his offending and managed to claim the cash back from the BBC as expenses, it was revealed today. Confidential documents show the paedophile handed £10 to three youngsters in 1974 - worth around £72 today - after they had appeared on his Clunk Click TV show. Savile, who was being paid the huge sum of £2,350 for every show he presented, demanded the money back and the Corporation obliged and never asked why he paid the children. A letter, dated April 18 1974, shows the transactions and has today been released by the BBC under the Freedom of Information Act. 'We understand from London that during the above programme [Clunk Click] you dispersed £10 each to the following young people [names blanked out],' it says. 'We therefore enclose our cheque for £30 to reimburse you.' The payments were during the peak period of his predatory attacks, between 1966 and 1976, when he was aged between 40 and 50. In 1974 alone there were 30 occasions where he allegedly sexually abused both children and adults. Since October there have been 450 complaints to police about him - 214 have been recorded as crimes. His earliest offence was in Manchester in 1955, and the final reported allegation was in 2009 when he was aged 82. Some were allegedly attacked on BBC premises, including in his dressing room and the caravan he kept in the Television Centre car park in London.
Concerns: Savile paid the youngsters in 1974, during his most prolific period of abuse, when he allegedly attacked people at BBC Television Centre (pictured) But despite abusing all over Britain he was never brought to justice even though police had chances to prosecute him while the DJ was alive. Yesterday it was revealed an officer from West Yorkshire Police is to be investigated after being accused of contacting Surrey Police on the DJ's behalf before they interviewed Savile over three alleged sex crimes in 2009. The reasons for these new secret payments to Clunk Click children are a mystery, but the BBC maintains there is no evidence that the youngsters were victims. A BBC spokeswoman told MailOnline: 'The document shows Savile was reimbursed the sum of £30 but there are no further details about this transaction which took place over 40 years ago'. Show: Sir Jimmy Savile is shown presenting his programme 'Clunk Click' alongside guest Max Bowker. It is not known which children Savile paid nearly 40 years ago . But the solicitor representing victims said the cash could be something more worrying. 'The payments could be deeply sinister, or it could just be that Savile was tight,' Alan Collins from the Pannone law firm told the Daily Express. 'We know he met kids in cafes and perhaps bought them drinks, but I can’t think why he would want to reimburse himself. 'It is well known he was reportedly tight-fisted, but given what we have learned over the past few months, one has got to keep an open mind about this.' The FOI shows other expenses claims he made when he was at the Corporation. It appears he demanded a new suit for every show he presented and asked for, and was given, an £1,800 pay rise per show in 1990 to allow for inflation - a huge sum at the time. He also asked for £200 travelling expenses for every programme because he lived in northern England, not London.
A memo in 1989 said: 'Perhaps predictably Jimmy has raised the question of expenses using the argument that although he maintains a flat in London, he is now principally resident in Leeds.'
By . Damien Gayle . Arrested: Fugitive Kazakh oligarch Mukhtar . Ablyazov, who was held in France after special forces backed by armoured vehicles . swooped on his rented home . French police special forces called in airpower and armoured vehicles for an operation to seize a wealthy fugitive Kazakh oligarch wanted in three countries over a $5billion bank fraud. Mukhtar Ablyazov was held after paramilitary police swooped on a rental home in the town of Mouans Sartoux, near Nice in south-east France, said Solange Legras, chief prosecutor at an appeals court in Aix-en-Provence. The police used 'powerful means' - . including armoured vehicles and a plane - because Ablyazov was known to . have a 'private militia' at his disposal, said Ms Legras, whose office . focuses on international cases. In the event, no shots were fired during the operation. The 50-year-old is wanted in Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan over a string of allegations of fraud and organised crime. He disappeared from the UK in February 2012 just before a British court sentenced him to 22-months in jail for contempt of court in a financial fraud trial. He was subsequently stripped of assets worth more than £150million in British assets, including an £18million mansion in one of London's most exclusive streets. Ablyazov, who has been wanted by Interpol since 2009, was held on allegations of 'large-scale fraud in an organised group', Ms Legras said by phone, shortly after meeting with Ablyazov to explain the possible extradition process. A former energy minister in his home country, Ablyazov later emerged as a prominent opponent of Kazakhstan's president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has ruled the energy-rich Central Asian nation since before the Soviet collapse.
Shortly after setting up a pro-reform party in 2001, Ablyazov was sentenced to six years in prison for abuse of public office. However, he was pardoned by Mr Nazarbayev and released in 2003, vowing to stay out of politics - a promise he broke by funnelling money to the opposition. Kazakhstan's prosecutors have . described Ablyazov as the head of an extremist, criminal conspiracy bent . on 'seizing power by inciting civil strife and hatred.' He is wanted . there on charges of siphoning off at least $5billion from BTA Bank, . which based in the central Asian country's business capital, Almaty. The . prosecutor in Astana, the Kazakh capital, said Interpol had informed . the government of Ablyazov's arrest, which was carried out at the . request of Ukraine, where he is wanted on charges of alleged . embezzlement of funds from a local branch of the BTA bank. He is also . sought by Russia in connection with embezzlement charges involving BTA . bank and a Russian company. Dissident: A former energy minister in his home country, Ablyazov later emerged as a prominent opponent of Kazakhstan's president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has ruled the country since before the Soviet collapse . There was no extradition request from the UK, where Ablyazov was in February 2012 convicted of contempt of court after attempting to hide the extent of his wealth from a legal action taken by the now state-owned BTA bank in the hope of recovering some of the allegedly embezzled funds. Mr Justice Teare, sitting in the High Court, said Ablyazov was accused of 'fraud on an epic scale' and had committed 'deliberate and substantial' contempts by breaching an asset-freezing order imposed to stop money vanishing before litigation concluded.
The conviction was upheld at the Court of Appeal last November, where senior judge Lord Justice Maurice Kay said Ablyazov had shown 'rare cynicism and deviousness' as he fought the claims against him and ordered him stripped of assets worth more than £150million. Mr Ablyazov’s property portfolio in Britain is alone worth more than £63million. His Bishops Avenue property — Carlton House — is worth £17million and is in a street nicknamed Billionaires' Row. The mansion has a 50ft ballroom and a Turkish bath, and is one of several he bought in a spree financed allegedly using fake loans, backdated documents and offshore accounts. He also has a £1m apartment in Albert Court, closet to Lord's cricket ground; and Oaklands Park - a 100-acre estate on the edge of Windsor Great Park with tennis courts and helicopter pad. In a statement on his Facebook page, . Madiyar Ablyazov, the former banker's son, said he feared what would . happen if his father were deported to Kazakhstan. 'We . beg the French authorities not to grant Kazakhstan our father. He is a . man of honour, who has been fighting all his life, and sacrificed so . much, for freedom and democracy in Kazakhstan,' the younger Ablyazov . wrote. 'We are afraid for his life.' Taken: Ablyazov's mansion in Hampstead, which has a 50ft ballroom and a Turkish bath, is one of several he bought in a spree financed allegedly using fake loans, backdated documents and offshore accounts . Ablyazov's arrest came after the deportation of his wife and young daughter from Italy to Kazakhstan caused a political crisis in Rome last month. Because France has no extradition agreement with Kazakhstan, Ms Legras, the Aix-en-Provence prosecutor, said she is focusing on the extradition request from Ukraine for now.
Under the extradition process, the requesting country has 40 days to send its legal dossier to French authorities. Once that is received, French prosecutors will have five days to present Ablyazov to investigating magistrates. 'In my opinion, this isn't going to happen before the autumn,' she said. The managing director of BTA Bank today told MailOnline the company welcomed Ablyazov's arrest. Pavel Prosyankin said: 'This arrest is a result of the Bank’s diligent efforts through the British justice system to recover the billions of dollars he stole while Chairman. 'We have sought his arrest to prevent him from further dissipating assets which the English High Court ordered to be put in receivership. 'He has flouted many court orders and fled the UK after we secured another High Court judgment sentencing him to prison in England. 'He is now in custody and we are optimistic that we will be better positioned to recover more of the assets which the court has authorised us to seize.' Ablyazov denies wrongdoing and says the allegations are politically motivated.
University of East Anglia researchers tested 594 bio-science students in their first week of term at five universities. Almost all had a grade A*, A or B in biology at A-level. But on average they answered 60% of questions from their A-level core syllabus incorrectly. The researchers blame an emphasis on teaching to the test. Researchers tested students at: They were told about the test beforehand but were not given any details about its content or subject focus. The researchers said it was unlikely, therefore, that students would have revised for the test before taking it. They were given 50 minutes to answer 38 multiple choice questions on cells, genetics, biochemistry and physiology. Lead researcher for the study, Dr Harriet Jones, said: "This is the first research carried out in collaboration with an exam board to investigate how much information is lost between students sitting their A-levels and arriving at university three months later. "We found that students had forgotten around 60% of everything they learned for their A-levels. "Universities expect their students to arrive with a high level of knowledge. "What our research shows is that students are arriving at university with fantastic A-level grades, but having forgotten much of what they actually learned for their exams." Dr Jones said the trend to teach to the test, to ensure good results for schools' reputations, was the problem. "This is undoubtedly a problem caused by secondary schools gearing all of their teaching towards students doing well in exams, in order to achieve league-table success," she said. "But cramming facts for an exam doesn't give students a lasting knowledge of their subject. "School and university have very different demands. In higher education, students cannot rely solely on memorising information, so it is important that students can adapt to a more in-depth approach to learning."
In response to concerns that A-levels were not preparing students adequately for the rigours of degree-level study, Education Secretary Michael Gove has announced changes to A-level courses. From September 2015, A-level syllabuses in England will be linear, with all assessment at the end of two years of study, rather than the current modular style of study. Leading universities are also closely involved in developing the content of the new A levels, to ensure students are fully prepared for university study. The UEA report said: "If A-levels are to be redesigned to enhance their impact for students entering higher education, then creating programmes which encourage retention of key concepts should be a key factor to consider." The report concludes: "Secondary education has become increasingly politicised, which involves greater emphasis on testing and results of tests, target setting and performance."
(CNN) -- This month, the world's political and business elite will converge on Europe's highest-altitude town for the annual talk-shop that is the World Economic Forum, held this year under the banner of "resilient dynamism." The theme, the conference's organizers make clear, is prescriptive rather than descriptive -- a clarion call to the world's leaders, rather than an endorsement of their responses to date in addressing the problems afflicting the global economy. "The new reality that we face is a prolonged global economic malaise, particularly in major economies experiencing economic austerity," Klaus Schwab, the German economist who founded the World Economic Forum (WEF) in 1971, said in a statement. "Future growth in this new context requires dynamism -- bold vision and even bolder action. Either attribute -- resilience or dynamism -- alone is insufficient." While there has necessarily been plenty of resilience in evidence since the last time delegates gathered at the Swiss ski resort, their responses to major issues like the ongoing eurozone sovereign debt crises and the U.S.'s fiscal cliff could hardly be termed dynamic. Those issues are likely to be foremost in the minds of those deemed important enough to be admitted entrance to the event, considered one of the world's most exclusive. Attendance to Davos is strictly by invitation only, with only 2,600 "white badges" of attendance issued to representatives from more than 100 countries. Adding to the exclusivity is the hefty price tag to attend. While the white badges are free for invited representatives of certain groups -- heads of state, faith leaders, academics, social entrepreneurs, members of international organizations and news anchors -- for businesses, the cost of a ticket is approximately $20,000. Per-delegate costs can easily rise to double that once travel, accommodation and other expenses are factored in.
Among the VVIPs on the guest list will be heads of state, royalty, the CEOs of global corporate giants and the heads of a veritable alphabet soup of international organizations. The delegates will have plenty to talk about. The WEF's own Global Risks 2013 report -- compiled from an annual survey of more than 1,000 experts and industry leaders -- offers a pessimistic outlook, saying the global community's ability to address significant challenges, such as global warming, is undermined by the continuing economic weakness plaguing major economies. It identifies income inequality and unsustainable government debts as the two issues most likely to have an effect on the global community over the coming decade, and warns of a major systemic financial failure as the most devastating potential outcome. That weakness in key economic zones is proving stubbornly difficult to remedy. In November, figures were released showing the eurozone has entered a double-dip recession, with the well-documented woes of Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy. Austerity, the bitter medicine that it was hoped would be the cure to Europe's economic malaise, has not only proved hugely unpopular, prompting millions of Europeans to take to the streets in coordinated mass protests in November -- it is also, in the eyes of many economic experts, not working. IMF managing director Christine Lagarde is among many leading figures who have called for a slowdown in the austerity measures, the impacts of which the organization's chief economist Olivier Blanchard has said were miscalculated. The only major respite for the eurozone has come courtesy of the "Draghi effect." In September, European Central Bank (ECB) president, Mario Draghi, pledged to buy unlimited amounts of short-term debt from struggling eurozone members, in an attempt to shore up the 17-nation currency bloc, provided they accept certain conditions. Nevertheless the pain remains severe in many parts of Europe, with Greece in particular enduring the agony of austerity and recession.
Its economy is forecast to have contracted 6% in 2012. Meanwhile the prospect of a government bailout continues to hang over Spain, according to market watchers. Compounding the uncertainty surrounding the eurozone's fourth-largest economy is an upcoming referendum, to be held in 2014, on whether Catalonia -- the country's wealthiest and most industrialized region, containing 16% of the population and producing 19% of its wealth -- wants independence. Elsewhere in Europe, economists are predicting that Britain -- which is not a member of the eurozone -- will receive a downgrading of its AAA rating this year. That was the result for the United States, as it suffered the first ever downgrade of its AAA rating last year. Despite lawmakers eventually reaching a deal on the fiscal cliff, political divisions look set to remain an impediment to addressing ongoing financial issues, such as the debt ceiling. The U.S.'s borrowing has hit its legal limit of $16.394 trillion, prompting the Treasury to resort to "extraordinary measures" to ensure that the government can pay its bills. If the ceiling is not raised soon, the U.S. faces the risk of defaulting on payments. But despite the painful, drawn-out experience of the fiscal cliff negotiations, indications from political leaders suggest that political partisanship and brinkmanship over financial solutions are set to continue. And in the Arab world, the ramifications of a wave of upheaval that began two years ago is still playing out. Egypt -- the most populous Arab country, geopolitically significant for its relationship with Israel -- showed encouraging signs when it successfully held election for its first democratically elected leader. But President Mohamed Morsy's assumption of special powers --a move described by critics as "dictatorial" -- to push through an Islamist-framed constitution outraged secular and liberal groups, among others, triggering fresh waves of protest from Egyptians disenchanted with how the revolution had played out.
The renewed unrest has scared investors, prompting a fresh round of selling of the Egyptian pound, which has hit a series of record lows. His constitution passed, Morsy now faces an economic battle: to tackle his country's low foreign reserves, 12% unemployment and a large budget deficit, and revive this geopolitically significant North African economy. The question here, as elsewhere, remains whether 2013 can truly represent a new dawn -- or whether delegates will return to their snowy enclave in Davos in 2014 to address the same set of intractable problems.
(CNN)Phylicia Rashad says she was misquoted. She says she wasn't being dismissive of the women who've accused Bill Cosby of sexual assault when she came to the comedian's defense in an online interview. "I am a woman. I would never do that," she said on ABC's "World News Tonight With David Muir" on Wednesday. 'Forget these women' Rashad played Clair Huxtable, Bill Cosby's TV wife, on the groundbreaking NBC sitcom "The Cosby Show." Cosby's now been accused of harassing, drugging and sexually assaulting multiple women. And in an interview with Showbiz 411, Rashad said she never saw any indication of the behavior that the women have attributed to Cosby. "Forget these women," Rashad is quoted as telling the outlet. "What you're seeing is the destruction of a legacy. And I think it's orchestrated. I don't know why or who's doing it, but it's the legacy. And it's a legacy that is so important to the culture." Fast forward to Wednesday night. Rashad says the Showbiz 411 piece didn't accurately reflect what she said -- especially the "forget these women" part. "That was a misquote. That is not what I said," Rashad said. "What I said is, 'this is not about the women. This is about something else. This is about the obliteration of legacy.' " In a Wednesday post, Roger Friedman, the columnist who wrote the Showbiz 411 article, denied that he misquoted Rashad, but wrote that he understands how her words were taken out of context. "She didn't mean for it to be taken the way it was, and I should have punctuated. There was NEVER the meaning in 'Forget those women' that she was saying to actually forget or dismiss then."
He continued, "She meant, 'those women aside' -- as in, she's not talking about that, she's talking about Cosby's legacy being destroyed. It was conversational. Somehow this got twisted. I am really sorry if the way I presented it made it seem like either one of us was forgetting anyone." Allred calls Rashad out . In coming to the defense of her TV husband, Rashad has now waded into a controversy that continues to dog Cosby. More than 20 women have come forward with claims, and a defamation lawsuit has been filed against Cosby. On Wednesday, attorney Gloria Allred brought out three more women -- Linda Kirkpatrick, Lynn Neal and a woman who chose to be identified only as Kacey -- who say they were sexually assaulted by the comedian after being drugged by him. While introducing the women, Allred addressed Rashad's statements to Showbiz 411. "Phylicia, you should be supporting these women rather than joining Cosby's paid 'attack dogs' who are trying to undermine them in any way that they can," Allred said. Cosby stays mum . And Cosby? He's maintaining his silence -- as he's done while his reputation suffers. He was in Kitchener, Ontario, on Wednesday night for a standup appearance. A few dozen protestors rallied outside, but the show went on without a hitch. Larger protests are planned for Thursday night's shows. After his set, Cosby released a statement thanking attendees. "I would like to personally thank you for giving me the opportunity to bring laughter back into your lives tonight," he said. Also, I would like to applaud all of you and give you a standing ovation for respecting yourselves, the theatre (Centre In The Square) and the event organizers that produced a spectacular show for the Kitchener Community."
CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Lisa Respers France and Todd Leopold contributed to this report from Atlanta, and Paula Newton from Ontario.
Arjen Robben might have left Sergio Ramos looking stupid as he outpaced the Real Madrid centre back in Holland's 5-1 win over Spain, but Croatia's Darijo Srna has gone one better to be crowned the world's fastest footballer. And at the age of 32, the Croat full back's record-breaking sprint left Robben's run looking sluggish as he clocked a speed of almost 20.5mph in his side's 4-0 win over Cameroon. The Shakhtar Donetsk right back surprised everyone with his pace-setter - one of 31 sprints he recorded, revealed in records from the Group A game released by FIFA. VIDEO Scroll down to watch Croatia fans celebrate after beating Cameroon 4-0 . Speedster: Srna was flying down the right wing all night for Croatia - and set a new sprint record . Stats don't lie: FIFA's records show that Srna clocked in a 32.98km/h sprint against Cameroon . While Robben recorded an impressive top speed of 19.3mph, Srna beat the Dutch wing wizard with a sprint that would leave him a whole two kilometres further forward if recorded over an hour-long run, hitting 20.5mph. The Croatian captain revealed earlier this year that he turned down the chance to join Chelsea and Bayern Munich to stay with the Ukrainian champions. Croatia beat Cameroon 4-0 on Wednesday to give themselves a good chance of qualifying from Group A alongside host nation Brazil. Catch me if you can: The Cameroon defenders had no chance as Srna sprinted down the right wing . VIDEO Croatia thump Cameroon in Manaus . Worth the effort: Srna celebreates Ivica Olic's opener in Croatia's 4-0 win in Manaus .
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 22:01 EST, 14 February 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 22:01 EST, 14 February 2014 . As fans of political thriller 'House of Cards' settled in to watch season two's premiere tonight, real-life politicians were rehearsing their lines. Now This News recruited members of Congress to deliver lines originally spoken by power-hungry character Francis J. Underwood, played by Oscar winner Kevin Spacey, in the hit Netflix series. But if you thought chilling comments uttered by a malicious - but fictional - character were unsettling, just wait until you hear them repeated by people with real power. Scroll down for video . Brutal: Kevin Spacey plays the cut-throat politician Frank Underwood in hit Netflix series 'House of Cards' The popular program charts the Democratic congressman and House Majority Whip's highly intricate plan to disgrace his enemies and obtain a cabinet position after the President goes back on his promise to appoint him Secretary of State. Underwood's vengeful plotting and deep-rooted corruption has attracted the ire of some politicians - and the adoration of others. This News producer Ashley Codianni targeted six political representatives - three Democrat and three Republican - who are fans of the show to deliver some of Underwood's most memorable quotes. But, she told USA Today, it wasn't easy: 'It was particularly difficult to get members to participate.' Majority Whip, Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), opens the clip with the poignant: 'I never make such big decisions so long after sunset and so far from dawn.' Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn (D-SC) means business when he says, 'I have no patience for useless things,' while Trey Gowdy (D-SC) gets into character with a sharp, 'I have zero tolerance for betrayal.'
Cold-hearted: Rep Jeff Duncan (R-SC) nails Underwood's comment to his chief of staff, Doug Stamper, 'That's how you devour a whale, Doug, one bite at a time' Quiet achiever: Underwood's chief of staff Doug Stamper (pictured), played by Michael Kelly, is a vital cog in his boss's malicious machine . Majority Whip: Just like Underwood, who speaks directly to the camera, Rep Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) puts his call on hold to say, 'I never make such big decisions so long after sunset and so far from dawn' The lines get increasingly chilling, including Donna Edwards' (D-Md.) deadpan, 'Power is a lot like real estate. Location, location, location.' Repeating a line Underwood originally directed to his chief of staff, Doug Stamper, politician Jeff Duncan (R-SC) quotes: 'That's how you devour a whale, Doug, one bite at a time.' And to end, Sen Tim Scott (R-SC) repeats this doozy, initially directed to White House chief of staff Linda Vasquez: 'The nature of promises, Linda, is that they are immune, IMMUNE, to changing circumstances.' The plot: 'House of Cards' documents Frank Underwood's fury at being betrayed by President Garrett Walker and how, with his equally malicious wife, Claire, seek to exact revenge and ultimately gain power .
Tough: Sen Tim Scott (R-SC) (left) repeats one of Underwood's most scathing lines to White House Chief of Staff Linda Vasquez (right), 'The nature of promises, Linda, is that they are immune, IMMUNE, to changing circumstances' Direct: Adopting the typical Underwood stance, Rep Trey Gowdy (D-SC) declares, 'I have zero tolerance for betrayal' Participating: Channeling Democrat representative Frank Underwood, real-life Democrats Jim Clyburn (left) and Donna Edwards (right) repeated some of his killer lines with aplomb . Meanwhile, Spacey said he's heard from politicians that his portrayal of Underwood is relatively accurate. 'I've had politicians say it's very accurate, probably closer to the truth. I've had others say it's cynical and unrealistic. It depends on your perspective,' he told USA Today. 'I was surprised that Kevin McCarthy said publicly something he said to me privately: 'If I could just kill one member of Congress, I'd never have to worry about another vote'.' Let the Butchery Begin: Season 2 of the feted Netflix series 'House of Cards' begins tonight on Valentine's Day .
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 18:33 EST, 31 May 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 18:42 EST, 31 May 2012 . It was intended to be a show of support as the torch relay passed through the area. But an estate agent who created a celebratory Olympics display using hula hoops as the famous five rings has been ordered to take it down by Games organisers – and threatened with legal action if he doesn’t. Staff at Webbers Estate Agents in Braunton, Devon, created a display featuring the rings, flags, a replica torch and a cut-out of cyclist Chris Hoy to ‘join in the spirit’ as the relay passed through the village. Celebratory display: Webbers Estate Agents were ordered to take their supportive Olympics display down . Colin Thorne with the offending hoops which were deemed to be unauthorised by Olympics officials . Soon after, the London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games wrote insisting Webbers take down Olympic-related materials – or face legal action. It said displaying the rings without permission breached sponsorship deals. Manager Colin Thorne said: ‘To receive a letter threatening legal action is pathetic.’ It comes after a florist was warned her Olympic ring display could get her sued, while last week an 81-year-old had to withdraw a doll from a church sale because its knitted outfit bore the symbol. Mr Thorne was told that displaying the rings without permission in his small estate agent breached Olympic sponsorship deals .
(CNN) -- Real Madrid returned to the top of the table in Spain after edging past Racing Santander 1-0 on Saturday, while previous leaders Barcelona could only draw 1-1 at Athletic Bilbao. Real, still missing the injured Cristiano Ronaldo and with veteran talisman Raul starting on the bench, dominated struggling Santander but had only a solitary first-half strike from Gonzalo Higuain to show for it. The visitors should have snatched a point, but Sergio Canales saw his 77th minute effort wrongly ruled out for an offside by a teammate who was not in the line of play. Real, whose last home outing ended in an embarrassing exit from the Copa Del Rey against lower-league opposition, saw midfielder Xabi Alonso hit the post in the 13th minute and then defender Alvaro Arbeloa also hit the woodwork with a floated cross. Argentina forward Higuain, who started in place of Raul, kept up his good goalscoring form in the 22nd minute when he pounced from close range after Kaka's right-wing cross was not cleared. Karim Benzema thought he had doubled the lead in the 55th minute, but the France forward's effort was correctly ruled out for a marginal offside before he made way for Raul. The result lifted some of the pressure piling up on Real coach Manuel Pellegrini, who has a big week ahead with Wednesday's Champions league clash against FC Zurich and then the "El Clasico" battle with Barcelona on Sunday. Real will go into that match at the Nou Camp with a one-point lead over Barca, who were missing the swine flu-stricken Rafael Marquez, Yaya Toure and Eric Abidal and the injured Zlatan Ibrahimovic for the trip to Bilbao.
Lionel Messi inspired the Spanish and European champions' best moments in the first half, with Thierry Henry left on the bench following his controversial handball incident in France's World Cup playoff win against the Republic of Ireland on Wednesday. But it was the Basque side who should have taken the lead on the stroke of halftime when Javier Martinez headed a golden chance wide when it seemed easier to score. Barcelona took the lead in the 54th minute when Xavi threaded a superb pass to Dani Alves and the Brazilian fullback coolly slotted in the opening goal. However, that lead lasted only nine minutes as substitute Gaizka Toquero ghosted in behind Alves to collect his teammate's headed flick-on and calmly sidefoot high into the net. Henry was finally brought on by coach Pep Guardiola in the 84th minute, but Barcelona could not penetrate the stubborn Bilbao defense, with the home side left in seventh place after a hard-earned point. Barcelona next take on Italian champions Inter Milan in the Champions League on Tuesday, needing a result to keep alive their hopes of reaching the knockout stages. Sevilla consolidated third place after holding on to win 2-1 at Tenerife. Diego Perotti put the visitors ahead in the 32nd minute with a close-range finish from a cross by new Spain cap Jesus Navas, who almost gave away a penalty three minutes into the second half when Marc Valiente went down. Sevilla immediately counter-attacked and midfielder Renato crashed in a shot from the edge of the area after being set up by fellow Brazilian Luis Fabiano. Striker Nino gave Tenerife hope with a superb volley 15 minutes from the end, but Sevilla defended well to earn the three points. Atletico Madrid crashed to a third straight defeat under new coach Quique Sanchez Flores, losing 2-1 at Deportivo La Coruna after Andres Guardado's dramatic last-minute penalty.
Argentina striker Sergio Aguero put Atletico ahead after just three minutes, but Diego Colotto leveled the score on 20 and Guardado kept his cool at the death after Pablo brought down Alberto Lopo. Sanchez Flores raced onto the pitch as Atletico protested furiously, resulting in Cleber Santana being sent off.
Washington (CNN) -- President Barack Obama got a second term from voters and another chance with Chief Justice John Roberts. After flubbing the oath in 2009, Obama and the Supreme Court's top jurist performed the honor flawlessly at the White House on Sunday at the official swearing in for the Democrat's second term. They will do it again on Monday at the Capitol before a crowd of up to 800,000 people. The Constitution mandates that U.S. presidents be sworn in on January 20. Because that fell on a Sunday this year, the public ceremony was scheduled for Monday at noon. Inauguration 2013: A viewer's guide . The dual events this time were due to a confluence of law and pomp. That was not the case four years ago when Obama and Roberts also performed the honor twice. During that inaugural, Obama and Roberts fumbled the oath before 1.8 million people. It all started when Roberts recited a seven-word phrase, but Obama broke in halfway through and repeated the first three words. That seemed to throw Roberts off, and he proceeded to mix up the order of the words in the next phrase. CNN Senior Legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin reported in his recent book, "The Oath," that Roberts is known for his "superb memory" and had obsessively practiced reciting the words at home for weeks. Government sources told CNN and Toobin that Roberts and his staff also e-mailed their own copy of the oath to inauguration organizers weeks earlier. 13 reasons to follow the inauguration on CNN's platforms and nowhere else . Slash marks were clearly indicated to illustrate how the phrases would be divided and where Roberts would pause, to ensure the president-elect would be on the same page. No one is sure why it happened, but "the oath card never reached anyone on Barack Obama's staff," Toobin wrote.
They were concerned enough about the small stumble in the sequencing of words on the inaugural platform that Obama and Roberts went through it again the next day in private in the White House Map Room - just to make sure they were square with the Constitution. Back at the White House four years later, it all went off without a glitch just before noon on Sunday. With Roberts waiting in the Blue Room, Obama strode in before a small gathering. He placed his left hand on a Bible belonging to his wife's family and raised his right hand. Roberts had the card with him and the slash marks identifying where he would pause were clearly visible. It all took less than a minute to get through the 35-word oath. Obama hugged his wife and daughters, exclaiming: "I did it!" Complete coverage: The 2013 Presidential Inauguration .
(CNN) -- The Zumba instructor in Maine who ran a prostitution ring out of her fitness studio Saturday was released from jail early for good behavior and participating in a work program, according to a York County Jail spokesman. Alexis Wright, 29, walked out of the Maine jail at 8 a.m. Saturday after serving nearly six months of a ten-month term for a prostitution case that last year rocked the sleepy New England town of Kennebunk. Her client list, including accountants, lawyers and even a local TV personality, became the talk of the picturesque Maine town. The State Police and the Drug Enforcement Administration began investigating the prostitution ring in 2011 after receiving a tip that there was more going on at the studio than a Latin dance fitness party. In February 2012, Wright's Zumba studio was raided. Court documents showed that Wright videotaped intimate encounters with some of her customers in three locations -- including her store-front Zumba exercise studio -- and would send the footage to her business partner, Mark Strong. Attorneys act to conceal names in Zumba sex case . According to Strong's sentencing memo, Wright would not engage in a prostitution session unless Strong had "prior knowledge of the session and was actively watching via the Skype connection." More than 13,000 Skype video call snapshots were recovered from Strong's computer, according to the memo. Strong was found guilty of promotion of prostitution and conspiracy to promote prostitution in March. He was sentenced to 20 days in jail, court documents said. In addition to jail time, Wright was ordered to pay $57,000 in restitution and $1,000 in fines. Prosecutors dropped more than 80 other counts and reduced more serious tax-related charges from felonies to misdemeanors, according to the sentencing documents. CNN's calls to Wright and her attorney were not returned. Talk of the town: Who's on 'The List' of alleged sex clients?
CNN's Lorenzo Ferrigno contributed to this report .
(CNN) -- France will host golf's Ryder Cup for the first time in 2018, it was announced Tuesday. Le Golf National course, on the outskirts of the capital Paris, was chosen to stage the 42nd edition of the biannual competition between Europe and the United States ahead of Germany, Portugal, Netherlands and favorites Spain. There had been calls for the tournament to be given to Spain in memory of golfing great Seve Ballesteros, who died after a long battle with cancer earlier this month. The five-time major winner was patron of the Madrid bid. But the European Tour resisted the emotional draw of the Spanish bid, much to the delight of the French delegation. Water hazard! $500 million floating golf course planned for Maldives . They have promised to boost the sport at grass roots level by building 100 urban courses in the country and pledged to increase the number of registered players by 300,000 to 700,000 by 2022. Every registered golfer in France donated one euro ($1.41) to the cause and now the country can expect the big financial bonus from business and tourism that comes with hosting the event. Richard Hills, Europe's Ryder Cup Director, told the European Tour's official web site: "We have one worthy gold medallist in France, who gave us the confidence to believe that they will stage a truly memorable Ryder Cup in seven years time. "France, as the successful nation, will now be entering into a multi-faceted relationship with Ryder Cup Europe, lasting a minimum of 12 years and benefiting many aspects of golf at all levels. "All of us at Ryder Cup Europe look forward to working closely with the French Ryder Cup 2018 team in the coming years." The announcement was celebrated heartily by the French delegation, which included golfers Thomas Levet and Jean Van de Velde, who represented Europe in the 2004 and 1999 Ryder Cups respectively.
The last, thrilling, installment, in 2010, was won by Europe at Celtic Manor in Wales, when captain Colin Montgomerie led his team to victory by 14 1/2 points to 13 1/2. Pascal Grizot, chairman of the French Ryder Cup bid, said: "We've always believed it could happen. My greatest satisfaction is to have brought everyone together to believe it too. "French golf united and this did not go unnoticed by the European Tour. This huge victory is one for everyone connected to French golf." Regarding Ballesteros he added: "We all remember Severiano Ballesteros as an icon in our sport and someone who epitomized the spirit of the Ryder Cup. He is in our thoughts today." Georges Barbaret, President of the French Golf Federation, added: "I can't wait for 2018. We have always believed in the link between culture and sport which I'm sure will make the Ryder Cup in France a unique event that will leave everlasting memories."
A team of diggers has started removing 2,500 tonnes of waste from a 40ft-high rat-infested rubbish pile which has blighted the lives of residents for the past three years. The towering mountain of putrid rubbish sits at the end of cul-de-sac near Orpington, Kent, and is laden with everything . imaginable - from rotting industrial waste, old shoes and broken fridges . to tyres, scrap metal, excrement, discarded nappies and plastic bottles. The stinking mound - which residents say 'smells like rotting corpses' - is also prone to catching fire, as 'hot spots' smoulder deep inside the 60-ft wide pile of rubbish. Fire crews have now been called to 23 fires at the site - one of which lasted ten days - which has cost the taxpayer £650,000. Scroll down for video . This 40ft pile of stinking rubbish has blighted the lives of . residents living in a cul-de-sac near Orpington, Kent, since . 2011. Now, experts from the Environment Agency are starting to remove . some of the waste . The Environment Agency, which has been locked in a High Court legal battle with Waste4Fuel, which runs the site, has called in experts to remove 2,500 tonnes of rubbish from the 20,000 tonne pile . The towering mountain, which sits at the end of cul-de-sac, is laden with everything imaginable - from rotting industrial waste, old shoes and broken fridges to tyres, scrap metal, excrement, discarded nappies and plastic bottles . Now the Environment Agency - which is locked in a High Court legal battle with Waste4Fuel, which runs the site - has ordered experts to remove some of the mess so the pile is at a 'safe' level and stops spontaneously catching fire.
But fed-up locals in Cornwall Drive, St Paul's Cray, say the action is not enough - and have called for the entire 20,000-tonne mountain to be removed. Jan Watkins, 60, a grandmother-of-two, said: 'It is a plague. It is a living nightmare. It is really, really horrible. You can't open your doors or your windows. The smell that comes through is like rotting corpses. 'You can't go out, it is in your clothes, in your hair, because the smell gets in them. You can't use your garden. Many residents have sore throats and coughs. Anybody who has a breathing problem suffers greatly.' Ms Watkins said residents had been campaigning to clear the site for three years and accused the EA of allowing the mound to spiral out of control by failing to take swift action. She said she feared the frequent fires . were belching toxic fumes which could be endangering the health of her . two young grandchildren, whom she looks after during the day. She said: 'If the Environment Agency . had taken action when we wanted them to two and a half years ago it . would be half the size. We feel very, very let down.' The mountain of garbage has been a problem for residents since rubbish disposal . company Waste4Fuel took over the site in 2011. Fire crews have been called to 23 fires at . the site, mostly during the hot summer weather, costing the taxpayer £650,000 and taking up 2,000 hours of firefighters' time . But residents say efforts by the EA to remove some of the waste - which includes rotting industrial waste, tyres, scrap metal and even excrement - is too little too late. They are campaigning for the entire tip to be removed . According . to its website, the firm’s aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions . and it ‘specialises in the collection and correct disposal of waste that .
can be reprocessed for use in generating electricity.’ It charges people to dump rubbish at the site during the day and the night, which it then sorts, treats and sends on for disposal elsewhere. But residents say this practice does not happen and instead, over the past couple of . years, Waste4Fuel has simply taken the money and let it stack up into a . monstrous pile. Resident Denise Clark, 34, a mother-of-two, said : 'The smell, especially when it's hot, is repugnant, disgusting. It makes you feel sick to the stomach. It's like living next to a sewage . works. 'We have a real rat . problem. The size of the rats are massive - up to 2ft with their tails. I . have a three-year-old son and five-year-old daughter and it makes me . fear for their health. My son has eczema and it is not good for him.' Diggers working on the site is the first sign of any tangible action . being taken to free the residents of the rat-infested rubbish mound, which regularly catches fire . Waste4Fuel uses the site as a waste transfer site where it 'processes . general non-hazardous waste'. It is allowed a maximum of 5,500 tonnes on the site at . a time - but has almost four times that amount . She said local schools do not allow children out in the playground at break when the rubbish pile is on fire because of health fears. She added that residents fear the pile will one day cause a fire that gets out of control and spreads. She said: 'About 18 months ago there was a fire that lasted 10 days and that was pretty scary. If the wind was blowing the other way it could have taken the whole street out.'
Ms Clark also blamed the unsightly 'scourge' for sending house prices in the street down, saying house prices had plummeted by £100,000. The location of a waste or recycling plant is the responsibility of the local authority, which in this case is Bromley Council. But . its size and scope is set out in the operating permit granted by the . Environment Agency, which allows Waste4Fuel to use the site ‘as a waste . transfer station processing general non-hazardous waste, from commercial . operators with [a maximum] of 5,500 tonnes allowed at any time.’ The pile is often seen emitting steam, as . rubbish smoulders deep inside the mound, pictured left. It is that which . has forced the EA to send in workers, pictured right, in a bid to take . the mound to a 'safe' level . The height and width of the giant mound mean most residents can see the rubbish pile from their window. Resident Denise Clark, 34, said the smell is 'repugnant, disgusting' and it is 'like living next to a sewage works' The . Environment Agency is currently locked in a legal battle with the firm, claiming it has not been paying for . the mound to be treated and sent on for disposal or recycling elsewhere. Last November, the agency won a court order for Waste4Fuel to clear the site of combustible waste by the end of April. But the firm said it could only afford to comply by generating more money — by allowing more waste to be brought on site — and applied to increase the amount of rubbish it handles from 75 to 200 tonnes a week. It ended up failing to comply with the order. The Environment Agency then tried to seek contempt charges against the recycling company, former company director Bryan Hughes, new company director Shelley Hurst and site manager Jonathan Beckson. The charges were in relation to . Waste4Fuel not complying with an undertaking to install appropriate fire .
breaks and separate areas for new waste at the site. Resident Jan Watkins, 60, said she cannot open her doors or windows because the smell comes through like 'rotting corpses'. She said the smell even gets in her hair and on her clothes when she steps outside . Steam can often be seen coming from the top of the rubbish mountain as fire from within smoulders away, creating a putrid stench of burning plastic for local residents . But, in July this year, the High Court dismissed the case – a decision which the agency is now deciding whether to appeal. Talking about the team of diggers, the EA said: 'Environment Agency contractors have entered the Waste4Fuel site in Orpington in an operation to lower the illegal waste pile to a safe level. 'The Environment Agency's battle to ensure that the site operator and landowner clean up the site is continuing, but is taking this rare step to reduce the blight on the local community.' Rob Wise, environment manager at the EA, said: 'We understand the frustration of local residents and we will continue our fight against Waste4Fuel. 'It is not right that taxpayers should pick up the bill for this operation when it remains the responsibility of the site operator and landowners, but the priority is to make the site as safe as possible. 'We are committed to working with our partners, including the London Borough of Bromley, to find a long-term solution.'
Lord's centurion Jos Buttler was run out backing up at the non-striker's end by bowler Sachithra Senanayake, but England's batting was disappointing. Alastair Cook was the only player from his side to make a half-century as England were all out for 219. Sri Lanka won with 10 balls to spare thanks to Lahiru Thirimanne's 60. "Sri Lanka have always been a fighting nation. Arjuna Ranatunga started it and the rest have followed. You can say they are a small nation, but they produce good cricketers." Although the controversy surrounding the dismissal of Buttler is likely to be the main talking point of this encounter, another lacklustre England batting performance will need to be addressed as Peter Moores' second stint as head coach opened with a series defeat. The top order failed to get to grips with the pace of the pitch and did not put Sri Lanka's bowlers under any pressure - as illustrated by the failure to score more than a solitary boundary during their early batting powerplay. Openers Cook and Ian Bell put on 76, but the latter's dolly of dollies to Ajantha Mendis was quickly followed by the cheap dismissals of youngsters Gary Ballance (10) and Joe Root (10). Cook, who needed to play the steady foil for the big hitters, then gave away his wicket when he tried to paddle sweep man-of-the-moment Senanayake, having scored 56 from 85 balls. Eoin Morgan (17) and Ravi Bopara (17) tried unsuccessfully to ignite the innings. Responsibility to set Sri Lanka a demanding total therefore fell to Buttler, whose incredible 121 from 74 balls at Lord's on Saturday had almost helped England seal the series. The 23-year-old had made 21 from 24 balls when Senanayake intervened.
The wicketkeeper-batsman had been twice warned by the bowler for straying out of his crease before a further transgression saw the bails removed, the spinner's appeal only upheld by umpire Michael Gough once he had consulted Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews. The enraged home support made their feelings clear inside a gloomy Edgbaston as they watched their team dismissed without completing the 50 overs. Sri Lanka raced to 51 in seven overs as they threatened to make short work of reaching the required 220. But the introduction of James Tredwell rocked the top order. Tillakaratne Dilshan and Kumar Sangakkara fell to his spin, while Lancashire paceman Jimmy Anderson removed Kusal Perera to leave the tourists on 62-3. The innings was brought back under control by Jayawardene (53), who shared a fourth-wicket stand of 98 with Thirimanne (60 not out), before Mathews (40 not out) saw them over the line with successive boundaries.
Add a location to your Tweets When you tweet with a location, Twitter stores that location. You can switch location on/off before each Tweet and always have the option to delete your location history. Learn more There's few rules on the Internet, but I think we can all agree on this one: Never put things to a public online vote. The Natural Environment Research Council is learning that lesson, but it could be a lot worse. The NERC, which is an independent environmental science organization in the United Kingdom, is in the process of building a new $300 million Antarctic survey vessel. Boat needs a name, right? Why not put it to a public vote, yea? UK's new Antarctic survey vessel to be built here @CammellLaird . You could name it #NameOurShip @BBCNWT pic.twitter.com/c9a7cHFuk1 — Mark Edwardson (@markedtv) March 17, 2016 Well, the public is voting overwhelmingly to name the ship "Boaty McBoatface." Now, in the grand scheme of Internet shenanigans, "Boaty McBoatface" is not really that bad. In this writer's opinion, it's actually pretty great. After all, this is the same Internet that responded to a promotion to name a new flavor of Mountain Dew with "Hitler did nothing wrong" and "Fapple." Other examples of Internet votes gone horribly wrong include a promotion that ended up sending the entertainer Pitbull to a Walmart in Alaska. Thus far, Boaty McBoatface has a commanding lead with more than 21,000 votes. It's next closest competitor, "Henry Worsley," an explorer and former British army officer who died in January during an attempt to become the first person to cross Antartica unaided, has a little more than 2,700 votes.
The vote has spurred a hashtag — #BoatyMcBoatface of course — and even caused intermittent outages for its website. Due to a high amount of traffic some users may be experiencing problems using the #NameOurShip site. Please bear with us. — NERC (@NERCscience) March 20, 2016 The closing date for entries is April 16. The boat is scheduled to set sail in 2019.
Police were called to Auchinlee care home in Campbeltown on Tuesday. A police spokeswoman said the man had been reported to the procurator fiscal over "alleged sexual offences". The Care Inspectorate, which regulates the care home sector, said it was working with the police and monitoring the situation closely. A spokesman for the inspectorate said: "We have been notified of an allegation of a serious incident at this service and are working closely with colleagues at Police Scotland and other partners. "We are being kept fully informed and are monitoring this care home closely. "The safety and well-being of anyone who accesses care is always our first priority." The spokesman added: "Anyone with a concern about a care service can contact our helpline on 0345 600 9527. "We take all issues raised with us very seriously and we use that intelligence to help us plan and support our inspections." A spokeswoman for Police Scotland said: "We can confirm that on Tuesday 26 January police received a report of a 76-year-old woman having been allegedly sexually assaulted in Campbeltown. "An 82-year-old man is the subject of a report to the procurator fiscal in connection with the alleged sexual offences."
By . Craig Mackenzie . PUBLISHED: . 07:20 EST, 29 July 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 08:26 EST, 29 July 2012 . One of President Barack Obama's top security officials has briefed Israel's prime minister on U.S. plans for a possible attack on Iran, it was claimed today. National security adviser Tom Donilon . sought to reassure Israel that Washington is prepared to act militarily should diplomacy and sanctions fail to pressure Iran to abandon its . nuclear enrichment programme. He met premier Benjamin Netanyahu during a visit to the country earlier this month, according to the Israeli daily newspaper Haaretz. Threat: Iran's Revolutionary Guards test missiles in the desert . An Israeli government spokesman did not respond to a request for comment and a U.S. Embassy spokesman could not be reached. Iran leader: Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad . Both Israel and America think Iran's programme under the leadership of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is aimed at developing bombs, and not for peaceful purposes as Tehran claims. Iran has threatened to shut down the Strait of Hormuz, which is used by 40 per cent of the world's oil tankers, in revenge for sanctions imposed on the country. But the U.S. has insisted that it will not allow Iran to choke off one of the world's busiest shipping routes and an American military official said that 'any disruption will not be tolerated.' A Pentagon spokesman warned that Iran would destroy its own 'economic lifeline' if it disrupted the international oil trade. Tensions rose after Iran’s top naval commander bragged that shutting down the Gulf would be ‘easier than drinking a glass of water.’ And they continued to escalate with Iran revealing one of its surveillance planes has recorded video and photographed a U.S. aircraft carrier near an area where it was carrying out military maneuvers .
If Iran were successfully to block access to the Strait of Hormuz, the price of crude oil would almost certainly rise dramatically. Following a mistaken report last year that the strait had already been closed, the oil price jumped by $2, to over $100 a barrel. A senior Saudi official has insisted in the past that Gulf nations would be able to make up for any shortfall caused by the sanctions, but this would be of little use if Iran succeeded in cutting off the strait.
By . Sam Webb . PUBLISHED: . 07:38 EST, 30 December 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 07:42 EST, 30 December 2013 . These beautiful sculptures of exotic birds are the latest instalment from paper artist Diana Beltran Herrara. Using fine French paper, Ms Herrara is able to recreate brightly-coloured rare birds in astonishing detail. It can take weeks to make each bird using silicone glue, wire, tape, watercolours and inks and, of course, scissors. Lifelike: A paper grey crowned crane (left) and a lesser (right) created by artist Diana Beltran Herrara . Talonted: This beautiful chickadee is part of the latest installment from the Colombian artist . Ms Herrera is able to recreate birds in incredible detail, often over a period of weeks . The 26 year old artist began working with paper as a way of embracing her creative side when she was short of money and experimented with paper she at found at home, as well as paper collected from magazines. After visiting Helsinki in Finland, she was stirred by the country's natural beauty and found she had a strong passion for nature and the environment. Since then, the Colombian artist has taken her paper art to soaring new heights and uses birds found in the wild for inspiration. Phoenix: She uses silicone glue, wire, tape, watercolours and inks for her creations. Right, a resplendent Quetzal . A paper bee eater bird. Some of the sculptures create a vivid sense of movement . Thrifty: The 26 year-old artist began working with paper as a way of embracing her creative side when she was short of money . Spray of colour: As well as fine French paper she sometimes uses paper collected from magazines . Ms Herrera said: 'After my trip to Helsinki, I saw nature in a different way, I was inspired to create animals that capture the beauty of nature.
'Paper was always something I could find, I had lots of sheets of paper at home and I loved experimenting with a material I could find anywhere. 'I think through art we can show how important our environment is and really appreciate the things around us, it is important to respect the natural world. 'People are often surprised by how realistic the sculptures look, they can't believe that they are made simply with paper. 'I am going to start my studies at the University of the West of England in Bristol where I hope to try my hand at creating animals out of wood and ceramics but I am really interested in taking my paper art to a really high level.' Ms Herrera said: 'Paper was always something I could find, I had lots of sheets of paper at home and I loved experimenting with a material I could find anywhere'
By . Marcus Townend for the Daily Mail . Up-and-coming trainer Hugo Palmer is considering an ambitious tilt at the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile Turf in California with Aktabantay. After the colt had scrambled home by a short-head under jockey Ryan Moore to land Saturday’s Group Three Solario Stakes at Sandown, Newmarket-based Palmer — who is in his fourth season training — revealed that taking the son of Oasis Dream to Santa Anita at the end of October is a serious option. Promise: Aktabantay (right) under jockey Ryan Moore won Group Three Solario Stakes at Sandown on Saturday . Palmer, 33, said: ‘It is something we will discuss over the next few weeks. He is also in the Dewhurst Stakes. He is lovely horse for next year. ‘We would get quick ground and a fast pace in the Breeders’ Cup — they go flat to the boards — and he will be suited by that. He is a very exciting horse.’ Having won valuable handicaps at both Glorious Goodwood and York’s Ebor meeting this summer, the Solario win of Aktabantay was a first at group level for Palmer, a scion of the biscuit-making family. Up-and-coming: Palmer, 33, is only in his fourth season as a trainer but will be pleased after recent successes . The colt’s Turkish owner Ibrahim Araci had previously won the Solario in 2010 with Ed Dunlop’s Native Khan, a colt which went on to finish third to Frankel in the 2,000 Guineas. Palmer had fitted 370,000-guinea purchase Aktabantay with cheekpieces to help him concentrate after the colt had finished third twice in three of his first four races.
A hair-loss medication reportedly tried by Wayne Rooney may cause prolonged and possibly irreversible impotence, scientists have claimed. The recent findings come after one patient bravely stepped forward to reveal the drug left him with no sex drive and even shrank his genitals. Kevin Malley, 30, was prescribed with the drug Propecia after he worried he could be losing his hair. He said he only planned to take the pill for a year. Concern: Men worried about losing their hair may consider treatments such as Propecia. However in the UK the drug label warns about possible 'persistent' sexual side effects . However, just five months after he started taking it in May 2011 he found he was completely impotent and his testes also became smaller. Worried, he consulted his doctor and was told the symptoms would disappear after he stopped taking the drug. But he says a year on and nothing has changed. It will come as no surprise to Dr Michael Irwig from the University of Washington. He recently published a study in the Journal of Sexual Medicine, that found the ingredient finasteride, which is found in Propecia, can cause persistent sexual dysfunction, including low sexual desire, erectile dysfunction and problems with orgasms. The male pattern baldness drug is manufactured by Merck and was approved by the FDA in 1997. While labeling on the medication in the U.S. currently warns about possible reversible sexual side effects, there is no reference to the effects being persistent, Dr Irwig said. However, other countries including the UK and Sweden do require medical companies to include the 'persistent risk' warning on the labeling. It was reported that Wayne Rooney started taking the medication in 2009 after he became sick of other footballer's jibes about his receding hairline. He has since had a hair transplant. Unfortunate side-effects? Wayne Rooney was reported to be taking Propecia in 2009.
It has since been linked with impotence . Dr Irwig first became aware of the problems caused by finasteride several years ago when he encountered several men who reported they had developed sexual dysfunction while taking the medication. 'It’s been very frustrating for a lot of these men because they’ve sought care from medical professionals who have looked at the literature and have not seen a risk of persistent sexual dysfunction,' says Dr Irwig. 'So a lot of these patients have been told to see psychiatrists and psychologists and that it’s all in their head.' Dr Irwig then noticed that men had reported sexual dysfunction for months even after they stopped taking the medication. 'I came across a website called propeciahelp.com with more than 1,400 registered users - many young healthy men who developed the same sexual side effects from finasteride - and I discovered that nobody had published a series looking at these men - who they are, how long the sexual side effects lasted, what types.' Dr Irwig’s study included results from interviews with 71 men aged 21 to 46 years old to assess how long they took finasteride, the type and duration of sexual side effects and their sexual frequency before and after the medication. Dr Irwig discovered that 94 per cent developed low libido, 92 per cent developed erectile dysfunction and decreased arousal, and 69 per cent developed problems with orgasm. On average, the men used finasteride for approximately 28 months but experienced persistent sexual side effects for an average of 40 months, from the time they ceased taking the medication to the time of the interview. Dr Irwig also found that the average number of sexual episodes per month dropped after finasteride use. 'It turns out that almost all the men had multiple sexual function problems,' says Dr Irwig.
'Before finasteride use, the men experienced average sexual activity of approximately 26 episodes per month, but after use, it came down to approximately eight per month - an almost two-thirds reduction. 'Twenty per cent of patients I interviewed experienced persistent sexual dysfunction for more than five years, which makes me wonder if their persistent sexual dysfunction is permanent,' he adds. Controversial: Merck says no evidence has proved a causal relationship between Propecia and long-lasting sexual dysfunction . This was certainly Mr Malley's experience. He told Good Morning America: 'I kept expecting the side effects to go away, but they did not, they only got worse.' Mr Malley said before he took the drug he was engaged and worked as a public health researcher at a university in Las Vegas. After he developed symptoms his fiancee broke off the engagement and he said he had to resign from his job because of cognitive problems. He said he is angry no one warned him the drug could have such lasting effects. 'Even if the side effects are rare, that doesn't mean that I should not . have been warned. I did have a life before this,' he told Good Morning America. Dr Irwig said roughly 5 per cent of men who take medicine will experience sexual dysfunction, and of those 'it’s hard to tell how many will experience persistent symptoms'. 'We know that this is a potential problem, but we can’t quantify what the exact risk is. I can’t tell a man if he has a 1-in-100 chance, or a 1-in-1000 chance of developing persistent sexual dysfunction, but it’s pretty clear there’s a relationship here,' he says.
Topical Rogaine can be used as an alternative to Propecia - applied directly on the skin, it does not get absorbed by body and thus does not cause sexual side effects - but Dr. Irwig says Propecia is very effective in treating hair loss and thus is commonly prescribed. So Dr Irwig says it is crucial physicians treating male pattern hair loss discuss the possibility of persistent sexual side effects associated with finasteride with their patients. 'I think it’s very important that doctors who are prescribing this medicine talk about potential risks, so men can make an informed decision,' he said. In a statement, Merck said no evidence has proved a causal relationship between Propecia and long-lasting sexual dysfunction. A spokesman said: 'Merck believes that PROPECIA (finasteride) has demonstrated safety and efficacy profiles and that the product labeling appropriately describes the benefits and risks of the drug to help inform prescribing. 'A causal relationship between the use of PROPECIA and continued sexual dysfunction after discontinuation of treatment has not been established. We encourage patients to talk with their doctor if they have any questions or concerns about their health, or about PROPECIA.'
Media playback is not supported on this device
By . Ray Massey . PUBLISHED: . 20:03 EST, 22 October 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 05:20 EST, 23 October 2013 . Ryanair is to introduce ‘family-friendly’ deals and discounts as it tries to win back passengers put off by its ‘mistakes’ and reputation for poor customer service. The airline’s flamboyant boss Michael O’Leary has apologised for his airline’s ‘over-abrupt culture’ and pledged to change it. He said strict hand-luggage restrictions would be relaxed to allow ‘small ladies’ handbags’ and airport shopping to be carried onto the plane in addition to the stated allowance. Michael O¿Leary has apologised for his airline¿s ¿over-abrupt culture¿ and pledged to change it . Families will be also able to book seats together and pool their luggage allowances, under plans to be announced officially next month. Mr O’Leary also pledged not to overly penalise passengers who make a ‘genuine mistake’ – such as forgetting to bring their boarding card, which often results in a £70 charge to reprint them. Mr O’Leary said that Ryanair was ‘evolving’ and becoming more ‘sophisticated’. He added: ‘In the past we have said, “That’s the policy – go to hell”. That culture needs to evolve.’ Yesterday Mr O'Leary Ryanair was bombarded on Twitter today after agreeing to host a question-and-answer session from customers. Mr O¿Leary pledged not to overly penalise passengers who make a ¿genuine mistake¿ ¿ such as forgetting to bring their boarding card - also . The boss posted a picture of himself on the social networking site dressed as a leprechaun before fielding tweets.
He was using the stunt as part of a drive to improve the public image of the airline, which was recently voted worst of 100 biggest brands by Which? readers. One Twitter user, Matt Trilby asked him: 'Does anyone in your organisation have any experience of running an airline?' Andy McGeady joked: 'How much will Michael charge per reply? And are you charging me to send this tweet?'
By . Daily Mail Reporter . Last updated at 2:19 AM on 5th September 2011 . Dominique Strauss-Kahn and his wife Anne Sinclair smile as they finally return home to France yesterday, despite warnings that the disgraced former IMF chief’s problems are far from over. They arrived at Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris amid a storm of protest, led by the French First Lady. Referring to the May sexual assault charges against him in New York being dropped, Carla Bruni told TF1 news: ‘I don’t understand how this whole business came to an end. Happy to be back: The former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn and wife Anne Sinclair arrive back on French soil . Former International Monetary Fund leader Dominique Strauss-Kahn and his wife Anne Sinclair leave the Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle airport in Paris this morning after a U.S. rape case against him collapsed . Welcome home: Strauss-Kahn and his wife beamed as they travelled down the escalator upon their first return to their native France since he was arrested in New York in May . ‘I am a bit confused, and I simply . detested all the machismo reactions that followed. When women are . belittled and attacked, I tend to take their side and feel solidarity . with them.’ Strauss-Kahn’s accuser, Guinean hotel maid Nafissatou Diallo, will now pursue a civil case. The 62-year-old also faces another investigation in France over attempted rape, based on accusations by novelist Tristane Banon. When they landed in France, a police escort was waiting to rush the couple through customs and into a waiting Peugot limousine. French . detectives also indicated that they also intended to speak to Mr . Strauss-Kahn about sex-related accusations being levelled at him in . Paris.
The couple on Saturday night left their the $50,000-a-month Manhattan town home Strauss-Kahn had rented for his house arrest and boarded the flight at John F.Kennedy International airport. Big interest: Strauss-Kahn, his wife and press officer Anne Hommel being guided through the media pack as they arrive at their home in Place des Vosges, Paris . The 62-year-old lost his job as IMF . chief after Diallo, a chamber maid at the Manhattan Sofitel, . said she was attacked. Strauss-Kahn . admitted having a sexual encounter with her, but his lawyers . controversially argued that it has been a consensual one. Strauss-Kahn, spent almost a week . in jail after being removed by police from a plane about to take off . for Paris, six weeks under house arrest and nearly two more months . barred from leaving the country before Manhattan prosecutors dropped the . case last week, saying they no longer trusted the maid. Strauss-Kahn talks to his wife in the courtyard of their home. The 62-year-old lost his job as IMF . chief after Nafissatou Diallo, a chamber maid at the Manhattan Sofitel, . said she was attacked. The couple are dwarfed by the massive entrance into their home. Strauss-Kahn admitted having a sexual encounter with the woman, but his lawyers controversially argued that it has been a consensual one . Diallo is continuing to press her claims in a civil lawsuit. Strauss-Kahn denies the allegations. Strauss-Kahn has been free to travel . internationally since his passport was returned late last week . He'd . told reporters he was eager to return to France, but he first took a . trip to Washington, DC, on Monday to bid farewell to former IMF . colleagues at the lending agency's headquarters. Until his arrest, Strauss-Kahn was .
considered the Socialist Party's front-runner to take on conservative . French President Nicolas Sarkozy next year. Socialists have rejoiced in . the dismissal of the criminal case against Strauss-Kahn, but few . observers in France expect a political return from him anytime soon. 'This . is a man who has suffered. It is a man who will obviously take some . time to get his bearings,' his biographer, Michel Taubmann said. The maid is continuing to press her claims in a civil lawsuit but it's unclear if Strauss-Kahn will return to New York as defendants aren't required to go court dates . Face the music: Strauss-Kahn was met by a police escort at the airport and left in a waiting Peugot limousine which was chased by a media pack on motorcycles . Strauss-Kahn also will have to . contend with a sexual assault allegation that surfaced in France after . his New York arrest. Authorities are investigating novelist Tristane . Banon's complaint that Strauss-Kahn tried to rape her while she was . interviewing him in 2002 — an incident her mother, a regional Socialist . official, has said she discouraged her from reporting at the time but is . now encouraging her to pursue. Strauss-Kahn's lawyers have called Banon's account 'imaginary'. And Strauss-Kahn still faces Diallo's . lawsuit in New York, though it's unclear when he might have to be in . New York for the civil case. Lawsuits can take years to play out, and . defendants aren't required to come to court dates, as they generally are . in criminal cases. She's seeking unspecified damages. Jetset: Strauss-Kahn and Anne arriving at John F. Kennedy airport in New York, bound for Paris .
Leaving: Strauss-Kahn left the U.S. 112 days after he first tried to leave but was arrested on an Air France jet at Kennedy airport . Diallo, . 33, says Strauss-Kahn chased her down in his suite and attacked her . after she arrived to clean it. Prosecutors said DNA evidence shows they . had a sexual encounter; his lawyers say it was consensual. After initially portraying Diallo as a . compelling witness, prosecutors developed doubts about her credibility. She had told them a concocted tale of having been gang-raped in the . past, among other falsehoods about her background, and they said she . gave varying versions of her actions immediately after her encounter . with Strauss-Kahn. 'We simply no longer have confidence . beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty,' prosecutors . wrote in a court filing last week. Strauss-Kahn will also have to . contend with a sexual assault allegation that surfaced in France after . his New York arrest . Delighted: Long-suffering Anne arrives at security at JFK . Diallo . has said she's telling the truth about being attacked. One of her . lawyers, Douglas Wigdor, has said prosecutors' decision to abandon the . criminal case 'is an affront to Ms. Diallo and to all victims who come . forward in the future.' It has also emerged that Ms Diallo . could also testify against Strauss-Kahn in Paris. Her lawyer has filed a . complaint accusing Mr Strauss-Kahn’s staff of interfering with a . potential prosecution witness. The so far unnamed witness is a past . lover of Strauss-Kahn who says he abused her while he was the mayor of . the Paris suburb of Sarcelles. Au revoir: Strauss-Kahn and Anne leave their Manhattan town house for JFK with about half-a-dozen pieces of luggage . Au revoir!
Strauss-Kahn leaves his rented town home on Franklin Street in the Tribeca section of downtown Manhattan . Strauss-Kahn was already married to . Ms Sinclair, his third wife, when he met the witness at a party . organised by the French Socialist Party in 1997 . They became lovers within hours, even though she was just 23 and he was 47, and went on to meet regularly for almost a year. But when their secret affair ended badly she is said to have tried to commit suicide because of Strauss-Kahn’s abuse. Leaving: Strauss-Kahn is confronted by a media pack outside the townhouse . Happy to go? Strauss-Kahn leaves new York more than three months after he was taken off an Air France jet at JFK . Paris-based barrister Thibault de Montbrial said he had filed the complaint in Pontoise, another Paris suburb, saying Strauss-Kahn’s legal team had ‘put pressure’ on the witness, including offering her money to remain silent. This would amount to perjury, and could result in a prison sentence for those involved in the alleged cover-up of evidence, with Ms Diallo appearing in Paris as a prosecution witness. It would also allow Ms Diallo’s legal team to rehearse their case against Strauss-Kahn in France, so opening him up to further prosecution. Saga: Media crews were camped outside the Tribeca house as movers carried the Strauss-Kahn's possessions into a truck . Accusations: Nafissatou Diallo, the maid in the New York hotel who brought allegations against Strauss-Kahn is pictured after the case collapsed on 22 August .
Adam Purinton, 51, fled the scene of the attack at a pub in Olathe and went to a restaurant where he confided in a staff member, police say. He was arraigned in court on Monday with first-degree murder and two counts of attempted first-degree murder. The accused wore a safety smock to prevent him from harming himself. Police say he shot and killed Srinivas Kuchibholta at a pub on Wednesday evening. He allegedly fired on Mr Kuchibhotla and his friend Alok Madasani, two 32-year-old Indian men who worked as engineers at GPS-maker Garmin. Mr Kuchibhotla died and Mr Madasani survived. A third patron, 24-year-old Ian Grillot, was wounded trying to intervene. The FBI is investigating whether the shooting constitutes a hate crime. After the attack at Austins Bar and Grill, the suspect, who is white, drove 70 miles (112km) to an Applebee's in Clinton, Missouri, where he allegedly admitted what he had done to an employee. On Saturday at 11am, the doors of Austin Bar and Grill reopened, after a fatal shooting which has shaken people here in Olathe and beyond. "We've come back to show we won't let the attacker change our way of life," said one patron who'd turned up. Austins is your regular local bar in a strip mall. It serves the usual diet of fried food and beers, with sport on big screens. But, Austins is now also the place which robbed one man of his life, and left two others injured. As Alok Madasani sat in pain in his living room, nursing an injury caused by the bullet which struck his thigh, he told me how he and Srinivas were so well known at the bar the staff knew how much ice they took in their drinks.
Until that fateful night, he said he'd never heard anyone use overtly racist language in Olathe. And many other Indians I met at a vigil on Friday night echoed that sentiment. They said Olathe has always been a friendly and welcoming place. One man said he hoped this tragedy was a "one-off", and that the show of support here would help heal the many hearts, which have been broken. In a 911 call, a bartender, Sam Suida, told the police dispatcher a man had come into the bar and said he'd done something "really bad" and that he was on the run. "He asked if he could stay with me and my husband, and he wouldn't tell me what he did," she says on a recording of the call. "I kept asking him, and he said that he would tell me if I agreed to let him stay with me. "Well, I finally got him to tell me and he said, like, that he shot and killed two Iranian people in Olathe." The shooting drew worldwide attention and has gripped the Indian-American community. Hillary Clinton weighed in on the matter on Twitter on Monday, demanding President Donald Trump speak out against intolerance following the shooting. "With threats & hate crimes on rise, we shouldn't have to tell @POTUS to do his part. He must step up & speak out," the former Democratic presidential candidate tweeted. Mr Trump has yet to comment, but his press secretary, Sean Spicer, said on Monday that early reports on the Kansas shooting were "disturbing". Witnesses said the suspect shouted "get out of my country" before shots rang out. Mr Madasani told the BBC the gunman had demanded to know if they were in the country legally. The suspect is being held in the Johnson County Jail on a bond of $2m (Â£1.6m). His next court appearance is on 9 March.
West Point, New York (CNN) -- President Obama said Tuesday that the deployment of 30,000 additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan is part of a strategy to reverse the Taliban's momentum and stabilize the country's government. "There is no imminent threat of the government being overthrown, but the Taliban has gained momentum," Obama said at the U.S. Military Academy. "Al Qaeda has not re-emerged in Afghanistan in the same numbers as before 9/11, but they retain their safe-havens along the border. "And our forces lack the full support they need to effectively train and partner with Afghan security forces and better secure the population. In short, the status quo is not sustainable." Obama said he'd begin sending the additional troops "at the fastest pace possible" starting in early 2010 "with a goal of starting to withdraw forces from the country in July 2011." The president said additional U.S. forces bolstered by NATO troops "will allow us to accelerate handing over responsibility to Afghan forces." Senior administration officials said Tuesday that Obama has a goal of withdrawing most U.S. forces by the end of his current term, which ends in January 2013. Watch what the new troops will do in Afghanistan . It will be the second increase of U.S. forces in the war-torn Islamic country ordered by Obama since he took office in January. In his speech Tuesday, Obama said his strategy had three objectives: . • Deny al Qaeda a safe haven . • Reverse the Taliban's momentum and deny it the ability to overthrow Afghanistan's government . • Strengthen Afghanistan's security forces and government . The additional troops was one way to achieve these, he said. Other strategies will include holding Afghan government leaders accountable for corruption, focus assistance on areas that could help the lives of Afghans, and securing the country's border with Pakistan. "We are in Afghanistan to prevent a cancer from once again spreading through that country.
But this same cancer has also taken root in the border region of Pakistan. That is why we need a strategy that works on both sides of the border," Obama said. The president said he rejected the option of committing more forces for an undefined mission of nation-building without any deadlines. "I reject this course because it sets goals that are beyond what we can achieve at a reasonable cost, and what we need to achieve to secure our interests," Obama said. "Furthermore, the absence of a timeframe for transition would deny us any sense of urgency in working with the Afghan government. It must be clear that Afghans will have to take responsibility for their security, and that America has no interest in fighting an endless war in Afghanistan." Obama rejected analogies with the war in Vietnam that divided America in the 1960s and 1970s. "Unlike Vietnam, we are joined by a broad coalition of 43 nations that recognizes the legitimacy of our action," Obama said. "Unlike Vietnam, we are not facing a broad-based popular insurgency. And most importantly, unlike Vietnam, the American people were viciously attacked from Afghanistan, and remain a target for those same extremists who are plotting along its border." Obama said the U.S. has no interest in occupying Afghanistan. "We will support efforts by the Afghan government to open the door to those Taliban who abandon violence and respect the human rights of their fellow citizens," Obama said. "And we will seek a partnership with Afghanistan grounded in mutual respect -- to isolate those who destroy; to strengthen those who build; to hasten the day when our troops will leave; and to forge a lasting friendship in which America is your partner, and never your patron." Obama spoke to an audience of West Point cadets, staff and guests in outlining his strategy that he has deliberated for months, meeting several times with his national security team. He recognized that some in the audience had fought in Afghanistan, and some would be deployed in the future.
"As your commander in chief, I owe you a mission that is clearly defined, and worthy of your service," he said. The additional U.S. forces "will increase our ability to train competent Afghan security forces, and to partner with them so that more Afghans can get into the fight," Obama said. "And they will help create the conditions for the United States to transfer responsibility to the Afghans." Obama also said he is asking NATO allies to provide more troops, and that he is "confident that there will be further contributions in the days ahead." "Our friends have fought and bled and died alongside us in Afghanistan," he said. "Now, we must come together to end this war successfully. For what's at stake is not simply a test of NATO's credibility -- what's at stake is the security of our allies, and the common security of the world." The new troop deployment would increase the total U.S. commitment to roughly 100,000 troops in Afghanistan, bolstered by more than 40,000 NATO forces. Obama, whom Republicans had accused of "dithering" over the decision, concluded the deployment needs to be accelerated to knock back the Taliban, the senior officials said. The push for a speedy deployment is surprising because White House officials who defended Obama's slow pace of coming to a decision had said the Pentagon wouldn't be able to get new troops to Afghanistan that quickly. A Pentagon official noted that, under the new strategy, Obama is "trying to do it faster" than the 12-month timeline initially requested by Gen. Stanley McChrystal, the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan. McChrystal wrote in a report in August that a "failure to gain the initiative and reverse insurgent momentum in the near-term (next 12 months) -- while Afghan security capacity matures -- risks an outcome where defeating the insurgency is no longer possible."
The Pentagon official said Obama's six-month timeline for sending the new troops is "very aggressive" and will be challenging for the military to fulfill. The official expressed confidence, however, that the military would successfully carry out the order. Opponents of an increased U.S. troop deployment complain that the government of Afghan President Hamid Karzai is corrupt and an unreliable partner. Obama spoke to Karzai for an hour by videoconference Tuesday to discuss the deployment decision, according to a White House statement. "The president also emphasized that U.S. and international efforts in Afghanistan are not open-ended and must be evaluated toward measurable and achievable goals within the next 18 to 24 months," the statement said. Share your views on Obama's Afghanistan decision . The decision to send the troops carries significant political risk for Obama, who will announce it nine days before he travels to Oslo, Norway, to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. His liberal base, which helped him win last year's presidential election, opposes another troop deployment to Afghanistan. In addition, the deployment, expected to cost an extra $30 billion a year, comes amid high unemployment as the economy emerges from a recession. That concerns Democrats and Republicans faced with competing domestic priorities such as health care reform and job creation. U.S.-led troops first invaded Afghanistan in response to the al Qaeda terrorist network's September 11, 2001, attacks on New York and Washington. The invasion overthrew the ruling Taliban, which had allowed al Qaeda to operate from its territory, but most of the top al Qaeda and Taliban leadership escaped the onslaught. Taliban fighters have since regrouped in the mountainous region along Afghanistan's border with Pakistan, battling U.S. and Afghan government forces on one side and Pakistani troops on the other. Al Qaeda's top leaders, Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, remain at large and are suspected to be hiding in the same region.
The conflict has so far claimed the lives of more than 900 Americans and nearly 600 allied troops.
Emergency services were called Mossvale Nursery, in Fullerton Street, Paisley, at about 01:55. About 25 firefighters were called in to tackle the blaze, with crews bringing it under control at about 04:30. The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service said the blaze was contained to one half of the nursery. The cause of the fire is not known. A Scottish Fire and Rescue Service spokesman said: "Our firefighters were faced with a challenging fire within the nursery and their priority was to save as much of the building as possible. "Through the efforts of the firefighters, the fire was successfully contained to one half of the nursery. "Firefighters using a thermal image camera were able to check the building for hidden fire travel and effectively extinguish hotspots." Renfrewshire Council said the nursery would be closed on Thursday but the adjoining St James Primary and Mossvale Primary would open as normal.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 17:28 EST, 12 July 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 17:38 EST, 12 July 2013 . High demand: YSL Forever Light Creator has already been reserved by thousands of women . It goes on sale for the first time today, but it seems the latest face cream that promises miraculous results is already a sellout hit with women. Some 15,000 have downloaded vouchers online for a sample of the Forever Light Creator anti-ageing cream, which claims to give you a ‘flawless complexion’ by using the reflection of light. And more than 3,000 have reserved the product, made by Yves Saint Laurent. In fact, its makers claim, demand is so high that they have set up a helpline for those who discover their nearest pharmacy has run out. The product comes as a lotion or a serum and is said to even out the skin’s complexion and remove dark spots and shadows. It apparently contains three types of sugars called glycans which reflect light and make the skin more radiant. Glycans occur naturally in our skin but gradually decline as we age, which is partly why our complexion becomes duller, less flexible and more uneven. The creams cost from £35 to £82, depending on the size of the bottle, and are aimed at women over 25. Amandine Ohayon, general manager of Yves Saint Laurent, said the product was a ‘world first’ which had taken three years to develop. ‘Our research has shown that women are now more concerned about age spots and uneven skin tone than they are about wrinkles,’ she said. ‘Forever Light Creator recreates truly luminous skin.
It also significantly reduces the appearance of age spots, the tell-tale areas of darker pigmentation which distinguish an older face from the smooth, uniform complexion of youth, and gives skin a flawless look.’ The manufacturers claim that after one week of using the cream skin is ‘noticeably’ improved, and after two months red and dark spots will lighten and the complexion will become ‘more uniform’. Face of youth: Model Josephine Skriver advertises the product which is so popular that Yves Saint Laurent has set up a helpline for women whose local pharmacy runs out . But experts dismissed such promises and said it was usually impossible for any cream to banish all blemishes. Dr Ross Perry, a cosmetic surgeon for Cosmedics Skin Clinics, said: ‘Skin tone and pigmentation are so subjective. ‘There is no miracle treatment. As soon as you go back into the sun or get a bit of a tan, all pigmentation will come back. You can reduce it but it can easily return.’ He added: ‘Even the medically based products that have been clinically proven have a limited efficacy for removing pigmentation.’ Dr Sam Bunting, a cosmetic dermatologist based in Harley Street, said: ‘I don’t know of any topical non-prescription product that will make a major impact on red areas, which usually reflect the presence of dilated blood vessels in the skin as a consequence of either sun damage or rosacea.’
A family outing turned into a major archaeological discovery by one New Mexico 10-year-old who literally stumbled on a million-year-old fossil. Jude Sparks was hiking the rugged New Mexico desert some five miles east of Las Cruces by the majestic Organ Mountains in November with his parents Kyle and Michelle and brothers, Hunter,8 and Rhett, 5. Jude said he and his brothers were checking their hand-held radios when he tripped on something. “I tripped on the bottom of the tusk and fell flat on my face,” Jude told Fox News. LOCH NESS MONSTER REDUX? 'DINOSAUR-LIKE-CREATURE' REPORTEDLY SPOTTED IN NORTH CAROLINA LAKE When he turned his head he was looking directly at part of what looked like a jaw bone. “It looked like large chunks of bone.” Dusting himself off Jude quickly called Hunter who was nearer to the parents to come over to check out what he found. The boys originally thought it looked like a large dark cow skull but when Kyle and Michelle arrived they knew it was something much more relevant than what is typically found in the desert. Kyle said when he returned home he called Peter Houde, professor of Biology at nearby New Mexico State University. ANCIENT LAND-DWELLING CROCODILE HAD T. REX SIZED TEETH, STUDY SHOWS When Houde arrived at the site he was amazed at what young Jude tripped on. “I think this is only the second full Stegomastodon skull found in the state of New Mexico,” Houde said. There was another found at Elephant Butte State Park just north of Las Cruces about two years ago. “That one lacks the jaw and it appears the ends of both tusks were broken off,” Houde told Fox News.
“Ours includes the jaw but is missing one tusk so far - we may find it yet.” DINO EXTINCTION ALLOWED FROGS TO CONQUER THE PLANET According to Houde, there are only three nearly full Cuvieronius skulls, all of which were found in Bolivia in the early 1900's. He says this recent discovery is the most complete. “Intact skulls of both of these are extremely rare and we've had unprecedented luck in obtaining the two,” Houde said of New Mexico’s unearthed prehistoric past. He surmises the fossil Jude tripped over was unearthed by recent rains in the region but never the less, the irony of a youngster tripping over such a historic find while playing with his brothers is inescapable. Houde said these mammoth animals are a primitive group of proboscideans ('elephantoids') from which modern elephants evolved. The recent discoveries are late-comers that were not ancestral to anything. THE RISE OF THE DINOSAURS MAY HAVE BEEN CAUSED BY VOLCANOES, NEW STUDY FINDS “Ours would look pretty much just like modern elephants if they were alive today although the Cuvieronius had spiral tusks,” Houde said. “Their legs might be a bit stubbier, but the main difference from elephants is in their molar teeth, reflecting a diet more based on browsing than that of modern elephants.” Fossils of these animals exist especially in the southern United States, down through Central America, and in some cases into South America, but they are pretty universally represented by very scrappy bits of bone, teeth or tusks. “They simply break into small bits as they weather out of the sediment before they are found.
The preservation of ours is truly unusual, but a great deal of that may be due to the fact that we were able to locate them while they were still deep underground,” Houde said. Houde said the fossil is in remarkably good shape. The exposure through the dirt did a little damage to a tusk, but nothing that can't fix. The fact that the jaw and skull were found next to one another suggests that there could be, or could have been, other parts of the skeleton preserved not far away. THE SUN MAY HAVE HAD AN 'EVIL TWIN' THAT WIPED OUT THE DINOSAURS Part of the delay in releasing information on the find was obtaining permission from the landowner to excavate the site. Kyle said the university requested they did not release any information until all of the pieces were in place which wasn't until just recently. Kyle said there was quite a bit of logistical coordination involved. He said he and Houde decided to cover the specimen with dirt until approval could be obtained. “We intend to look but we will not be allowed by the land owner to dig willy-nilly without good geological information about where we will likely be successful,” Houde said. “I'm waiting for our geologists to return from summer field schools to look into it.” Houde said he isn’t very optimistic, saying bones get scattered far and wide and even if they were only 5-10 feet apart that would entail a lot of earth moving given the topography of this location. FOLLOW FOX NEWS TECH ON FACEBOOK But for one little boy, he has a summer memory that will last a lifetime. “It’s amazing God chose us to find this,” he said.
Michelle said that the structure of Jude’s homeschooling program is part of a co-op that will allow him to share is exploits whit his peers who have already been calling wanting to know about the bone. Correction: This story has been corrected to clarify that the fossil was not from a dinosaur. Triceratops Was Last Dinosaur Standing The 65 million-year-old find suggests a meteor may have wiped out the dinosaurs in a sudden catastrophic event. NMSU experts dig up Las Cruces boy’s million-year-old fossil find Date: 07/18/2017 Writer: Minerva Baumann, 575-646-7566, mbauma46@nmsu.edu Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Pinterest A 10-year-old boy’s accidental discovery in the Las Cruces desert led a New Mexico State University professor to a rare, mostly intact 1.2 million year-old stegomastodon skull. “I was running farther up and I tripped on part of the tusk,” said Jude Sparks, who had been hiking in the desert with his parents and testing walkie-talkies with his brothers when he came face-to-face with the fossil. “My face landed next to the bottom jaw. I looked farther up and there was another tusk.” The Sparks family contacted NMSU biology professor Peter Houde in November after seeing him interviewed in a YouTube video about a similar fossil found several years ago in a Mesquite quarry about 10 miles south of campus. “A stegomastodon would look to any of us like an elephant,” said Houde. “For the several types of elephants that we have in the area, this is probably one of the more common of them. But they’re still very rare.
This may be only the second complete skull found in New Mexico.” After the family contacted Houde, the jaw and two pieces of tusk were taken to the Vertebrate Museum at NMSU. In May, the family joined a team of students and professors who worked for about a week to carefully unearth the skull. Houde explained it took some months to get permission to dig on the property from the landowner, who requested the site remain a secret. It also took time get the special chemicals needed to properly preserve the fossils. The College of Arts and Sciences provided funding for the process. Houde applauded the Sparks family’s decision to do the right thing in contacting him about their find. He encourages others who might come across fossils to reach out to an expert rather than try to dig it up on their own. “As you can imagine, when people find out about these things, they might be tempted to go out there and see what they might find themselves and tear up the land or they might hurt themselves,” Houde said. “To be quite honest, all these fossils from this area are radioactive and especially for children, not something you would want in your home.” Houde estimates the jaw weighs about 120 pounds and the entire skull as little as a ton. And while the skull may appear to be strong, it is quite delicate. “The upper part of the skull is deceiving. It’s mostly hollow and the surface of the skull is eggshell thin,” Houde said. “You can imagine an extremely large skull would be very heavy for the animal if it didn’t have air inside it to lighten it up just like our own sinuses. That makes the thing extremely fragile and the only thing holding it together is the sediment surrounding it.
“In fact when the sediments are removed from the sides of them, they start to fall apart immediately and literally fall into tiny, tiny bits. It has to be done carefully by somebody who knows how to go about doing it. It is a very deliberate process that takes a little bit of time.” During the weeklong extraction process, 10 to 12 people helped at different times with the excavation of the stegomastodon skull. NMSU geology major Danielle Peltier assisted with painstaking process of gently brushing the last bits of dirt from the skull and tusk and applying chemical hardeners to ensure the ancient bones remained intact. Acting like plastics, the chemicals harden and restore the strength that would otherwise be present in the bone as protein. “As we were brushing away the fossil as soon as we removed the sediment we needed to put a type of hardener on there to preserve the structural integrity, otherwise it would just crumble after a few days being left in the sun,” Peltier said. Peltier, who will graduate in May 2018, plans to enter a Ph.D. track program and pursue a career as a paleontologist and academic. “I’ve been fortunate to do field work in Las Cruces, at White Sands and in Kenya,” Peltier said. “It’s amazing to be able to travel, meet remarkable people and realize that you’re the first person to be looking at something that might be anywhere from 5,000 to 3 billion years old.” After the skull was unearthed, the NMSU team carefully coated the fossil with plaster and placed wood braces to protect and support it. The skull was lifted from the dig site by a front-end loader and placed on a flatbed truck for the trip back to the university.
While the process to study and reconstruct the skull, jaw and tusks will take years to complete, Houde says the stegomastodon fossil will eventually go on display. “I have every hope and expectation that this specimen will ultimately end up on exhibit and this little boy will be able to show his friends and even his own children, look what I found right here in Las Cruces.” They sent an email to a biology professor at nearby New Mexico State University, Peter Houde. He recognized the find almost immediately: These were the remains of a long-extinct Stegomastodon, and Jude had tripped over its fossilized tusk. Dr. Houde said he gets calls and emails about potential finds from time to time — often, they amount to nothing much. But this time, it was different. “This is really very unusual to find,” he said, explaining that prehistoric remains are so fragile that they typically disintegrate shortly after erosion exposes them to the elements. The Sparkses simply got lucky by visiting the site shortly after strong rains had exposed the fossil. When Dr. Houde and the Sparks family visited the remains one day after Jude’s discovery, they made sure to bury them again. After months of arranging a team, getting money and securing a permit, the skull was finally excavated in May. The creature it belonged to lived at least 1.2 million years ago, Dr. Houde estimated. Some have described Jude’s find as a dinosaur discovery, but it’s not. The Stegomastodon was an elephantine creature — not a mastodon, but similar in appearance — whose existence was relatively recent. It walked the earth within the last few million years and may have even been hunted by humans.
Brazil legend Ronaldo believes it is merely a matter of time before Neymar is considered the world's best player. The 38-year-old believes Neymar has given the Brazil team a much-needed boost, and that the Barcelona star is catching up to Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. 'It is very close. It's about time for Neymar to take his place as the best in the world,' the former Real Madrid striker told Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo. Brazil legend Ronaldo has insisted it is just a matter of time before Neymar (pictured) is the world's best player . Barcelona star Neymar has been called upon to lead Brazil to be a great national team once again . 'Cristiano Ronaldo and Messi are the best right now, but Neymar has come a long way. The move to Europe has done him good.' And Ronaldo feels Brazil are craving someone like Neymar following a rough spell. 'We do not have many great players,' he admits. 'We are living with hope in Neymar, who is excellent, the country's best, but at other times we had many others who we could rely on to play for the Brazilian team.' Ronaldo believes those such as Ronaldinho, Kaka and Robinho failed to lead the team to its full potential, and that Neymar has to pick up the pieces. Brazil appointed Dunga as manager following their disappointing World Cup on home soil and have won six consecutive matches since. So, was that a good appointment? 'Hard to say. I'm not there and I was not asked about the new management,' adds Ronaldo. 'The trauma of 7-1 (against Germany) very much hurt Brazilians. We can see that this fresh start after six games is good, OK, but we are still being felt. 'We want to erase that memory. But I have a much better memory, which is 2002 against Germany itself (in the World Cup final).
I'd rather stay with this memory.' Ronaldo pictured during the 2002 World Cup final against Germany as Brazil were crowned world champions .
(CNN) -- The search for an American -- whose wife says he was shot on a lake that straddles the U.S.-Mexican border -- has been suspended, a Mexican official said Friday. David Hartley was reportedly shot to death September 30 by gunmen investigators believe are linked to a Mexican drug gang. At present, there are no Mexican agencies actively searching Falcon Lake for Hartley. But the mother of Tiffany Hartley -- the woman who says her husband was shot -- says she's "hopeful that they'll restart on Monday," after meeting with Mexican officials on Friday. Cynthia Young, Tiffany's mother, said said that she, her daughter and Tiffany's dad met with Mexican and American officials for about 8 hours on Friday. Young would not specify which officials attended the meeting but said the family was told that the Mexican government was "restrategizing" how it is handling the search for Hartley's body. Young said that the day mostly entailed Tiffany refiling a witness statement with Mexican officials, recounting what happened on the day she said he was killed. Young said the meeting occurred in McAllen, Texas, where Tiffany and her husband had recently relocated. Earlier in the day, Tamaulipas state attorney general spokesman Ruben Dario Rios explained the decision to halt the search. "Our investigators have taken a temporary recess so that we can better assess the strategies we are using to find the body. We are currently considering other approaches to our search," he said. The search was suspended on Thursday. Responding to local reports that it may have been threats of imminent gun battles by the Los Zetas cartel that led to Mexican officials to suspend the search, Dario Rios said, "Negative." "We have no official information of threats on our investigators." Tiffany's mother said that "we're very disappointed" in the development. "The longer this goes the less chance there is of finding David," she said.
Tiffany Hartley told authorities the couple was on a sightseeing trip on Falcon Lake, a reservoir on the Rio Grande. She believes the attackers may still have her husband's body. Dario Rios said earlier Friday taht Tiffany Hartley has not responded to the attorney general's formal request for more information about the incident. "We still have not spoken to her," he said. Young had said her daughter is willing to meet with Mexican authorities on her terms and on U.S. soil, not in Mexico. Tamaulipas state governor Eugenio Hernandez Flores, in Washington for annual meetings on Mexican-U.S. partnerships, was scheduled to meet with FBI officials during his visit Friday to pledge cooperation as authorities look into the matter. He told CNN that Mexican police had deployed dozens of searchers but have found neither a body nor a jet ski. Tiffany said she met with the lead Mexican investigator in the death of her husband days before the police officer was killed and his severed head delivered to authorities in a suitcase. U.S. and Mexican authorities vowed the search for Hartley's husband would continue despite the investigator's slaying on Tuesday. "I met him. He sat right next to me," Hartley said, referring to Mexican state official Rolando Armando Flores Villegas. Her remarks aired on CNN's "American Morning" Thursday. "We talked through a translator and he just seemed like a really good guy who really wanted to just do good for -- you know, his country," Hartley said. Hartley said she wonders if the death of the lead Mexican investigator will hamper the search for her husband. "It definitely makes me worried that nobody is going to want to take over," she said. On Thursday, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the United States is doing everything it can to find Hartley and told ABC's "Good Morning America" that she is "sickened" by the case.
"I hope that we can [find him]," said Clinton. "I mean, the beheaded body of the brave Mexican investigator that just showed up shows what we're dealing with." She said the United States is "supporting local law enforcement, supporting the authorities on the border, doing everything that we know to do to try to assist in helping to find the body and helping to find the perpetrators." A report issued by a Texas-based think tank suggested Thursday that Hartley's death may have stemmed from a case of mistaken identity in the ongoing war between two Mexican drug cartels. The Stratfor report, which cites anonymous sources, noted that Hartley worked for an oil and gas company with operations in Reynosa, Mexico. The couple had lived there for two years and had only moved to McAllen within the past few months, the report said. The truck they drove to Falcon Lake on September 30 still had a license plate from Mexico's Tamaulipas state. The couple drove their personal watercraft to the Old Guerrero area of the lake, which the report said is a "known battleground in the ongoing war in the Los Zetas and Gulf cartels." The sources told Stratfor both cartels have been known to conduct surveillance and countersurveillance operations on personal watercraft, so Zetas scouts identified them as possible Gulf spies, because of their license plate and their method and direction of travel on Falcon Lake. They were then apparently confronted by "Zetas enforcers," Stratfor said. The sources told Stratfor the attack was unauthorized by senior Los Zetas members and "a damage control campaign is currently under way to identify and eliminate those who engaged the Hartleys without proper authorization." Protocol involves prompt disposition of a body to ensure no evidence can be brought against the group, the report said.
Sources said that "once Hartley was identified as an American, his body was destroyed the same day as the incident to prevent a backlash from the U.S. government against the group," Stratfor said. "With the heavy diplomatic and public pressure on both U.S. and Mexican authorities to find David Hartley's remains in the investigation, the decapitation of Flores Villegas was a stern signal to both the United States and Mexico that no body will be produced and to leave the situation alone." Falcon Lake is about 70 miles west of the Hartleys' home in McAllen. CNN's Ed Lavandera, Eric Fiegel and Nick Valencia contributed to this report.
Two brand new iPhones and the Apple Watch have finally been unveiled but Australian customers can expect to fork out 25 percent more than the US for one of the new handsets when they hit the market next week. The larger iPhone handsets, which were unveiled in the US on Wednesday morning, will first hit the market on September 19 and you can pre-order one from Friday. Prices for the iPhone 6 start from $869, compared with $649 in the US. The iPhone 6 Plus will retail from $999 in Australia and $749 abroad. The brand new iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus range were unveiled in the US on Wednesday morning by Apple chief executive Tim Cook . Apple will sell the iPhone 6 in gold, silver and grey and prices will start at $869 for the 16GB model and $999 for the 64GB. For the first time, Apple will sell a 128GB model for $1,129. The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch screen and curved edges, with 38 percent more pixels on the screen than the iPhone 5s. But that's not the biggest model Apple is planning on selling in the new range. The iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch screen and 185 percent more pixels than the 5S. Like the iPhone 6, the Plus model is also sold in gold, silver and grey but it's naturally more expensive. The iPhone 6 (centre) has a 4.7-inch screen, curved edges and will be available in dark black and gold, while the iPhone 6 Plus (right) has a 5.5-inch screen and 185 per cent more pixels than the 5S (left) The larger and newer iPhone handsets will first hit the market on September 19 and Australian customers can pre-order from this Friday . It will start from $999 for the 16GB model, $1,129 for the 64GB model and $1,249 for a 128GB handset.
The latest iPhone, the 5s, currently retails for $749 for the 16GB model. But the anticipated Apple Watch, which is the company's first foray into the world of wearable items, won't be around until early 2015. Apple fans Salvatore Gerace (left) and Christian ibrahim get in line early for the new iPhone 6 at the Apple Store in Sydney, Wednesday, Sept. 10, 2014. While an Australian price for the watch hasn't yet been announced, it will retail in the US from $349. The watch, which received a standing ovation when it was unveiled, has a rectangular bezel, rectangular sapphire crystal screen, curved edges and is made of metal. It will come in three finishes - Apple Watch, which comes in silver, the Apple Watch Sport and the Apple Watch Edition, which will be available in 18-karat gold. Prices for the iPhone 6 start from $869, compared with $649 in the US. The iPhone 6 Plus will retail from $999 in Australia and $749 abroad . Apple haven't specified what the battery life was like on the Apple Watch, but did say it would need to be charged each night. The watch works 'seamlessly' with the iPhone 5C, 5S as well as the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, and it lets users dictate messages via a microphone on the device. Australian retailers are said to be gearing up to battle it out over the new iPhone range. Optus fired the first canon on Sunday when it revealed people who abandon their existing contracts with rival companies would be given credit to offset cancellation charges if they move to a 24-month Optus plan. The anticipated Apple Watch, which is the company's first foray into the world of wearable items, won't be around until early 2015 . While an Australian price for the watch hasn't yet been announced, it will retail in the US from $349 .
The move is timed to take advantage of the pre-Christmas influx of new smartphone models, such as the newly unveiled iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Telsyte senior analyst Foad Fadaghi said Optus' rivals would likely launch aggressive counter strategies in the coming months. 'This is a win for consumers if we see increased competition around the launch of the new (Apple) handset (and) some of the barriers come down for switching,' Mr Fadaghi said. Prices for the iPhone 6 will start at $869 for the 16GB and $999 for the 16GB iPhone 6 Plus model .
Healthy people given the serotonin-enhancing antidepressant citalopram were willing to pay almost twice as much to prevent harm to themselves or others than those given placebo drugs Healthy people given the serotonin-enhancing antidepressant citalopram were willing to pay almost twice as much to prevent harm to themselves or others than those given placebo drugs in a moral decision-making experiment at UCL. In contrast, the dopamine-boosting Parkinson's drug levodopa made healthy people more selfish, eliminating an altruistic tendency to prefer harming themselves over others. The study was a double-blind randomised controlled trial and the results are published in Current Biology. The research provides insight into the neural basis of clinical disorders characterized by a lack of concern for others, such as psychopathy. Serotonin and dopamine levels have both been linked to aggressive and antisocial behavior, and this study helps explain why. "Our findings have implications for potential lines of treatment for antisocial behavior, as they help us to understand how serotonin and dopamine affect people's willingness to harm others for personal gain," says lead author Dr Molly Crockett, who conducted the study at UCL and is now at Oxford University. "We have shown that commonly-prescribed psychiatric drugs influence moral decisions in healthy people, raising important ethical questions about the use of such drugs. "It is important to stress, however, that these drugs may have different effects in psychiatric patients compared to healthy people. More research is needed to determine whether these drugs affect moral decisions in people who take them for medical reasons." The study, conducted by researchers from UCL and Oxford University and funded by the Wellcome Trust, compared how much pain people were willing to anonymously inflict on themselves or strangers in exchange for money. A total of 175 healthy adults took part, 89 randomised to receive citalopram or placebo and 86 randomised to receive levodopa or placebo.
Participants were randomly assigned to the roles of decider and receiver and anonymously paired up such that each decider did not know who the receiver was and vice-versa. All participants were given mildly painful electric shocks matched to their pain threshold so that the intensity was not intolerable. Deciders were explicitly told that shocks to receivers would be at the receiver's own pain threshold. Deciders went into a room alone with a computer terminal, and each took part in 170 trials. For each trial, they had to choose between different amounts of money for different numbers of shocks, up to a maximum 20 shocks and £20 per trial. For example, they might be offered a choice of 7 shocks for £10 or 10 shocks for £15. Half of the decisions related to shocks for themselves and half to shocks for the receiver, but in all cases the deciders would get the money. At the end of the session, one of the chosen trial results would be implemented so that the decider or receiver received the shocks and the decider received the profits. As such, their decisions had real consequences. Deciders knew that their decisions would be kept secret so that fear of judgment or retaliation would not skew the results. A similar experiment conducted by the same team previously showed that people disliked harming others more than harming themselves, a behaviour known as 'hyper-altruism'. * This behaviour was seen again in this study, with most people more willing to harm themselves than others for profit. On average, people given a placebo were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 44p per shock to prevent harm to others. Those on citalopram were far more harm-averse, willing to pay an average 60p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 73p per shock to prevent harm to others.
Over the course of the experiment, this meant that people on citalopram delivered an average 30 fewer shocks to themselves and 35 fewer shocks to others than those on placebo. People given levodopa, however, were not willing to pay any more to prevent shocks to others than to prevent shocks to themselves. On average, they were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves or others. This meant that they delivered on average 10 more shocks to others during the experiment than the placebo group. They were also less hesitant to deliver shocks to others, making the decision faster than those on placebo. ### Trial showed healthy people given a Parkinson’s drug became more selfish, while people given a serotonin-boosting drug were more protective of others Common drugs for depression and Parkinson’s can sway people’s moral judgments about harming others, according to research that raises ethical questions about the use of the drugs. The study found that when healthy people were given a one-off dose of a serotonin-boosting drug widely used to treat depression they became more protective of others, paying almost twice as much to prevent them receiving an electric shock in a laboratory experiment. They also became more reluctant to expose themselves to pain. Serotonin map of brain could lead to better targeted antidepressants Read more The scientists also found that the dopamine-enhancing Parkinson’s drug, levodopa, made healthy people more selfish, wiping out the normal tendency to prefer to receive an electric shock themselves, while sparing those around them. Molly Crockett, a psychologist at the University of Oxford who led the work, said the finding that a single exposure to the drugs had such a noticeable impact on behaviour challenged the idea that we have stable moral values. “Patients [taking these drugs] are tracked in terms of how their symptoms improve, but not necessarily in terms of how their behaviour changes,” she said.
“In the treatment of Parkinson’s, some patients go on to develop compulsive gambling and compulsive sexual behaviour. The drugs have consequences that reach out into the world beyond the patient.” She added that it was unclear whether the effects seen in the study would be replicated in patients. An alternative possibility is that the drugs could bring the behaviour of patients “back to baseline” by stabilising their psychological state. “The central message is we need to have more research into how these drugs affect behaviour, both in healthy people and in people taking them for disorders,” she said. In the study, published in the journal Current Biology, 175 participants took part, with 89 assigned to receive the anti-depressant citalopram or a placebo and 86 given either levodopa or a placebo. The participants were also randomly designated as “deciders” or “receivers” and anonymously paired up. All participants were given mildly painful electric shocks matched to their pain threshold so that the intensity was not intolerable. Deciders were told that shocks to receivers would be at the receiver’s own pain threshold. Urgent call for new drugs to treat causes of Parkinson’s Read more Deciders went into a room alone with a computer terminal, and each took part in around 170 trials. For each trial, they had to choose between different amounts of money for different numbers of shocks, up to a maximum of 20 shocks and £20 per trial. For example, they might be offered a choice of 7 shocks for £10 or 10 shocks for £15. Half of the decisions made in the trials related to shocks for themselves and half to shocks for the receiver, but regardless of who received the shocks, the deciders would get the money. On average, people given a placebo were prepared to pay around 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 44p per shock to prevent harm to others.
Those on citalopram, the seratonin-based drug, were far more harm-averse, willing to pay an average 60p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 73p per shock to prevent harm to others. Overall, they delivered around 30 fewer shocks to themselves and 35 fewer shocks to others than those on placebo. People given levodopa, however, were not willing to pay any more to prevent shocks to others than to prevent shocks to themselves. On average, they were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves or others, meaning they delivered on average 10 more shocks to others during the experiment than the placebo group. “The dopamine drug made people more selfish,” said Crockett. “Most people show this pattern where they think it’s worse to harm other people than to harm oneself. That’s abolished by the drug.” The researchers suggest that in future it may be possible to give people a simple test to assess whether their decision-making behaviour has been radically altered by a drug, as well as asking them about whether their mood and symptoms have improved. “We’re not transforming someone from a healthy person into a criminal or anything like that,” Crockett said. “But in aggregate we make decisions multiple times a day and they can shape our lives.” Your moral compass can be influenced more than you think. A new study published in Current Biology shows that using two common drugs, an antidepressant and a treatment for Parkinson’s disease, can help sway moral decisions. The researchers randomly designated the subjects as “deciders” or “receivers,” while all the participants were given an electric shock based on their own individual pain thresholds. Deciders were to go into rooms by themselves and take part in 170 trials.
Within each trial, the subject could choose from different amounts of money for a certain amount of shocks, up to 20 shocks and 20p (pence) per trial. By the end of the experiment, either the subject received an electric shock or the decision-maker got shocked, with the decision-maker getting paid either way. The experiment randomly selects half of the group to receive the serotonin-enhancing antidepressant citalopram while the other group received levodopa, a dopamine-enhancer. Levodopa is commonly used to treat Parkinson’s disease. Each of the groups that received medication also were compared against groups who were receiving a placebo. The researchers were surprised by the potential of the findings. The goal of the experiment was to create a real life decision-making process with real consequences in order to see how these specific drugs affect behavior. “The central message is we need to have more research into how these drugs affect behavior, both in healthy people and in people taking them for disorders,” Molly Crockett, the lead author of the research and neuroscientist at the University of Oxford told The Guardian. In a previous experiment that was conducted by the same team, the results showed that people disliked harming others more than harming themselves. This is behavior referred to as “hyper-altruism,” a term that another study from April of 2015 states is a trait that most people have. That was on display for this study as well. On average, the people given a placebo were prepared to pay 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 44p per shock to prevent it in others. Participants who were given the citalopram were willing to pay an average of 73p per shock to prevent harm to others.
Conversely, those who were given the drug levodopa were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to others or themselves, meaning that they delivered an average of 10 more shocks to others during the experiment. This gives the impression that the participants who took the drug levodopa were on average more selfish than the participants who took citalopram. What the study also seems to indicate is that while on average most people wouldn’t inflict harm on others, with the common drug citalopram, participants were more empathetic toward other people’s pain. Lest anyone think that this study can have negative ramifications, as though serotonin-enhancing medications would begin to be doled out to everybody to “force” them to be more empathetic, this study actually might be groundbreaking for the ways in which we can treat people with mood or behavioral disorders. “Our findings have implications for potential lines of treatment for antisocial behavior, as they help us to understand how serotonin and dopamine affect people’s willingness to harm others for personal gain. We have shown that commonly-prescribed psychiatric drugs influence moral decisions in healthy people, raising important ethical questions about the use of such drugs,” Crockett said in a statement. Source: Crockett M, Siegel J, Kurth-Nelson Z, et al. Dissociable Effects of Seratonin and Dopamine on the Valuation of Harm in Moral Decision Making. Current Biology. 2015.
By . Richard Spillett for MailOnline . Four people have been arrested on suspicion of involvement in a spate of attempted letter bomb attacks in Northern Ireland and England, including on a number of Armed Forces recruitment offices. Two men, aged 35 and 46, and two women, aged 21 and 44, are being questioned over the sending of explosive devices to careers offices in Oxford, Brighton, Canterbury, Aldershot, Reading, Chatham and Slough in February. They were detained in Londonderry and have been taken to the Police Service of Northern Ireland's (PSNI) Serious Crime Suite in Antrim. In October last year, dissident Republicans opposed to the peace process were blamed for sending a series of letter bombs to high profile political and security figures in Northern Ireland and to Army recruiting offices in England. None of the devices detonated. Northern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers and former PSNI chief constable Matt Baggott were among those targeted by letters sent to addresses in Northern Ireland . In the Northern Ireland attacks, one of the devices was sent to Stormont Castle in Belfast addressed to Northern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers. Another bomb was delivered to the offices of the Public Prosecution Service in Londonderry while another two explosive packages - one addressed to then PSNI chief constable Matt Baggott and the other to one of his senior commanders - were intercepted at Royal Mail offices in Belfast and Lisburn. The sending of bombs in the post marked the re-emergence of a terror tactic that was used by paramilitaries during last half of the 20th century in a period known as the Troubles. Since 2009, republican extremists intent on achieving a united Ireland by violent means have murdered two soldiers, two policemen and one prison officer in Northern Ireland, as well as carrying out numerous other attacks on security force targets. The Army Recruitment Centre at The Queensmere Centre in Slough was one of those targeted in the attacks .
Letters addressed to Maghaberry High Security Prison were also intercepted in Northern Ireland . The PSNI said its detectives had been liaising with officers from the South East Counter Terrorism Unit in England. A PSNI spokesman said: 'Police investigating a series of devices sent to addresses in Northern Ireland and England last year and earlier this year have arrested four people in Londonderry this morning. 'Two men aged 35 and 46, and two women aged 21 and 44, were arrested in the city and taken to the Serious Crime Suite at Antrim police station for interview. 'The investigation is being led by detectives from PSNI Serious Crime Branch who have been working in close liaison with officers from the South East Counter Terrorism Unit in England.' In March this year two more letter bombs were intercepted at postal sorting offices in Lisburn and Londonderry. Both were addressed to Maghaberry high security prison in Co Antrim. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Shoppers could be told how their meat has been killed, with labels on the packaging informing them over whether the animal was 'stunned' or 'unstunned', a government minister has suggested. George Eustice, the Parliamentary under-secretary of state for farming, food and the marine environment, suggested labels such as 'stunned' on the packaging would give a 'clear definition' to consumers. It comes amid an ongoing row about halal meat and the way it is packaged and presented to customers. Scroll down for video . George Eustice (pictured), the Parliamentary under-secretary of state for farming, food and the marine environment, said labels informing consuemrs over how the animal was killed could give 'clear definition' In May, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg demanded better labelling of meat and suggested suppliers used a designated 'halal' logo. It also emerged that major supermarkets such as Tesco, Sainsbury's, Morrisons, Waitrose and Marks and Spencer were selling the imported meat, while popular restaurant chains such as Pizza Express had been serving halal chicken without making it clear on the menu. Halal meat comes from the traditional Muslim method of slaughtering but is controversial because animals are killed by having their throats cut and then having their blood drained. The European Commission is set to report early next year on whether meat sold in the European Union should be labelled. But Mr Eustice suggested this week that meat products could be labelled 'stunned' or 'unstunned, which would effectively alert shoppers as to whether their meat was killed according to religious guidelines. According to The Telegraph, Mr Eustice told MPs: '[Backbenchers have] made the point that it would be wrong just to label meat as 'stunned' or 'unstunned', and that a fairer way would be to list all the different methods of slaughter.
'The only thing I would say in response is that, from the EU perspective, 'stunned' has a clear legal definition in the legislation, and it is simply that an animal is rendered insensible to pain almost immediately.' Mr Eustice has suggested labels such as 'stunned' or 'unstunned' for meat packaging, to give customers clear information over whether the meat is halal (pictured) or non-halal and suitable under religious guidelines . He also said it would be 'difficult' to brand meat products either kosher or halal because 'there is no single definition of halal' and that a 'further complication is that not all meat slaughtered by kosher methods is deemed kosher'. And he added that it would be complicated to list all of the different methods of slaughter, and said there may not be a 'huge consumer appetite' to do so. HALAL . Halal slaughtering involves cutting through the large arteries in the neck with one swipe of a blade, while a Muslim butcher recites a religious verse. All blood is then drained away since the consumption of blood is forbidden under Islamic law. Under Islamic law, an animal must be slaughtered by having its throat cut while it is conscious. NON-HALAL . In comparison, the non-halal method involves taking animals to an abattoir where they are stunned before being killed. It means the animal is unconscious when it is killed and has an instantaneous death, as opposed to enduring what animal rights activists claim is drawn-out pain and suffering. Once the animal has been killed at the abattoir, it is removed and taken to be hung and butchered. KOSHER . According to the laws, in order for a meat to be kosher it must come from an animal that is ruminant and have split hooves. Ruminant animals chew food once and swallow, before regurgitating it and chewing again.
Before slaughtering, the animal must be healthy and uninjured and a sharp knife is used to slice through the main arteries and windpipe, causing a drop in blood pressure that causes the animal to lose consciousness. Huw Irranca-Davies, the shadow environment minister, said the labelling of meat had been 'roundly and rightly rejected' by MPs last year. However, he said that if all different types of slaughter should be labelled then 'make room on the label for slaughter by electrical current, or by carbon dioxide, inert gas, captive bolt pistol, gunshot or free bullet and so on.' 'Some advocate doing so, and it would certainly satisfy the need for transparency,' he added. The row over the labelling of halal meat was sparked in May when it emerged millions of people were being sold halal and kosher meat without being told. Several restaurants such as Pizza Express, KFC and Subway were found to be selling halal meat – mainly chicken – without printing the information on menus. Chains including Domino's, GBK, Nando's, KFC, Ask and Slug & Lettuce also admitted to using halal meat in some dishes, mainly chicken, and locations. At least ten top higher education establishments - including Oxford University and the University of Manchester – were also found to be secretly serving up meat from potentially unstunned animals. In Manchester, 85 per cent of all meat served was found to unlabelled halal meal, while all the chicken served at universities in Sheffield and Exeter - which is halal - was not marked as so. Cardiff and Lincoln were also found to be among the universities serving significant quantities of the meat, without telling consumers. It also emerged that most of the major supermarkets were selling New Zealand lamb killed according to halal ritual without providing labels.
The switch to slaughtering animals in line with Islamic ritual helps supermarket chains save money because the end product can be eaten by Muslims and non-Muslims alike. Both halal and kosher slaughter involve a religious ritual in which the throat is cut. But some animals are not stunned beforehand, which is said to leave them in pain. The ongoing row about halal meat and the way it is packaged and presented to customers was sparked in May, after it was revealed millions of people were being sold halal and kosher meat without being told (file picture) In conventional slaughterhouses, cows, sheep and chicken are stunned, usually with an electric shock, to ensure they are unconscious before their throats are cut. This is said to minimise their suffering. After it emerged that halal was widely sold unknowingly to consumers, Mr Clegg demanded better labelling of meat. He said that while he personally had 'no problem' eating halal meat, produce should be clearly labelled because 'consumers want to know more about how the food arrived on their plate.' Religious groups from all faiths, vets and animal welfare groups have also previously joined calls for new labels to identify halal or kosher meat.
Warner Bros TV has so far failed to reach any agreement with Jim Parsons, Johnny Galecki, Kaley Cuoco, Simon Helberg and Kunal Nayyar over salaries. Production may be delayed if new deals are not reached in the next two weeks. According to the Hollywood Reporter, though, the cast are still expected to return to work. The long-running CBS sitcom was extended for a further three series earlier this year. The show, which centres on a group of high-functioning science "geeks", will now air until at least 2017. The Hollywood Reporter claims that Parsons, Galecki and Cuoco currently earn $325,000 (Â£190,000) per episode and are now seeking up to $1m (Â£584,000) per show. Such a deal would make them the highest paid actors on US television - ahead of Ashton Kutcher and Jon Cryer from Two and a Half Men, currently understood to be the most rewarded TV actors.
Orlando, Florida (CNN) -- Five hundred kids screamed when singer Ne-Yo walked in on their holiday party on a recent Saturday bearing gifts and a message of hope. "This is the first famous person I actually met," exclaimed Tha Banks, 16, with a huge smile. Banks, a sports fan, got a new football autographed by the R&B superstar. Banks isn't Ne-Yo's typical fan -- he and the other teens at the party are part of Florida's foster care system, all seeking a life free from neglect and abuse. For the past five years, Shaffer "Ne-Yo" Smith has visited underprivileged children across the country, bringing toys, games, shoes and clothing as part of his charity's annual "giving tour." Ne-Yo and his mother, who is president of his foundation, recently visited six cities in six days, bringing Christmas gifts to more than 3,000 kids at Boys and Girls clubs, group homes and in foster care. He also talks to the children about his personal experiences. "I grew up pretty much like you all," Ne-Yo told the teens at the central Florida foster home. "We didn't have a lot of anything there was no silver spoon in my mouth." A father of two himself, Ne-Yo said he sees his children in the faces of the kids he meets at these events. "It's hard for me to fathom any parent that would abandon their kids for whatever reason," said Ne-Yo, the father of a 1-year-old and a 3-month-old. "That doesn't compute with me." The holiday party was organized by the Kids House of Seminole County, which cares for 2,300 kids each year between the ages of 3 and 18, including victims of neglect, and others who witness domestic violence, or experience physical or sexual abuse, according to Marcie Dearth of Kids House.
"This is an annual party that kids host every year, but we never have had the celebrity presence that we did this year," Dearth said, calling Ne-Yo's visit "a lifetime experience." The kids frost cookies and decorate stockings for the holiday season -- a tough time for these children, who are separated from their families. "These events help fill that void, that excitement of the holiday spirit that all kids should have," said John Cooper, assistant secretary of operations for the Florida Department of Children and Families. More than 400,000 children are in the foster care system in the United States, according to a 2010 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services report. With about 19,000 kids in foster care, Florida has the fourth-largest number of kids in state care, behind California, New York and Texas, according to the 2010 report. At the party, volunteers handed out wrapped presents donated by Ne-Yo's charity, the Compound Foundation; Toys for Tots; Coca-Cola; Mattel; Ubisoft and other corporate partners. Destiny Molina, 15, unwraps her gift: a box filled with bottles of nail polish. "You know what's funny," she says. "The girls at the other (foster) house stole my other nail polish, and I have been trying to buy it back." She turns to her friend to ask what she got. "Makeup," replies Karla Hurtado, 16. "Oh that's cute," Molina says. Molina said this was going to be a good Christmas, something that doesn't happen every year for children in foster care. "We don't have Christmases like this all the time," she said, a little choked up. Ne-Yo told the room full of kids that he was living, breathing proof that you need to find something that you love to do and "stick with it."
He said something that motivates yet frustrates him is hearing foster kids referred to as "forgotten children." "All you need for success is drive, passion and one person to give a damn -- to give you a shot," Ne-Yo said. "And you have a room full of people like that." Mercedes Noble, 17, says she was grateful to meet Ne-Yo, who she said seemed to be a real person, just like her. The tall teen said foster care is not the best place to be at Christmas; everyone would rather be with their families. Noble said, though, "It's way better to be here with people who love and care for us than be at home and probably getting beat." With a big smile, the teen said, "I appreciate that he took time out of his life and come and show respect to us, kindness -- let us know that we are still human, we are still people and we still need love."
(CNN Student News) -- May 5, 2014 . Mixed reviews surround the latest U.S. jobs report. We'll explore why it makes some analysts hopeful and others pessimistic. Today's show also updates viewers on conditions in Ukraine, and we debunk some popular myths about Cinco de Mayo. Also featured: a trip to the gym with a CNN Hero who's helping others find inner and outer strength. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCRIPT . Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM . Click here for a printable version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day: . In your opinion, what questions should viewers ask when presented with data about the U.S. economy? Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard about in today's show: . 1. unemployment rate . 2. Odessa . 3. Cinco de Mayo . Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program? 1. According to the latest federal jobs report, how many jobs were added in April? What happened to the unemployment rate? What do different analysts say about the numbers? 2. According to the report cited in the video, what does the job market look like for the Class of 2014? What are some reasons why graduates face a tough job market? How do hourly wages for recent graduates compare to those for the Class of 2000? What is the difference between hourly wages for high school and college graduates? 3. According to the video, what are some of the emotions seen in the city of Odessa? Why? What happened there between different groups of protesters? 4. What does Cinco de Mayo actually commemorate?
What happened in Puebla, Mexico in 1862? According to the video, to what extent is Cinco de Mayo actually celebrated in Mexico? When is Mexico's Independence Day? 5. Who is Ned Norton? How does running make him feel? What has he done to provide exercise to people with various physical limitations? How did he get started doing this? How do these individuals benefit from his training? Discussion Questions: . 1. What is meant by the term "unemployment rate"? What does the unemployment rate tell us about the state of the economy? Why does this number only tell part of the story? How might either Democrats or Republicans use this number at election time? 2. What do you think are some things a high school or college graduate could do to stand out among people seeking jobs? How might you give yourself an advantage in a weak job market? Who might you talk to to get ideas about how to get a job in your chosen field? 3. What are some health risks that might be associated with a lack of mobility? How might the kind of strength training seen in the video provide people with a more positive outlook? How important do you think a positive outlook is to a person's quality of life? CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. FEEDBACK . We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Please use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you think about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and may respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click here to submit your Roll Call request.
Mountaineering Scotland wrote a joint letter with the Scottish Gamekeepers Association. It asked for upland moors to be protected from commercial tree-planting. The letter to the environment secretary was prompted by the Scottish government's draft Climate Change Plan. It sets a target of increasing forest cover from 17% to 25% of the land mass by 2050. Following the letter, many Mountaineering Scotland members have said they support the planting of native species and describe the moorland as a man-made habitat. Others have questioned the group's association with gamekeepers. The outdoors writer and TV presenter Cameron McNeish wrote on Twitter: "Disagree with #Mountaineering Scotland over {the} issue of woodlands. Shocked they have got into bed with moorland owners. "My own preference would be for reducing deer and sheep numbers to allow natural regeneration, not planting. Growth can be incredibly fast." BBC Scotland revealed on Wednesday that the joint letter had been sent to the Scottish government. The letter states: "Our concern is whether adequate weight is being given to the significant changes this will have on the landscape of Scotland and in particular the dramatic open views and vistas which have come to signify to the outside world that which is unique about our country." Responding to the criticism, chief executive David Gibson said: "Mountaineering Scotland welcomes the passion shown by our members and others but regrets that our position has been substantially misunderstood and has caused concern to members. "The feedback has strengthened our resolve to take a stronger stance on conservation issues, including hill tracks and land management practices. "Our collaboration with the Scottish Gamekeepers Association was on a single issue and does not indicate agreement with them on any other policy or issue." Mountaineering Scotland, formerly the Mountaineering Council of Scotland (MCofS), issued a clarification on Thursday saying they were not opposed to the planting of native trees.
Outdoor writer Chris Townsend said: "Having read the clarification, I have to say as a member and an ex-president of the MCofS I think it's pathetic, disappointing and naive." But Reforesting Scotland, a charity which promotes tree planting, backed the underlying call for a government policy on upland moors. A spokesman told BBC Scotland: "Scotland's upland landscape is largely a man-made construct caused by deforestation and maintained that way through excessive grazing and burning for the benefit of a few. "There is a need to protect areas of valuable moorland but not at the level it exists at present. The balance is wrong and we need to bring all interested parties together to decide where that new balance should lie." Professor Dominick Spracklen, of the School of Earth and Environment at the University of Leeds, said: "The distinction between plantation forestry and native woodlands is absolutely critical to this discussion - open, patchy native woodlands do not have the impact on "grand vistas" that dense plantation forestry does." Citing Glen Affric, Glen Strathfarrar, Glen Feshie and Beinn Eighe, he added: "These are iconic landscapes - a mix of native trees, moorland and mountain - that are much more interesting than they would be if they had no trees. The clarification from the Mountaineering Council recognises this." The Scottish government's draft Climate Change Plan includes planting more trees because forests can act as a carbon "sink", removing greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. A spokesman said: "The increased woodland creation targets announced by the Scottish government as part of its Climate Change Plan will be taken forward in a sustainable way, including working closely with a range of stakeholders. "This will include appropriate consideration of Scotland's distinctive upland landscapes."
Alastair Cook insisted he would be leading England at next year’s World Cup — despite falling for just one run as Sri Lanka clinched the one-day series in Pallekele. Cook’s latest failure with the bat was part of a dismal 90-run defeat for England, who now trail 4-2 in this seven-match series. He also dropped a crucial catch, putting down Kumar Sangakkara on 41. The Sri Lanka batsman went on to make a match-winning 112. Alastair Cook says his dropping of Sri Lanka's Kumar Sangakkara on 41 was a 'really costly drop' Cook takes the field for what would be a tough day at the office for the England captain in the sixth ODI . Cook, the England captain, said: ‘Days like these don’t make the job any easier. It’s tough, not scoring the runs I’d like. It’s not a great place to be as a captain. I’m a better player than I’m showing at the moment. I’ve just got to keep going.’ Cook, who averages 17 in this series and has made only one half-century in his last 21 one-day innings, was confirmed as World Cup captain a week ago and seems to be in no mood to relinquish the job. But when coach Peter Moores was asked by Sky Sports to confirm Cook’s captaincy, he said: ‘We review everything at the end of every series. We’ve always said that. ‘We make no bones that we’re passionate to try to get our best side to go out and win a World Cup. Cook needs runs but he’s also had some great times as an England player.
He’s in a tough patch but that’s something he’s working hard to get out of.’ Sangakkara leaves the field in Kandy for the final time after spearheading Sri Lanka's 90-run ODI win . The keeper-batsman's team-mates ensure their veteran leads them off the field after clinching the series . Cook acknowledged his drop of man of the match Kumar Sangakkara was damaging as England lost the sixth one-day international against Sri Lanka in Pallekele. Sangakkara, dropped by Cook at mid off on 41, hit a run-a-ball 112 at the Pallekele International Stadium in his last one-day international on his home ground. It set up a 90-run success which consigns England to a series defeat with one match to play. Cook said afterwards on Sky Sports: 'It didn't help, me dropping "Sanga" on 40 was a really costly drop . 'That was a really big catch to drop at that time because we'd built up quite a lot of pressure on them. 'It was probably a 260 (run) wicket and credit to him, he made us pay for that.' After putting down Sangakkara, who got 112, Cook was out LBW to Sachithra Senanayake for just one . England coach Moores said: 'We felt we could draw the series level today but we've been outplayed in all departments. 'We probably bowled our best up front. Towards the end our plans have to be a bit clearer, a bit simpler. Not just bowling yorkers but matching the ball you bowl to the field you've got, although the yorker is still a great ball if you bowl it well. 'We made some errors and didn't field as well as we could have.'
Sri Lanka captain Angelo Matthews said: 'It was a challenging wicket to bat on but 'Sanga' was amazing once again. 'Together with (Tillakaratne) Dilshan, they were brilliant and set the tone for us to launch at the end. 'The older he (Sangakkara) gets, the more runs he scores.' Sangakkara himself added: 'It's great to have grown up in Kandy and gone to school here to play one of my last games here is a special feeling. 'I've had a wonderful career and it's extra special to finish off with a win.'
By . Nick Enoch . PUBLISHED: . 09:44 EST, 8 May 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 09:45 EST, 8 May 2013 . Many photographers would scarper if a cheetah ran at them at full pelt. But Adalberto Mangini, 51, held his nerve to get these incredible slow-motion shots. The big cat hurtled up an enclosed run at a top speed of 70mph as it chased a fake chicken. The cheetah hurtled up an enclosed run at a top speed of 70mph as it chased a fake chicken . The lethal predator is part of a breeding programme and will eventually be released into the wild. And the method seen here is part of its preparation, conducted by staff at the Mukuni Big 5 Safari in Livingstone, Zambia. They taught it hunting skills using the pretend chicken pulled along on a super-fast zip wire. Mr Mangini, a photographer from Milan, Italy, said: 'My body was completely covered with red dust afterwards. Adalberto Mangini, 51, held his nerve to get these incredible slow-motion shots in Zambia . It was part of the big cat's rehabilitation as staff at the Mukuni Big 5 Safari in Livingstone prepared it for life back in the wild . Staff taught it hunting skills using the pretend chicken pulled along on a super-fast zip wire . Mr Mangini meticulously studied the cheetah's running pattern for a few days before deciding on the best spot to capture the graceful animal . 'The cheetah was running so fast it just flew everywhere. 'These animals can accelerate from a walking speed to about 40mph in less than two seconds. 'It is always special to see them in action.' Mr Mangini meticulously studied the cheetah's running pattern for a few days before deciding on the best spot to capture the graceful animal.
But he admits he had still prepared an escape route should the cheetah not stop running. The brave photographer admits he had still prepared an escape route should the cheetah not stop running . The big cats can accelerate from a walking speed to about 40mph in less than two seconds . He said: 'I was always ready to move quickly.' Laura Bongiorni, who accompanied Mr Mangini on the trip, added: 'Young cheetahs arrive at the centre from different places, mainly from South Africa. 'The cheetah population in Zambia, as well as lions, suffered from a strong impoverishment. 'The centre started a very special cheetah breeding programme aimed at breeding captive cheetahs for their young to be released into appropriate National Parks and conservancies around Zambia where cheetahs once roamed freely but are now at a point of near extinction.' Mr Mangini shows just how close he can get to the cheetahs which were raised in a breeding programme . Mr Mangini, a sales manager, said: 'Even creatures considered by most people as very wild and . dangerous can be approached if it is done in the correct way. 'Do . not show any fear as they can feel it; make sure you respect them; . touch them in the right place and talk to them, always - they will soon . learn to recognise your voice. 'We . found that cheetahs are easier to approach during the time you stay . with them. They are competitive and love to win - and like humans, each . of them has a distinctive personality.' Cheetahs are the most vulnerable of . the big cats and have become endangered because . of loss of habitat and reduced numbers of prey.
By . Sarah Johnson . PUBLISHED: . 13:02 EST, 17 December 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 11:16 EST, 18 December 2012 . Christmas is a time for overindulgence. But this hungry hound took it too far when he swallowed a foot of fairy lights. Charlie, a seven-year-old crossbreed . dog from Southampton, had to be rushed to the operating table and saved by a team of vets who performed . life-saving surgery on him. Scroll down for video . All lit up: A team of vets had to operate on a dog that swallowed a foot of Christmas fairy lights . Owner Sharon Fay, who refers to her dog as the ‘light of her life’, became concerned when she noticed bits of wire sticking out of Charlie's faeces in the garden. The 45-year-old said: ‘I hadn't even noticed that the lights had been chewed at this stage but it quickly became clear what had happened. ‘Back in March he ate one of my scarves and needed an operation to remove it, but I thought it was just a one-off incident as he hadn't shown any signs that he was going to be a repeat offender. I've had dogs all my life and have never known a dog act like this before.’ An X-ray shed light on Charlie's problem - the tangled remains of the decorations showed up in his stomach and would have proved fatal if they were not removed. Shedding light on the situation: This X-ray shows the tangled remains of the decorations in the dog's stomach . A light snack: Charlie eyes up some fairy lights. He has a track record for eating bizarre objects like his owner's scarf . Vets rushed Charlie to the operating table and removed the Christmas decorations, also finding a shoelace. PDSA senior veterinary surgeon Sophie Bell said that she had never seen a case like this before.
‘Over the years I've seen plenty of cases of dogs swallowing strange objects - socks, dummies, rubber ducks, but it's the first time any of us have treated a dog that has actually eaten fairy lights,’ she said. ‘A foreign body of this nature could easily have caused severe internal injuries so Charlie was very, very lucky. He was also fortunate that the glass didn't cut his mouth or throat. And he could have been electrocuted if he'd bitten through the wire when the lights were switched on. 'Light of my life': Owner Sharon Fay became concerned when she saw bits of wire sticking out of Charlie's faeces in the garden . ‘With the Christmas season upon us, I'd advise owners to keep any edible items out of reach of inquisitive pets to avoid them from becoming ill over the festive season.’ Charlie returned home and has since gone on to make a full recovery, much to the delight of his owner. Ms Fay said: ‘I'll certainly be keeping an extra close eye on him from now on and have Charlie-proofed my house now.’ PDSA is advising pet owners to be extra cautious this Christmas. Its vets see many cases of pets getting their paws on inappropriate festive items every year, ranging from Christmas decorations, chocolate and cocktail sticks to toys, balloons and bones.
Shocking claims of abuse within a secret NSW-based religious group have come to light after former members revealed the years of torment they endured at the hands their 'cult leader'. Self-styled guru Pastor Scott Williams allegedly used his warped brand of evangelical Pentecostalism to run a secret homosexual sex ring while misusing huge amounts of member donations for his own personal use. In harrowing and chilling detail, a young woman has recounted the experience of being born into and growing up in a twisted religious cult, as part of an in depth investigation by ABC's Four Corners. Emily Wassmann's involvement in the Christian Assemblies International (CAI) was predetermined before her birth, as her parents were both members of the 'church', and she described her childhood as a series of terrifying, confusing and lonely circumstances. Scroll down for video . Emily Wassmann relived the horrific experience of growing up in cult religious group Christian Assemblies International in a revealing interview with ABC'S Four Corners on Monday evening . 'The teaching was that a child was born evil and that that had to be beaten out of them with a rod of iron,' she told the program. Denied a life outside the church, at 14 Ms Wassaman told her parents she wanted to leave the group. She stayed living in their house but said they did not speak to her. Shortly after, at just 15, she was sent away to Canada to live with another church member. Here the young woman battled with her mental health and came close to attempting suicide on a number of occasions. Unlike some, Ms Wassmann and her parents escaped the Assembly, but said other young people who were born into the cult and left all experienced similar hardship. 'Every. Single. One.' When she was just 15, Ms Wassmann, pictured with her father, was sent away to live with church members in Canada after she told her parents she wanted to leave the group .
Also revealed on the program was the slave-like status women in the church were afforded, and the verbal and physical abuse they suffered at the hands of the men in the CAI. Every aspect of their lives were monitored, from what they wore to how they raised their children. But the most shocking account was from a man named Gunther Frantz whose former wife was beaten by other men. In front of a group of men, stripped down to her underwear Mr Frantz's former wife was beaten with a wooden stick while her husband wasn't present - apparently for her lack of obedience. She was pregnant at the time, but her husband was unaware of this. When asked how he felt when he discovered his wife had been physically assaulted in his absence, Mr Frantz simply said: 'Makes you sick to your guts, doesn't it?' Gunther Frantz was one of Pastor Scott Williams' closest confidantes in the cult, and revealed his former wife had been beaten by other men in the church . Also aired in the shocking report, dozens of former members said bizarre sexual rituals were carried out in secret by Mr Williams, who had been given authorisation by God to sidestep biblical commands against homosexuality and train his male member to be sexually obedient. The abuse detailed by the men and women, who until now have remained silent out of fear and shame, ranged from spiritual, financial, verbal and physical abuse to sexual abuse of adult male members. 'I haven't come across anything like it,' Four Corners reporter Caro Meldrum-Hanna told Daily Mail Australia ahead of the episode going to air on Monday night. 'Former members describe it as a cult.' Pastor Scott Williams allegedly used his warped brand of evangelical Pentecostalism to run a secret homosexual sex ring while misusing huge amounts of member donations for his own personal use .
Meldrum-Hanna, who came across the story back in 2010, spoke to dozens of former members in Australia and across the world and she said all of their claims made against Mr Williams were similar. 'Initially it appeared almost unbelievable because it was so extreme. But it happened,' she said. 'In the first six months you are treated like royalty but after that the screws turn. In order for Scott Williams to trust you, you had to give more of yourself, particularly for men.' Former members say they were recruited to the church as teenagers and young adults and they were brainwashed into believing Mr Williams was 'The Anointed One'. Former members say they were recruited to the church as teenagers and young adults and they were brainwashed into believing Mr Williams was 'The Anointed One' 'These people are so normal. Many weren't religious but they say they were preyed upon. So you can get an idea of how they were controlled,' Meldrum-Hanna said. Mr Williams left Australia 38 years ago to convert hundreds of young people to his religious group throughout Europe. The headquarters of CAI are now in Coffs Harbour in northern NSW. Meldrum-Hanna said the revelations weren't just based on the testimony of former members, but documents and financial records from CAI. 'There was enormous pressure placed on members to donate to this organisation. We're talking 10 percent of their gross income plus many more offerings throughout the year,' she said. The various former members interviewed by Four Corners left Mr Williams' group over a number of years but said there was a 'mass exodus' in 2006. The abuse detailed by the men and women, who until now have remained silent out of fear and shame, will be aired as part of a four-year ABC investigation . The headquarters of Christian Assemblies International group is now in Coffs Harbour in northern NSW .
'The ones who allege they were abused by Scott Williams were concerned about others, like their own sons, so they came together to blow the whistle internally within the church,' Meldrum-Hanna said. Police carried out a four-year investigation of the CAI group and the results of that investigation will be revealed by Four Corners when it airs on Monday night. The program approached Mr Williams and senior people in the church about the claims, but all requests for interviews were denied. Mr Williams, now 70, lives with his wife Ree in a beachfront apartment in Coffs Harbour. It is one of the many properties he purchased with church donations.
Refugees spoke at the gathering on Queen Street, as calls were made for concrete action. The Welsh Refugee Council's Hannah Wharf welcomed moves to resettle 20,000 Syrians displaced by war in the UK. Meanwhile, there was a demonstration on Swansea's Castle Square and a human chain is planned in Caernarfon, Gwynedd. Ms Wharf said: "Wales has made it clear that we are prepared to welcome refugees. "Winter is fast approaching for many of the most vulnerable in the refugee camps that neighbour Syria. The need for resettlement is now." Methodist minister Paul Martin, who is based in Canton, Cardiff, called it "the most serious human-made disaster of our time". David Cameron announced on Monday that the UK would accept up to 20,000 people from camps surrounding Syria with priority given to vulnerable children. First Minister Carwyn Jones will hold a Wales summit on the refugee crisis next week. Local authorities in Wales have said they are willing to "play their part" but asked for help to meet the costs.
She's one of the most polished A-listers in Tinseltown so it comes as little surprise that Victoria Beckham is passing on her beautifying tips to daughter Harper. The fashion designer has revealed that she and her three-year-old often have 'nail afternoons' - and they're not the only members of the family to enjoy some pampering. Speaking to Vogue magazine, the mother-of-four said: 'I'm very girly and I love nails. Harper and I will often have nail afternoons and when we're in LA, we even send our dog to a nail spa called The Beauty Spot for a paw-pedicure.' Scroll down for video . Perfectly polished: Victoria Beckham, who recently unveiled her collaboration with Nails Inc, has revealed that she and her three-year-old daughter Harper often have 'nail afternoons' The 40-year-old was promoting the new luxury nail polish duo she created in collaboration with Nails Inc. The two limited-edition shades - a warm tomato red and a pale bone hue - are inspired by the designer's yet-to-be unveiled Victoria Victoria Beckham spring/summer 2015 collection. While we saw the main Victoria Beckham collection at New York Fashion Week in September, the new polishes offer us a first hint of what Mrs Beckham has in store for her second fashion line next season. According to a press release, the upcoming VVB collection features subtle nods to Japanese culture, and this is certainly reflected in the nail polish names - Judo Red and Bamboo White. The mother-of-four told Vogue: 'I'm very girly and I love nails.
Harper and I will often have nail afternoons and when we're in LA, we even send our dog to a nail spa called The Beauty Spot for a paw-pedicure' Beauty collaboration: Victoria Beckham's nail polish duo with Nails Inc was one of her highs of 2014 . The exclusive formulation of the new nail varnishes features silica-rich bamboo extract, which apparently conditions and feeds the nail bed with essential nutrients. She and Harper both love the orangey red shade. 'I choose it when I'm wearing something uncomplicated, like all black,' she added. The collaboration is a final highlight in what has been a busy - and successful - year for Mrs Beckham. The designer was given the prestigious Best Brand award at the British Fashion Awards 2014. Impeccably manicured Victoria picked up the Best Brand award at the British Fashion Awards earlier this year . Proving all of her early critics wrong, Victoria Beckham has doubled sales of her fashion business to £30.39million in just two years. The businesswoman reported sales of £15.76million in 2012. And according to The Sun, Victoria Beckham Ltd made a £1.3m profit in 2013 - selling £83,000 worth of stock (or 55 handbags priced at £1,500) per day. The designer, who debuted her first collection of dresses at New York Fashion Week in 2008, has expanded her business to include handbags, shoes, sunglasses, denim, a sister line titled Victoria Victoria Beckham, and even a luxury nail polish collection in collaboration with Nails Inc. The rising sales are thought to be thanks to her recently launched website and her September store opening on Dover Street in Mayfair, London, where hundreds of fans waited in line for the doors to open. A hint of what's to come: The two limited-edition shades are inspired by the designer's yet-to-be unveiled Victoria Victoria Beckham spring/summer 2015 collection .
For Luis Figo, Monday’s Ballon d’Or announcement is a straight fight between Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi – but there’s only one winner. The former Portugal international, who played for both Real Madrid and Barcelona, says his fellow countryman Ronaldo ‘has to’ retain his crown. And, rather amusingly, Figo claims the pair are the ‘truffles and caviar’ of world football. Cristiano Ronaldo should win the Ballon d'Or for a second year running, according to Luis Figo . Former Portugal international Figo says Ronaldo and Lionel Messi are the 'truffles and caviar' of world football . Messi has won the Ballon d'Or four times out of the last five years for his performances for Barcelona . Messi was in fine form and on the scoresheet as Barcelona beat Elche 5-0 in the Copa del Rey on Thursday . Ronaldo, whose goals last season fired Real to a first Champions League title since 2002, is the favourite to beat both Messi and World Cup winner Manuel Neuer. ‘It's hard to choose between truffles and caviar, but for me it has to be Cristiano. He’s had a fantastic year all the way through for Real,’ Figo said. Neuer – the sweeper goalkeeper to have captured the imagination long before the summer tournament in Brazil – would become the first stopper to claim the prize since Lev Yashin 52 years ago. And while Figo is insistent Ronaldo will take the gong, he does understand the clamour for Neuer. ‘I know Germany won the World Cup and I understand there are those who think Neuer, who is such a great keeper and was a big part of their success, should win it,’ he added.
Figo says he understands why there is a clamour for Bayern Munich goalkeeper Manuel Neuer to win . Germany goalkeeper Neuer (left) celebrates winning the World Cup with Bastian Schweinsteiger last year . Neuer saves a shot from France striker Karim Benzema during the World Cup in Brazil last summer . Messi will be there without the Barcelona president Josep Bartomeu, who is to boycott the ceremony in protest at the transfer ban imposed upon the club by FIFA. The Catalans are not allowed to make any signings in the next two transfer windows because of a breach of rules relating to the signing of international players under the age of 18. 'FIFA has not told us who made the original charge and during the period of the sanction we will not maintain any institutional relations with them,' Bartomeu said. 'I have sent a stern letter to Sepp Blatter and I will not be attending the FIFA Ballon d'Or gala set for January 12.' Barcelona president Josep Bartomeu will not attend the ceremony after being slapped with a transfer ban . Luis Figo was speaking at the launch of his new social media platform 'Network 90'.
The 19-year-old midfielder inked a five-year deal and has been loaned out to Salzburg's feeder club FC Liefering who play in Austria's second tier. Mwepu - a key member of the Young Chipolopolo side that won the Under-20 Africa Cup in March - moves to Austria from Zambia's first division side Kafue Celtics. "I'm so happy that my dream of playing in Europe has become a reality," Mwepu told BBC Africa Sport on Thursday. "I know this league will give me experience and it will help me in so many ways. "The tempo of my game will definitely go up and most importantly, I will have game time." Nicknamed "Computer", Mwepu was outstanding as Zambia reached the quarter-finals of the World Cup in South Korea. His goal in the 4-2 win over Iran was included in the tournament's top 10. "I define discipline as the distance between dreams and reality," he opined. "I had a dream to pursue and today it has become a reality." Mwepu joins compatriot Patson Daka who also signed for Salzburg in January before being sent out to Liefering.
Fiona Barnes, who also faked terminal cancer, was jailed for 15 months for the theft from Preston's Space Centre and perverting the course of justice. The 55-year-old was ordered to pay back £1 at a Proceeds of Crime hearing at the city's crown court after she was found to have "no money to her name". The centre said the ruling was "outrageous" and a "complete insult". Barnes, of Brigend, Dunblane, stole £24,713 from the Space Centre in 2012. She tried to cover her tracks by faking documents indicating the centre had won non-existent grants of up to £800,000 and was jailed in September 2016. Speaking after the hearing, Jane Robinson, deputy manager of the Space Centre, said: "It is a complete insult. I'd rather she didn't pay anything than she pays £1. "After what she did, it just seems outrageous. She nearly ruined us." The centre was bought out by charitable company Creative Support, based in Manchester, which has secured its future. The Space Centre, which opened in 1993 and has three sensory rooms, is the UK's largest multi-sensory environment and supports children with physical, learning or emotional difficulties.
An aid worker battling the deadly and fast-spreading Ebola virus in West Africa said the area is completely unprepared to deal with the crisis. Ali Readhead, originally from Perth in Western Australia, has been living in Sierra Leone for the past two years and has seen first hand the devastation the disease is causing. 'It's chaos', she told Daily Mail Australia. 'They're totally under-resourced.' 'Patients are getting left in their houses because we just don't have any room.' Perth woman Ali Readhead has been working in Sierra Leone for two years, and more recently has seen the devastating effect the Ebola outbreak is having on the region . In the capital city, Freetown, there are only 30 beds available to those with Ebola, despite there being thousands of people infected or suspected to have contracted the potentially fatal virus. 'They're just waiting for people to die to free up the beds,' Ms Readhead said. Ms Readhead originally moved to Freetown to work on the women and children's health policy, but when Ebola began to spread received a direct request from the Minister of Health in Sierra Leone to help fight the disease. But she believed the only real way to contain the virus was if Australia and other nations sent expert military medical teams to set up field hospitals and isolation centres, two things which Freetown need so desperately. 'The only way we have a chance of containing this outbreak is if we deploy military', Ms Readhead said before adding that they would be able to accommodate a level of risk humanitarian aid can't. The aid worker has started a petition which has already garnered over 33,000 signatures, urging Foreign Minister Julie Bishop to do more than financially support the situation. The disease is spreading fast without the appropriate resources to contain those infected . Ali (centre) seen here at the christening of her god-daughter, said it is impossible to contain Ebola without expert military medical teams from Australia, the UK and the US .
'I've never been more devastated in my life. Last week I returned to Perth after working with the health ministry in Sierra Leone – witnessing first hand how the deadly Ebola virus is spiralling out of control and killing hundreds.' 'It's terrifying, and to be honest I'm not sure anyone knows when or how it'll end. What I saw will stay with me forever – in some places there aren't enough ambulances to pick up those infected or bury the dead,' Ms Readhead wrote on Change.org. Just last week there was a direct request made by the government in Sierra Leone to Prime Minister Tony Abbott. Ms Readhead said she believes there is hesitation in sending personnel overseas as there is a risk of infection. The reality is less than ten aid workers have contracted Ebola, and if isolation facilities were set up alongside US and the UK in West Africa treatment would be incredibly easy. Ms Readhead also revealed the wider devastation the spread of Ebola was having on the community, economy, and already struggling healthcare system. In Sierra Leone there are only 30 beds available for Ebola patients, so hundreds more are forced to stay at home until people die and free up space in the hospitals . Ms Readhead (centre) celebrated Australia day with fellow countrymen in Freetown this year . People are terrified to visit hospitals, which is having devastating effects on the number of people accessing the health facilites, a problem the region has already been battling with for years. 'Pregnant ladies are giving birth at home, if your baby has malaria you don't take them to the hospital', Ms Readhead revealed. 'The hospitals are empty beside Ebola patients.' She also told of how tough the struggle was to break down the stigma around accessing healthcare services, and how the disease is quickly unravelling all the hard work. One in eight women died during childbirth before the government introduced free healthcare for pregnant women.
This is worst outbreak of Ebola the region has ever seen, and the first time it has appeared in such an urban and highly populated area. The country's government burial team is seen here carrying the coffin of Dr Modupeh Cole, Sierra Leone's second senior physician to die of Ebola . Fellow Australian Jo Dunlop (left) and British doctor Oliver Johnson have been fighting alongside Ms Readhead (centre) to keep Freetown's main isolation centre open . If it is not contained soon, the projection is grim. Authorities believe it could spread to more than 1.4 million people across the region if urgent and desperately needed help is not received. The reason the virus is spreading so quickly is the close communities without standalone houses and the close proximity of marketplaces with many people packed into them allow it to spread with much greater ease. 'We don't have that level of contact in Australia (and) we've got the medical expertise to be able to put in place the correct procedures', Ms Readhead said when asked if Ebola could post a threat to her home country. Despite the devastating health implications, the aid worker insisted there is much more at stake than the terrible loss of life. Ms Readhead ran the Sierra Leone marathon last year with her mum there to show her support . Already unstable economies in the region are likely to crumble under the pressure, and this process has already begun . Already unstable economies in the region are likely to crumble under the pressure, and this process has already begun. Mining companies completing projects in West Africa have pulled workers out of the area in fear of Ebola, and others with 'investments in the pipelines are being disbanded.' The disease has already claimed hundreds of lives in countries in the area, and could claim many more if urgent action is not taken, Ms Readhead warned. 'It can definitely be contained if we have beds for suspected or confirmed patients, healthworkers who are able to treat them.
'Unless we have those two things on the ground we don't stand a chance.' On Thursday evening the World Bank announced they would be providing a further $190 million AUD to go towards fighting the deadly virus outbreak.
Both players required surgery for their injuries, details of which have not been disclosed. Fiji international Matawalu, 27, has made 10 appearances for the Premiership club since signing from Glasgow Warriors in December 2015. Former Leicester and London Irish back Bowden, 29, has featured in only two games for Bath this season.
By . Katy Winter . Over 21 per cent of participants in the Heidelberg research used their lucid dream to practice a skill such as a sport . It seems like the ultimate lazy girl's fantasy - or the plot of a science fiction movie. But new research has revealed sporting performance can be improved while we sleep. It comes down to lucid dreaming - essentially the sort of dream you have while fast asleep but in which you aware you are dreaming and can thus control your dream world. Studies have for some time noted a link between lucid dreaming during REM sleep and improved athletic performance, but had never isolated the reason why. Now research by Heidelberg University and published in the Guardian's running blog shows that the improvement stems from the fact that your mind believes you are practising the sport for real. Sportsmen and women who have engaged in training while they sleep have described enhanced performance after practising such things as a complex move, a tricky shot in basketball or a free kick in football over and over again. Others have controlled their dreams to make themselves run faster, or for longer without tiring, or simply told themselves they can move past feelings of exhaustion to carry on running. One ballerina in the study describes struggling with a complicated move for some time before 'sleep practising' it - and found she could then perform it in real life too. Though scientists are not yet certain of what brain activity is behind lucid dreaming, research by Muzur, Pace-Schott and Hobson has suggested that activation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, usually deactivated during REM (Rapid Eye Moment sleep) may be responsible for us regaining self-awareness while still asleep. The amygdala and parahippocampal cortex is less intensely activated than normal to allow us to maintain self-awareness and yet remain asleep. Previous research has proved that lucid dreamers are indeed asleep, but are aware that they are in a dream.
Dreamers have been able to signal to researchers from within their dream using pre-agreed eye movements. In the 1980s German psychologist Paul Tholey was the first to note the link between lucid dreaming and improved performance, and in 2010 psychologists Erlacher and Schredl showed that practising a coin tossing task in lucid dreams led to an improved objective performance. It all sounds too good to be true. But becoming an accomplished lucid dreamer is not necessarily easy. If you do not naturally lucid dream it is possible to train yourself to do so. The first step is to be able to recognise that you are in a dream once asleep, which some people attempt to do by performing ‘reality checks’ in a dream. However it takes considerable training to be able to perform these within a dream. Once aware you are dreaming, the dreamer . must be cautious to let the dream continue but be conscious enough to . remember that it is a dream. Most people can train themselves to lucid dream, and the possible uses for being aware and in control of your dream world are endless . However the benefits once mastered are said to be incredible with people not only being able to change nightmares into positive dreams and problem solve while asleep, but also report having immense fun. Being able to control the dream world means people report enjoying anything from flying to making a cake as large as a house, indulging in sexual fantasies and curing nightmares. Note down your target dream. What do you want to dream about? Who will you be and what will you be doing? What is your goal in the dream? Meditate on the narrative before you go to sleep. Imagine the scenes you will appear in and what you will do. Draw pictures, use visualisation. Focus on the detail - don't be too general. Make your fantasy specific. Avoid television or books before bed or those stories and images may take over your own narrative. Recognise that you are in a dream once asleep.
Some people attempt . this by performing ‘reality checks’ in a dream. Ask yourself regularly during the day - 'am I dreaming? Am I awake?'. Once habitual, this thought process can be carried over into your dream world, . Once aware you are dreaming, be cautious to let the dream continue but be conscious enough to . remember that it is a dream. Think about your dreams when you wake up - this will help you remember them and allow them to have more effect. Learn more at Lucidity.com .
BOGOTA, Colombia (CNN) -- Preliminary DNA tests indicate a 3-year-old foster child is the son of a woman being held captive by leftist rebels, Colombian officials announced Friday. Clara Rojas appears in a video released by the kidnappers in July 2002. "There is a very high probability that Juan David belongs to the family of Clara Gonzalez de Rojas," Mario Iguaran Arana, the country's chief federal prosecutor, said at a news conference. The boy, known as "Emmanuel," has been at the center of a hostage drama that raised hopes the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia would liberate some of their hostages. The rebel group, known as FARC for its Spanish acronym, had agreed to release three hostages as part of a deal brokered by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez. FARC said it would release Emmanuel along with his mother, Clara Rojas, and another woman, Consuelo Gonzalez, but the mission to free the captives fell apart December 31, when the rebel group said it could not release the hostages because of Colombian military operations in the area, according to a FARC statement Chavez read on Venezuelan television. Colombian President Alvaro Uribe denied the group's assertion, saying there were no combat operations in the area near the rebels, and he said the rebels could not release the three hostages because they did not have Emmanuel in custody. He raised the possibility that Emmanuel, who was born in captivity to Rojas, was living in a foster home in the Colombian capital of Bogota. Authorities in Colombia suspect the FARC duped child-welfare authorities by presenting the boy as a child in need of foster care in 2005, he said. On Friday, Iguaran Arana said initial DNA results will be checked against tests being done in European labs to verify the child's identity. There was no immediate response from Venezuela after the announcement concerning Emmanuel's DNA.
However, a statement on the Venezuelan government's Web site from earlier Friday said the Colombian government had not allowed Venezuela to participate in the DNA testing. Established in 1964 as the military wing of the Colombian Communist Party, FARC is Colombia's oldest, largest, most capable and best-equipped Marxist rebel group, according to the U.S. Department of State. The United States, the European Union and Colombia classify it as a terrorist group. FARC has justified hostage-taking as a legitimate military tactic in a long-running and complex civil war that also has involved right-wing paramilitary units, government forces and drug traffickers. Fighting has waned, but not stopped, in recent years. Among the group's hostages are three American contractors who were captured when their plane went down in 2003 during a drug-eradication flight, and Ingrid Betancourt, a French-Colombian independent presidential candidate who was kidnapped in 2002. Rojas was kidnapped in 2002 while she managed Betancourt's campaign. Betancourt is perhaps the best-known captive in Colombia, a country plagued by kidnapping. E-mail to a friend .
The visitors started brightly and broke the deadlock in the seventh minute when Rhys Browne found the bottom corner of Ryan Clarke's net. The game became more open as the first half wore on, with both sides creating a number of chances, but it remained 1-0 at the break. Macclesfield had the ball in the net once again seven minutes after the interval but the flag was up. Eastleigh nearly equalised in the 70th minute but Ayo Obileye's header clattered against a post. Report supplied by the Press Association. Match ends, Eastleigh 0, Macclesfield Town 1. Second Half ends, Eastleigh 0, Macclesfield Town 1. Substitution, Macclesfield Town. Danny Whitaker replaces Rhys Browne. Substitution, Eastleigh. Ben Close replaces Sam Togwell. Substitution, Eastleigh. Mekhi Leacock-McLeod replaces Craig McAllister. Substitution, Eastleigh. Scott Wilson replaces James Constable. Second Half begins Eastleigh 0, Macclesfield Town 1. First Half ends, Eastleigh 0, Macclesfield Town 1. Adam Dugdale (Eastleigh) is shown the yellow card. Goal! Eastleigh 0, Macclesfield Town 1. Rhys Browne (Macclesfield Town). First Half begins. Lineups are announced and players are warming up.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 15:24 EST, 13 March 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 16:28 EST, 13 March 2014 . A pastor who rounded up his parishioners and confessed to having an affair dropped dead moments later from a suspected heart attack, witnesses have said. Bishop Bobby Davis, the pastor and founder of the Miracle Faith World Outreach Church in Bridgeport, Connecticut asked his parishioners to stay behind after services on Sunday. 'After the service on Sunday, the . bishop's family asked us to remain in the church and the bishop . confessed to us something that happened long ago,' Judy . Stovall told the Connecticut Post. 'He wanted to come clean with all of us. He wanted to ask our forgiveness.' Confession: Bishop Bobby Davis, left, keeled over from a suspected heart attack after revealing to his parishioners in Connecticut that he had cheated on his wife Christine, right, 'long ago' But after Davis, 72, revealed to the crowd that he had cheated on his wife of 50 years, Christine, 69, the shocked congregation began shouting at him, witnesses said. 'We were shouting, "We forgive you, we . love you,"' Stovall said. 'I held his head as he lay on the floor Our congregation is hurting now.' Amid the commotion, Davis dropped to his knees and keeled over and died, witnesses told the Post. 'The stress of all of it - he had a heart attack,' Stovall continued. 'I held his head as he lay on the floor Our . congregation is hurting now." Family: Davis, circled, set up the church in Bridgeport with his wife, with whom he has 6 children . Church: After he confessed, the congregation at the Miracle Faith World Outreach Church, pictured, began screaming - mostly in support of him - and he collapsed, witnesses said .
Davis was pronounced dead at Bridgeport . Hospital and the cause is still to be determined, according to the . Office of the State Medical Examiner. It is believed he suffered a fatal heart attack following the noise from the congregation. Police spokesman William Kaempffer said that a detective has been assigned to investigate the case. Davis, a certified marriage and family therapist, served as pastor since he founded the church with his wife in 1967. The couple celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary last June. The church website said that his wife . Christine 'has worked alongside her husband for over forty-five years, . teaching the Word of God She is a dynamic teacher whose style and . wisdom compliments that of her husband to the extent that they almost . always minister together in some capacity.' The couple, from Monroe, have six children and eight grandchildren.
The pair, who took over from Ian Davies in the summer, have agreed to stay at the Mennaye until May 2019. Both had long playing careers with the club and were assistants to Davies before taking over after cost cuts forced him to leave. The Pirates have also brought in former England forward and Nottingham coach Martin Haag on a part-time basis. Paver and Cattle have led the Pirates to fifth place in the Championship this season, one point off the play-off places. "We've been very fortunate to have a chance to come straight out of playing and coach at Championship level," Cattle told BBC Sport. "I think we've made a made a decent fist of it this year, there's been a lot of off-pitch matters that gave us that opportunity, but we're chuffed that the board have given us the chance." The pair were teammates for over a decade and Cattle says the friendship they built up in that time makes it easy to organise their roles in joint-charge. "If you don't agree with something you can be open and honest and if you don't have that relationship you might have to tiptoe around a topic," he added. "Working with him is pretty easy, we're two different characters and in terms of our coaching approach, we know how each other works and know when to step away, and we have a good relationship off the pitch as well."
(CNN) -- A journal written by the 19-year-old gunman in last week's Maryland mall shooting offers no clues to a key question investigators are asking -- whether Darion Aguilar knew the young man and woman he shot and killed before turning the gun on himself. While police in Howard County, Maryland, are not yet releasing the contents of the journal, they said Tuesday that from his writings, it appears Aguilar knew he had mental health issues. They did not elaborate on that point. But why did he go to The Mall in Columbia on Saturday and fire as many as nine shots into a skateboard apparel shop? Gunman's mother says he was 'gentle, sweet' Aguilar was an avid skateboarder, a friend of his family said. As of now, that's the only known link between him and the skate shop Zumiez. Investigators are distributing fliers with Aguilar's picture to those in and around the mall, in hopes of finding people who either knew him or saw him. Aguilar was known to frequent the mall, according to police, where "he would hang outside and smoke in small groups." Investigators are also working on retrieving data from Aguilar's computer and cell phone, according to police. Still, his motive remains a mystery. It started out as a routine day in busy mall . Aguilar's mother told reporters Sunday that her son was a "gentle, sweet kid," and that she doesn't think he knew his victims -- 21-year-old Brianna Benlolo and 25-year-old Tyler Johnson. On Saturday, a federal official briefed on the shooting told CNN that preliminary information suggested the gunman aimed only at Benlolo and Johnson, perhaps indicating it was an isolated situation and not a wider shooting spree. "I know there's a lot of interest in the motive for this, and I have as much interest in that as anybody," Howard County Police Chief Bill McMahon said Sunday.
Benlolo was an assistant manager at Zumiez. She had worked there since November 2012, according to her Facebook page. Friend Evelyn McDonald said Benlolo, the mother of a small boy, was "just full of energy." "She was so nice and just an amazing artist and just an amazing person inside and out," McDonald told CNN. "She loved her son. She loved being a mother," McDonald said. Cops: Mall gunman expressed 'general unhappiness' in journal . Johnson had worked at the store for about three months, according to his Facebook page. Five people went to the hospital for treatment after the shooting. All were treated and released. Four suffered injuries in the chaos after the shooting. The other injured victim suffered a gunshot wound to the foot. Police said the woman wasn't in Zumiez; rather, she was on the first floor when she was hit. The mall reopened Monday afternoon, but the Zumiez store will be closed indefinitely, according to a sign on the boarded-up storefront. The simple thing your mall can do to protect you . CNN's Janet DiGiacomo and Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
By . Suzannah Hills . PUBLISHED: . 07:50 EST, 25 March 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 07:50 EST, 25 March 2013 . A man has risked his own life to save a little boy from suffocating after he was left dangling from a building with his head trapped in a window grid. Neighbour Zhou Bo went outside of his own property after hearing a commotion in the street in Lingwu, Ningxia, China. It was then he spotted the young boy dangling from a fourth-storey window with his head wedged between metal bars. Helping hand: Zhou Bo went to the aid of a young boy left dangling from a fourth-storey window after getting his head stuck in a grid in Lingwu, Ningxia, China . Dangerous: Zhou Bo managed to prevent the boy from suffocating by holding him up by his feet while also balancing on stool perched on a window sill . He said: 'I went there, and saw a boy dangling in the air, as his head was stuck in between the window grid.' Zhou could see that the boy was suffocating as his feet had nothing to stand on. He dashed inside and raced up to the flat but found the door locked. He then went one floor below but discovered that the gap between that window and the dangling boy was too great. Zhou said: 'Without help, the boy would be suffocated soon, or he has the danger of dropping down'. So Zhou found a chair and balanced it precariously on the third-storey window ledge before standing on it and supporting the trapped boy's feet from underneath. 'I felt time froze, and my arms went numb but firemen still didn't arrive,' said Zhou. Finally, firefighters arrived 40 minutes later and were able to break into the apartment and pull the boy, who had been left home alone, to safety.
Waiting game: Zhou Bo had to hold the position for 40 minutes until firefighters arrived at the scene . Safe and sound: The young boy pictured with his mother after being released from the window grid .
By . Matt Chorley, Mailonline Political Editor . PUBLISHED: . 08:03 EST, 26 November 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 13:01 EST, 26 November 2012 . Jungle MP Nadine Dorries arrived back in Britain today, and immediately put herself at odds with the Tory leadership. The Mid Bedfordshire MP insisted she would 'do it again tomorrow' as she was confronted by paparazzi photographers at Heathrow after viewers made her the first contestant to be booted out of I’m A Celebrity…. Get Me Out Of Here. But the outspoken Conservative contradicted party claims she had been suspended or summoned to a meeting with Chief Whip Sir George Young and claimed to have missed only three parliamentary days, despite the Commons sitting 11 times while she was away. Scroll down for video . Nadine Dorries arrived back in Britain today to face the music after her appearance on Iím A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here! The Mid Bedfordshire MP used Twitter to express her alarm at the media scrum as she arrived back in Britain, and defended taking time off from Westminster . She told reporters she would 'do it all again' but said press reports about her were wrong. 'I’ve only taken three parliamentary days off,' she said. 'The whip has not been withdrawn, it’s incorrect.' She also denied she was set to have a meeting with Sir George. 'I’ve not been summoned for any meetings.' However, Tory HQ has repeatedly said they expect her to meet with party whips as soon as she returns to Westminster. Tonight a senior Conservative source said: 'When Nadine went to the jungle, she was suspended from the party, pending a meeting with the Chief Whip. Now a meeting can take place and I presume that meeting will take place soon. 'It is for her to meet with the Chief Whip and we will see what happens at that meeting.
'She will have to explain herself to the Chief Whip. She says she sought permission from the whips and received permission - the whips that were around at the time say that's not the case.' Mr Cameron has 'input' into decisions on party discipline, but it is for Sir George Young to restore or withdraw the whip, said the source. Ms Dorries was sporting her jungle hat as eh arrived at Heathrow . The Mid Bedfordshire MP claimed she wanted to use her appearance on I'm A Celebrity to discuss political issues in front of a TV audience of millions . A Downing Street insiders today said she had been 'very clearly' informed in a letter that she was suspended pending a meeting. 'The Chief Whip will decide her fate after the meeting,' the source added. It is understood the meeting could take place as early as tomorrow, with Mr Cameron determined to send a clear message to other Tory MPs his unhappiness at her decision to swap Parliament for the Australian jungle. Before flying home, she took a swipe at critics in her own . party, claiming female MPs who condemned her for abandoning her . constituents were fuelled by ‘jealousy’. Ms Dorries had claimed she wanted to reach out to voters through the TV series, but she became the first celebrity to be dumped out of the jungle . Tory strategists were appalled at pictures of Mr Dorries sunbathing at a time when constituents are struggling to make ends meet back home in Britain . David Cameron led the criticism of her decision to take up to a month off from Parliament to take part in the ITV show. 'If you're in the Australian jungle . you can't really be representing your constituents either in . Bedfordshire or in Parliament,' he said earlier this morning. Tory . Chief Whip Sir George Young suspended Ms Dorries from the Tory party, . and is expected to summon her for a face-to-face meeting to explain her . actions. Announcing her .
return on Twitter, she wrote: ‘Arrived in Heathrow to scores of Paps - . has world gone mad? I’ve HAD ONLY 3 SITTING DAYS AWAY!! REST WAS HALF . TERM!’ Last Thursday, when the Commons was debating women bishops, giving prisoners the vote and welfare reform, Ms Dorries was pictured going down a slide with Linda Robson, Charlie Brooks and Ashley Roberts . Instead of taking part in Commons debates, the Mid Bedfordshire MP was seen chatting with former darts champion Eric Bristow . Ms Dorries hoped to use the platform to discuss her policy concerns, but was instead seen fretting about the loud voice of TV chef of Rosemary Shrager . From the moment Ms Dorries arrived in Australia she has been the target of intense criticism from Tory colleagues, including several female MPs who accused her of making it harder for women to be taken seriously in politics. But in an interview before flying home, Ms Dorries was unrepentant when asked if she thought she would be frozen out on her return to Westminster. ‘Do I care? Why would I know? Why would I be interested in that? The word jealousy springs to mind actually,’ she told Iain Dale on LBC 97.3. ‘I know what’s happened. A lot of MPs including the female MPs, and the female MPs I’ve been told are the critical ones are the jobless and the more ambitious.’ VIDEO: Bullish Nadine Dorries returns to Britain - and a media scrum .
The charity's offices in Cardiff and Prestatyn received separate calls from boys who were worried about the effect pornography was having on them. ChildLine has launched a campaign to tackle what it calls the "shocking" number of 12 to 13-year-olds afraid they are "addicted to porn". One of the Welsh youngsters said pornography made him feel "perverted". The children's counselling charity - which is calling its campaign the Fight Against Porn Zombies - said a UK-wide poll of 700 children showed that one in five had seen pornographic images that shocked or upset them. One boy who spoke with a counsellor at the charity's Cardiff base said: "I've started to view girls a bit differently recently and it's making me worried. "I would like to get married in the future but I'm scared it might never happen if I carry on thinking about girls the way I do." Another youngster who contacted the Prestatyn office said: "I can't help looking at girls in a sexual way and I think it's because I watch a lot of porn." Des Mannion, NSPCC national head of service for Wales, said: "Children of all ages today have easy access to a wide range of pornography and if we as a society shy away from talking about this issue, then we are failing the thousands of young people it is affecting."
HUNTINGTON, Utah (CNN) -- Rescuers trying to find six miners will begin boring a sixth hole down into Utah's Crandall Canyon mine Friday, and the search will stop if no signs of life are found, the coal mine's co-owner said. Bob Murray, CEO of Murray Energy Corp., says he is hurt by criticism he did not do enough to find the miners. "This is the last hole," Bob Murray, CEO of Murray Energy, said Wednesday evening. "If we don't find anybody alive in that hole, there's nowhere else that anyone would know where to drill." Murray said work on the sixth hole, which will go down into the area where the miners were known to be working when the mine collapsed August 6, should be completed by Saturday. However, he expressed little optimism that the effort would be successful, saying it was "totally unlikely" any signs of the miners will be found. Murray also said that he has already filed paperwork with federal regulators to permanently close and seal the Utah mine. "I will never come back to that evil mountain," he said. Earlier Wednesday, a fifth hole drilled down into the mine found just six inches of open space left between the roof and rubble in an 8-foot-high tunnel, said Jack Kuzar, a district manager with the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration. Kuzar said the fifth hole would be tested for oxygen, and a camera may be lowered down the shaft, although the small amount of space may limit its usefulness. Cameras lowered into previous holes drilled into the mountain turned up no signs of the miners, and tests showed that oxygen levels in parts of the mine were too low to sustain human life. Watch how the safety record at Murray's mines stacks up » . An effort to send rescuers through the collapsed mine tunnel to attempt an underground rescue was suspended last week, after a new cave-in killed three rescuers and injured six others.
A panel of experts brought in to examine the mine after the second collapse determined that it was too unstable to resume the underground rescue. Both the mine owners and federal officials also ruled out trying to find the miners by lowering rescuers in a capsule through a hole drilled down into the mine, saying the dangerous maneuver wasn't justified absent any signs of life. The news was a blow to the family members of the missing miners, who have been holding out hope for a miracle and criticized Murray for not at least trying the rescue capsule. Signs reading "Bring them home" and "Bob Murray keep your promise" were posted overnight at the rescuers' command post. Kuzar said he met with the miners' families Wednesday, "and they're holding up very well." "They're very strong people," he said. Earlier Wednesday, in an interview with CNN, Murray said plans were under way to establish a memorial for the missing miners at the site after the mine is closed. "We're already discussing how we might go about to honor the trapped miners and make this a site for perpetuity," he said. Friends and family have identified the six missing miners as Luis Hernandez, Manuel Sanchez, Kerry Allred, Carlos Payan, Brandon Phillips and Don Erickson. E-mail to a friend .
By . Craig Hope . Former referee Dermot Gallagher has lifted the lid on Sir Alex Ferguson's intimidation tactics. And, with figures showing 'Fergie Time' has been slashed since the Scot's departure, the official has revealed the pressure referees were under during Manchester United home matches. Gallagher recalls one particular episode when United were chasing the title in 1997 - which they duly won - and welcomed Middlesbrough to a sodden Old Trafford. Raging: Sir Alex Ferguson gained a reputation for leaning on referees during his Manchester United reign . Revealing: Dermot Gallgher (left) claims Ferguson (right) asked him to call a game off as a favour . 'It was chucking it down with rain and Fergie pulled me aside and said “do me a favour, call the game off’," Gallagher told Sportlobster TV. 'I asked why and he said “there’s nowhere else to fit this game in and the Premier League will have to extend the season. We’ll have a better chance of winning the match and we’ll win the league at Old Trafford”. 'At half time United were losing 3-1 and the pitch was like a swimming pool. As we came off he said “I know we’re 3-1 down but please call it off, we could do with a hand here”. 'They managed to pull it back to 3-3 and in the last minute Dennis Irwin ran into the box and went down in front of the Stretford End and I only gave a goal kick. 'At full-time Fergie sprinted across the pitch and shouted at me furiously. My wife said, “Fergie had a right go at you about that penalty didn’t he”. Call it off? Ferguson wanted the game to be postponed while United were 3-1 down against Boro in 1997 .
One up: Juninho (left) puts Middlesbrough in the lead but the North East side were unable to win . 'I told her he hadn’t mentioned the penalty. She asked why he came tearing across the pitch at me then. The truth is he ran over and asked me if I was going out to dinner that night. I said “no” and he asked “why are we leaving so early then?”.' Indeed, Ferguson's ability to squeeze every last second out of officials when his side were losing has since been highlighted. With United trailing at Old Trafford under their former boss, an average of 79 seconds extra was played in added time. Retired: But Gallagher has lifted the lid on Ferguson's hairdryer . Fury: Ferguson blasts Mike Dean during a clash with Newcastle on Boxing Day last season . However, this compares to just 40 seconds extra under his successor David Moyes. Gallagher went on to reveal the anxiety caused by not awarding key decisions to United. 'Years and years ago one of the referees had a heart monitor on during a match at Old Trafford,' he explained. 'They were assessing it and suddenly it jumped and went through the roof. They looked at the DVD and he’d just turned down a penalty in front of the Stretford End. The pressure is immense.'
England touched down in Sri Lanka late on Sunday night ahead of their seven-match one-day international series in preparation for the World Cup. Alastair Cook and Co arrived at their hotel in Colombo at 6am local time on Monday morning after their flight from England via Abu Dhabi. Their first match on the tour will be against Sri Lanka A at the SSC in Colombo on Friday before they face the same opposition on Sunday in another warm-up match. Alastair Cook and his team arrived at their hotel in Colombo at 6am local time on Monday . The seven-match ODI series will begin in Colombo on Wednesday Nov 26, with the first two games taking place at the Premadasa Stadium. The Premadasa Stadium will also host game No 4 and No 7 of the series with the third game being played in Hambantota and games five and six in Pallekele. Sri Lanka will be looking to bounce back from their 5-0 series whitewash in India. Ravi Bopara tweeted an image while on board the long-haul flight . Cook addressed the media at Lord's on Friday just before embarking on the tour of Sri Lanka . Ravi Bopara and James Taylor both tweeted pictures while on board their long-haul flight to the sub-continent. After the Sri Lanka tour, England head to Australia in January for a tri-series which also includes India to complete their preparations for the World Cup. Their first Pool A match will be against co-hosts Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on February 14.
CLICK HERE to see more from our brilliant Match Zone, including heat maps and goals. Just when it seemed West Ham’s bubble was about to burst and Mark Hughes would be handed three points on his birthday, Stewart Downing delivered two moments of quality to rescue a draw at Stoke. Hughes saw his team produce their best football this season and take a deserved two-goal lead. Victor Moses opened his account for Stoke in a fine display and Diouf score his fourth goal of the season. But they failed to hold on as Sam Allardyce made the changes that extend his side’s unbeaten run to four. While Stoke’s finishing ultimately cost them victory, their manager was furious at the decision by referee Chris Foy not to send off Alex Song as Enner Valencia scored to put West Ham back in the game. West Ham's players and fans celebrate after Stewart Downing's goal completes an impressive comeback for West Ham against Stoke City . Victor Moses, on loan from league leaders Chelsea, celebrates after putting Stoke City ahead in the first half at the Britannia Stadium . Moses fluffed a headed opportunity but the ball fell to him in the box moments later and he scrambled it into the back of the net . Former Manchester United forward Mame Biram Diouf heads in Stoke's second goal 10 minutes into the second half . Enner Valencia continues his good run of form by pulling one back for West Ham just before the hour mark with an acrobatic header . Former Liverpool and Aston Villa man Downing wheels away after scoring West Ham's equaliser in the second half . Stoke 4-2-3-1 . Begovic 6; Cameron 7.5, Shawcross 6, Wilson 6.5, Pieters 6; N’Zonzi 7, Sidwell 6.5; Walters 8, Bojan 7.5 (Adam 82’), Moses 7.5; Diouf 7.5 .
Subs not used: Sorensen, Muniesa, Ireland, Arnautovic, Teixeira, Assaidi . Booked: Sidwell . Mark Hughes 7 . West Ham 4-1-4-1 . Adrian 6.5; Jenkinson 5, Collins 5.5, Reid 5 (Tomkins 24’ 6), Cresswell 5; Noble 6 (Nolan 68’ 5.5); Downing 7.5, Kouyate 6.5, Song 6, Amalfitano 4.5 (Cole 46’ 6.5); Valencia 7 . Subs not used: Jaaskelainen, Nolan, Jarvis, Zarate, O’Brien . Booked: Collins . Sam Allardyce 7 . Referee: Chris Foy 6 . Attendance: 27,174 . MoM: Walters . Song dived in two-footed on Mame Biram Diouf and could have been dismissed but Downing broke with purpose and crossed brilliantly for the Ecuadorian to head home 22 seconds later. Hughes said: ‘I’m really disappointed with their first goal. Song dived in two-footed. Thankfully Mame Biram jumped out of the way but the referee should have stopped the game. It was a dangerous challenge. ‘It was potentially a red card because Song was out of control. He (Foy) is one of our senior referees so he’s got to be better than that.’ Asked whether the decision might have been different were the offending player from Stoke, Hughes replied: ‘I can’t say that. I can think it, maybe.’ Downing scored the equaliser himself 17 minutes from time with a driven right-foot shot to prove it is now more than simply a leg to stand on. Allardyce knew his side were fortunate to escape from the Britannia Stadium with a point.
‘I was glad it was only 1-0 at half-time,’ said Allardyce, whose team improved when Downing moved to the centre of midfield and Carlton Cole arrived from the bench to support Valencia up front. ‘That extra quality we’ve got this year paid dividends when it looked like we might not get a point. It was not necessarily well-deserved but shows the character of our team.’ West Ham slipped to fifth but maintain pace with the Champions League hunters in their best start since the 1999-2000 campaign. They were shorn of their most potent weapon in Diafra Sakho, who scored in each of his last seven games but failed to recover from a shoulder injury. Allardyce brought in Cheikhou Kouyate and left Valencia as his lone forward in a departure from the team that beat Manchester City last weekend. More cautious, it should have meant added stability in midfield but Stoke never allowed the visitors to settle. Early in the game, Bojan whipped a low centre from the right that Diouf, two yards out, would have scored from had he made the merest touch and in the 33rd minute Stoke went ahead. Downing, who has seen a real resurgence in form this season, tries to escape the attention of Stoke's Erik Pieters in the first half . Geoff Cameron shields the ball from former Arsenal midfielder Alex Song, who has impressed since joining the Hammers on loan . A glum-looking Mark Hughes sits in the dugout as his team face Sam Allardyce's West Ham at the Britannia Stadium . Former Barcelona starlet Bojan is tackled by West Ham defender Winston Reid during the first half of the Premier League clash . Sam Allardyce's West Ham side had won their previous three games, including one against Manchester City, but had to settle for a draw . MINS PLD KM MILES . Stoke City 106.7 66.3 .
Steven N'Nzonzi 90 11.0 6.9 . Jonathan Walters 90 10.8 6.7 . Steve Sidwell 90 10.7 6.7 . West Ham 106.0 65.9 . Cheikhou Kouyate 90 11.3 7.0 . Carl Jenkinson 90 10.4 6.5 . Stewart Downing 90 10.3 6.4 . Geoff Cameron was granted too much time and his cross was cleared only as far as Diouf, who laid it to Bojan in the box. James Collins failed to fully block his shot, allowing Moses to dive ahead of Carl Jenkinson and scramble the ball over the line. To add to West Ham’s woes, Winston Reid was forced off with a thigh injury. Stoke could have been two-up in injury time. Cameron flicked a cross that Diouf judged better than Collins, turning to bear down on West Ham keeper Adrian, who reacted brilliantly to divert the finish behind. Stoke did extend their lead 11 minutes after half time. Aaron Cresswell allowed Jon Walters to reach Marc Wilson’s cross-field ball, and was then beaten again by the Stoke winger as he delivered a perfect cross to Diouf, who applied the finishing header. Stoke were rampant but the match turned shortly afterwards. Song went unpunished for his lunge and Downing beat Eric Pieters to race down the right. His deep cross was superb and Valencia headed in. As the home crowd bristled, the match swung one way then another, before West Ham mounted the attack which brought them a point. Valencia picked up the ball on the left and delivered a low cross that travelled all the way to Downing, who struck a solid shot to beat Asmir Begovic. Stoke could have restored their lead when Cameron stretched to reach Walters’ cross but Adrian stuck out a palm to save. Foy failed to award a corner.
Not the only thing he missed, Hughes would argue, frustrated his 51st birthday failed to end with a bang. ‘I’m getting old and we didn’t win so it’s not a good combination.’ ‘That’s one of our most creative and dynamic performances this season. I’m delighted but we need to convert more of our chances.’ Downing (No 11) took the ball from his own half before setting up Valencia (No 31) for West Ham's first goal . New Zealand defender Reid limps off to receive treatment from the West Ham physio, he was then substituted for James Tomkins . West Ham's Spanish goalkeeper Adrian pulls off a brilliant save to deny Stoke striker Mame Biram Diouf from close range . Cheikhou Kouyate tries to get away from Stoke's Cameron while Ecuadorian striker Valencia runs ahead of him . Downing wastes a chance by firing high and wide while Stoke's Bosnian goalkeeper Asmir Begovic watches on . Cameroonian midfielder Alex Song, who didn't live up to his billing in Barcelona, battles with Moses, who had similar problems at Chelsea . Stoke were rampant. On the other flank, Moses beat Jenkinson to race into the area before drilling his hot wide. The match turned on shortly afterwards. Hughes was incensed when Song went unpunished for a reckless lunge on Diouf that eventually allowed Downing to beat Eric Pieters and race down the right. His deep cross was superb, bypassing Stoke’s centre-backs, to provide Valencia with a straight-forward header back across and beyond the dive of Begovic. As Hughes told the assistant referee nearby of his grievances, West Ham celebrated. The Stoke manager had a point, Song was lucky to stay on the pitch. As the home crowd bristled the match swung one way then another, before West Ham mounted the attack which brought them a point.
Valencia picked up the ball on the left and managed to deliver a low cross that travelled all the way to Downing, who struck a solid shot that Begovic failed to keep out. Stoke could have restored their lead in the closing stages when Cameron stretched to reach Walters’s cross but as the ball trickled goalwards Adrian stuck out a palm to save. Foy failed to award a corner. Not the only thing he missed, Hughes will no doubt argue. Diouf, the scorer of Stoke's second goal, is closed down by West Ham pair Mark Noble and James Collins . West Ham's summer signing Valencia, who inspired West Ham's comeback, challenges Stoke's Marc Wilson . Stoke City fans watch on as their team surrender a two-goal lead at home to Sam Allardyce's West Ham . Carlton Cole, Downing, Tomkins, Jenkinson and Collins celebrate after drawing level in the second half . Former Manchester City, Fulham and QPR manager Hughes was furious at his side's late collapse against the Hammers .
New Zealand scrum-half Shaun Johnson has capped a memorable 12 months by winning the 2014 Rugby League World Golden Boot - seeing off the challenge of union convert Sam Burgess for the honour. The New Zealand Warriors playmaker, who broke England's hearts with a last-minute try and conversion in the semi-finals of the 2013 World Cup, produced a man-of-the-match performance in the 2014 Four Nations Series final in Wellington last month as the Kiwis defeated Australia to lift the title - a performance that impressed the 13-man Golden Boot voting panel. For the second successive year, English forward Burgess - who swapped South Sydney for Bath in October - came second in the voting but, whereas 12 months ago Burgess was within seven points of Johnathan Thurston, this time Johnson was a decisive winner, collecting almost twice as many points as his nearest rival. Johnson becomes only the fourth New Zealander to win the prestigious award, following in the footsteps of Hugh McGahan, Stacey Jones and Benji Marshall. Shaun Johnson has capped a memorable 12 months by winning the 2014 Rugby League World Golden Boot . Johnson said: 'Being a rugby league fan growing up, I always knew about the Golden Boot award. 'I was pretty aware of the players who'd won it before because they were players that I grew up watching like Stacey Jones and Andrew Johns. Then there were the current players that I admire like Thurston. To receive it is pretty unreal to be honest. 'I felt I finished the year really well and was able to take that into the Four Nations and was really happy with how I played for the Kiwis. 'It was just made easy by the culture that we have there now and the group of players that we have around us. There's no way I could have received this award without those boys playing their part, and I'll accept it on their behalf.'
The panel of 13 judges comprised representatives from Australia, England, France and New Zealand, including former Golden Boot winner Garry Schofield, ex-Great Britain coach Brian Noble and past Kiwi internationals Robbie Hunter-Paul and Daryl Halligan. On a six-man shortlist. Johnson claimed 44 points, Burgess 23, with James Graham third on 18 and Greg Inglis fourth with 17. Double winner Thurston - who missed the Four Nations through injury - polled 13 points and Kiwi prop Jesse Bromwich two. Johnson becomes only the fourth New Zealander to win the prestigious award, following in the footsteps of Hugh McGahan, Stacey Jones and Benji Marshall . 'As is always the case with the Rugby League World Golden Boot, we asked the judges to consider the performances on the international stage first and foremost, and it's undeniable that Shaun Johnson had the biggest impact at that level in 2014,' RLW editor Gareth Walker said. 'Throughout the entire tournament he provided a devastating mix of organising the New Zealand side and producing moments of individual brilliance himself.' The Kiwis' Four Nations triumph is reflected in the selection of a record number of players in the world team of the year - six. Dean Whare lines up at centre with Manu Vatuvei flanking him on the wing, with Johnson in the halves. Bromwich, Kevin Proctor and Simon Mannering pack down in the mythical side. Burgess is named at loose forward, with prop Graham and wing Ryan Hall England's other inclusions. The Australians are Inglis, Michael Jennings, Thurston and Cameron Smith.
Phillip Clayton claims his 86-year-old mother Maureen, a retired teacher, died in agony, covered in pressure sores, after nurses failed to turn her in her hospital bed for 11 weeks . An 86-year-old woman died covered in 'horrendous' pressure sores after nurses failed to turn her in her hospital bed, her son claims. Phillip Clayton said his mother died in 'pain and tears' and contracted MRSA as a result of the care she received. He claims a delay in fitting a pacemaker also contributed to his mother's death after she was admitted to hospital with a dangerously low heart rate. He has launched a complaint against Medway Maritime Hospital in Kent after his mother Maureen died in November. NICE guidelines advise adults at high risk should be turned at least once every four hours to prevent pressure ulcers. The hospital is now carrying out a review into her care. Mr Clayton, 56, a public sector worker, said: 'The fact that my mother died is unfortunate. 'The way she died in pain and tears from the pressure sores is a disgrace and in my view, totally unacceptable. 'It is wrong to say my mother would not have died but I do think the care she received shortened her life. 'It was not the right way for her to die. The way she spent her last few weeks was shocking. 'The real problem is a total lack of leadership which permeates right down to ward level and results in an appalling level of service. 'I do not need apologies or a formal investigation, what I would like to see is change.' Mrs Clayton, a retired teacher, was admitted to the hospital on September 13 after a fall at her home in Rainham, Kent. Her heart rate was low and she spent three days on a cardiac unit before being diagnosed with liver problems and transferred to the Will Adams ward.
Mr Clayton claims while there staff failed to turn her during her entire 11 week stay - when it should have been done once every four hours. Mr Clayton says his mother even contracted MRSA as a result of the 'disgraceful' care she received at Medway Maritime Hospital in Kent (pictured) Mrs Clayton was admitted to the hospital on September 13 after a fall at her home in Rainham . He added that they only rearranged the pillows under her back which did not prevent her from contracting painful pressure sores. Three weeks into her stay she was diagnosed with MRSA and died on November 27 from renal failure. Mr Clayton added: 'They simply rearranged the pillows underneath her. Turning a patient in bed is not rocket science. It is a basic nursing skill. 'There was a long delay before she was fitted with a temporary pacemaker and then a permanent one. During this time she deteriorated. 'If she had been fitted with the pacemaker in the first week and been able to get up, maybe things would have been different.' A spokesperson from Medway NHS Foundation Trust, who run the hospital where Mrs Clayton was treated said: 'The Trust takes concerns around care very seriously and is currently carrying out a review, as discussed with the family. 'The outcome of the review and the actions we are taking as a result of the findings, will be shared with the family.'
By . James Nye and Thomas Durante . PUBLISHED: . 14:54 EST, 19 June 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 00:13 EST, 20 June 2012 . The wife of Jerry Sandusky defended her husband on the stand during the sixth day of his child sex abuse trial, saying that she remembers most of his accusers, and never witnessed them having sexual contact with the ex-Penn State football coach. Dottie Sandusky, who has stood by her husband - including posting his bail - told jurors on Tuesday that she never saw anything inappropriate between her husband and the boys. When asked by lead prosecutor Joe McGettigan why the men might lie in making the accusations, she said: 'I don't know what it would be for,' while shaking of her head. Scroll down for video . Wife: A smiling Dorothy Sandusky, wife of former Penn State assistant coach Jerry Sandusky, arrives on the sixth day of her husband's trial . She said one of accusers, dubbed Victim 10 in court records, she did not know at all. She described Victim 1 as 'clingy,' Victim 9 as 'a charmer' and Victim 4 as 'very conniving, and he wanted his way and he didn't listen a whole lot.' Victim 9 testified last week that he was attacked by Jerry Sandusky in the basement of their home and cried out for help while Dottie Sandusky was upstairs - but she never responded. She said the basement was not soundproof and she would have been able to hear shouting if she were upstairs. Jerry and Dottie Sandusky were married in 1966, and have no biological children together. They adopted six times and were also foster parents. Back in court: Former Penn State University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky arrives at the Centre County Courthouse in Bellefonte .
Dottie Sandusky, who isn't charged in the case, also said the visiting boys were free to sleep upstairs if they wanted to. The accusers have said Jerry Sandusky directed them to the basement, where they allege he sometimes molested them on a waterbed that was in the room. Also Tuesday, a psychologist testifying for the defence in the Jerry Sandusky trial says the former coach has a personality disorder characterised by excessive emotionality and attention-seeking. Arrival: Dottie Sandusky emerges from a vehicle at the Centre County Courthouse, in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania . Elliot Atkins said that he interviewed Sandusky for six hours before diagnosing the ex-coach with 'histrionic personality disorder.' Atkins explained to the court that people with the disorder often interact with others in inappropriately seductive ways and don't feel comfortable unless they're the center of attention. Sandusky's attorney Joe Amendola is hoping to convince jurors that the disorder could explain his client's letters and other interaction that prosecutors allege shows his grooming of victims. 'Based on my evaluation of Mr. Sandusky, I have diagnosed a histrionic personality disorder,' said Atkins. The psychologist's testimony followed attempts . by defence lawyers earlier in the day to discredit the prosecution's . case by suggesting investigators had coached testimony from one of the . Sandusky's alleged victims. Sandusky . faces 51 counts of child molestation after the prosecution dropped one . charge of unlawful contact with minors on Monday. If convicted on all . counts, the former defensive coordinator for Pennsylvania State . University's successful football program faces a sentence of more than . 500 years in prison. The case has . focused renewed national attention on the issue of child sexual abuse . and prompted the firing in November of Penn State President Graham . Spanier and legendary head football coach Joe Paterno. Paterno died of . lung cancer in January.
Leaving court: Jerry Sandusky and his wife Dottie left the courthouse in separate cars after the sixth day of the ex-coach's child sex abuse trial . The former defensive coordinator for the Penn State University football team, Sandusky, 68, denies all 51 counts of committing abuse. Atkins told the court that Sandusky's histrionic personality disorder definitely explained his grooming behaviour. He told the court that he spent six hours with the accused, read the personal emails he sent to some of the alleged victims and also read his autobiography, 'Touched.' In the case of Sandusky, Atkins outlined . that histrionic means 'dramatic' or 'theatrical' and that people with . the disorder need the approval of other people and act up and create . unusual situations to make sure they are the centre of attention. Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky arrives at the Centre County Courthouse . Atkins confirmed that people with this mental condition, 'might do something dramatic to draw attention to themselves.' This would include acting in a way that is 'inappropriately sexually provocative.' The defence move to highlight Sandusky's mental fragility comes after a string of prosecution witnesses, including eight alleged victims, testified that he groomed them and abused them while they were with his Second Mile charity for troubled children. The eight alleged victims, now men aged 18 to 28, . testified for the prosecution last week, describing in often graphic . detail being molested by Sandusky as boys, including oral and anal sex . and shared showers. Defense attorney Joe Amendola reacts to a question as he arrives at for the sixth day of the Jerry Sandusky child sex abuse trial in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania . Two other alleged victims have never been . identified. Many have criticised the use of this defence.
'This would be an incredible stretch - so much that it disturbs some of my colleagues that they are bringing it up,' said Gail Saltz, an an associate professor of psychiatry at New York Presbyterian Hospital Weill-Cornell School of Medicine to MSNBC. 'This diagnosis has no bearing on your moral compass, your ability to understand what's legal,' she said. 'It has nothing to do with being a pedophile. It has nothing to do with sexual behavior toward children.' Earlier in the day, defense lawyers took aim . at law enforcement officers' testimony that they had not discussed abuse . accounts offered by fellow accusers with other alleged victims in the . closely watched case. Amendola . questioned Pennsylvania state trooper Corporal Scott Rossman and retired . trooper Joseph Leiter about a taped interview they held with one of the . accusers, known in court documents as Victim 4, and his attorney in . April 2011. The interview was . played in court and Leiter was heard saying to Victim 4 during a break . that investigators had interviewed about nine other potential victims. In some cases 'oral sex has taken place by both parties,' which would be . considered rape under state law, he said. Leiter . could be heard saying telling the accuser that his story 'word for . word' followed those of others. 'He has taken advantage of you. We need . you to tell us what happened,' Leiter is heard saying. Under . cross examination by a prosecutor, Leiter said he considered the . interview technique to be appropriate and never suggested to a victim . what he should say. It was the . second day of the defense case after the prosecution rested its case on . Monday. A still image from 'All my Children' which ran from 1970 to 2011 and was known for its outlandish plotlines . Judge John Cleland told jurors on Monday he expected closing . arguments to take place on Thursday. Two .
university officials also face charges of perjury and failure to report . suspected abuse in an alleged incident involving Sandusky and a boy at a . Penn State locker room. Earlier Tuesday, defense attorney Joe Amendola told reporters to 'stay tuned' to find out if Sandusky would take the stand himself, comparing the case to a soap opera. Asked which soap opera, defense attorney Joe Amendola initially said 'General Hospital,' then 'All My Children.' These dramatic developments came on the same day that TMZ released an unaired clip from the November telephone interview between Sandusky and Bob Costas during 'Rock Center with Brian Williams'. Satellite trucks are parked in front of the Centre County Courthouse as the sexual abuse trial of former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky . Speaking about the attention which he paid to the young boys under his care, Sandusky stopped short of denying that he ever sexually abused young children. 'I didn't go around seeking out every young person for sexual needs that I've helped.' NBC was criticised for not playing the clip back in November, but 'NBC Nightly News' hit back saying, 'There were a lot of compelling comments in the original interview but we did not have time to include them all.' Sandusky is charged with 51 counts involving 10 boys. He denies the allegations. Watch video here .
By . Matt Roper . Doctors in Brazil accidentally tore the head off a baby they were struggling to deliver, it was reported today. The horrific incident occurred after the child became stuck as it was being born in Aracaju, northeastern Brazil. The baby boy's headless body remained inside the mother and had to be removed by Caesarian. Tragic: The 22-year-old mother, who has three other children, was rushed for an emergency Caesarian where, according to the woman, the headless body of the baby was removed (file pic) A team of five doctors at the Santa Isabel maternity hospital had spent hours trying to deliver the baby in the early hours of Tuesday. The 22-year-old mother, who has three other children, told her family she knew something was wrong when she heard something 'crack'. Gilmara Azevedo dos Santos, the woman's cousin, told Brazil's Globo G1 website: 'She went through a lot of suffering, it was hours and hours and a lot of pain and discomfort, with doctors pushing on her stomach, trying everything to make the baby come out. 'Then at one point, she heard a loud noise and one of the doctors said, 'Marcos, are you crazy?' He said the mother asked what was happening but didn't get an answer. She was rushed for an emergency Caesarian where, according to the woman, the headless body of the baby was removed. Ms Santos added: 'My cousin is totally devastated, the whole family is in shock. She is still in so much pain, as after the head had been pulled off they tried to get the body out by cutting her. In the end they had to open up her body to take out her son's dead body.' The hospital's clinic director Debora Leite today said that a committee of professionals had been set up to investigate the baby's death.
The family confirmed they intend to sue for medical negligence.
By . Steve Nolan . PUBLISHED: . 04:03 EST, 7 February 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 05:58 EST, 7 February 2013 . Sentenced: Carer Angela Perkins was jailed for two years after admitting stealing £100,000 from a 90-year-old dementia sufferer . A carer who stole £100,000 from a 90-year-old dementia patient has been jailed for two years. Angela Perkins siphoned money from the vulnerable patient's life savings between 2005 and 2010. Perkins, from Norwich, in Norfolk, helped patients to do their shopping and had access to the woman's PIN and bank accounts. She had originally been charged with stealing £55,000 from the woman in July last year, but it was later discovered that she had stolen almost double that amount. The 47-year-old was handed a two year prison sentence at Norwich Crown Court after admitting the theft at a previous hearing. The victim is in 24-hour residential care. Det Con Huw Caine, of Norfolk Police, said after the sentencing: 'The actions of Perkins left the victim confused, upset and extremely traumatised with worry due to the fact her savings had dwindled away and she didn't have any money left in her account. 'Perkins exploited the fact the victim was vulnerable and removed money from the victim's account for her own use, abusing her position of trust. 'When Perkins was challenged in interview about accounting for cash withdrawals from the victim's account that corresponded with deposits into her own account she was unable to give any satisfactory answers.' He added: 'The case highlights that offences of this nature and the targeting of some of our most vulnerable people in society will not be tolerated. 'I hope that the results of this case highlight to other potential offenders how robustly Norfolk Constabulary will investigate and deal with such incidents.'
Norfolk Police said it was now trying to confiscate money from Perkins under the Proceeds of Crime Act. Should a confiscation order be served and Perkins fail to pay up, she could face an additional sentence. Jailed: Perkins admitted stealing £100,000 from the elderly woman at Norwich Crown Court, pictured .
A Toronto man was bitten on the head by a 400lb black bear - and survived. Joe Azougar, 30, was having breakfast on the porch of his cabin at about 10am on Saturday when a bear suddenly charged at him. 'I could hear this thud, this vibration on the ground. Then there was this bear coming towards me,' Mr Azougar, who had recently moved to the remote cabin from Toronto, said. Joe Azougar gave a thumbs up with girlfriend Brooke Bowerman after surviving a bear attack in Canada . Azougar needed more than 300 stitches to his scalp and shoulder after being attacked. His dog was killed . As the internet entrepreneur ran for cover, his faithful German Shepherd dog ran at the bear. After the bear killed his dog, it charged at the cabin about 10 miles outside of Cochrane, Canada, which Mr Azougar moved about a month ago. 'He started rushing the window, breaking the window and chipping off wood beside the window,' Mr Azougar said. Mr Azougar fled the cabin, but the bear followed. 'He knocked me down and I covered my head. He took my shoulder apart, then he peeled the skin off my head and started biting my skull,' Mr Azougar said. "I could feel his teeth rubbing against my skull I was just screaming. I could feel my flesh being pulled by his teeth,' he told The Sudbury Star. Thankfully, two women driving near his cabin heard Mr Azougar's screams. Relief: Joe Azougar is comforted by his girlfriend Brooke Bowerman as he recovers from the savage attack . They used the car horn to scare the bear away, before driving Mr Azougar to the Lady Minto Hospital in Cochrane. The businessman, who moved to the remote Ontario region to start his own internet company, needed more than 300 stitches and will be kept in hospital for several days.
When the women, who have not been identified, first arrived at the cabin they could only see the bear. The woman have not been identified but Mr Azougar is keen to thank them. 'They are my angels. Without them, I wouldn't be alive,' he said. 'If it wasn’t for them, my family would be attending my funeral,' he told CTV News. Mr Azougar is being comforted at the hospital by his girlfriend, Brooke Bowerman,and mother, Itto Bentayed, who drove from Toronto to be at his bedside. Ontario Provincial Police and the Ministry of Natural Resources killed the bear after the attack was reported. In a study of bear attacks between 1900 and 2009 it was found that most happened in Canada. 'From a public safety standpoint, black bears are an unpredictable, wild animal," John Kaplanis, of the Northwestern Ontario Sportsmen's Alliance, told The Globe and Mail. Bear aware: Ontario has more than 75,000 black bears like the 400lb one that attacked Mr Azougar . 'They're not the cuddly little teddy bears we see on television.' Ontario has more than 75,000 black bears, but its Ministry of Natural Resources has resisted calls for the spring bear hunting season to be reinstated. Hikers and residents are offered advice on how to be 'bear aware' to prevent attacks and what to do if they come face-to-face with a bear.
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum holds an AR-15 assault rifle at a shooting range during his presidential campaign on January 30, 2016. Brian Frank/Reuters Over the weekend, Rick Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator and Republican who previously ran for president, suggested that student protestors should learn CPR instead of pushing for stricter gun control laws. Now he's walking back the statement. "How about kids — instead of looking to someone else to solve their problem — do something about maybe taking CPR classes or trying to deal with situations that, when there is a violent shooter, that you can actually respond to that?" Santorum, who is also a CNN commentator, said during a Sunday broadcast of the network's show "State of the Union." On Wednesday, Santorum told CNN, "I did misspeak in using the term CPR." He also noted that gun control advocacy has helped bolster "organizations and people who have actually focused on what we can do to actually prevent these types of things." Santorum made his original remarks over the weekend while roughly two million people at hundreds of "March for Our Lives" events across the US rallied against gun violence in America. The student-led protests commenced after 17 people were shot to death at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. In the February 14 mass shooting in Parkland, Florida, a 19-year-old former student is believed to have committed the murders using a legally purchased AR-15 assault rifle. David Hogg, a survivor of that school shooting and a "March for Our Lives" organizer, responded to Santorum's remarks in a broadcast on CNN. "There are many programs that work to ensure, especially in communities that are heavily affected by gun violence, [ ] that students are able to respond and administer whatever first aid they can, assuming the person is still alive," Hogg said on Sunday.
"But at the end of the day, if you take a bullet from an AR-15 to the head, no amount of CPR is going to save you because you're dead." Medical doctors on Twitter joined Hogg's criticism of Santorum's remarks, noting that CPR is often futile following gunshot wounds. "Gobsmackingly uninformed," tweeted Dr. Heather Sher, a radiologist in Florida. "CPR is not effective with catastrophic bleeding." Joseph Sakran, a trauma surgeon at Johns Hopkins Medicine and self-described gun violence survivor, tweeted: "Victims that go into cardiac arrest after #GunViolence are Bleeding to Death. CPR is NOT effective in this situation." Santorum did not immediately respond to Business Insider's request for comment. Why gunshot wounds can be so damaging that CPR doesn't work Ballistic gelatin is a model for how soft tissues respond to gunshot wounds. Nathan Boor & Kurt Groover/Aimed Research/Wikimedia Commons To humanely probe the physics of gunshot wounds, and ultimately help police solve crimes and doctors save lives, researchers shoot bullets into inert, flesh-like substances. In many cases, they use a large block of synthetic gelatin and water to simulate the impact of a speeding bullet on human tissue. Here's an example from the YouTube channel EffectiveAffect of what a gunshot simulation in gelatin looks like. This bullet was moving at about 2,900 feet per second through 575 cubic inches of gelatin. Many factors determine how damaging bullet wounds can be. The type of gun and bullet used, the range of the shot, where on the body a person was shot, and whether or not the bullet exited the body afterward all make a difference. But some basic principles remain: When a bullet is traveling at supersonic speeds, it partially slows down the moment it hits a person. The energy of the blast needs to go somewhere, so it radiates outward from the bullet's path to the surrounding tissues.
This creates a much larger "mushrooming" effect, which you can see above. This temporary ballooning of tissue is actually what causes the most damage, according to a post on Mongabay.com. The billowing flesh lacerates blood vessels and surrounding organs, tissues, and bone. The Washington Post reported in June 2017 that this shockwave can leave a track of wounding as much as "five to 10 times wider than the bullet." Gelatin isn't a perfect proxy for the human body. We have bones and cartilage, which can skew the bullet's path, sending it into a tailspin that could cause it to break apart and get lodged in different spaces, further complicating the severity of the wound. This why an increasing number of researchers are turning to advanced computer simulations. Such models can recreate the complex layers of tissue in the human body to study a practically infinite number of grievous wounds from all angles, speeds, and styles of bullets (or even shrapnel from mines and improvised explosive devices). A model that debuted in 2015, for example, simulated a human leg, its skin, muscle, bone, large arteries, and even small veins. Then it applied the physics of fluid dynamics to explore the origins of traumatic blood loss, and the best methods to stop that bleeding. But as Alex Ossola reported for Popular Science, this and other models aren't perfect — so there's still a lot left for scientists and doctors to learn. This makes gunshot wounds as enigmatic as they are damaging and dangerous. Julia Calderone and David Choi contributed to this post. (CNN) Former Sen. Rick Santorum said Wednesday he misspoke when suggesting earlier this week that students should learn CPR instead of advocating for gun control. "I did misspeak in using the term CPR," the Pennsylvania Republican and CNN commentator told CNN's Chris Cuomo on "New Day."
"How about kids instead of looking to someone else to solve their problem, do something about maybe taking CPR classes or trying to deal with situations that when there is a violent shooter that you can actually respond to that," Santorum said Sunday. Read More Rick Santorum’s comment suggesting that school shooting survivors learn CPR came one day after thousands gathered across the country for March for Our Lives rallies. | Darren McCollester/Getty Images Santorum on CPR comments: I misspoke CNN commentator Rick Santorum said Wednesday that he misspoke last Sunday when he said survivors of a school shooting in Parkland, Florida, should have taken CPR classes in response to the attack instead of “looking to someone else to solve their problem.” “The fact of the matter is I did misspeak in using the term CPR and I think Sanjay Gupta’s job here at CNN is probably safe as being the medical commentator on things,” Santorum, a former Republican senator and presidential candidate, said on CNN’s “New Day.” Story Continued Below Santorum’s initial comment suggesting that school shooting survivors learn CPR came one day after thousands gathered in Washington and in cities across the country for March for Our Lives rallies calling for stricter gun control laws. Those rallies were prompted by last month’s shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, where a gunman killed 17 people. Santorum was widely rebuked for his CPR comments. Students who lived through the shooting, and even doctors, weighed in publicly, telling the former senator that CPR would not have saved the lives of the victims. The most reliable politics newsletter. Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.
Santorum said his comment about CPR “obscured the larger point” that past mass shootings have spawned organizations that he said have done significant work in combating school shootings by addressing mental health issues and bullying. Calls for divisive steps to impose stricter gun control laws obscure the work that such organizations do, Santorum said. “What I’ve seen happen here is avoiding the issues that are really actually unifying,” he continued. “I mean, that's really the most disturbing thing.”
We know an industry is in crisis when its top institutions cannot establish stable leadership. That is the case with some of our nation's best public universities today. When the Board of Visitors at the University of Virginia pressured President Teresa Sullivan to resign on June 10, she became the fourth leader of a flagship public university to leave office under a cloud of controversy recently. The other casualties included the highly respected leaders of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the University of Illinois and the University of Oregon. The president of the University of California at Berkeley has also announced that he will step down in December. Leaders of public universities in other states face equally strong pressures to go. The men and women in these jobs seem to have a target on their backs. This can't go on. Our nation's public universities are the heart and soul of our higher education system, which is the envy of the world. Flagship public universities educate more of the brightest high school students than private universities in many states. They conduct the lion's share of advanced research. They also attract the largest number of foreign students. If our public universities fall into a decline because of a leadership vacuum, then our entire system will decline, too. University leaders are an endangered species because they are wedged between opposing and powerful pressures that are undermining public universities. Government officials in state capitals want to cut funding while requiring far-reaching reforms. They demand more control over costs that have risen much faster than inflation or family income in the last decade. They also ask for increased public access to flagship universities through traditional and online forms of education. Governors and legislators want all these benefits as they continue to reduce state expenditures for higher education. Professors and administrators on campus view these reforms as attacks on serious education and research. Advanced training in the sciences, engineering and humanities requires intensive small-group work that cannot be subjected to assembly-line efficiencies.
Anyone who has taught writing, for example, knows that there is no substitute for the instructor sitting with the student and going line-by-line through each sentence. The same is true for theoretical physics, medicine, law and many other fields. You need extended time and personal contact for young minds to mature as effective thinkers. That is expensive, but it is money well spent for the good of the society. It's the same for advanced research. Innovation and creativity require freedom, security and flexibility. Scholars must have the ability to pursue a question in depth and examine its many implications. Sometimes an important project may take years to complete. Without university research of this kind we would not have many of the technologies and medicines we take for granted today. Governors and legislators have a strong argument about the elitism, the inefficiency and the sometime self-serving nature of university faculty. Professors have a strong case for the merits of what they do, and the remarkable record of achievements and historical job-creation coming out of our best public universities. The system works for some, but not for everyone. The system produces value, but at costs that might not be sustainable. University leaders are caught in the middle. Governors are impatient for new "efficiencies." Professors are adamant about protecting the freedom necessary for their work. University presidents have the title to address these issues, but they have little power when funding is tight and the two sides are equally uncompromising. No one wants to acknowledge the legitimacy of the other side's point of view. Wealthy alumni groups are very generous and loyal to their alma maters, but they cannot solve this crisis. Although alumni want their universities to be the best in the world, their support (as generous as it may be) cannot replace government money. Despite steep decreases in state funding for universities, state and federal agencies provide the largest share of money to public universities for research and related activities.
The National Institutes of Health, for example, is the dominant funder for medical research in the world. States own the land on which public university campuses are built. So where do we go from here? Reforms to public universities are indeed necessary, but they will not emerge effectively from political attacks and vindictive cuts. What we need is an open and participatory process where university boards, state leaders, faculty, students and campus presidents formulate measurable goals for reasonable reforms, cost-savings, and more efficiency. These discussions should also include meaningful incentives for increased excellence (in teaching and research), public accessibility and international recognition. University presidents should be empowered to pursue these goals, in a reasonable time frame, with transparent accountability. While faculty must preserve the essential freedoms for their creativity, they cannot expect to do this by protecting privileges at all costs. Along with administrators, they have to accept changes to their comfortable routines. If both state and campus communities contribute to mutually beneficial changes, the reformed public university of the 21st century will be much improved. At present, the attacks on university leaders from all sides are attacks on the very idea of a public university. When Thomas Jefferson designed the University of Virginia, and when Abraham Lincoln created the federal land-grant system to finance public education, they had a faith that the most advanced intellectual work would improve the nation as a whole. That is what they meant by the "public" in university. Jefferson and Lincoln's support for public higher education made the United States a model for the rest of the world. We need leaders in government and on campus with the same vision -- the same desire to use limited resources not as instruments for political or personal advantage, but as opportunities for constructive engagement and the greatest long-term public good. Public universities need protection and they also need serious, thoughtful reform. Let's start with giving university presidents a fair chance to do their work.
PENSACOLA, Fla. — Anyone listening to Rush Limbaugh’s radio show Tuesday could be forgiven for thinking that Judge Roger Vinson has the federal government dead in his sights. Mr. Limbaugh spent some time profiling Judge Vinson, a senior judge on the Federal District Court in Pensacola, who had just announced he would allow a legal challenge to the new health care law to advance to a full hearing. The conservative radio host informed his listeners that the judge was an avid hunter and amateur taxidermist who once killed three brown bears and mounted their heads over his courtroom door to “instill the fear of God into the accused.” “This,” Mr. Limbaugh said, “would not be good news” for liberal supporters of the health law. But, in fact, Judge Vinson has never shot anything other than a water moccasin (last Saturday, at his weekend cabin), is not a taxidermist and, as president of the American Camellia Society, is far more familiar with Camellia reticulata than with Ursus arctos. Photo Apparently, Mr. Limbaugh had fallen prey to an Internet hoax. On Sunday night, and again Monday morning, someone identified only as “Pensacolian” edited Judge Vinson’s Wikipedia entry to include the invented material. The prankster footnoted the entry to a supposed story in The Pensacola News Journal. The article — like its stated publication date of June 31, 2003 — does not exist. The same person who posted the information removed it on Tuesday afternoon, Wikipedia logs show. Advertisement Continue reading the main story As calls flooded in about Mr. Limbaugh’s depiction, Judge Vinson, 70, took it all in stride.
“I’ve never killed a bear,” he said Wednesday, “and I’m not Davy Crockett.” Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. His wife, Ellen, was less amused. “It offended me,” she said, “because I don’t think you should be able to broadcast something nationally if you can’t verify it.” No matter what Rush Limbaugh says, Senior U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson has never killed any bears, and he isn't a taxidermist on the side. Actually, he's a flower guy, camellias in particular. On his radio program Tuesday, Limbaugh said Vinson, the Pensacola judge presiding over a legal challenge to President Barack Obama's health care reform, was an "avid hunter" who once had severed bear heads mounted in the court room to intimidate defendants. "Everybody in the world knows you don't believe anything on Wikipedia," Rush Limbaugh told his listeners last year. So, uh, it must be embarrassing for him that he just used Wikipedia as a source—and got his facts wrong. On Tuesday, Limbaugh told his listeners about Judge Roger Vinson, of the Federal District Court in Pensacola, Florida, is presiding over a legal challenge to the country's new health-care reform law. Here's a transcript, quoting liberally from Vinson's Wikipedia article: Who is this judge?
Judge Clyde Roger Vinson is a Ronald Reagan appointee. Judge Clyde Roger Vinson is an avid hunter. He's an amateur taxidermist. Do you know what a taxidermist is? That's right. For our liberal caller today, this would not be good news. A taxidermist stuffs dead game. If you go into a big, all-male club, you'll see some moose head over the fireplace. A taxidermist is responsible for it. "After a 2002 hunting trip during which he killed three brown bears, Vinson had their heads mounted over the door through which defendants must pass to enter the courtroom. At the time Vinson said the sight of the severed bear heads would ‘instill the fear of God' into the accused. The heads were removed in June 2003," it didn't even take a year (laughing) "following complaints by local defendants' rights groups." What a scary, conservative-sounding judge! Too bad none of that is true. Judge Vinson is not much of a hunter ("I've never killed a bear, and I'm not Davy Crockett," he said in a statement). In fact, his main hobby is horticulture: He's the president of the American Camellia Society. As his wife Ellen asked The New York Times, rhetorically: "Can you imagine the president of the American Camellia Society having three stuffed bears in the courthouse?" (No, we cannot, but we also are having trouble imagining the president of the American Camellia Society, period.) When Limbaugh was called out over the incorrect information, a spokesman insisted that the story had come from an article in The Pensacola News Journal. Only, the News Journal says no such article ever existed. The only reference to such an article online? The footnotes to Judge Vinson's Wikipedia page, which list the article as having appeared on June 31, 2003.
(June 31, in case you need a reminder, is not an actual date.) Well, we've all been there, right? Probably, Limbaugh just didn't know not to believe everything he reads on Wikipedia. Oh, wait. He did know! In fact, he was ranting about it last October, after a series of racist quotes was misattributed to him on Wikipedia sister site Wikiquote: I mean, everybody in the world knows you don't believe anything on Wikipedia because anybody can go in there and put anything on that they want to unless you succeed in getting your site locked, and I don't even care about that. Wikipedia is as irresponsible as anything else. Anybody can post anything they want on there. But these are the professionals! They're supposed to check this stuff. You're exactly right, Rush! Broadcast professionals are totally supposed to check on this stuff. What's that you say? People who don't fact-check are "literal professional scum"? Whatever happened to journalists calling people and saying, "Did you actually say this? I'm doing a story on blah, blah, blah. Did you actually say this?" They didn't want to take the chance I didn't say it. They wanted the excuse to run the fabricated quote. They wanted the opportunity to do it. These people are scum. They are literal professional scum and they are responsible in many ways for the deteriorating standards and quality of journalism. They are leading the pack. They are found on both the news side and the sports side, and they are doing everything they can to promote disunity and discord throughout our culture and society while holding themselves up in their own minds as great unifiers and people who care only about social justice. When they're basically just incompetent, irresponsible, impersonators of journalism. "Incompetent, irresponsible, impersonators of journalism." Yeah, that sounds about right.
[Pensacola News Journal; NYT; pic via Getty]
(CNN)The popular Pope Francis is taking some hits himself after some lighthearted comments that included a pretend punch to a colleague. The comments came while trying to make the point that free speech should have some limits, including on the right to insult another's faith. Speaking Thursday to reporters on the plane ride to the Philippines, the Pope gestured with a fake punch to demonstrate what he would do if someone were to say "a swear word against my mother." Most journalists interpreted it as a joke, not a justification of violence, especially since the Pope had also just forcefully stated that "one cannot kill in the name of God." Still, the Vatican felt the need to clarify, in response to a later CNN question about the punch, that his words were "spoken colloquially" and consistent with the Pope's "free style of speech." I don't for one minute think the Pope is advocating for any type of violence, whether religiously motivated murder or sparring among friends who dis each other's mamas. What concerns me is his apparent belief that religion should have special protection when it comes to free speech. "One cannot provoke, one cannot insult other people's faith, one cannot make fun of faith," he said. "There is a limit. Every religion has its dignity. In freedom of expression there are limits." The Pope, responding to a general question about the interplay between religious liberty and free expression, was clearly referencing the massacre of journalists at Charlie Hebdo magazine by Islamist militants in Paris last week. Although he did not say the slain cartoonists brought the attack upon themselves because of their satirical criticism of Islam, it's not a huge logical leap to that conclusion and raises the likelihood of such a misinterpretation. Let's just say it's not what most public relations professionals would advise. And while the Pope has been known to talk more informally with reporters on the papal plane (his "Who am I to judge?"
comment about gay Catholics came on the return flight from Brazil in 2013), he's still on the record and obviously aware that his words will be reported and analyzed. The Pope is not the only prominent Catholic raising the issue. Bill Donahue, a self-appointed spokesman fighting "anti-Catholicism" as the president of the New York-based Catholic League, released a statement with the headline, "Muslims have a right to be angry," on the day of the killings. On Thursday, his statement was headlined: "Pope sides with Catholic League." Such chutzpah. While no one can match the offensive tone of Donahue, who actually said Charlie Hebdo's Stephane Charbonnier "didn't understand the role he played in his own death," the gist of the Pope's message was the same: Criticism of religion is problematic. As an aside, I'll be curious to see if those who slammed Donahue have the same harsh words for the Pope. Perhaps both of them should take a lesson from the response of another Christian, Jim Wallis, president of Sojourners, a progressive, evangelical community and publication. He had a different suggestion for how people of faith should respond to the Paris attacks: . "Jesus tells us to bless those who persecute us, to return love for hate and good for evil, and even to love our enemies," Wallis wrote. "Loving your enemies certainly includes supporting the foundational commitment to free speech, and defending the right of free speech, even, or especially, for those who offend you." I think most American Catholics agree that while blasphemy -- offensive speech against God or religion -- is not particularly nice, it does not follow that it can or should be regulated or outlawed. In the United States, the Supreme Court outlawed blasphemy laws in 1952. I'm hoping the Pope was only offering counsel to his followers, rather than advocating for any sort of legal position.
No one has the right not to be offended. Even the Pope.
For Jack and Nancy Gatewood, not even death could separate them. A tale of true love, the pair, both 88, met as high school students in Ash Grove, Missouri. They soon became sweethearts and were married for 68 years, until recently when they died less than 16 hours apart in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Mrs Gatewood, who was a homemaker, had been in hospital dealing with complications related to a broken hip, pneumonia and flu before passing away around 5.30pm on January 15. A tale of true love, the pair, both 88, met as high school students in Ash Grove, Missouri (pictured in front of their family home's special oak door) Mr and Mrs Gatewood were highschool sweethearts and married for 68 years, until recently when they died less than 16 hours apart in Tulsa, Oklahoma (pictured on their 50th anniversary) Mr Gatewood, older by seven months, was heartbroken after spending three weeks away from his wife while she was in hospital - the first time they spent an extended time apart since the Second World War - and died without ever learning of his companion's passing, according to Tulsa World. Before his family could tell him of the news of his devoted wife, Mr Gatewood, a retired insurance worker, died around 8.30am on January 16 as a result of cardiac arrest. However, his family believes he suffered from a broken heart. 'I think he was missing her and didn't know where she was,' said son Jack Gatewood II, a pastor in Keller, Texas. He added: 'We believe it was a broken heart. I know that's old-fashioned to say, that it doesn't hold up medically. But she had been gone from his life, and we believe he was grieving for her.' As the time apart was difficult for Mr Gatewood, his family said people at his care home would find him wandering and asking where his wife was while she was in hospital.
The couple married in April 1946 upon Mr Gatewood's return from serving in the Navy and then relocated to Oklahoma where they lived for 47 years (pictured on their wedding day) Suffering from dementia, he was unable to remember when they told him. And when she passed away, Jack II was on his way to see his father, who died before he reached him. The last time Mr and Mrs Gatewood were together was in December. Jack II said: 'The last time we saw them together they were kissing and holding hands. We were not expecting them to pass.' The couple married in April 1946 upon Mr Gatewood's return from serving in the Navy and then relocated to Oklahoma where they lived for 47 years. Originally from Three Sands, Oklahoma, Mr Gatewood was living in nearby Everton, Missouri, at the time, when he and his soon to be sweetheart were joined together. He transferred to her high school in Ash Grove following the burning down of his school. The pair began dating their junior year of high school and remained dating throughout Mr Gatewood's two years of serving in the Navy. After they exchanged vows, the couple lived in their midtown home where they raised sons Jack II, Brad, Todd and Marc. They are survived by their sons, four grandchildren and three great-grand children. The reason they were able to stay married for so long was because of their devotion and commitment to each other, said Jack II. He said: 'They were very committed to marriage. They loved each other a lot, they were both faithful and they depended on each other.' As they enjoyed traveling and visits with friends, their favorite time together was spent with family. By standing at the front door to their home, it was even evident family was important with the special door made of oak and that had symbols to mark each of their children.
Serving as a model for a successful marriage, their sons said the pair were in sync in everything they did and it was not until later in life that they ever saw their parents argue. Jack II said it was a blessing his parents were able to depart together. Bonded together by love for nearly 69 years of marriage, Jack and Nancy Gatewood of Tulsa, Oklahoma entered into eternal life separately, less than 16 hours apart. Nancy passed away Jan. 15, followed by her husband Jack the next morning on Jan. 16. Jack Gatewood was born in Three Sands, Oklahoma on February 28, 1926. Nancy Gatewood was born in Ash Grove, Missouri on Sept. 26 also in 1926. Having met during high school in Ash Grove, MO Jack and Nancy were married in 1946 upon Jack’s return from service with the U.S. Navy during WWII. After marrying, they moved to Tulsa, OK residing here until their deaths this week. Nancy was a devoted wife and homemaker while Jack built a career in life insurance, working 43 years for Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. until his retirement in 2005. The major focus of their lives was making a home for their four sons and enjoying extended family. They were long time members of Memorial Baptist Church in Tulsa. Jack was a Life Member of the Million Dollar Round Table and served on numerous Tulsa boards. He was also active in the Rotary Club of Southside Tulsa. Nancy was a member of the American Sewing Guild and used her gifted creativity in numerous ways but especially in designing her own clothing. Their favorite times together were spent with family, friends, and traveling. Jack and Nancy are survived by four sons: Jack Gatewood and wife Janie of Keller, Texas; Brad Gatewood and Todd Gatewood both of Tulsa; and Marc Gatewood and wife Alecia of Cape Coral, FL. They also leave four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Source: Ninde .
Winkelman previously was unsure whether English football's third-longest serving boss would remain in place. "I'm comfortable in saying that Karl will be the manager next season because he wants to be," said Winkelman. "If he wants it and he's got that drive, ambition then he understands the club so much better that someone else." He continued to BBC Look East: "He already has a promotion out of League One and he's somebody that when we make mistakes, we make them honestly and ultimately, I trust him. Robinson, 35, was unable to keep the Dons up in their first-ever season in the Championship. Following relegation, Robinson publically said he felt the club should have used the money received from Tottenham for midfielder Dele Alli more wisely, and Winkelman admitted mistakes had been made with recruitment. "Everybody had to get off their chests the things they felt were wrong and that's part of the cathartic nature of sorting out problems," said Winkelman. "We needed to talk. Karl needed to look me in the eye and know I would continue to invest in him and I needed to look in his eye and know that if I'm going to do that he's going to work his guts out because I think we have more pressure than we've ever had as a football club. "In fact, I'm quite excited by the fact we've got more pressure because it means we're becoming a bigger club. I'm excited about being a big club in League One next season."
A British forensic archaeologist has unearthed fresh evidence to prove the existence of mass graves at the Nazi death camp Treblinka - scuppering the claims of Holocaust deniers who say it was merely a transit camp. Some 800,000 Jews were killed at the site, in north east Poland, during the Second World War but a lack of physical evidence in the area has been exploited by Holocaust deniers. Forensic archaeologist Caroline Sturdy Colls has now undertaken the first co-ordinated scientific attempt to locate the graves. Treblinka death camp in Poland where 17,000 Stone Memorial is one of the few reminders of the horrific events of the past . As Jewish religious law forbids disturbing burial sites, she and her team from the University of Birmingham have used 'ground-penetrating radar'. Her work at the site, where the Nazis tried to destroy all traces of industrial-scale killing, is being followed in forthcoming Radio 4 documentary The Hidden Graves Of The Holocaust. Sturdy Colls said: 'All the history books state that Treblinka was destroyed by the Nazis but the survey has demonstrated that simply isn’t the case. 'I’ve identified a number of buried pits using geophysical techniques. These are considerable in size, and very deep, one in particular is 26 by 17 metres.' The programme’s presenter says that the pits contain the burnt remains of thousands of bodies. The forensic archaeologist, who has now presented her findings to the authorities responsible for the memorial at Treblinka, added: 'I really hope this is the first stage in a long-term programme to seek out those hidden graves of the Holocaust.' Survivor Kalman Taigman remembers his arrival at the camp’s railway station, packed into a cattle wagon. 'I . was with my mother. We were about 100 people in a wagon. They opened . the doors, firing guns and hitting us, and sent us into a yard. I ran .
with my mother and tried to calm her. 'They . told me to leave my mother but I didn’t do it quickly and I was hit on . the head. When I got up, she was gone. She went with all the rest of the . women to the gas chamber.' Treblinka was a Nazi death camp in occupied Poland near the village of Treblinka during World War II . The camp was constructed as part of Operation Reinhard . Treblinka operated between July 23, 1942 and October 19, 1943 . During this time, approximately 850,000 men, women and children were killed at Treblinka. This figure includes more than 800,000 Jews, as well as a few thousand Romani people . The camp, which was operated by the SS and Eastern European Trawnikis, was split into two sections named Treblinka I and II . Treblinka I was designed for forced-labour center . Treblinka II was designed as a death factory with more than 99 per . cent of all arrivals being immediately sent to its gas chambers. Treblinka II ended operations on October 19, 1943 following a revolt by its Sonderkommandos. Beginning in March 1942, the SS implemented Sonderaktion 1005 to . cover up the murder of millions of people during Aktion Reinhard. There actions were so comprehensive that ever since the end of the Second World War, Holocaust deniers have used the site as evidence of misinformation about Nazi genocide. They claim the site was merely a transit camp - a myth now debunked by the latest discoveries of mass graves.
A Cardiff University rugby team was banned from a P&O ferry for 'appalling' behaviour during which a trainee medic allegedly urinated on a family dining table. A rugby team from the university School of Medicine was on a rugby tour to Amsterdam when the incident was alleged to have taken place on a ferry from Dover. P&O confirmed the team were barred from the return journey after their behaviour on the outbound trip. P&O Ferries have confirmed the rugby team from Cardiff University were not allowed to return on one of their ships after their 'appalling behaviour' (File Photo) One anonymous student told university newspaper Gair Rhydd: 'I was told that one rugby player got so drunk they urinated in someone's food.' Company spokesman Brian Rees said: 'It relates to a group who travelled with us from Dover to Calais in mid February. 'Unfortunately behaviour was such that we had to explain that we would not offer them the return journey so they made other arrangements to get back. 'The behaviour was so appalling we didn't have a moment's hesitation in banning them from coming back with us.' A Cardiff University spokesperson said the university had been made aware of an incident involving Cardiff Medics Rugby Team. However, no formal complaints have been made to the university. Cardiff University have confirmed they are investigating the incident after allegations of bad behaviour . The spokesperson added: 'The alleged behaviour is certainly not the behaviour we expect of our students. As far as we have been able to establish we have not received a formal complaint. 'However, on receiving this information, we are investigating the exact circumstances and will need to consider what action will need to be taken.' Elliot Howells, Cardiff Students' Union President, said: 'We are aware of an incident involving the Medics Rugby Team and are investigating this concurrently with Cardiff University. 'Should any individuals be found to be responsible, appropriate action will be taken.
This type of behaviour is not condoned by the Students' Union and we convey this message strongly to sports teams during their yearly induction sessions.' Cardiff Medics has both a first and second XV. It is not clear which team was involved in the incident.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 11:17 EST, 3 March 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 11:20 EST, 3 March 2013 . Warning: Dr Fred Kavalier told four directors of Harmoni in December 2010 of his urgent concerns. Two years later Axel Peanberg King, pictured with his mother Linda, died . A doctor who worked for England's largest independent provider of out-of-hours care has warned standards are so poor patients are being put at risk. Dr Fred Kavalier claims to have told four directors of Harmoni in December 2010 that he had an 'urgent concern about the quality and safety of the service Harmoni is providing.' Two years later, baby Axel Peanberg King died following 'wholly inadequate' decisions made by an out-of-hours Harmoni doctor based on a one-minute phone call. Dr Muttu Shantikumar ignored the pleas from Linda Peanberg King for her seven-week-old son, who was suffering from pneumonia, to be seen as soon as possible, an inquest last week was told. He downgraded her call from ‘urgent’ to ‘routine’ and left her waiting for nearly four hours for an appointment because he did not deem the baby’s situation an emergency. With her dying son in her arms, the 35-year-old mother, from Islington, London, then had to wait in line behind six non-emergency patients at the private out-of-hours GP service Harmoni, at Whittington Hospital in Archway, north London.
St Pancras Coroner’s Court heard that it was only when an off-duty nurse spotted that Axel had turned ‘grey and floppy’ that he received emergency care – but by then it was too late and he died at the hospital from bronchopneumonia five days after falling ill. Recording a narrative verdict, Dr Radcliffe described the brief phone conversation between Dr Shantikumar and Mrs Peanberg King as ‘wholly inadequate’, adding that the doctor ‘asked insufficient questions’. Harmoni have released a statement saying the coroner was clear that she found no evidence of systems failure in the Harmoni service . Dr Kavalier says Axel's death was the kind of incident he was trying to prevent when he sent the letter to directors. Speaking to the Independent on Sunday, he said: 'It is what happens when services are fragmented and commercial interests become more important than patient care. 'Despite Harmoni's claim they treat patients 'like family' in reality they treat them like rail passengers.' Harmoni have released a statement saying the coroner was clear that she found no evidence of systems failure in the Harmoni service. It said it was not possible to totally eliminate the possibility of an individual's error or misjudgement. Dr David Lee, medical director for Harmoni, said: 'I can confirm that Harmoni responded fully to Dr Kavalier’s concerns and our communication was sent by both email and recorded delivery letter on March 11, 2011. 'We shared his concerns with both the PCT commissioners and the local medical committee (LMC). 'Harmoni refutes absolutely any suggestion that concerns raised by any clinician, patient or commissioner have not been properly and fully investigated. 'The coroner’s comments relating to the tragic death of Axel Peanberg King confirmed that there was no evidence to suggest that Harmoni staffing levels were unsafe.
'The coroner also stated she was satisfied Harmoni has made considerable efforts to ensure the competence of the GPs working in the out of hours service and that Harmoni had plans in place to ensure this process is ongoing including improving paediatric training for all its GPs. 'The coroner was clear that she found no evidence of systems failures in the Harmoni service.' Harmoni was founded by five London GPs in 1996 and was bought last year by Care UK for £48million. Last year it turned over £100m and has won more than a quarter of the contracts for the new 111 non-urgent phone line. It is not the first time private out-of-hours care has been scrutinised. Dr Daniel Ubani was working for an out-of-hours medical service in Cambridgeshire when he mistakenly gave 70-year-old renal patient David Gray ten times the safe dosage of diamorphine. Coroner William Morris ruled the death was ‘gross negligence and manslaughter’ and Ubani was struck off by the GMC in Britain.
The Australian Federal Police is investigating reports of a Brisbane girl being taken from her home to undergo genital mutilation in Africa. It is believed the girl is between the ages of four and seven and is travelling with her father, The Guardian Australia reported. The child was born in Sierra Leone but was taken to Gambia to have the procedure before Christmas. Scroll down for video . It is believed the girl is between the ages of four and seven and is travelling with her father to Gambia for female genital mutilation . An AFP spokeswoman confirmed to Daily Mail Australia they were investigating the allegations. 'AFP has received a referral in relation to FGM and as we are currently conducting enquiries, no more comment can be offered at this point in time,' she said. But there are fears police intervention is too late, with west African community members in Brisbane telling The Guardian Australia the girl may have already had the procedure. Female genital mutilation is illegal in Australia, as is removing children to undergo the procedure. An example of knife and blades used for FGM, which is illegal in Australia, but three girls a day are at risk of it . Three girls a day are at risk of female genital mutilation (FGM) in Australia. There are four types of FGM including clitoridectomy, excision, infibulation and other. No FGM director Paula Ferrari told Daily Mail Australia more needed to be done to educate people about the dangers of the procedure. Source: World Health Organisation . She said the girls who were most at risk of FGM were those who came from a community where the practice is accepted, or had a mother or sibling who had experienced it. In the case of the Brisbane girl, Ms Ferrari said the child had this history. 'The question could be asked if this could have been prevented because she had ticked two of these boxes,' she said.
Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop has urged relatives or friends to blow the whistle on anyone taking children abroad to undergo female genital mutilation. But it is virtually impossible for authorities to step in without evidence of somebody's intentions, Ms Bishop told Fairfax Radio on Tuesday. 'If somebody just presents with a passport and they're heading off overseas and we have no evidence to provide us with any cause to prevent the person leaving, then of course that happens,' she said. 'People are free to travel on an Australian passport if they have a valid passport.' Ms Bishop said it was vital family members or friends who were in the know about such plans let authorities know. 'This equally applies to foreign terrorist fighters,' she said. 'It's the families that we need to hear from if there are such matters occurring.' Relatives were the ones most likely to notice changes in behaviour or the beginning of radicalisation, Ms Bishop said. '[Whether it's] a girl leaving for overseas for this brutal, barbaric practice, or whether it's people leaving for overseas to take up with terrorist organisations.'
Alan Shearer says he does not hold much hope for former club Newcastle United and fears a ‘long, hard season’ lies ahead. The Magpies are without a win this term and reside in the bottom three going into Saturday’s home game with Leicester City. Manager Alan Pardew has seen off intense speculation surrounding his future - at least in the short-term - and retains the support of owner Mike Ashley. Peter Crouch scores for Stoke in one of seven Premier League games Newcastle United have failed to win . Former Magpies striker Alan Shearer worries for his club this season, saying they 'haven't been good enough' Pardew looks unhappy as he watches his team draw 2-2 with Swansea City at the Liberty Stadium . But Shearer has not been impressed by performances on the pitch. Indeed, his hometown team have collected just 20 points from a possible 78 since the turn of the year. He told the Chronicle: ‘It has been poor since January this year,’ said the club’s record goalscorer, who netted 206 times during 10 years on Tyneside. ‘I’m exactly the same as the fans at the minute - I’m one of them. ‘I pay for my ticket and I’m the same. I am entitled to my opinion. Shearer scored a club record 206 goals in 10 years on Tyneside but fears for his former side this year . Newcastle supporters held numerous banners calling for Pardew to be sacked during the 1-0 defeat at Stoke . ‘It hasn’t been pleasant watching to be honest. ‘I don’t hold too much hope for us this season.
I think it could be a long, hard season for us.’ And Shearer says there are no mitigating circumstances for Pardew or the club to put forward as an excuse for results, admitting there is a real danger they could be dragged in to a relegation battle. ‘Nobody can make any excuses,’ added Shearer, speaking ahead of the 206 Dinner in Newcastle next month. ‘The simple fact is we haven’t been good enough. You can make whatever excuses you want. Injuries, too many games or confidence. Newcastle fans have reacted angrily to their side's start to the campaign, calling for Pardew's head . Newcastle have been denied the services of promising midfielder Siem de Jong (centre) through injury . ‘Put all of that to one side, the simple fact of the matter is we just have not been good enough. ‘We haven’t been unlucky. We haven’t been ravaged by injuries. We haven’t been done by dodgy decisions. ‘We just haven’t been good enough. It’s simple. That’s the harsh reality of it. ‘Things have to improve and they have to improve pretty quickly or we could find ourselves in a hole. ‘The quicker we can get out of it the better.’ Shearer is greeted by thousands of Newcastle fans after signing for the club for £15million in 1996 .
For a man who really did not want to talk on Saturday evening, Jose Mourinho woke on Sunday having had a serious re-think, invited himself on to Sky Sports and let loose. While admitting he might be talking his way to a touchline ban, the Chelsea manager launched a live verbal assault from his position on the Goals on Sunday sofa, taking aim at various targets which included an attack on Sky’s own coverage. It was very neatly planned and executed by a man employed as an ambassador for rival broadcasters BT Sport, and James Beattie, the show’s scheduled guest, was nowhere to be seen. Jose Mourinho says the incidents in the 1-1 draw with Burnley were 'clear for everyone, not just me' Mourinho says referees should be given assistance by video technology if they can't get decisions right . 'Mourinho is wrong to imply an orchestrated campaign, but entitled to ask questions. His players, fine players, are frequently under siege.' Click HERE to read Sportsmail's Chief Sports Writer Martin Samuel on Jose Mourinho's Goals on Sunday appearance . Mourinho has bemoaned these things for weeks but Burnley striker Ashley Barnes and referee Martin Atkinson pushed him over the edge as Chelsea dropped precious points in a 1-1 draw at Stamford Bridge on Saturday. He lashed out at Barnes, branding his tackle on Nemanja Matic ‘criminal’ and ‘career-ending’ and recalled for the audience a seven-match ban imposed on the striker two years ago when he tripped a referee while playing for Brighton against Bolton. And he called for more technology to help officials who ‘can’t see a penalty three metres in front of him’ and claimed Chelsea were ‘not getting the respect they deserve’ with a long sequence of bad decisions.
It was an incredible performance, even by Mourinho standards of showmanship and revolved around his four chosen moments from the Burnley game: two failed penalty appeals and two challenges by Barnes. ‘What can I say that everybody doesn’t know?’ the Chelsea manager began. ‘Sometimes there is space for discussion where you have one view and I have another, but I can’t believe these four incidents are open to interpretation. This studs-up tackle from Ashley Barnes infuriated Nemanja Matic and Mourinho backed up his player . Matic's reaction to Barnes's tackle earned the Serbian a red card - he'll now miss the Capital One Cup final . Mourinho shot from the lip during his surprise appearance on Goals on Sunday on Sky Sports . ‘At half-time Burnley should be playing with 10 men and Chelsea should have had two penalties and be winning 3-0, or let’s say 2-0 if we miss one of the penalties. The reality is that in the end we end the game with 10 men and we lose two points.’ The first penalty appeal was for handball when a shot by Branislav Ivanovic crashed into Michael Kightly’s outstretched arm. ‘The arm stopped the ball hitting the target,’ said Mourinho. ‘He’s far away; it’s not one metre, not a few inches, it’s quite far. Players should be taught to keep balance even in difficult situations, making difficult bio-mechanical actions and putting their arms behind the body to avoid this. For me, this is a penalty everywhere. ‘The best players in the world make mistakes, they miss penalties, and this gentleman is one of the top referees in this country and Europe and he can also make mistakes. He made four important mistakes. It is consistent but we must search for consistency in the right way.
The lawyer who has lost 15 cases out of 15 is consistent but you don’t want that lawyer.’ The second penalty appeal was for a push by Jason Shackell on Costa, but Mourinho went back to the opening game of the Barclays Premier League campaign when his centre forward was booked for a dive at Turf Moor. Mourinho requested to go on Goals on Sunday and planned guest James Beattie had to make way . Atkinson, the referee for Chelsea's 1-1 draw with Burnley, was criticised for his decisions on Saturday . ‘The penalty story with Diego Costa started on day one, because it is a penalty and a red card for the goalkeeper,’ he said. ‘Michael Oliver — also one of the top referees in the country and soon to be one of the best in Europe — gives a yellow card to Diego and a free-kick against Chelsea.’ During the course of this 29-minute section of the show, he noted other penalties his team deserved but did not get — against Everton, Southampton, Liverpool and Tottenham — and insisted only once had he benefited from a dubious decision, when Gary Cahill escaped a handball at Liverpool. ‘Probably I am risking my place in the dug-out in the final because I risk being suspended by having this conversation in a studio,’ Mourinho went on. ‘I know in football sometimes you get them and sometimes you don’t but it’s too much. I try to be calm and controlled but my players are not getting the respect they deserve.’ When it came to analysing the Barnes challenges, one on Ivanovic and one on Matic, which provoked his dismissal for a retaliatory shove, the Chelsea manager said: ‘This Burnley player involved in two actions has a grey past.
There was a very dark point in his career when he was at Brighton and suspended for seven matches, because of a big incident with a referee. Mourinho appeared to be agitated during the game too, airing his frustrations to media after the match . The Chelsea boss was particularly unhappy with the performance of referee Atkinson . ‘Should this player be chased because of what he did in the past? I don’t think so. When people look at these two incidents I hope they only see these two incidents. I don’t think it should have any relation with his history. ‘When I see Diego Costa on day one in the Premier League, penalty and red card to the goalkeeper, game over 2-0, transformed into a free-kick and yellow for Costa, I think he has changed country but brought with him his past in the eyes of the officials. This is clearly not fair. ‘When I finish the game against Liverpool and go to the dressing room, the first thing I see on the big screen we have in the dressing room is about Diego Costa’s ‘crimes’. Well, I would like to know how Sky Sports describe the actions of the Burnley player yesterday when you call what Diego Costa did a crime.’ With his sidekick Chris Kamara struck by temporary paralysis beside him, Sky host Ben Shephard admitted there may have been a mistake with the language in the immediate aftermath of Costa’s stamp on Emre Can, in the Capital One Cup semi-final, which prompted a three-match ban. Mourinho covered a range of subjects during his appearance on Goals on Sunday . ‘Did you apologise to Chelsea or to Diego or to me as Chelsea manager?’ asked Mourinho. ‘You did not. You never apologised. I don’t like the use of language and don’t like it that immediately there is public judgment.
‘You give no space to the people who have to decide. The pressure was so much that it gave no space and you don’t do this with every club and every player. When you say Diego’s “crimes” because he put his foot on another man you have to say this is a criminal tackle, minimum. When Diego Costa had a three-match ban, tell me how many matches you think this player deserves. ‘What happened was similar to what happened to Eden Hazard at Stoke but I would say yesterday was worse because this was “end of career”, I can’t find an adjective any stronger than to say “end of career”. Matic is a lucky guy. I can’t find words to describe what that player did. ‘Matic had reason to lose his emotions. What are the consequences of Matic’s push on the other player? Nothing. One second later, he stands and goes. The consequence for Matic could be the end of career.’ Mourinho did not appear satisfied with a post-match conversation he had with Atkinson at Stamford Bridge on Saturday. ‘I am not attacking the honesty of anyone,’ he added. ‘I am not trying to bring the game into disrepute — a sentence you love in this country because this is always what they use when they want to punish me. I’m just trying to be honest. ‘Of course, they are trying but they are not doing it well. If the ref can’t see a penalty three metres in front of him some referee in front of a screen can’t miss it. It will protect the integrity and honesty of the referees. I think technology can help.’ Mourinho stuck around with Shephard and Kamara to analyse the rest of the Saturday action but by then he had got what he wanted to off his chest.
30 - Ashley Barnes sends Branislav Ivanovic crashing to the ground in an aerial challenge after a knee in the back. Ivanovic rolls over twice before leaping up when he realises no action is being taken. It should have been a free-kick and could have been a yellow card for Barnes. Barnes catches Ivanovic with his right boot during an aerial challenge in the 30th minute . 33 - Ivanovic goes for goal but Michael Kightly diverts it with an outstretched arm, as he turns his back to goal. Martin Atkinson waves play on. It should have been a Chelsea penalty. Ivanovic fires a shot at goal but his effort was blocked by the raised arms of Michael Kightly . 43 - Diego Costa goes to ground after Jason Shackell leans into him with an oustretched arm. Atkinson waves play on. It could have been a Chelsea penalty but would have been soft. Diego Costa vents his frustration after being shoved inside the box by Jason Shackell . 69 - Barnes misses the ball and almost snaps Nemanja Matic's left shin with his studs but Atkinson waves play on. An enraged Matic leaps up and pushes Barnes over. Atkinson sends off Matic and books Ivanovic for trying to take red card out of his hand. It was a shocking tackle that merited a red card for Barnes and a Chelsea free-kick. Referee Martin Atkinson shows Matic a straight red card after his altercation with Barnes in the second half .
The ticket was for the draw on Wednesday 14 September. The numbers were 16, 23, 35, 42, 44, 58 and the bonus ball was 28. The winner has until 13 March 2017 to claim the money before it goes towards lottery-funded projects. A spokesman for organisers Camelot urged players to check "pockets, bags and down the back of the sofa". Updates on this story and more from Essex Under Lotto rules, as soon as the jackpot reaches £22m, the prize must be won in the next draw. Nobody matched all six numbers on 14 September and the £24.5m prize was shared between three winners who matched five numbers plus the bonus ball, two of whom have come forward. Andy Carter from The National Lottery said: "We're eager to find the mystery ticket-holder and unite them with their winnings. "We're urging everyone who bought a Lotto ticket in Colchester, whether they are from the town or were just in the area at the time, to check their old tickets again or look anywhere a missing ticket could be hiding." It is not known if the winning ticket was bought by an individual or a syndicate.
The Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation brought in $144.4 million in 2013, a three-fold growth from the $51.5 million the foundation received in 2012, according to tax documents released on Wednesday. Though the group said in a statement the boost came from a consolidation with other charities under the foundation, the jump could also be seen as the foundation moving to up its endowment and put itself on better footing in case Hillary Clinton runs for president in 2016. "In 2013 the Foundation reconsolidated the Clinton Global Initiative into its operations," Andrew Kessel, the foundation's chief financial officer, wrote in a letter attached to the tax forms. "As such, the 990 tax document shows a corresponding increase in both revenue and expenses." According to the filing, nine donors collectively gave over $60 million. One donor gave $15 million, while three more gave around $10 million. The foundation does disclose a range of their donors online -- though they are not legally obligated to -- but the names of these donors are blacked out on the tax filing. "In 2013, the Foundation expanded our work, reinforced our financial footing, and became better positioned to maximize our impact for years to come," Kessel said. "Our tax statements reflect these improvements." While revenue went up, so did expenses. Nearly 10% -- or $8.1 million -- of the foundation's $84.6 million in expenses was spent on travel. The only categories with higher expenses were salaries and wages and "conferences, conventions and meetings." And now at least one conservative group, America Rising PAC, is calling on Clinton to detail the foundation's expenses to reveal whether the Clintons' politically-related travel during the 2014 midterms was funded by the nonprofit organization.
"We are calling on the Foundation to release details of how their travel and fundraising budget was spent so voters know the extent to which the Clinton's use the charity to subsidize their lavish travel, courtship of potential 2016 donors, and political schedule," the PAC's executive director Tim Miller said in an email. Early in 2013, just shortly after Hillary Clinton left her post as America's top diplomat, the foundation that was once simply known as the William J. Clinton Foundation was renamed to the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation. Hillary Clinton has been very visible at the foundation's events. She led a number of sessions at the group's annual Clinton Global Initiative meeting in New York this year and just last week led a session at a foundation event in Little Rock. Since leaving the State Department, Clinton has stepped up her role in fundraising for the foundation, too. When Clinton served as secretary of state, the foundation pledged to disclose their donors and stopped holding events overseas in order to avoid conflict of interest claims between her role and the foundations. With Clinton eying another run at the presidency, a spokesman for the foundation said earlier this year that should Clinton run for president, the "precedent" of what the foundation did while she served as secretary of state would serve as a guide to how they would handle her run .
The Lithuanian schoolgirl was left bruised in the brawl in Central Park in Peterborough on Friday evening. The Peterborough Telegraph reported her mother put the film on her own Facebook page in a bid to find out who was responsible. It has been viewed more than 680,000 times. Police said the fight was reported to them and they were investigating. The attack victim told the BBC the group wanted to fight her because they thought she was "being cheeky" to some of them at school. Click here for more news from Cambridgeshire She was set upon by a "group of about 20 or 25 girls" when she went to the park. She said: "They said, 'We didn't come here for no reason, we came to fight'." "I was scared but I think I'm getting better," she added. The video of the brawl showed a girl being pushed to the ground and repeatedly kicked. It was sent to her mother, Ilona Iloniuk, who posted it on social media. The post said: "Today my daughter in Central Park got beaten up by a lot of girls. Maybe somebody knows who they are? "I think that parents should look after their kids - she was only one and they were 20 on her." Cambridgeshire Police said the brawl happened between 20:00 and 21:00 BST.
The track broke streaming records, earning the highest first-week streams for a single in the UK with 2.03m plays. Indie band The Maccabees have scored their first number one album with Marks To Prove It, just 1,300 copies ahead of Lianne La Havas' Blood. Cilla Black entered the album top 40 chart following her death last weekend. The Very Best of Cilla Black reached its highest ever chart position at number 14, while her former number one single Anyone Who Had A Heart also entered the singles chart at number 41, securing its highest chart position in 51 years. Drag Me Down is One Direction's first single as a foursome since the departure of Zayn Malik. Its release came a surprise to fans who had not been expecting a new single, According to the Official Charts Company, Calvin Harris and Disciples' How Deep Is Your Love climbed from six to two and last week's number one, Black Magic by Little Mix, fell to three. The top five was rounded off with Lost Frequencies' Are You With Me at four, and Years & Years' Shine at five. The Maccabees nearly missed out on their number one album spot, having battled with La Havas all week. Marks To Prove It finished the week ahead by just 1,300 combined chart sales. "We are very proud that our fourth album has given us our first number 1," guitarist Felix White told the Official Charts Company. See the UK Top 40 singles chart See the UK Top 40 albums chart BBC Radio 1's Official Chart Show The Official Chart with Greg James is broadcast from 16:00 BST every Friday.
Frank Lampard captains England against Costa Rica on Tuesday and will then quit international football despite Roy Hodgson suggesting he still has an international future. Lampard thinks it is the appropriate time to bow out and will do so having won 106 caps. He has an offer to play in Major League Soccer with New York City next season and that could lead to him playing in the Premier League on loan. He will finish with just two fewer international caps than his father Frank senior’s West Ham pal and former England captain Bobby Moore. One last time: Frank Lampard is expected to play his last England game against Costa Rica . History boy: Lampard could become England's second youngest scorer at a World Cup if he nets on Tuesday . Lampard’s record of 29 England goals is impressive, although Charlton hit 49 and remains England's top all-time scorer with Wayne Rooney closing the gap on 40. If Lampard scores on Tuesday he will become the second oldest player to score a goal at World Cup finals for England having turned 36 four days ago. The oldest was Sir Tom Finney, who scored a late penalty in the 2-2 draw against Soviet Union in 1958 at the age of 36 and 64 days. Although . Steven Gerrard has asked for some time to consider his international . future it is unlikely Roy Hodgson will persuade him to change his mind . on calling it a day with England. As it stands Gerrard has 113 caps, two . behind the most capped outfield player David Beckham. Goalkeeper Peter . Shilton remains the most capped on 125. Decision time: Steven Gerrard will consider his international future after the World Cup in Brazil ends . The Luis Suarez 'camp' are now dropping heavy hints that when the World Cup is over he will quit Liverpool with Barcelona and Real Madrid set to battle it out for his services. A 'shoot out' between the two La Liga against would be appropriate.
To his Uruguayan team-mates Suarez is known as 'El Pistolero' 'The Gunfighter.' In the last four World Cup finals Germany’s Miroslav Klose has scored 15 goals compared to total of 17 by England over the same period. Whether or not Didier Drogba starts against Greece on Tuesday, he will no doubt have an impact on the game at some stage. Drogba, who will quit international football at the end of the World Cup, will be determined to make sure that this game is not his last for the Ivory Coast. Perhaps one of the reasons for his longevity is that the 36-year-old didn’t start a professional career until he was 21 with Le Mans. High flyer: Didier Drogba may play his last game for the Ivory Coast against Greece on Tuesday . There is a growing feeling that too many young English strikers get burned out because they play far too much at a younger age - take the case of Michael Owen. And there is an argument, endorsed by Paul Scholes, that at 28 Wayne Rooney has already peaked. At the same age Drogba moved into his pomp at Chelsea. And even a bit of racy lifestyle didn’t seem to harm Drogba. In his early days his team-mates called him 'Tupac' after the America rap because of his penchant for a wild nightlife. Watch Out for Shiniji Kagawa was dropped for Japan’s last game against Greece after a peripheral display in their 2-1 defeat to Ivory Coast in their opening game. But Kagawa is set to return on Tuesday . against Columbia in a game Japan need to win if they want to progress . from Group C. Japan must also hope Ivory Coast fail to beat Greece. Centre of attention: Shinji Kagawa is expected to return to Japan's startling line up against Colombia on Tuesday .
Kagawa’s career at Manchester United could be revived under Louis van Gaal, but if the Dutchman doesn’t see him as part of his plans then he could return to Borussia Dortmund. O the Japan-Columbia game is at 9pm on BBC 3, Ivory Coast-Greece is on BBC1 at the same time. I – say :Ahead of an World Cup qualifier against Poland in 1990, Ian Wright once explained with a combination of Churchillian rhetoric and 'Sarf London Caribbean slang' that England would win because of 'The bulldog spirit, man'. They did the next night at Wembley when a combination of panache and passion saw England blow Poland apart 3-0. Such virtues seem very much out of fashion now - laughed off as 'old school' - while the appliance of more and more sports science is seen as the way forward. Young tyro: Paul Gascoigne scores for England against Poland at Wembley . Left-field bolt: Stuart Pearce scores for England against Poland at Wembley in 1990 . But a bloated back room staff of medics, spin and head doctors has hardly succeeded. If anything it’s given the players more excuses and made them more mentally fragile . Indeed when you listen to what makes other countries tick many cite national pride and desire the very qualities that are laughed off by football 'hipsters' in this country. Explaining Spain’s demise Xavi Alonso spoke of a lack of 'hunger'. When Harry Redknapp suggested that some Tottenham players made excuses NOT to join up with England it raises questions about the motivation of many when it comes to playing for England. On that front perhaps the FA should find some sort of role for Ian Wright in the camp.
On the notion that there are players who duck out of playing for England Wright has said: 'The next young player who says he does not want play for England should be ordered to ring the parents of a soldier who has dies in Afghanistan, and tell him his reasons.' Well said Wrighty. That’s the bulldog spirit, man. World Cup Moment: . Belo Horizonte, where England face Costa Rica on Tuesday, is of course the venue of England’s most infamous defeat when they were beaten 1-0 by the USA in 1950. Shock: England lost to USA 1-0 in 1950 thanks to a goal from GaetJens (right) At the time England were regarded as the best team in the world with players like Sir Tom Finney and Stan Mortenson - although Stanley Matthews was dropped for the match. England also lost to Spain 1-0 and were eliminated, although, they did beat Chile 2-1. The chastening experience suffered is said to have inspired England’s right back at that World Cup to one day make amends and lift the trophy. His name? Alfred Ramsey. World Cup Bet: . The patriotic pound has proved very profitable for the bookies at the World Cup. So it’s difficult to see the attraction of 4/5 on an England win…although Costa Rica are resting players which maybe explains why you can 7/2 on them winning with the draw 11-4. A romantic punt for first goal scorer is Frank Lampard at 10-1; Joel Campbell is 13-2 to open the scoring for Costa Rica. Uruguay are 13-2 to beat Italy.
The Prime Minister has drawn a line in the sand with students and youth unemployed today, telling them to 'pull your weight' as he made it clear there will be no softening of the government's Work for the Dole program. 'I want to see every Australian pulling his or her weight. That's very important,' Mr Abbott said. There was an outcry from students and welfare groups after the May Budget, when Treasurer Joe Hockey announced the overhaul of Work for the Dole and unemployment benefits. 'Pull your weight'. Tony Abbott has today signalled no softening of the Work for the Dole scheme . An angry St Vincent de Paul Society CEO Dr John Falzon said: 'You don't help young help people into work by forcing them to live below the poverty line and you certainly don't help them into a job by forcing them to rely on charity to survive' But the Prime Minister fired another salvo today. 'The last thing we want is to see young people leaving school and going on to unemployment benefits,' the Prime Minister said. St Vincent de Paul Society CEO, Dr John Falzon, hit back: 'What we had hoped for was a jobs plan, what we have got instead is a bashing the young unemployed plan.' The PM said that school leavers did not have to rely on the dole 'particularly when there is going to be a stronger training system and more effective system in the future, than there has been in the past.' He said the government has missed the point and the labour market structure is the problem, not those seeking work. 'You don't help young help people into work by forcing them to live below the poverty line and you certainly don't help them into a job by forcing them to rely on charity to survive,' Dr Falzon added.
The PM said that school leavers did not have to rely on the dole 'particularly when there is going to be a stronger training system and more effective system in the future, than there has been in the past.' From the start of 2015, new job-seekers under the age of 30 will have to wait up to six months before receiving unemployment benefits. Further, they will then have to participate in at least 25 hours per week under Work for the Dole, to receive any payments for the next six months. 'The problem is structural but the government insists on using the language of demonising and blame to the very people who are suffering the affects of that structure,' Dr Falzon added. A national day of action is planned by tertiary students to protest against the Work for the Dole changes and education overhaul. From the start of 2015, new job-seekers under the age of 30 will have to wait up to six months before receiving unemployment benefits.
Thorpe, 23, has made seven appearances for the Millers this season, but last featured in the 5-2 defeat by Ipswich on 7 November. The former Manchester United trainee could make his Bradford debut against Millwall on Saturday. The Bantams are currently seventh in League One, outside the play-offs on goal difference.
(CNN) -- The Federal Aviation Administration is ordering that more than 1,000 Boeing 737 jets be inspected for a problem which could cause pilots to lose control of the aircraft. According to the FAA, the inspections will focus on pins which attach the horizontal stabilizers to the fuselage. They were prompted by reports that a coating used to protect the pins from wear and corrosion was applied incorrectly. The FAA says premature failure of the pins could cause reduced structural integrity of the horizontal stabilizer to fuselage attachment, resulting in loss of control of the airplane. The part number of each pin must be checked and pins with certain part numbers must be replaced with new, improved attach pins. The order, called an Airworthiness Directive, is effective May 20 and applies to Boeing 737 series 600, 700, 700-C, 800, 900 and 900-ER aircraft. The inspections are not expected to affect airline schedules. The aircraft included in the directive are relatively new, entering service in 1998 or later.
Octuplets mom Nadya Suleman settled the welfare fraud case against her by repaying $26,000 prosecutors say she illegally claimed. Suleman, known in the media as "Octomom" because she gave birth to eight babies in one day, must also serve two years on probation and work 200 hours of community service under a plea deal announced Monday. The Los Angeles district attorney accused Suleman, 39, of not reporting nearly $30,000 she earned as a topless dancer and adult film actress in the months after she applied for public assistance for her 14 children last year. Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge David Horwitz accepted Suleman's no contest plea to a single misdemeanor charge in court Monday after she proved she had paid the restitution to the state and county. Suleman could have gotten up to six years and four months in prison if convicted of all four charges that had been pending, the prosecutor said. Suleman told HLN's Dr. Drew in 2012 that her porn video was "the most empowering and liberating thing I've ever done." Octuplets mom Suleman books stripper gigs to save home .
By . Mail Online Reporter . They were eliminated last night after serving up undercooked steak and runny crème brulee. And now My Kitchen Rules favourites Harry and Christo have confessed that their cooking was often less than perfect because they were more focused on chatting up their fellow contestants. The flirtatious friends from Melbourne appeared on TV and radio on Wednesday where they stayed coy about romance rumours involving 25-year-old Harry and 21-year-old Tasmanian contestant Bianca. Flirtatious friends: Harry and Christo appeared on Sunrise and radio shows on Wednesday after they were eliminated from My Kitchen Rules . Christo, 26, also hinted at bad blood between the boys and twins Helena and Vikki. Harry and Christo fought through a tough sudden death elimination against the twins but ultimately lost on Tuesday night's episode. Christo appeared on NovaFM on Wednesday morning where he was asked what he would miss most about the MKR kitchen. 'I'd say definitely the flirting - the cooking comes second,' he told Fitzy and Wippa. Distracted: The mates from Melbourne said they were more focused on chatting up girls than they were on cooking . Christo also appeared on WaveFM's Hot Breakfast where he stayed coy about romance rumours between Harry and Tasmanian student Bianca. 'Did they get it on?' asked radio host Travis. 'Look I'm unaware of anything that went down ' Christo said, before he was interrupted by Travis. 'Mate you are full of crap. Come on Christo,' he said. Christo responded by saying: 'Look I'm just going to tell you what I've told everybody. As far as I know we're just good mates and Harry and Bianca good friends.' Bad blood? Christo, 26, hinted that there were tensions between the boys and twins Helena and Vikki .
The former MKR cook also suggested that there were tensions between the boys and twins Vikki and Helena who knocked them out of the competition. 'I don't not like Helena and Vikki, but me and the way I'd go about the competition I wouldn’t sit there and go "We all know Harry and Christo can't cook and they're the people we want to cook against,”’ he said. ‘It's just not me so I just can’t relate to them. 'I like them, they’re nothing but polite, but I guess just I can’t relate to them as people.' Bromance: The Melbourne lads didn't leave the competition before Christo received a congratulatory kiss for his Bearnaise sauce from Manu . Christo and best friend Harry also appeared on Channel Seven morning show Sunrise, where they admitted they did not have any food-related plans for the future. 'We'll come back to you on that one. Because it's been a pretty tough road so far, we're not that crash hot,' Harry told hosts David Koch and Samantha Armytage. 'We could get into food, we don't know. We don't want to hurt the public anymore with…' Christo then cut in to finish his mate's sentence: 'With our delicious dishes!' Romace rumours: Christo stayed coy when asked whether Tasmanian student Bianca, 21, had hooked up with Harry, 25 . Christo also spoke about his smooch from 'good kisser' Manu, which he received for perfectly cooking Bearnaise sauce during last night's elimination round. 'Oh he's amazing. I'll tell you what, he's sensational and I feel like I got a special kiss because he usually gives the double kiss and I only got one,' he said. 'So I feel like maybe I'm unique to Manu, I'm not sure.'
The friends won over fans both at home and within the competition with their boyish charm and flirtatious ways. Hug goodbye: It was clear handsome Harry's presence would be missed by Bianca as she wrapped her arms around him on Tuesday night's episode . Contestant Bianca – who has been romantically linked to Harry off-screen – appeared the most upset by their elimination on Tuesday night's show as she threw her arms around Harry for one last goodbye. Bianca couldn't help but shed a tear when it was announced the boys fell had fallen short in the sudden death challenge. 'We're really, really going to miss Harry and Christo,' she said, 'I don't want to say goodbye!' Harry told The West Australian that he is still in contact with Bianca and her partner Thalia, as well as other contestants Josh and Danielle, Uel and Shannelle and Chloe and Kelly. Kiss goodbye: The charming Melburnian gave Bianca a tender farewell kiss .
(CNN) -- Robert Kubica's Lotus-Renault team said Monday that the F1 star was "much better" after undergoing emergency surgery in an Italian hospital following his crash while competing in a motor rally. The 26-year-old Pole spent the night in an induced coma after a seven-hour operation to repair multiple fractures to his right arm and hand. Kubica required several transfusions during the procedure to stabilize his condition after losing a lot of blood following the high-speed accident. But in a statement on the team's official website, they said that Kubica had been briefly woken by doctors at the Santa Corona hospital in Pietra Ligure and was able to talk to his relatives. "He was also able to move his fingers, which is an encouraging sign for the rest of the recovery process," it said. Dr. Mario Igor Rosello, the specialist who operated on Kubica, claimed the lack of swelling or infection on his right forearm was also a "good sign" but added it will be "several days before it is known if the operation is 100 per cent successful." Kubica badly hurt in rallying crash . Kubica suffered multiple fractures to his right arm and leg after hitting a guard rail when he lost control of his Skoda Fabia during the Ronde de Andorra rally in Italy. With the first race of the new Formula One season in Bahrain next month, his Lotus Renault team defended Kubica's decision to take part in a rally so close to the start of the season. "He loves rallying," team boss Eric Boullier told Italian news agency Ansa. "We knew the risks and so did he. We didn't want a robot or a corporate man for a driver. It was agreed."
Kubica finished 2010 in eighth position and was due to start his fifth campaign as a first-choice driver, but there are now doubts as to whether the former Sauber driver will be fit to play any part in the 2011 campaign. When asked about the length of time it could take for 2008 Canadian Grand Prix winner to recover, Rossello is reported by the BBC to have said, "One year. One year is the best provision." Kubica also suffered fractures to his shoulder and elbow and Lotus Renault said the hospital would decide over the next few days if further operations were necessary on these injuries. Support has been offered from throughout the close-knit world of F1 for the only Polish driver to have ever driven at this level, including a specially-designed "Twibbon" on the social-networking site Twitter. McLaren's 2009 world champion Jenson Button tweeted, "Shocking news about Robert Kubica. I wish him a speedy recovery." Another driver to offer his sympathies was Williams' veteran Brazilian Rubens Barrichello, who used his Twitter blog to say, "I would like to ask you for your best wishes to Kubica," and "we all like him and he deserves all the best." If Kubica is unable to take to the grid for the start of the season, Lotus Renault may choose to promote one of their two reserve drivers. The team's two options are Bruno Senna, who raced for HRT in 2010, and Frenchman Romain Grosjean. The 2011 Formula One season is set to get underway at Bahrain's International Circuit on March 13.
The boss of HSBC was last night facing questions over his secretive tax affairs after claiming he sheltered money in a Swiss bank account to prevent prying colleagues from finding out his bonus. Speaking publicly for the first time since revelations about HSBC’s Swiss private bank, Stuart Gulliver described his ‘shame’ at allegations that the lender routinely helped clients including arms dealers and blood diamond smugglers evade taxes. But he was also forced to defend his own finances after leaked documents revealed he sheltered some £5million in bonuses in an HSBC account in Switzerland under the name of a Panamanian company. Leaked files reportedly show that Stuart Gulliver (pictured), chief executive since 2011, held £5million in the bank's Geneva-based subsidiary that was at the centre of a huge tax avoidance scandal . This lasted from 1998 until 2011, when he became chief executive and his pay details had to be published anyway. Last night one accountant described the complex arrangement in Switzerland as a ‘classic case of tax avoidance’. The HSBC boss was also facing questions after revealing that he is domiciled in Hong Kong for tax purposes despite being born in Derby and living in the UK. Mr Gulliver, 55, said the computer systems on the trading floor enabled staff to find out how much their colleagues were being paid in bonuses. As he was often the best paid employee at the bank, he said he was particularly keen to stop this happening and set up a Swiss bank account to keep his pay secret. Mr Gulliver added that he used the Panama structure purely to prevent colleagues in Switzerland finding how much he was being paid. The revelation comes after leaked documents from HSBC Private Bank in Switzerland (pictured) between 2005 and 2007 showed it had helped the rich and famous avoid millions in tax . He said there was ‘no tax advantage’ and declared that he has paid full UK tax on his earnings since moving from Hong Kong to London with HSBC in 2003.
Springing to his defence, the bank’s chairman, Douglas Flint, said: ‘There is absolutely no story here. There is nothing that Stuart has done that is not absolutely transparent, legal and appropriate.’ Seeking to justify his tax status, Mr Gulliver said he had spent the majority of his 35-year career at HSBC in Hong Kong and plans to return there when he steps down from the bank. Businesses are expected to behave better than the armed forces and the church, HSBC’s chief executive complained yesterday. Expressing his exasperation with regulators, Stuart Gulliver said: ‘We seem now to be holding publicly listed companies to a different standard than we might hold the armed forces, the church or any large organisation. ‘It seems to be a notion that Douglas [HSBC chairman Douglas Flint] and I should know what every single one of our 257,000 staff is doing all day long. That isn’t normally how large organisations can run.’ HSBC has been criticised as being ‘too big to manage’ after a series of scandals flared up on Mr Gulliver’s watch. It was fined £1.2billion by US regulators in 2012 after lax controls meant it became the ‘bank of choice’ for Mexican drug cartels wanting to launder money. It was also fined £400million by UK and US authorities last November for rigging the £3.5trillion a day foreign exchange market. David Buik from broker Panmure Gordon said: ‘Mr Gulliver may be right that companies are being held to higher standards. But to complain about it does sound a bit rich given the litany of misdemeanours at banks. They have brought it on themselves.’ ‘I would expect to die abroad,’ he added. But the comments received short shrift last night.
Richard Murphy, a tax accountant, said he was ‘astonished’ that HM Revenue & Customs has allowed Mr Gulliver to remain domiciled in Hong Kong despite the fact that he has lived in the UK for the past 12 years. ‘Being paid in a Swiss bank account via a company is a classic case of tax avoidance,’ he said. ‘But the big question is how on earth a man can leave the UK at the age of 21, come back 12 years ago and remain permanently domiciled in Hong Kong. I am astonished this has been accepted by the HMRC. ‘There are clearly advantages to this arrangement. Among other things it allows Mr Gulliver to avoid inheritance tax.’ Although there is no suggestion that Mr Gulliver has done anything illegal, the spotlight on his personal finances comes as HSBC is under scrutiny over allegations that its private Swiss bank helped clients evade taxes. Yesterday Mr Gulliver said the wrongdoing was a ‘source of shame and reputational damage to HSBC’. Despite this he received a £7.6million pay package last year, including a £1.3million bonus. This was a drop from his £8million package in 2013 – his bonus was cut by £500,000 to reflect other wrongdoing at the bank. HSBC said its profits fell by 17 per cent last year to £12.2billion, while the bonus pool was cut from £2.6billion to £2.4billion.
(CNN)He's a man that divides opinion and in the past has even jokingly compared himself to a James Bond villain stroking a white Persian cat. But forget felines -- it's equine beasts that really stir the emotions of the head of world football's governing body, Sepp Blatter. FIFA president since 1998 and bidding for a fifth term in the post, horses have always played a big part in the 78-year-old's life. "When I was a young boy in my home city of Visp, which is a very small village, our neighbors, our uncles and especially my godfather had a horse," Blatter told CNN Equestrian, reflecting on his Swiss childhood. "And the horse for me was always very attractive," he added. "I was also in the Swiss Army as a high-level officer, I was a commander of a regiment -- definitely [there] you have contact with horses." Blatter, who has been involved with FIFA since 1975, was recently a special guest at the CSI Zurich horse show. It's an event the Swiss has always made room for in his diary despite the challenge of running football's world governing body. "This is what we like in football -- connecting people," Blatter said, comparing the world of equestrian and football. "And you have seen the public, the public is happy with that. Because it's the big presentation, they listen, they listen. "And here [at the horse show] they go, it's like football. It's like a football game. And I like that." FIFA even sponsors a spin-off event at the CSI Zurich show, involving parents and children competing together as a team in horse jumping and with a ball at their feet. "Sepp Blatter is a good friend of us," said CSI Zurich co-president Rolf Theiler.
"I remember 15 years ago, it was the first time he was at the horse show and he saw the spectators, he saw the horses and said, 'FIFA must be a sponsor at the horse show.' "I said, 'Sepp is that possible?' and he said, 'I will do sponsoring at the horse show with FIFA.' It's fantastic." The FIFA chief added: "It's a family prize and this is wonderful. It's not about who's the best, but the best combination." He might have a special place in his heart for horses, but Blatter admits to having always preferred to admire them from afar rather than jump on board one. "The horse for me was always very attractive," he said. "But I have to say for the benefit of the horses, they didn't like me so much."
James Cosmo has starred in films including Braveheart, while former Dr Who star Karen Gillan has now turned her hand to directing. EIFF artistic director Mark Adams said: "We are thrilled to add two Scottish luminaries to our illustrious troop of EIFF honorary patrons." James Cosmo said: "It's a real honour, and a genuine privilege." Karen Gillan said of her new role: "I am so thrilled. "I moved to Edinburgh, from Inverness, when I was 16 to study acting. I developed such a creative connection with the city. So to come back and celebrate Scottish and international filmmaking is an honour."
Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Outpost shows you the world like you’ve never seen it. The series lives at the intersection of investigative journalism and adventure travel, bringing you a local perspective on faraway places and inviting you to explore. The series premieres March 26 @ 8 and 11 PM on Fusion TV. In the first episode, transgender model Carmen Carrera travels to Brazil, a place where rates of violence against LGBT people are some of the highest in the world, to find out what’s happening, what life is like for young transgendered people in Brazil, and what the future might hold. Gabriel Leigh takes us to El Alto, Bolivia, where some of the craziest architecture on earth is taking shape as part of a surge in indigenous purchasing power. FILE - In this Monday, Oct. 10, 2016, file photo, Mike Tyson attends a World Team Tennis exhibition to benefit the Elton John AIDS Foundation in Las Vegas. Tyson traveled to Suriname as part of the new (Associated Press) FILE - In this Monday, Oct. 10, 2016, file photo, Mike Tyson attends a World Team Tennis exhibition to benefit the Elton John AIDS Foundation in Las Vegas. Tyson traveled to Suriname as part of the new Fusion TV documentary series “Outpost” and was soundly beaten when he entered a bird in a songbird (Associated Press) FILE - In this Monday, Oct. 10, 2016, file photo, Mike Tyson attends a World Team Tennis exhibition to benefit the Elton John AIDS Foundation in Las Vegas.
Tyson traveled to Suriname as part of the new Fusion TV documentary series “Outpost” and was soundly beaten when he entered a bird in a songbird (Associated Press) FILE - In this Monday, Oct. 10, 2016, file photo, Mike Tyson attends a World Team Tennis exhibition to benefit the Elton John AIDS Foundation in Las Vegas. Tyson traveled to Suriname as part of the new (Associated Press) NEW YORK (AP) — Over his career, former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson recorded 50 wins and six losses. But he recently notched another big loss in Latin America — this time as a coach of a bird. Tyson traveled to Suriname as part of the new Fusion TV documentary series "Outpost " and was soundly beaten when he entered a bird in a songbird contest, a cherished local tradition. Cameras captured Iron Mike as he learned about the contest, located a bird to enter — he dubbed the tiny guy "Little Mike" — but then suffered a TKO when a competing champion cheeped and peeped more than his bird did in the same 15-minute period. "Little Mike let us down, man. I was in his corner, though," said Tyson by phone from Las Vegas. "It was just amazing meeting the people, meeting the culture — I had a great time." The series, kicking off on Sunday with Tyson's episode, mixes travel adventure, history and journalism to shine a light on global stories. The first season focuses on Latin America and includes as hosts "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" bandleader Jon Batiste, "Brain Games" star Jason Silva, and transgender model Carmen Carrera. Spanish versions air on UniMas. Tyson was lured onto the show by the chance to visit a country he'd never heard of and his love of birds. The former boxer has loved pigeons and raced them since he was a kid in Brooklyn.
(Sunday's show recorded the moment Tyson lovingly released the bird in Suriname he competed with.) "My wife always says, 'The reason I keep my pigeons is they connect me to my childhood,'" Tyson said. "Once it's in your blood, it never leaves. It's just who you are." Back home, Tyson is watching his former profession lose out to professional mixed martial arts but thinks he may have the answer to put the "sweet science" back on top: A compelling boxer somehow unifies the heavyweight title. "We haven't had a really good, exciting heavyweight champion in a long time," he said. ___ Online: http://fusion.net/series/outpost
By . Peter Allen . PUBLISHED: . 04:57 EST, 20 March 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 05:33 EST, 20 March 2013 . investigations: The French Foreign office is investigating reports that geologist Philippe Verdon was beheaded by terror group Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb on March 10 . Al Qaeda terrorists today claimed to have beheaded a French hostage in retaliation for his country’s war in Mali. Foreign Office officials in Paris said they were trying to verify reports of the horrific death of Philippe Verdon, who has been in captivity for the past 14 months. Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), which is waging a terrorist campaign against the French Army in Mali, claims it cut the geologist’s head off on March 10 ‘in response to France’s intervention in Northern Mali.’ Referring to Francois Hollande, a spokesman for the group calling himself Al-Qairawani added: ‘The French President Hollande is responsible for the lives of the other French hostages.’ There are at least 14 French hostages currently held by Al Qaeda in west Africa, including seven by AQIM. It means that France, which has already lost five soldiers fighting in Mali since the war started in January, is slowly being sucked into an increasingly bloody terrorist war. Mr Hollande sent a force into Mali specifically to prevent the north of the country from being used as a launch pad for terror attacks in Africa and in the West. Mr Verdon, who is in his 50s, was captured on November 24 2011 along with Serge Lazarevic, a colleague. The men, who were on a business trip, were kidnapped from their hotel in Hombori, in the north of Mali. AQIM claimed that both men were secret agents or mercenaries, and later released a video of Mr Verdon in captivity.
The hostages’ families have expressed growing fears about the men’s safety, especially following the invasion of Mali. On Monday, Mr Verdon’s father . Jean-Pierre Verdon said: ‘We are in a total fog and it is impossible to . live this way. We have no information.’ Captured: Mr Verdon has been held captive for 14 months, having been captured on November 24 2011 along with colleague Serge Lazarevic . No information: On Monday, Mr Verdon¿s father Jean-Pierre Verdon said: ¿We are in a total fog and it is impossible to live this way. We have no information¿ . The Verdon family were particularly concerned by Mr Hollande’s firm announcement that France would not pay ransoms. French forces arrived in Mali on January 11 to help the Malian Army against Al-Qaeda fighters who had controlled the north of the country since April 2012. France now has more than 4,000 troops on the ground in Mali, most carrying out clean-up operations after driving out most of the Islamist rebels from the area. Senior Al-Qaeda commanders Mokhtar Belmokhtar and Abdelhamid Abou Zeid are believed to have been killed in Mali earlier this month. A rescue operation ordered by Mr Hollande to free a French secret agent held hostage in Somalia since mid-2009 ended in failure in January after he was killed along with two French soldiers.
Fellow centre Duncan Taylor, of Saracens, is back after missing the autumn Tests through injury. Uncapped Edinburgh forwards Simon Berghan and Cornell du Preez are included but David Denton is not fit. Alasdair Dickinson is also absent through injury, while fellow Edinburgh prop WP Nel is listed but is a doubt with a neck problem. Nel lasted just 27 minutes of his return from a long injury lay-off at the weekend and is awaiting the results of a scan. This year's championship will be New Zealander Cotter's last in charge of the national side. He will take over as Montpellier coach this summer and will be replaced by Glasgow Warriors' Gregor Townsend. The Scots open their Six Nations campaign at home to Ireland on 4 February before facing France away eight days later. With Dickinson missing and doubts over Nel, Newcastle front-rower Jon Welsh returns for the first time since the 2015 World Cup. John Hardie, who started all five matches in last year's tournament, is another Edinburgh player in Cotter's plans working his way back to fitness. Edinburgh lock Ben Toolis is also selected having not appeared since the Six Nations of 2015. "It's a well-balanced and exciting group that have played a lot of rugby together, know each other well and are ambitious to do well in a Scotland jersey," said Cotter. "I think if we get our mind-set right we can be competitive and push for wins in every game in this campaign." Last year, Scotland finished fourth in the championship after victories against Italy and France. In November's autumn Tests, the Scots beat Argentina and Georgia after a narrow defeat by Australia. BBC Scotland's Tom English The competition in Scotland's midfield is now fierce. This is probably - almost certainly - the best set of centres the country has ever had. Cotter has named five - Mark Bennett, Alex Dunbar, Huw Jones, Matt Scott and Duncan Taylor.
Alasdair Dickinson's injury is a blow. Scotland could do with his experience at loosehead. Scotland squad: Forwards: Alex Allan, Zander Fagerson, Gordon Reid (all Glasgow Warriors), Simon Berghan, Allan Dell, Willem Nel (all Edinburgh Rugby), Jon Welsh (Newcastle Falcons), Fraser Brown (Glasgow Warriors), Ross Ford, Stuart McInally (both Edinburgh Rugby), Jonny Gray (Glasgow Warriors), Richie Gray (Toulouse), Grant Gilchrist (Edinburgh Rugby), Tim Swinson (Glasgow Warriors), Ben Toolis (Edinburgh Rugby), John Barclay (Scarlets), Cornell Du Preez, John Hardie, Hamish Watson (all Edinburgh Rugby), Rob Harley, Josh Strauss, Ryan Wilson (all Glasgow Warriors) Backs: Greig Laidlaw (Gloucester), Ali Price, Henry Pyrgos, Finn Russell (all Glasgow Warriors), Duncan Weir (Edinburgh Rugby), Mark Bennett, Alex Dunbar (Glasgow Warriors), Huw Jones (Stormers), Matt Scott (Gloucester), Duncan Taylor (Saracens), Stuart Hogg (Glasgow Warriors), Damien Hoyland (Edinburgh Rugby), Sean Maitland (Saracens), Tommy Seymour (Glasgow Warriors), Tim Visser (Harlequins) 4 February - Scotland v Ireland (14:25) 12 February - France v Scotland (15:00) 25 February - Scotland v Wales (14:25) 11 March - England v Scotland (16:00) 18 March - Scotland v Italy (12:30)
The incident happened at the Aberdeen Sea Cadets base at Pocra Quay. Police Scotland had described it as a "disgraceful incident". Police said a 34-year old man was expected to appear at Aberdeen Sheriff Court, but the Crown Office later said he was freed from custody pending further inquiries.
Mike Jones, who led Cheshire West & Chester Council until 2015, spent £4,889 on a credit card for travel, food and accommodation, and failed to provide some receipts. The authority's rules state those type of credit card transactions are "barred" and receipts must be provided. A police review is also under way. Mr Jones said he met the rules. In February, council officials announced an internal review of Mr Jones' credit card transactions, after details of his spending were revealed by the Chester Chronicle. The BBC has been told the review will look into why the card was used for "subsistence, travel and accommodation", and also why receipts were not provided on 75 occasions, after new rules were introduced in 2013. A "purchase card procedure" introduced in January 2013 states it "must not" be used to pay for food, drinks, travel, parking or accommodation. A list of transactions shows Mr Jones' card was used for those purposes between 2010 and 2015, as well as paying for hospitality expenses. Mr Jones was the only councillor to own a council credit card when he ran the Conservative-led Cheshire West & Chester Council from 2009 until elections in 2015, when Labour gained control. He is now a backbench Conservative councillor for Tattenhall. Some of Mike Jones' expenses paid for on his council credit card include: In total, the card was used to spend £2,383 on the "barred" categories after the new rules were introduced. Mr Jones said he was given an exemption allowing him to use his card to pay for parking, adding that some of his transactions may have related to work he carried out for the Local Government Association. Records released under the Freedom of Information Act reveal Mr Jones did not provide receipts for transactions which mostly included parking and rail travel, despite rules saying "cardholders are required to retain all purchase receipts".
He said: "In all the cases where receipts are issued I have passed them into the council and if they are missing, unfortunately I have no idea why they have not been recorded. "Expenses and use of the purchase card were properly scrutinised by officers and our audit staff. No such issue was raised with me," he said. Council spokesman Mark Wynn said: "Councillor Jones, in his role as leader, met with potential external investors with a view to attracting regeneration and development to the borough. "The council has reviewed all the transactions brought to its attention and responded accordingly and is conducting its own internal review." Cheshire Police received a complaint from a former Cheshire West & Chester councillor in February. It said: "The allegation is currently being reviewed, in order to establish whether any offences may have been committed."
Nick Clegg wants new laws to protect journalists' sources . Nick Clegg has demanded new laws to ban police from accessing journalists' phone records to identify their sources without a judge's warrant. The Deputy Prime Minister has written to the Home Secretary Theresa May urging her to introduce the new protections before the end of the month. It comes after an official government report found there were not 'adequate safeguards to protect journalistic sources'. Sir Anthony May, the Interception of Communications Commissioner, said the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act – Ripa – left journalists unprotected. His report said: 'It is recommended that judicial authorisation is obtained in cases where communications data is sought to determine the source of journalistic information.' A review of the use of the Ripa surveillance powers was launched in October after alarm was expressed about incidents such as Scotland Yard accessing the phone records of Sun reporter Tom Newton Dunn to find who had leaked information on the Plebgate row. The commissioner found that over a three-year period 19 police forces had sought communications data in relation to 34 investigations into illicit dealings between public officials and journalists. Some 608 applications for such data were authorised, by a ranking officer. But the report stressed that was just 0.1% of the total applications authorised by police under the legislation. It also concluded that police had not used Ripa to circumvent other legislation and forces were not 'randomly trawling communications data relating to journalists in order to identify their sources'. 'Generally speaking, the police forces did not give the question of necessity, proportionality and collateral intrusion sufficient consideration,' the report said. 'They focused on privacy considerations (Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights) and did not give due consideration to freedom of speech (Article 10). 'The current Home Office Code of Practice (and the recently revised draft Code said to provide protection for sensitive professions) do not provide adequate safeguards to protect journalistic sources or prevent unnecessary or disproportionate intrusions.'
The Prime Minister's official spokesman said David Cameron accepted the commissioner's recommendation. 'He very much welcomes the report. He believes that the report makes the case well for the judicial oversight it recommends in cases of data comms applications that are relevant to journalistic sources and that is why the Government is accepting that recommendation,' the spokesman said. The Home Secretary Theresa May is under pressure to introduce new laws forcing the police to get a warrant before accessing journalists' phone records . In a letter to Home Secretary Theresa May, Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg called for legislation to be brought forward later this month. 'As you know, I have consistently raised my concerns about the protection of journalists' sources in relation to acquisition of communications data under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act,' Mr Clegg wrote. 'The report published today by the Interception of Communications Commissioner recommends that 'judicial authorisation must be obtained in cases where communications data is sought to determine the source of journalistic information'. 'We have an opportunity to act on this recommendation at report stage of the Serious Crime Bill in the Commons on February 23. I hope that you will look urgently at drafting Government amendments to that effect.'
It looked at alternatives and outlined three options, one based on property, the others on land and income. The cross-party body believed any new system should continue to be one of "general tax" rather than a "system of charges for specific services". Scottish councils typically raise 15p of every pound spent from council tax. The predominant view of the commission is that local government's tax base should, if it could be proved feasible, be broadened to include income The report has not recommended any particular option but hopes to inform the debate ahead of next year's Holyrood election. The current system contributes Â£2bn to help pay for local government expenditure such as refuse and recycling, education, roads maintenance and leisure facilities. The commission outlined three alternatives which could bring in a similar sum of money; Its report said: "The predominant view of the commission is that local government's tax base should, if it could be proved feasible, be broadened to include income. "Income is widely perceived to be a fairer basis on which to levy a tax, although a locally variable income tax presents substantial administrative challenges." The reform group was set up by the Scottish government and the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities in February 2015 and was tasked with examining alternatives that would "deliver a fairer system of local taxation". It listed a number of recommendations, including; The report added: "We believe this is the time to reform local taxation. We have conducted more in-depth analysis of potential forms of tax available than ever before to inform debate and the construction of detailed proposals. "We have concluded that there is no one ideal tax but we have shown that there are ways of designing a better tax system. "There is now a real prospect of beginning a programme to make local taxation fairer - more progressive, more stable, more efficient and more locally empowering."
Marco Biagi,Scottish government's Minister for Local Government - "We will consider the findings of the report carefully and we will set out our detailed proposals for reform by the end of the parliamentary term, embodying the principles of the commission's report." Jackie Baillie, Scottish Labour's public services spokeswoman - "This is a comprehensive report that looks at a number of different options for local government finance. The challenge for all political parties now is to consider these options and come forward with their solution to put to the electorate next year." Willie Rennie, Scottish Liberal Democrat leader - "This report sets out plenty of alternatives for the reform of local government finance but after eight years, people might have expected more from a government that said it was committed to reforming the council tax system." Ruth Davidson, Scottish Conservative leader - "The Scottish Conservatives decided to set up an independent commission into fair and competitive taxation last year, headed by Sir Iain McMillan, to study these issues. Once that has reported, we will set out our own plans on local taxation." Andy Wightman, Scottish Green MSP candidate and commission member - "The Scottish Green Party will consider the findings of the commission carefully and bring forward proposals in our manifesto for the 2016 Holyrood election."
You will never want to take the stairs or lift again after taking a whirl on this slide that will make you feel like a kid again. With an eye toward catering to customers’ every need, a luxury bunkhouse in South Wales has installed an indoor slide as an alternative to the stairs. Guests can make a speedy exit from the huge sofas on the top level down to the ground level, adding a playful twist to the average group holiday. Indoor playground: Wye Valley Canoe Centre has installed a slide between the two levels of its bunkhouse . The floor-to-floor tubular slide has been a hit with guests since it was added to the contemporary bunkhouse at the Wye Valley Canoe Centre at Glasbury. Owner Jane Hughes said: ‘A customer asked me if I was going to have a slide in it and, well, that was it. An imaginative local playground designer contacted a German company who made it for us. ‘It is primarily a space for adults to chill, to lounge on enormous sofas or flop into bean bags and whoosh down the slide. I love it and I think everyone else does too.’ Located on the River Wye in the Brecon Beacons mountain range, the bunkhouse is a converted chapel located next to the Wye Valley Canoe Centre’s River Café, where visitors can hire canoes, kayaks, mountain bikes, tandems and Vespas. Feel like a kid again: The slide has been a hit with guests since it was added to the bunkhouse . With enough room for 20 people, the bunkhouse is ideal for family gatherings or hen or stag parties . The bunkhouse is a converted chapel located on the River Wye in the Brecon Beacons mountain range . With enough room for 20 people, the bunkhouse opened last June and is ideal for gatherings of family or friends, work outings or hen and stag parties.
It features three bathrooms, a furnished kitchen, wood-burning stove and drying and washing facilities. Prices range from £1,070 for a two-night weekend stay to £2,450 for Christmas and New Year’s weeks. Look out below: Guests can make a speedy exit from the huge sofas on the top level down to the ground level . Sleeping in comfort: The contemporary bunkhouse has 12 luxury bunks and one large double bed . Time to eat: Guests can help themselves in a furnished kitchen or relax in front of a wood-burning stove .
Frustrated holidaymakers faced long delays at airports yesterday on the first full day of increased security checks. Queues stretched outside the terminal doors at one airport because of the crackdown – brought in amid fears Al Qaeda has developed a ‘stealth bomb’ undetectable to scanners. Air passengers around the country were subjected to ‘vigorous’ body searches, with their shoes removed and swabbed for traces of explosives. Gatwick: Travellers faced delays getting inside the terminal building after the security crackdown . Queues at Manchester Airport this morning, the day after new security checks were brought in to search for so-called 'stealth bombs' which are feared to be undetectable to airport scanners . Passengers joined queues starting outside Manchester airport today, with many complaining of delays . They were also told to switch on their tablets, smartphones and laptops to prove they are not hiding something more sinister. Some customers said it took them 90 minutes just to get through security – and holidaymakers have now been warned to allow for least three hours before their flight time. Angry travellers branded the delays an ‘absolute joke’ and ‘like wading through treacle’. Airline chiefs are braced for further problems as one of the busiest weekends of the summer gets underway. The checks have been brought in due to fears that Al Qaeda’s top bomb-maker Ibrahim Al-Asiri has developed a non-metallic ‘stealth bomb’ that can be hidden inside human bodies or other devices. The use of body scanners, swabs and patting down have all been increased at UK airports while some bags are being searched twice. Passengers are removing shoes and belts as a matter of course, while those on US-bound flights are likely to face further screening and searches of bags at the boarding gates. The alert has sparked fears of a summer of travel chaos with holidaymakers facing invasive personal checks and long delays.
Heathrow alone handles more than 190,000 passengers a day and across the country 24million people will fly abroad before September – 3million to the US. A spokesman for travel industry body ABTA said: ‘The main thing is to make sure that airports have sufficient measures in place to ensure all the available security gates are open.’ At Manchester Airport, officials said problems were made worse by many travellers arriving earlier than normal because of the extra checks. Some complained they were left standing outside the terminal building before they could even check in. Sam Lavelle posted pictures of fellow passengers queuing in the drop-off zone outside Terminal One, writing: ‘The queue is literally outside the door and onto the road.’ Elissa Corrigan described the wait as ‘soul destroying’. And Ian Moreno-Melgar, who was heading to Belfast for a wedding, tweeted: ‘Queuing in the car park for security isn’t normal.’ But at Heathrow passengers appeared resigned to longer and more intrusive searches as they were subjected to what one termed ‘American-style security’. Passengers wait at Heathrow Airport this morning as security staff carry out more stringent security checks . Queues to get to security at Glasgow Airport, where passengers complained of waiting times today . Christian Radnedge, who was flying to Houston, said: ‘Everyone is taking their shoes off, there are pat-downs on almost everyone after being screened, a few people are having their bags tested.’ A traveller flying to California said it was a price worth paying for ‘staying safe in a dangerous world’. And Paul Kenyon, 59, of Poynton, Cheshire, who was on his way to Bologna, said: ‘They were looking at Apple computer equipment closely and they took my washbag through the machine a couple of times as I had my contact lenses in liquid inside.
‘Nobody was moaning about the extra time and it’s not that much of a hassle. As long as you leave yourself plenty of time then you’ll get on your flight.’ Last night, traveller Matteo Pescarin posted a photo of a crammed North Terminal at Gatwick Airport as hundreds of passengers queued to go through security. Taking the chaos with good humour, David Silvester tweeted: ‘Just had my croissants x-rayed and then inspected ’ At Glasgow Airport, passengers also faced waits. Norma Decent, 59, from Stranraer, said: ‘I understand why they’re doing it, but it all seems a little excessive to me.’ Laura Macpherson, 42, from Paisley, added: ‘It’s better to be safe than sorry.’ Don't go to Syria, imams urge young Britons . Muslim leaders yesterday launched an unprecedented appeal to would-be young British jihadists: Don’t travel to fight in Syria and Iraq. Some 100 imams asked the UK’s Muslim community to help prevent radicalised youngsters joining militants abroad. Muslims should continue the ‘generous and tireless’ support for those caught up in the bloodshed – but from the UK in a ‘safe and responsible way’, they said. Chilling: British jihadists in a recruitment video aimed at youngsters in the UK . The call was made by leaders from different Islamic theological backgrounds and was echoed by imams during Friday prayers. It came as claims emerged yesterday that up to three Al Qaeda instructors tutored by master bomb-maker Ibrahim Al-Asiri are believed to have slipped in to Syria to teach British and other Europeans jihadists to make ‘stealth bombs’.
And a British man who claims he has been fighting in Syria told the BBC he will not return to the UK until he can raise ‘the black flag of Islam’ over Downing Street and Buckingham Palace. Speaking with a northern accent, the man, who called himself Abu Osama, said he had received military training, making bombs and fighting with the extremist Al-Nusra Front, linked to Al Qaeda. He claimed to have been fighting for the establishment of a caliphate – which he referred to by the Arabic term Khilafah – across the Islamic world. ‘There is nothing in Britain – it is just pure evil,’ he said. ‘If and when I come back to Britain it will be when this Khilafah – this Islamic state – comes to conquer Britain and I come to raise the black flag of Islam over Downing Street, over Buckingham Palace, over Tower Bridge and over Big Ben. I don’t want to come back to what I have left behind.’ Osama said he initially faced opposition from his family but they now ‘understand that this is a good cause I am in’. It emerged yesterday that there are already believed to be three Al Qaeda instructors trained in bomb-making in Syria. It is feared they are poised to tutor young British Muslims who have travelled there in the art of making ‘invisible bombs’ – non-metallic devices that can get past airport scanners and can even be stitched inside a suicide bomber’s body. Security officers are said to have identified more than 100 of the 600 Britons currently fighting in Syria while US investigators have given their UK counterparts ‘dozens of names of interest’. However the US, which has demanded increased security at British airports, also accused the UK of ignoring for too long the threat posed by men like Osama.
Frank Gaffney, former assistant secretary of defence under Ronald Reagan, said British governments ‘turned a blind eye’ to recruitment operations and ‘embraced extremists’. He said of the Western jihadists in Iraq and Syria: ‘What they learn there are the skill sets to bring violence to us.’ US officials say iPhones (left) and Samsung Galaxy phones (right) could be subject to greater checks . In 2010, an Al Qaeda group crammed explosives into computer printers before smuggling them onto planes .
Rome, Italy (CNN) -- Two Pakistani men accused of providing logistical support for last year's deadly terror attacks in Mumbai, India, were arrested Saturday in Italy, police said. They were arrested in the northern Italian city of Brescia, said Stefano Fonzi, head of Italy's Division of General Investigations and Special Operations. The attacks on India's largest city lasted four days. The attackers targeted several sites in Mumbai, taking over several hotels and a Jewish center. The attacks left 160 people dead. On November 25, 2008, the day before the attacks in Mumbai, the two men arrested allegedly transferred $229 that was used to activate Internet phone lines used by the suspects. Two others connected with the longstanding money transfer agency in Brescia also were arrested for other illegal activity, Fonzi told CNN. Police are looking for a fifth man. Italian police started their investigation the following month after being alerted by Indian authorities and the FBI that funds had been transferred from Italy, Fonzi said. Authorities suspected the agency after money was transferred under the Muslim name of a man who had never entered Italy, a police statement said. Indian police have said 10 Pakistanis were involved in the deadly assault, nine of whom were killed in the carnage. The lone surviving suspect has linked the coordinated shooting and bombing incidents to the leader of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, a militant group that is banned in India. CNN's Hada Messia in Rome contributed to this report.
CAIRO, Egypt (CNN) -- An Egyptian real estate mogul and a former police officer pleaded not guilty Saturday to the murder of a rising Lebanese pop singer who was found slain in her United Arab Emirates apartment. Lebanese singer Suzanne Tamim was found slain in her apartment in Dubai in July. Prosecutors allege that Hisham Talaat Moustafa, a Parliament member for the ruling National Democratic Party, paid Muhsen el Sukkari $2 million to kill Suzanne Tamim. Both have denied the charges. Tamim, 30, was found in her Dubai apartment in July with her throat slit. Moustafa's lawyer told CNN his client loved the singer, but could not take Tamim as a second wife because his family objected. Polygamy is legal in Egypt, and it not unusual for men -- such as Moustafa, a married father of three -- to take on additional wives. The prosecutors say the murder was a "means of taking revenge" but have not elaborated. Watch report on murder trial » . "It did not happen and I have presented all the evidence that I am not guilty," Moustafa said in the courtroom Saturday, according to Reuters. "It did not happen," Sukkari said, according to Reuters. "By Almighty God, my blood is innocent of her." Although Tamim was killed in the United Arab Emirates, the Egyptian judiciary is trying the case in Cairo because Egyptian law does not allow its citizens to be extradited for trials in other countries. The defendants appeared Saturday in cages -- as is typical in Egypt -- before three judges in a crowded downtown courtroom. Heavy security surrounded the building, amid a crush of reporters and onlookers. The case, with its high-profile victim and defendant, has captivated Egypt and the region. After his arrest in September, Egyptian authorities indicted Moustafa, stripped him of his parliamentary immunity and jailed him pending trial.
He also resigned as chairman of Talaat Moustafa Group -- a conglomerate with construction and real estate arms that was founded by his father, Talaat Moustafa. Moustafa's brother, Tarek Talaat Moustafa, now chairs the company. The case will resume on November 15. The defendants will remain jailed until then.
A slender mother-of-four devoured a 72oz steak in 2 minutes 44 seconds, earning her a place in the world record books - and a spot of indigestion, no doubt. Molly Schuyler, 34, of Nebraska, uploaded a video to YouTube showing her tackling the hefty lump of beef at Sayler's Old Country Kitchen in Portland on January 3. Instead of using a knife and fork she is seen eating with her hands. When she is a third of the way through the meat feast, a spectator exclaims: 'This is where most men stop . . . after an hour', but Ms Schuyler perseveres. Scroll down for video . Large appetite: Molly Schuyler wolfed down a 72oz steak in 2 minutes 44 seconds, earning her a place in the world record books - and a spot of indigestion, no doubt . She manages to obliterate the previous 72oz steak-eating world record - which stood at 6 minutes and 48 seconds and was held by a 'body building huge man' - by cleaning her plate in less than half the time. Despite the colossal size of her dish, Mrs Schuyler's appetite continues to roll, and she is seen reaching for handfuls of fries after taking a gulp of water. Ready, set, go! The 34-year-old uploaded a video to YouTube showing her tackling the hefty lump of beef at Sayler's Old Country Kitchen in Portland on January 3 . No time wasted: Instead of using a knife and fork she is seen eating with her hands . Final mouthful! The previous world record, apparently held by a 'huge male body builder', stood at 6 minutes and 48 seconds . Room for more: Despite the colossal size of her dish, Mrs Schuyler's appetite continues to roll, and she is seen reaching for handfuls of fries . Just the day before, on January 2, Mrs .
Schuyler smashed another record by demolishing a 12lb sandwich, 1lb of French fries and a large soda as part of the Mad Greek Deli . Challenge in Portland. She completed the incredible feat in 54 minutes and was the only woman to finish. A $650 cash prize was awarded to her for finishing the food. Video courtesy: Big Eaters Club . The size of a baby! An image of the Sayler's Old Country Kitchen 72oz steak . Non stop: On January 2 Mrs Schuyler smashed another record by demolishing a 12-pound sandwich, one pound of French fries and a large soda as part of the Mad Greek Deli Challenge in Portland . When asked what the toughest part was Mrs Schuyler, who works as a restaurant server, said the meat because she doesn't like salami or pepperoni. Talking about her speed-eating abilities, she added: ‘It's an unexplained phenomenon. ‘I was just born that way. I started doing this about a year ago, and I guess it's like a stupid human trick.' Her husband, Sean, also says she is 'amazing when it comes to eating.' In 2013 Mrs Schuyler competed in more than 20 different food eating contests across the country. Slender: Mrs Schuyler's slim physique, and the fact that she has birthed four kids, may come as a surprise to those who've watched her eat . New-found skill: Mrs Schuyler, a full-time server, only started eating competitively last August . Victories included eating 9lbs of fried mushrooms in 8 minutes and eight beef patties in 1 minute and 46 seconds. She also beat ‘Man vs Food’s Adam Richman at Jethro's BBQ Diner challenge in Iowa by polishing off a 5lb meat sandwich made of pork, chicken, bacon, brisket and deep fried cheese in less than eight minutes.
All Pro Eating, the world's only independent competitive eating organization, lists her as the world's number one female.
Huddersfield were playing in their first top-flight game since 1972 after winning promotion from the Championship via the play-offs last season. A Joel Ward own goal put them ahead before Mounie struck twice. "A start like this is amazing," said the Benin international. "We worked all day during pre-season, we worked hard and the coach gave a us a lot of advice. The consequences of our work has shown. "It is crazy, I will take a picture of the table." Mounie scored 11 goals for Montpellier in France's Ligue 1 last season before joining the Terriers for a club-record £12m in the summer. The 22-year-old, one of eight new arrivals at the West Yorkshire club, was brought in to improve Huddersfield's goal-scoring record after they got promoted with a negative goal difference last season. "He missed his easy chance," joked Huddersfield boss David Wagner after the game. "It was a great day for Steve Mounie; perfect if you come new into the Premier League." It was far from the perfect Premier League debut for Crystal Palace manager Frank de Boer. The former Netherlands international was appointed in the summer with a desire to develop a possession-based style of football at the club. However, the Eagles found this difficult to implement against a side that rarely gave them time on the ball and De Boer conceded Huddersfield were deserved victors. "Huddersfield did a fantastic job and the compliments go to them," he said. "We were not pressing up top and they were allowed to get crosses too. We did not make the right choices and got punished."
It is a ticking timebomb hidden on the chaotic streets of New Delhi. Despite India’s booming economy, millions of people are still battling for access to clean water. The situation is so desperate that many people in this teeming neighbourhood are falling sick. Others have set up illegal taps in a bid to cash in. CNN correspondent SARA SIDNER reports from the frontline of the war for water. New Delhi, India’s capital and the political heart of this diverse and vibrant country, is a vast and energetic city. One of the so-called ‘BRIC’ nations, alongside China, Russia and Brazil, the country’s growing importance and remarkable growth is delivering new wealth to many of its citizens. Around New Delhi you can see how the expanding middle classes are changing the face of India, with fresh prosperity expanding their ranks at a dramatic rate. But the city also faces a serious problem. Water, the absolute necessity for life, is becoming harder to come by. And it is not just in India’s great cities where a growing crisis is taking shape. Shazadi, a mother of six, scrubs her thin . steel dishes as hard as she can with as little water as possible. There . is only one way for her to get water: she must walk to the . neighbourhood spigot with heavy buckets, before filling them up and . lugging them home. Every one of these children, pictured on the outskirts of Delhi, India, has suffered from waterborne illnesses . But even when she gets the water back to her family, she worries whether it is actually safe to drink. 'We get sick two to three times per month,' Shazadi says. 'I cannot afford bottled water.' Her seven-year-old daughter, Moazmin, smiles and waves at us. She wants to play, but isn't feeling very well.
'My stomach aches and gurgles,' she says, before talking about the many times she has been to the hospital. There she is often given an injection, which she makes clear she is not fond of at all. There are around 100,000 people living in this neighbourhood on New Delhi's outskirts. Not one of them has ever had water piped into their homes. Instead, the government turns on just a single tap for them, just three times a day. This is how the vast majority in this part of the city gets access to water. At the pipe, people line up to fill their bottles and buckets. Children also take showers under the flowing water. The tap itself juts out just a few inches from a drain, which is littered with rubbish and sewage, as well as clumps of bright green algae. These people are among thousands in New Delhi who rely on truck deliveries for their water supply . To avoid the need to use this single tap a few enterprising people in the area have installed ground water pumps, but these are illegal. Some others get their drinking water from Prakash Sahoo. He has made a business of providing water to residents and businesses. Every day, in the baking hot sun, he rides his bicycle around the neighbourhood, making five or six trips to fill a large water container, which is strapped to the back of his bike. He is pouring with sweat as he makes his deliveries. 'There is no sanitation here, just so many complaints', he explains. 'So I thought: "Let me get a water filter and supply clean water to these people, in order to help them and make some money"'. Prakash charges 10 rupees – not much more than 10 pence – per container. It is a price business owners can afford to pay; but as most in the neighbourhood make less than £1.50 a day, it is beyond the budget of the majority.
And so, for most people in the area, simply getting clean water to drink is a struggle they face every day. India's government is not blind to the issue, and has long fought to provide enough clean drinking water for the masses. The figures, however, make worrying reading. The country has 18 percent of the world's population; but only 4 percent of the world's renewable water sources. And demand is growing. What is more, there are major problems with leaks and pollution, which strip away the supply even further. Mother of six Shazadi, pictured cleaning dishes outside her home, has to carry heavy buckets to and from the neighbourhood spigot to get water . T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, an official with India's department of drinking water and sanitation, says rural India faces a whole range of issues that are depleting its water. 'Because rural drinking water is dependent on ground water, ground water levels are going down because of exploitation by irrigation, by farmers and by industries, we are forced to drill deeper and deeper for drinking water,' he told CNN. 'And as we go deeper and deeper we find more and more contaminants. It may be arsenic. It may be fluoride. Now we are finding nitrate, iron, and salinity. Uranium is also involved in some places,' he said. India has set a national river conservation plan in place, which it hopes will reduce the pollution in its rivers. The plan includes interception, diversion and treatment of sewage, as well as low-cost sanitation works on riverbanks, and electric or improved wood crematoria for funerals. But authorities concede that India is facing what they call 'water stress' because of urbanisation, industrialisation and the ever-rising population. Some people have installed illegal ground water pumps to avoid queuing with buckets at neighbourhood water taps in New Delhi . According to the 2011 census, India’s per .
capita water availability stands at 1,545 cubic meters, down from 1,816 . cubic meters in the 2001 population count. This year an acute water . shortage hit New Delhi. The city relies on other states for much of its . water supply, but now it is finding itself in a tug of war to get it . because those other states are dealing with shortages too. While this fight goes on, entire neighbourhoods across New Delhi rely on trucks to bring in the only water supply. Thirsty crowds emerge as soon as the truck becomes visible. Mother Bimla fills as large a bucket as possible, because the truck only comes to her area three times a week. Underneath the water truck children squat with little buckets, which they use to collect the drops of water spilling from the undercarriage. 'At times there are scuffles and we have to return empty handed,' says Bimla. When every drop of water matters, the fight for it is ultimately a fight for survival. For India, and its capital city, it is a fight they simply have to win.
(CNN) -- A body found near Lubbock, Texas, has been identified as that of a baby sitter seen in a motel surveillance video with a longtime family friend charged in the case, authorities said Wednesday. The medical examiner identified the remains found Monday about seven miles outside of the city as belonging to Elizabeth Ennen, 15. She had been strangled, Capt. Greg Stevens told CNN. Stevens told reporters that Humberto Salinas Jr., 45, was being held on a $250,000 bond on an aggravated kidnapping charge. Police are talking with the district attorney about taking a murder charge to the grand jury, he said. Elizabeth was reported missing after baby-sitting at a motel for Salinas, who was a friend of the Ennen family and the father of her boyfriend, police said. The girl did baby-sitting jobs several times for Salinas at the motel, where he lived, police said. Stevens would not say whether Salinas was cooperating, but he indicated the remains were not found by chance or through a tip. Elizabeth was reported missing January 5, and Salinas was charged in the case on Friday. Are you missing a loved one? Share your story . A relative of Salinas declined comment when contacted by CNN Wednesday. Stevens defended the time it took to conduct the investigation and arrest Salinas, saying the suspect was a family friend who deceived the family and police on the girl's whereabouts. But police believe Elizabeth was dead by the time they got a report that she was missing, Stevens said. "They [the family] trusted this guy to speak to the officer," said the captain, who would not comment on a possible motive.
Lily Huckabee, Elizabeth's aunt, told HLN's Nancy Grace that the girl's mother, Virginia, "is holding on the best she can " Salinas was married and "always presented himself very respectful," said Huckabee, who described Elizabeth as loving, caring, shy and interested in music. Police have a January 4 surveillance video of Elizabeth being taken from the Carriage House Inn, but they did not know of it when they began their investigation, Stevens told CNN. According to an arrest affidavit, the video shows Salinas holding the teen's arm and leaving the motel, he said. "We believe he killed her while he was gone with her," Stevens said. Salinas went to Elizabeth's home and talked with her mother early January 5, police said. He helped her file an initial report, the captain said. According to that report, Salinas said he brought Elizabeth home from the motel and went back to get her purse. When he showed up at the house, the mother asked about her daughter's whereabouts. The suspect indicated Elizabeth might have left the neighborhood with his son, believed to be 18 or 19, Stevens said. "He began misdirecting the investigation, leading it in the opposite direction of the truth," the officer said. Police initially classified the case as a runaway, but within days learned the son had a solid alibi. They began looking at the elder Salinas, who initially gave another location for the baby-sitting, said Stevens, adding police for much of the investigation believed Elizabeth had disappeared from her home. "We came around 180 degrees," said Stevens, adding an investigator suggested they check with the Carriage House Inn on possible video. Officers saw the video on the same day they arrested the suspect, police said. Stevens defended his department from criticism on the time it took to make an arrest and find the body. "These (type of cases) can often take years," he said.
A candlelight vigil in Elizabeth's memory is scheduled for Thursday night at Monterey High School, where she attended, CNN affiliate KCBD in Lubbock reported. Her funeral is Friday. Diena Thompson, the mother of a girl found dead in a Georgia landfill, told HLN's Jane Velez-Mitchell she has issued financial assistance from the Somer Thompson Foundation to Elizabeth Ennen's mother. Thompson's daughter, Somer, was taken from her Florida neighborhood in October 2009. The child was raped and killed and her body left under a pile of trash. CNN's Phil Gast contributed to this report. Watch Nancy Grace Monday through Sunday starting at 8 p.m. ET on HLN. For the latest from Nancy Grace click here.
By . Ted Thornhill . The traditional dimpled glass pint tankard is usually associated with old men wearing flat caps – but the chunky-handled beer jug is now proving a big pull among pub-going hipsters. In the early 2000s it seemed that the handled pint jug – which first appeared in pubs in the late 1920s - was on the road to extinction. The last British factory to make the handled beer jug, Ravenhead Glass in St Helens, closed down in 2001, pub landlords found straight pint glasses easy to stack in dishwashers – and beer drinkers preferred them, too. But a beer jug revival is now underway thanks to trendy drinkers and city hotspots embracing them – and Al Murray the Pub Landlord toasting his audiences with them. Cheers! Al Murray the Pub Landlord with a traditional dimpled pint jug . The Shacklewell Arms in Dalston, east London, a popular haunt with hipster-types, has been serving dimpled jugs for the past six months. It offers straight glasses, too, but it’s the jugs that the customers prefer. General Manager Rose Dennen told MailOnline: 'The new love of dimpled pint glasses is part and parcel of the revival of the traditional idea of living. People are more aware of what they're putting in their bodies. It's all about being kind to yourself and being aware of your heritage and part and parcel of that is a return to craft beer. 'People aren't drinking less, but drinking better quality products.' Dimpled mugs have been served in Leeds’ North Bar since 2000, with director Christian Townsley revealing that his mainly artistic clientele love the ‘old-school coolness’ of a dimpled tankard, according to the BBC. Pint jug revival: The Shacklewell Arms in east London has seen its hipster clientele embrace handled pint pots .
Cask in hand: Shacklewell Arms hipster Dan Woodall enjoys a beer in a handled pint jug . Keeping a handle on things: Shacklewell Arms General Manager Rose Dennen . Top choice: Straight pint glasses are the most popular type with drinkers, but hipsters are embracing dimpled tankards . Traditional designs: The 10-sided beer jug arrived in 1928, left, while the dimpled handled pint pot, pictured right, arrived in 1948 . Evolution: Straight glasses were very popular in the early 20th century and then in the 1960s, but their rims would often nick when they touched, so the nonic glass, right, was brought in to stop this happening . Pint glasses were straight from the beginning of the 20th century up until around 1928, when the 10-sided handled glass pint mug appeared in pubs. In 1948 the dimpled pint jug design arrived, which proved more popular than its 10-sided cousin. According to beer blogger Martyn Cornell, this new trend coincided with lighter coloured beers being embraced. He said: 'The arrival of the dimple coincided with the triumph of bitter over (dark) mild, and amber beers look better in dimpled glasses than in straight-sides ones: the light shining through a pint of bitter in a dimpled glass is the beery equivalent of the windows of Salisbury or Chartres.' Straight pint glasses became all the rage in the 1960s, but their rims easily chipped when they touched, so the 'nonik' - or 'no nick' - glass was invented, which has a bulge in the middle. This meant the glasses touched at a sturdier point and so didn't have to be replaced so often. Lofty, narrow glasses are in vogue these days - often emblazoned with the logo of a beer brand. Source: Martyn Cornell's Zythophile - Beer now and then .
He added: ‘They are solid and reassuringly comforting.’ Neil Walker, spokesperson for the . Campaign For Real Ale, said that some pubs use traditional pint pots to . help drinkers distinguish between brands. He told MailOnline: ‘It's fantastic to see dimpled pint glasses making something of a comeback as real ale continues to grow in popularity, particularly in venues which might not have previously served cask beer. ‘Britain is in the middle of a real ale revolution. With well over a thousand breweries now producing real ale, your local pub is now much more likely to be serving a locally produced brew. 'Many pubs which are expanding their beer range are using these traditional pint pots to differentiate their cask beers from mainstream lager brands, something which can only be good for British beer drinkers.’ The Pub Landlord, meanwhile, is also toasting the dimpled pint jug's return. He said: 'The return of these glasses is a triumph. Each one looks like a precious cut diamond but contains something better than 24 carats: one pint. For the first time in my life I salute the young and trendy. Though they should all bloody shave.' Recent research shows that craft beer isn't just proving evermore popular in trendy pubs, but is catching wine as the drink of choice to take to dinner parties. Over half of Brits say they already prefer to take beer, not wine to dinner parties, or plan to make the switch soon, according to a new nationwide poll, by online marketplace EeBria. The site found that the trend is most pronounced among under 35s, who are 20 per cent more likely to drink craft beer over wine at social occasions than older generations. A number of factors are driving the shift in attitudes, the research showed, with 60 per cent of respondents saying they see craft beers as the ideal way to explore new exciting flavours with friends and almost half believe craft beer sparks more interesting conversation than wine. The .
handled pint pot so loved by craft beer drinkers first appeared in British pubs in 1928 and had a . 10-sided design. The dimpled design first appeared in 1948, according to . beer blogger Martyn Cornell. He . said: ‘The arrival of the dimple coincided with the triumph of bitter . over (dark) mild, and amber beers look better in dimpled glasses than in . straight-sides ones.’ British . pubs buy their dimpled glassware from factories based oversea, with a . jug costing around three times the price of a straight pint glass.
(CNN) -- "The Pedophile's Guide to Love and Pleasure: A Child-Lover's Code of Conduct" was pulled from Amazon.com, a spokesman confirmed Thursday, after thousands of users posted angry comments and threats to boycott the site. The self-published e-book was available on the site for download until late Wednesday for $4.79. Company spokesman Drew Herdener would not comment on the controversy or respond to questions about the company's guidelines for digital publication. On Wednesday, Amazon defended selling the book in response to a report published on BusinessInsider.com. "Amazon believes it is censorship not to sell certain books simply because we or others believe their message is objectionable. Amazon does not support or promote hatred or criminal acts, however, we do support the right of every individual to make their own purchasing decisions." Before it disappeared from the site Wednesday night, the listing had more than 2,000 user comments. The vast majority of them condemned the book's stated content, as well as Amazon's decision to make it available. "It is ILLEGAL to molest children, and for Amazon to promote such is insane. I'm an abuse survivor, and am OUTRAGED Amazon would choose to promote this nonsense. I will not be purchasing anything from your website until this is removed," one user wrote in a comment that summed up the feelings of many others. In its product description, the book's author described it as "my attempt to make pedophile situations safer for those juveniles that find themselves involved in them, by establishing certian [sic] rules for these adults to follow." "I hope to achieve this by appealing to the better nature of pedosexuals, with hope that their doing so will result in less hatred and perhaps liter [sic] sentences should they ever be caught," he said.
Author Phillip R. Greaves II told CNN that he published "The Pedophile's Guide" to address what he considers unfair portrayals of pedophiles in the media. "True pedophiles love children and would never hurt them," the Pueblo, Colorado, man said in a phone interview Wednesday night. Greaves, 47, told CNN that he has not had sexual contact with a child as an adult, but did when he was a teenager. He also said he "was introduced to oral sex when I was 7" by an older female, but did not provide specifics. A small contingent of Amazon.com users defended the author's right to free speech, and a discussion on the site titled "Why Amazon is Right" delved into the constitutional implications of the controversy. Others floated the possibility that the e-book was a hoax or a law enforcement trap for pedophiles. "While I think 99.9 percent of us object to pedophilia (even though I think this particular book was a publicity stunt/joke), I think we can all agree that we don't want someone else censoring a subject matter that we may be interested in. Religion, atheism, homosexuality, etc. are some subjects that spring to mind and they have been censored in the past until we realized that it's best to let all information in (even if we don't like some of it), rather than allow some authority or individual decide what we can and can't know about based on their own opinions or motivations," one user wrote. In its form as a written piece, "The Pedophile's Guide" is protected under the First Amendment right to free speech, CNN legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin said. Child pornography is illegal as images. But text, which can be considered "works of advocacy," has won protection in the courts under the First Amendment, Toobin said.
"There is an argument that some works of advocacy are incitement, but the courts have been very, very narrow in interpreting that as a crime," Toobin said. "I think this one is well safe under the protection of the First Amendment." CNN's Jim Spellman and Sarah Holbrooke contributed to this report.
NSW Premier Mike Baird said he experimented with cannabis in his youth . Recently appointed NSW Premier Mike Baird has admitted to experimenting with Cannabis during an interview that canvasses his support for legalising the drug. The devout Christian and father of three, who succeeded former premier Barry O'Farrell in April, said he had used cannabis as a young person but was quick to dismiss it had any part to play in his life - other than as a one-off experiment. The Premier told the Daily Telegraph in an interview to mark his 100th day since being thrust into the state's top job, 'we've all been young, so I'm not going to deny I did experiment in my youth.' He made the remark when quizzed about decriminalising the drug for medicinal purposes in NSW, but said his own experience with drug-taking was neither 'pleasant' nor 'regular'. 'It's got nothing to do with this issue anyway.' Mike Baird supports legalising marijuana in NSW to help people cope with terminal illness . Daniel, pictured with his mother Lucy Haslam, has found relief in cannabis during chemotherapy and a campaign to legalise the drug for terminally ill patients by his parents has more than 188,000 signatures . The premier, and a number of NSW MPs, have given in-principle support for legalising marijuana for terminally ill patients in the state after Mr Baird visited a Tamworth cancer patient. Daniel Haslam, a 24-year-old, was told in 2010 that he only had months to live but begun taking cannabis as a pain coping mechanism to help him deal with the disease. He has made vast improvements in his health, his mother - a former head the north west NSW drug squad said, and she is now asking politicians to legalise the controversial drug. Mr Baird said he was 'struck with Daniel and the battle he's in' after meeting with him. 'It's heart-wrenching,' he said.
'I've got deep sympathy and empathy with their position.' Clinical trials of medicinal cannabis could happen in NSW, but Mr Baird is waiting on details about regulation and supply before making any commitments. Under a private member's bill to be introduced next month by Nationals MP Kevin Anderson, terminally ill people and their carers will be legally able to carry up to 15 grams of cannabis. Tamworth man Daniel Haslam is in a four-year battle with terminal bowel cancer and his parents are calling for cannabis to be legalised for treatment by the terminally ill . Asked if he would support a clinical trial, as proposed by the Australian Medical Association, Mr Baird said 'it may well be something we have to do'. 'I'm open to that,' he told ABC Radio on Thursday. But Mr Baird is waiting to see details of the bill and whether it will address his concerns about the sale and regulation of the drug. But if the bill satisfies Mr Baird, it seems likely Daniel and his family won't be forced to break the law for much longer. 'If we can provide relief to them in those circumstance, well, what premier would not want to do that?" Mr Baird said. NSW Opposition Leader John Robertson said he's willing to work with the government but, like Mr Baird, wanted to see how the bill addresses things such as supply and access before fully endorsing it. 'I'm not writing a blank cheque, but I am very supportive of his notion," he told reporters on last week. 'If marijuana is part of the solution to dealing with those issues as a means of relieving people's pain, then we should be looking at that.'
Shocking footage of a burning firebomb being launched at former celebrity photographer Darryn Lyons’ nightclub has been revealed, as he claims he has repeatedly come under 'attack' since becoming the mayor of his hometown. The one-time Celebrity Big Brother contestant, famous for pink hair and enhanced abs, was elected the 95th mayor of Geelong, in Victoria, on 23 November 2013 but Cr Lyons told the Herald Sun that since then there have 'been various issues'. In the CCTV footage, a man in a white hoody can be seen grabbing the jerry can bomb from the boot of a car parked outside the nightclub. But the bomb goes up in flames on the street after being thrown at the window of the building and lands on the street. Scroll down for video . CCTV shows three men carrying out what is believed to be a firebomb attack on Mayor Darryn Lyons' club . Mayor of Geelong Darryn Lyons (right), seen here with Prime Minister Tony Abbott, says he has become the target of attacks . Describing the attack at his Home House nightclub on Moorabool Street on June 26, Cr Lyons said it could have claimed lives. 'There was no doubt it was a targeted attack. There have been various issues, stuff at home that has caused concern. This was the most serious of the targeted attacks on the mayor,' Cr Lyons told the Herald. Cr Lyons is appealing for help to catch the culprits after police revealed five litres of high-octane Nitro-X fuel, which is only sold at three stores in Victoria, was found at the scene. A Victoria Police spokesperson told Daily Mail Australia: 'Police are investigating a suspicious fire at a Geelong nightclub. 'This happened on 26 June. The blaze caused damage to the footpath and front façade of the building. Detectives are still looking into it.' The CCTV footage films three men arriving outside the nightclub on June 26 .
The fire hit the glass window of the club but did not go inside . A man in a white hoody can be seen grabbing the jerry can bomb from the boot of a car parked outside the nightclub . The 48-year-old won the Mayoral post in Geelong last year, taking 29.9 per cent of the primary vote. The Liberal party member took 70,795 votes after preferences, ahead of his nearest challenger Stephanie Asher by more than 12,600 votes. When he announced his intention to run in the Australian state of Victoria he said he had learned from his time living in Britain that 'every election needs a comedy candidate,' reported The Age. His campaign slogan was 'vision, passion and change,' and he publicised his message with adverts, T-shirts, and a stream of public appearances. Mr Lyons was victorious despite the fact he has lived in Europe for several decades - he arrived in London aged 22. In 1992, Lyons founded picture agency Big Pictures, later gaining notoriety for selling a photograph of David Beckham and Rebecca Loos to the News Of The World. In 2011 he appeared on the UK Celebrity Big Brother during which time bragged of his bedroom antics with a series of famous faces. Cr Lyons' Home House nightclub (pictured) on Moorabool Street was attacked by a firebomb on June 26 . Cr Lyons was elected the 95th mayor of Geelong, in Victoria, on 23 November 2013 . He even claimed to having spent the night with 12 girls at the same time. The paparazzo told model Bobby Sabel: 'I once shared a bed with 12 girls. Those were the crazy days.' On the Channel Five programme in which he came in sixth place, he also debuted his surgically-sculpted six pack. The £4,000 procedure sees fat sucked out of specific areas of the torso to make it look as if the patient has super-toned abdominal muscles without ever hitting the gym.
Talking about the procedure, Mr Lyons said: 'I had contouring done to my body. 'I had to get really fit and lose a fair bit of weight. It takes away all the fat around it and actually lets your natural abs be there. 'Basically it's the male version of a boob job.'
WASHINGTON—Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R., N.C.) has decided against a proposal circulating quietly on Capitol Hill to create criminal penalties for companies that decline to comply with court orders to decipher encrypted communications, a spokeswoman said Thursday night. The issue of how to pressure companies on encryption matters has become inflamed in Washington in recent days. Several people familiar with the matter previously said Mr. Burr was considering criminal provisions as part of the proposal Neither Hillary Clinton nor Bernie Sanders was willing to pick a side Thursday in the heated battle between the FBI and Apple over the government’s demand that the company create new, less secure software to comply with a warrant. The tech giant made headlines on Wednesday with its forceful response to a federal judge’s court order that it help the government break into an iPhone belonging to one of the San Bernardino killers, Syed Farook. When Democratic town hall host José Díaz-Balart asked Sanders, “Whose side are you on?” Sanders replied: “Both.” “I am very fearful in America about Big Brother. And that means not only the federal government getting into your emails or knowing what books you’re taking out of the library, or private corporations knowing everything there is to know about you in terms of your health records, your banking records, your consumer practices,” Sanders said. “On the other hand, what I also worry about is the possibility of another terrorist attack against our country. And frankly, I think there is a middle ground that can be reached.” Clinton called the situation a “difficult dilemma.” She discussed some of the main concerns Apple has “about opening the door, creating what they call a backdoor into encryption.” And she pointed out that the capability could be abused by authoritarian regimes like “the Chinese, Russian, Iranian governments” who want the same kind of access.
But she concluded with a favorite law enforcement talking point: that the smart people in America can surely solve this problem and find a way to help the FBI access encrypted communications with a little brainstorming and teamwork. “As smart as we are, there’s got to be some way on a very specific basis we could try to help get information around crimes and terrorism,” she said. Technologists refer to this as the “magic pony” solution. Try as the two candidates might, however, there really isn’t a middle ground to occupy — either in the war between Apple and the FBI, or when it comes to the use of unbreakable encryption generally. Technologists almost unanimously agree that there’s no secure way to insert a backdoor into their products without undermining security and exposing data to criminals and hackers. And Apple CEO Tim Cook, supported by a growing legion of cryptologists, scientists, and other tech companies, said Wednesday that acceding to the government “would undermine the very freedoms and liberty our government is meant to protect.” If Apple is forced to build a new way to hack its own product, the genie would be out of the bottle — the U.S. government could ask for it to do so again, and other governments could demand the same. Apple users would no longer have confidence that their data is secure, and presumably, other companies would soon find themselves in the same position. NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) will likely seek to invoke the United States’ protections of free speech as one of its key legal arguments in trying to block an order to help unlock the encrypted iPhone of one of the San Bernardino shooters, lawyers with expertise in the subject said this week. The company on Thursday was granted three additional days by the court to file a response to the order.
Apple will now have until Feb. 26 to send a reply, a person familiar with matter told Reuters. The tech giant and the Obama administration are on track for a major collision over computer security and encryption after a federal magistrate judge in Los Angeles handed down an order on Tuesday requiring Apple to provide specific software and technical assistance to investigators. Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook called the request from the Federal Bureau of Investigation unprecedented. Other tech giants such as Facebook Inc (FB.O), Twitter Inc (TWTR.N) and Alphabet Inc’s (GOOGL.O) Google have rallied to support Apple. Apple has retained two prominent, free-speech lawyers to do battle with the government, according to court papers: Theodore Olson, who won the political-speech case Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission in 2010, and Theodore Boutrous, who frequently represents media organizations. Government lawyers from the U.S. Justice Department have defended their request in court papers by citing various authorities, such as a 1977 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that upheld an order compelling a telephone company to provide assistance with setting up a device to record telephone numbers. The high court said then that the All Writs Act, a law from 1789, authorized the order, and the scope of that ruling is expected to be a main target of Apple when it files a response in court by early next week. But Apple will likely also broaden its challenge to include the First Amendment’s guarantee of speech rights, according to lawyers who are not involved in the dispute but who are following it. Compared with other countries, the United States has a strong guarantee of speech rights even for corporations, and at least one court has ruled that computer code is a form of speech, although that ruling was later voided.
Apple could argue that being required to create and provide specific computer code amounts to unlawful compelled speech, said Riana Pfefferkorn, a cryptography fellow at Stanford University’s Center for Internet and Society. A worker tries to repair an iPhone in a repair store in New York, February 17, 2016. REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz The order against Apple is novel because it compels the company to create a new forensic tool to use, not just turn over information in Apple’s possession, Pfefferkorn said. “I think there is a significant First Amendment concern,” she said. A spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Los Angeles declined to comment on the possible free-speech questions on Thursday. A speech-rights argument from Apple, though, could be met with skepticism by the courts because computer code has become ubiquitous and underpins much of the U.S. economy. Slideshow (2 Images) “That is an argument of enormous breadth,” said Stuart Benjamin, a Duke University law professor who writes about the First Amendment. He said Apple would need to show that the computer code conveyed a “substantive message.” In a case brought by a mathematician against U.S. export controls, a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers California, found in 1999 that the source code behind encryption software is protected speech. The opinion was later withdrawn so the full court could rehear the case, but that rehearing was canceled and the appeal declared moot after the government revised its export controls. The FBI and prosecutors are seeking Apple’s assistance to read the data on an iPhone 5C that had been used by Rizwan Farook, who along with his wife, Tashfeen Malik, carried out the San Bernardino shootings that killed 14 people and wounded 22 others at a holiday party.
U.S. prosecutors were smart to pick the mass shooting as a test case for an encryption fight with tech companies, said Michael Froomkin, a University of Miami law professor. That is because the shooting had a large emotional impact while also demonstrating the danger posed by armed militants, he said. In addition, the iPhone in dispute was owned not by Farook but by his employer, a local government, which has consented to the search of the iPhone. The federal magistrate who issued the order, Sheri Pym, is also a former federal prosecutor. “This is one of the worst set of facts possible for Apple. That’s why the government picked this case,” Froomkin said. Froomkin added, though, that the fight was enormously important for the company because of the possibility that a new forensic tool could be easily used on other phones and the damage that could be done to Apple’s global brand if it cannot withstand government demands on privacy. “All these demands make their phones less attractive to users,” he said. The news this week that a magistrate ordered Apple to help the FBI hack an iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino shooter suspects has polarized the nation—and also generated some misinformation. Those who support the government say Apple has cooperated in the past to unlock dozens of phones in other cases—so why can't it help the FBI unlock this one? But this isn't about unlocking a phone; rather, it's about ordering Apple to create a new software tool to eliminate specific security protections the company built into its phone software to protect customer data. Opponents of the court’s decision say this is no different than the controversial backdoor the FBI has been trying to force Apple and other companies to build into their software—except in this case, it's an after-market backdoor to be used selectively on phones the government is investigating.
The stakes in the case are high because it draws a target on Apple and other companies embroiled in the ongoing encryption/backdoor debate that has been swirling in Silicon Valley and on Capitol Hill for the last two years. Briefly, the government wants a way to access data on gadgets, even when those devices use secure encryption to keep it private. Apple specifically altered its software in 2014 to ensure that it would not be able to unlock customer phones and decrypt any of the most important data on them; but it turns out it overlooked a loophole in doing this that the government is now trying to exploit. The loophole is not about Apple unlocking the phone but about making it easier for the FBI to attempt to unlock it on its own. If the controversy over the San Bernardino phone causes Apple to take further steps to close that loophole so that it can't assist the FBI in this way in the future, it could be seen as excessive obstinance and obstruction by Capitol Hill. And that could be the thing that causes lawmakers to finally step in with federal legislation that prevents Apple and other companies from locking the government out of devices. If the FBI is successful in forcing Apple to comply with its request, it would also set a precedent for other countries to follow and ask Apple to provide their authorities with the same software tool. In the interest of clarifying the facts and correcting some misinformation, we've pulled together a summary of the issues at hand. What Kind of Phone Are We Talking About? The phone in question is an iPhone 5c running the iOS9 version of Apple's software. The phone is owned by the San Bernardino Department of Public Health, which gave it to Syed Rizwan Farook, the shooter suspect, to use for work. What Is the Issue?
Farook created a password to lock his phone, and due to security features built into the software on his device, the FBI can't unlock the phone and access the data on it using the method it wants to use—a bruteforce password-guessing technique wherein they enter different passcodes repeatedly until they guess the right one—without running the risk that the device will lock them out permanently. How Would It Do That? Apple's operating system uses two factors to secure and decrypt data on the phone–the password the user chooses and a unique 256-bit AES secret key that's embedded in the phone when it's manufactured. As cryptographer Matthew Green explains in a blog post, the user's password gets "tangled" with the secret key to create a passcode key that both secures and unlocks data on the device. When the user enters the correct password, the phone performs a calculation that combines these two codes and if the result is the correct passcode, the device and data are unlocked. To prevent someone from brute-forcing the password, the device has a user-enabled function that limits the number of guesses someone can try before the passcode key gets erased. Although the data remains on the device, it cannot be decrypted and therefore becomes permanently inaccessible. The government's motion to the court (.pdf) notes that this happens after 10 failed guesses when the auto-erase feature is enabled by the user. The government says it does not know for certain if Farook's device has the auto-erase feature enabled, but notes in its motion that San Bernardino County gave the device to Farook with it enabled, and the most recent backup of data from his phone to iCloud "showed the function turned on." A reasonable person might ask why, if the phone was backing data up to iCloud, the government can't just get everything it needs from iCloud instead of breaking into the phone.
The government did obtain some data backed up to iCloud from the phone, but authorities allege in their court document that he may have disabled iCloud backups at some point. They obtained data backed up to iCloud a month before the shootings, but none closer to the date of the shooting, when they say he is most likely to have used the phone to coordinate the attack. Is This Auto-Erase the Only Security Protection Apple Has in Place? No. In addition to the auto-erase function, there's another protection against brute force attacks: time delays. Each time a password is entered on the phone, it takes about 80 milliseconds for the system to process that password and determine if it's correct. This helps prevent someone from quickly entering a new password to try again, because they can only guess a password every 80 milliseconds. This might not seem like a lot of time, but according to Dan Guido, CEO of Trail of Bits, a company that does extensive consulting on iOS security, it can be prohibitively long depending on the length of the password. "In terms of cracking passwords, you usually want to crack or attempt to crack hundreds or thousands of them per second. And with 80 milliseconds, you really can only crack eight or nine per second. That's incredibly slow," he said in a call to reporters this week. With a four-digit passcode, he says, there are only about 10,000 different combinations a password-cracker has to try. But with a six-digit passcode, there are about one million different combinations a password cracker would have to try to guess the correct one—a simple six-digit passcode composed of just numbers would take a couple of days to crack, Guido says; but a more complex six-character password composed of letters and numbers could take more than five-and-a-half-years, according to Apple.
The iOS9 software, which appears to be the software on the San Bernardino phone, asks you to create a six-digit password by default, though you can change this requirement to four digits if you want a shorter one. Later models of phones use a different chip than the iPhone 5c and have what's called a "secure enclave" that adds even more time delays to the password-guessing process. Guido describes the secure enclave as a "separate computer inside the iPhone that brokers access to encryption keys" increasing the security of those keys. With the secure enclave, after each wrong password guess, the amount of time you have to wait before trying another password grows with each try; by the ninth failed password you have to wait an hour before you can enter a tenth password. The government mentioned this in its motion to the court, as if the San Bernardino phone has this added delay. But the iPhone 5c does not have secure enclave on it, so the delay would really only be the usual 80 milliseconds in this case. Why None of This Is an Issue With Older iPhones With older versions of Apple's phone operating system—that is, phones using software prior to iOS8—Apple has the ability to bypass the user's passcode to essentially unlock the device and access data on the phone. It has done so in dozens of cases over the years, pursuant to a court order. But beginning with iOS8, Apple changed this so that it securely encrypts all of the most important data on your phone by default—photos, messages, contacts, call history—using the password you choose. And Apple cannot bypass your password to obtain that data. According to the motion filed by the government in the San Bernardino case, the phone in question is using a later version of Apple's operating system—which appears to be iOS9.
We're basing this on a statement in the motion that reads: "While Apple has publicized that it has written the software differently with respect to iPhones such as the SUBJECT DEVICE with operating system ("iOS")9, Apple yet retains the capacity to provide the assistance sought herein that may enable the government to access the SUBJECT DEVICE pursuant to the search warrant." The government is referring to the changes that Apple made with iOS8 that exist in iOS9 as well. Apple released iOS9 in September 2015, three months before the San Bernardino attacks occurred, so it's very possible this is indeed the version installed on the San Bernardino phone. After today, technology vendors need to consider that they might be the adversary they're trying to protect their customers from. What Does the Government Want? A lot of people have misconstrued the government's request and believe it asked the court to order Apple to unlock the phone, as Apple has done in many cases before. But as noted, the particular operating system installed on this phone does not allow Apple to bypass the passcode and decrypt the data. So the government wants to try bruteforcing the password without having the system auto-erase the decryption key and without additional time delays. To do this, it wants Apple to create a special version of its operating system, a crippled version of the firmware that essentially eliminates the bruteforcing protections, and install it on the San Bernardino phone. It also wants Apple to make it possible to enter password guesses electronically rather than through the touchscreen so that the FBI can run a password-cracking script that races through the password guesses automatically. It wants Apple to design this crippled software to be loaded into memory instead of on disk so that the data on the phone remains forensically sound and won't be altered. Note that even after Apple does all of this, the phone will still be locked, unless the government's bruteforcing operation works to guess the password.
And if Farook kept the iOS9 default requirement for a six-digit password, and chose a complex alpha-numeric combination for his password, the FBI might never be able to crack it even with everything it has asked Apple to do. Apple CEO Tim Cook described the government's request as "asking Apple to hack our own users and undermine decades of security advancements that protect our customers—including tens of millions of American citizens—from sophisticated hackers and cybercriminals. The same engineers who built strong encryption into the iPhone to protect our users would, ironically, be ordered to weaken those protections and make our users less safe." What Exactly Is the Loophole You Said the Government Is Exploiting? The loophole is the fact that Apple still retains the ability to run crippled firmware on a device like this without requiring the user to approve it, the way software updates usually work. If this required user approval, Apple would not be able to do what the government is requesting. How Doable Is All of This? Guido says the government's request is completely doable and reasonable. "They have to make a couple of modifications. They have to make it so that the operating system boots inside of a RAM disk…[and] they need to delete a bunch of code—there's a lot of code that protects the passcode that they just need to trash," he said. Making it possible for the government to test passwords with a script instead of typing them in would take a little more effort he says. "[T]hat would require a little bit of extra development time, but again totally possible. Apple can load a new kernel driver that allows you to plug something in over the [Lightning] port… It wouldn't be trivial but it wouldn't be massive." Could This Same Technique Be Used to Undermine Newer, More Secure Phones? There has been some debate online about whether Apple would be able to do this for later phones that have newer chips and the secure enclave.
It's an important question because these are the phones that most users will have in the next one or two years as they replace their old phones. Though the secure enclave has additional security features, Guido says that Apple could indeed also write crippled firmware for the secure enclave that achieves exactly what the FBI is asking for in the San Bernardino case. "It is absolutely within the realm of possibility for Apple themselves to tamper with a lot of the functionality of the secure enclave. They can't read the secure private keys out of it, but they can eliminate things like the passcode delay," he said. "That means the solution that they might implement for the 5c would not port over directly to the 5s, the 6 or the 6s, but they could create a separate solution for [these] that includes basically crippled firmware for the secure enclave." If Apple eliminates the added time delays that the secure enclave introduces, then such phones would only have the standard 80-millisecond delay that older phones have. "It requires more work to do so with the secure enclave. You have to develop more software; you have to test it a lot better," he said. "There may be some other considerations that Apple has to work around. [But] as far as I can tell, if you issue a software update to the secure enclave, you can eliminate the passcode delay and you can eliminate the other device-erase [security feature]. And once both of those are gone, you can query for passcodes as fast as 80 milliseconds per request." What Hope Is There for Your Privacy? You can create a strong alpha-numeric password for your device that would make bruteforcing it essentially infeasible for the FBI or anyone else. "If you have letters and numbers and it's six, seven or eight digits long, then the potential combinations there are really too large for anyone to bruteforce," Guido said. And What Can Apple Do Going Forward?
Guido says Apple could and should make changes to its system so that what the FBI is asking it to do can't be done in future models. "There are changes that Apple can make to the secure enclave to further secure their phones," he said. "For instance, they may be able to require some kind of user confirmation, before that firmware gets updated, by entering their PIN code … or they could burn the secure enclave into the chip as read-only memory and lose the ability to update it [entirely]." These would prevent Apple in the future from having the ability to either upload crippled firmware to the device without the phone owner's approval or from uploading new firmware to the secure enclave at all. "There's a couple of different options that they have; I think all of them, though, are going to require either a new major version of iOS or new chips on the actual phones," Guido said. "But for the moment, what you have to fall back on is that it takes 80 milliseconds to try every single password guess. And if you have a complex enough password then you're safe." Is the Ability to Upload Crippled Firmware a Vulnerability Apple Should Have Foreseen? Guido says no. "It wasn't until very recently that companies had to consider: What does it look like if we attack our own customers? What does it look like if we strip out and remove the security mitigations we put in specifically to protect customers?" He adds: "Apple did all the right things to make sure the iPhone is safe from remote intruders, or people trying to break into the iPhone.… But certainly after today, technology vendors need to consider that they might be the adversary they're trying to protect their customers from. And that's quite a big shift." Update 2:30 pm EST: To clarify the number of failed password guesses that can occur before the phone deletes the passcode key, making data on the phone inaccessible.
Update 5:30 pm EST: To clarify the security changes Apple made in 2014 that prevent it from unlocking secured data on phones. An Apple iPhone sits on a table during a news conference at New York City Police Headquarters, Thursday, Feb. 18, 2016 in New York. Police and prosecutors in New York City said Thursday that the top-notch (Associated Press) An Apple iPhone sits on a table during a news conference at New York City Police Headquarters, Thursday, Feb. 18, 2016 in New York. Police and prosecutors in New York City said Thursday that the top-notch encryption technology on Apple mobile phones is now routinely hindering criminal investigations (Associated Press) NEW YORK (AP) — Police and prosecutors in New York City said Thursday that the top-notch encryption technology on Apple mobile phones is now routinely hindering criminal investigations. And they predicted the problem could grow worse as more criminals figure out how well the devices keep secrets. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. said at a news conference that investigators cannot access 175 Apple devices sitting in his cybercrime lab because of encryption embedded in the company's latest operating systems. "They're warrant proof," he said, adding that the inability to peer inside the devices was especially problematic because so much evidence once stored in file cabinets, on paper, and in vaults, is now only on criminals' smartphones. Apple has marketed its encryption data as an important privacy tool, and many privacy advocates have praised the company, saying that if it opened its devices to government surveillance that ability to spy on users could be abused in places with authoritarian regimes. "There is no magic key that only good guys can use and bad guys cannot," said Cindy Cohn, executive director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties organization. "Any vulnerability Apple is forced to create in its phones can and will be exploited by criminals making all less secure," Cohn said. "This is really a question of security versus surveillance."
Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is currently fighting a federal magistrate's order to help the FBI hack into an iPhone used by a gunman in December's mass shooting in San Bernardino, California. An Apple spokesman did not immediately return a call Thursday for comment on the concerns of New York City authorities. Vance didn't specify which cases were being hindered. But Police Commissioner William Bratton said a phone seized in the investigation of the shooting of two police officers in the Bronx last month is among those detectives can't crack. It was displayed Thursday alongside other phones, iPads and tablets similar to 600 devices the prosecutor's team tested, of which the 175 proved inaccessible. Bratton said criminals are increasingly aware of the protection offered by their devices. He said a prisoner in a city jail was recently recorded saying in a phone call that iPhone encryption was "another gift from God." Vance said investigators have relied on phone data to investigate killings, child pornography, robbery and identity theft. He said that might include checking a suspect's contact list to get the names of witnesses or conspirators, or viewing incriminating videos and photographs. Apple CEO Tim Cook has warned that creating software allowing the FBI to unlock the San Bernardino suspect's phone could make millions of other phones vulnerable to hackers and criminals. Cook said that if Apple were forced by the courts to "hack our own users," the government could order the company to build surveillance software to intercept all sorts of messages, "access your health records or financial data, track your location, or even access your phone's microphone or camera without your knowledge."
By . Alexandra Klausner . The wife of former New York Giants player Luke Petitgout has filed for divorce following a recent alleged assault at a swanky New York City lounge. The New York Post reports that Jennifer Marino Petitgout filed for divorce in New Jersey on Tuesday to end a 13-year-marriage from which she has three children. She's also allegedly trying to make her current temporary restraining order permanent. Jennifer Marino Petitgout pictured here with her three daughters allegedly filed for divorce from her husband Luke Petitgout on Tuesday . Luke Petitgout is a former football player on the NFL team The New York Giants . A source told The Post that Jennifer, 'changed the locks on their marital home and has new codes on her alarm system.' The source also told them that cops will be escorting Luke to the house on Friday so that he can gather his possessions. The couple live in Woodcliff lake, NJ. and together they have three young daughters. The most recent alleged assault took place on June 5 when Jennifer was partying with two friends at 48 Lounge in Manhattan. Jennifer and her friends were speaking to two men, one of whom the women knew. At around midnight, Luke allegedly stormed into the lounge in a fit of rage and reportedly attacked one of the men in the right eye, John Constantinides, 43, before slapping his wife. He allegedly had to be restrained by the bouncers until the cops arrived to arrest him. Jennifer Marino Petitgout was allegedly attacked by her husband Luke Petitgout at 48 Lounge (pictured) on June 5 . Luke Petitgout (pictured here in 2005) also allegedly attacked his wife almost a year ago in August on their wedding anniversary . The New York Post Reports that Luke Petitgout was to be arraigned in Manhattan Criminal Court on misdemeanor assault charges for allegedly hitting Constanides.
Almost a year ago in August the ex-Giants tackle was charged with misdemeanor assault after he allegedly smashed Jennifer in the head and threw her out of the car on their wedding anniversary. They had been celebrating out that night in the Meatpacking District of Manhattan. Jennifer was treated at New York Downtown Hospital for bruises following the attack. Cops say she told them she 'feared fro her life.' Petigout was charged with misdemeanor assault but Jennifer dropped the charges against her 6-foot-6, 310 pound husband-not this time, however. Jennifer's lawyers will try to have a judge order Luke to go through anger management and drug testing. 'This was the last straw,' a source told Page Six. 'He thinks this is all going to go away and they’ll reconcile. It’s not going to happen,' he added.Jennifer's adviser Nicole Noonan, the president of National Divorce Capitol, told reporters she is most concerned with her client's safety and the safety of her children. 'My paramount concern is the safety, health and well-being of my client and her children. Therefore, precautions have been taken,' said Noonan. 'I just want to move on with my life for my kids’ sake and my own happiness,'Jennifer said in a statement. Jennifer Marino Petitgout (pictured with friends) reportedly wants a permanent restraining order against her husband Luke . Jennifer Marino Petitgout wants safety for her and her three young girls .
By . Rachel Quigley . Last updated at 3:18 PM on 20th December 2011 . A social work professor accused of rape and performing other lewd acts on teenage girls has been formally charged. Dwain Pellebon, 54, of the University of Oklahoma, was arraigned on two counts of rape, two counts of lewd acts with a child and two counts of sexual child abuse. The professor was arrested last week after authorities received allegations from a child welfare worker he had sexually abused two teenage girls in the past two years. He denies all the allegations. Paid leave: Dwain Pellebon, 54, of the University of Oklahoma, has been arrested for allegedly committing rape twice and lewd acts on a child under 16 years old . A state Department of Human Services worker told Norman police that a . 13-year-old reported seeing Pellebon fondle another 13-year-old during a . sleepover at the suspect's Norman home, according to a search warrant . affidavit. The girl was interviewed by police . last week, according to NewsOk, and told them she woke up in his home on . at least two occasions with Pellebon lying beside her touching her . 'from her hair to her ankles'. The alleged abuse started when she was 11. The social worker also said Pellebon sexually abused a mentally disabled 15-year-old at least twice. The girl also told police the suspect would remove her from bed, take her clothes off and 'display her on a bed for viewing'. Court documents also revealed the . girl said Pellebon kept track of her menstrual cycle and showed her . 'parts of the body you weren't supposed to see'. The social work professor admitted . taking off the girl's clothes but said he did it to apply cream to her . 'chest, back and butt' while they were alone in his bedroom.
NewsOk reported that though Pellebon denies any sexual contact, he described himself to investigators as an 'affectionate, sensual man who liked to hug, kiss, cuddle and stroke young girls that he felt close to'. He also told police that he had viewed child pornography once but did not download it. University: Pellebon is on unpaid leave from the university and free on $75,000 bail . In 2001, Pellebon was investigated by DHS under similar circumstances . but no charges were filed because the alleged victim — the daughter of a . former Norman police officer — failed to give investigators a . statement, documents show. He has been placed on administrative leave without pay and is free on $75,000 bail. The 54-year-old was a director on a local board for Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA), which helps children in juvenile court and foster systems. He took a leave of absence from the board earlier this year, a Cleveland County CASA spokesman told The Oklahoman. Pellebon . teaches a course on human sexuality that looks at ‘sexual behaviour, . gender differences and sexual values’, reported CNN. After he was arrested a university spokesman said they 'acted swiftly to suspend Pellebon from any contact with students and from use of any university facilities'.
By . Gerri Peev . Ed Miliband was told by one of his MPs to ‘get out more’ as his electoral strategy was condemned as suicidal. The Labour leader was hit with bruising criticism by his party’s rising star Simon Danczuk just days before local and European elections. Polls show Labour’s lead over the Conservatives has fallen to four points, down from six. On European voting intentions, Labour is on 24 per cent, languishing behind Ukip (35 per cent) but ahead of the Conservatives (20 per cent). Bruising criticism: Ed Miliband and Rochdale MP Simon Danczuk at a dinner in 2012 . Mr Danczuk, the MP for Rochdale, said the election had to be about winning over Tory and Ukip voters. ‘I think Ed needs to be less cautious. He should have probably debated with Farage along with Nick Clegg. That would probably have been a smart move in terms of putting Cameron on the back foot. I also think he needs to get out more,’ he said. He told BBC Radio 5Live’s Pienaar’s Politics: ‘What we also need to do is occupy the centre ground and that is where we will get the breakthrough. 'So we need to be stronger on immigration; welfare. We need to be seen in a more positive way in relation to business.’ Mr Danczuk has criticised the strategy of Douglas Alexander, Mr Miliband’s campaign co-ordinator, to rely on securing 35 per cent of the popular vote. Mr Danczuk, the MP for Rochdale, made his cutting remarks on BBC Radio 5Live days before local and European elections . This would be enough to win the general election according to some strategists because constituency boundaries favour Labour.
But Mr Danczuk has said Labour should not rely on the Coalition’s ‘unpopularity’ to win the 2015 contest. ‘Now we need to up our game,’ Mr Danczuk wrote in an article for the Mail on Sunday. He added that ‘continually reciting a mantra of misery is not the answer’, and warned that the party will not win by relying on a ‘core vote and a few disgruntled Liberals’ – which he described as ‘a suicidal strategy’. Mr Miliband is being threatened with further open dissent if his party does not gain seats in Thursday’s poll. A Labour candidate for one of the party’s target seats condemned his leadership as ‘dodgy and incoherent’. Tristan Osborne, candidate for Chatham and Aylesford, was recorded making critical remarks about Mr Miliband’s strategy. ‘The machine is not functioning in any capacity,’ Mr Osborne said at a £100-a-ticket Labour fundraising event held on Tuesday. ‘We need to be appealing to the aspirational Southern voter.’ Mr Miliband dismissed as ‘nonsense’ suggestions that he had hired David Axelrod, Barack Obama’s election guru, to give him a makeover. Quizzed by Sky’s Dermot Murnaghan, he said: ‘This makeover stuff is nonsense I can absolutely promise that I have never talked to David Axelrod about the colour of my tie.’ Mr Miliband also defended a Labour party TV ad which attacked David Cameron and Nick Clegg as out-of-touch posh boys. He insisted he was not waging class war based on which school the Prime Minister went to. ‘It is about what he believes and what he does,’ he said.
The wheels came off Ed Miliband’s efforts to pick up votes in Newcastle – when the Labour leader picked up a parking ticket instead. Mr Miliband’s driver was given a fine while waiting for his boss in a loading bay during an election campaign visit last week. A Labour Party spokesman said: ‘The car should not have been parked in this bay. The fine has already been paid.’ Bookies will be hit with a new tax to fund future sports stars and anti-corruption programmes if Labour wins the election. Ed Miliband promised to hit the gambling industry as it ‘puts nothing back’ into sports such as football, tennis and cricket, which earned it vast profits. But bookies hit back, saying they were already pouring millions into sport through TV rights and sponsorship.
By . Francesca Infante . PUBLISHED: . 19:25 EST, 10 March 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 05:42 EST, 11 March 2013 . He suffered a very public humiliation when his apology over tuition fees was turned into a spoof video that went viral. And it seems Nick Clegg was hoping for a greater success from this keynote address by incorporating the moves of someone a little more popular, namely Korean pop star Psy. Speaking yesterday at the Lib Dem party conference in Brighton the Deputy Prime Minister seemed to be doing his own version of the popular Gangnam style dance routine. Nick Clegg could have inadvertently imitated Psy's dance as he compared the Tories to a trolley veering right . Taking the reins: Nick Clegg looked like Korean singer Psy as he made his keynote conference speech in Brighton . He was caught by photographers gesturing at the ceiling with both arms and crossing both hands in front of him in a remarkably similar fashion to the pop star in his distinctive ‘horsey style’ dance. Mr Clegg isn’t the first to imitate the . South Korean pop star’s moves – Hugh Jackman, Heidi Klum, Britney Spears . and Madonna have already recorded their own versions of the dance. His flamboyant body language might have been an attempt to act out his latest metaphor for David Cameron and the Conservative party - which he compared to a ‘broken shopping trolley’ that keeps veering to the right. Buoyed with confidence following his party’s victory in the Eastleigh by-election, he gave a rousing speech to members at the Liberal Democrat Spring conference. Giddy up: Nick Clegg was confident following the success at the Eastleigh by-election and seemed to mimic the Gangnam style dance during his speech . Despite woeful poll ratings yesterday . suggesting the party could lose half its seats in a General Election, he .
insisted the Liberal Democrats had proved they were no longer a party . of protest. The Lib Dem . leader told a rapturous audience in Brighton they were ‘no longer the . none-of-the-above choice we are a party that is for things, not simply . against things’. And he . spelled out what he was against by turning his fire on his Coalition . partners, saying it was the Liberal Democrats who kept the Government . ‘anchored in the centre ground’. ‘The Conservatives, on their own, will never deliver the fairer society - it’s just not who they are’, he said. ‘The . Conservative party knows it needs to stay on the centre ground to have . any chance of speaking to ordinary people’s concerns. At least the . leadership seem to. ‘But . they just can’t manage it no matter how hard they try. They’re like a . kind of broken shopping trolley. Every time you try and push them . straight ahead they veer off to the right hand side.’ Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg called for unity in the party as he appeared to imitate solo singer Psy . He also tried to play down tensions within his party on austerity, particularly with Mr Cable, who did not address the conference and was relegated to fringe events. The unity of the Liberal Democrats is ‘what our enemies most fear’, Mr Clegg said. ‘No one will know what we stand for unless we stand together’. He told activists:’Get back out there. Tell our side of the story. And we will win again. On the doorstep, in town halls, in Government. Keep fighting for what we believe in. Keeping winning’.
By . Andrew Levy . 'Blue-eyed angel': Tahlia Raven suffered a rare and fatal reaction to the common childhood bug . Smiling and bright-eyed, little Tahlia Raven looks the picture of health. But shortly after this photo was taken, she died from a common childhood bug normally so benign that it goes completely unnoticed in a third of cases. Just a day earlier Tahlia had been playing outside in the sunshine with her sister Annaliese, five, and there was nothing to suggest she was unwell. The bug, commonly called the slapped cheek virus because of the bright red flush it can trigger on the face, is caught by more than half of children. Tahlia’s rare reaction meant she became only the fourth child to die from the virus in the UK in the past eight years. It was only following a post-mortem examination that the three-year-old was found to have had the bug, also known as parvovirus. The airborne virus is spread in the same way as cold or flu viruses and is most prevalent in six- to ten-year-olds. After an inquest her grief-stricken mother, Karen Glover, spoke of her heartbreak at losing her ‘beautiful blue-eyed angel’. She said: ‘She was healthy before this. I have been told it is very common in playschools and nurseries and we don’t know why it killed her.’ The inquest in Chelmsford, Essex, heard how Ms Glover found her daughter lifeless in bed on the morning of June 2 last year. Tragic discovery: Tahlia's mother Karen Glover (left) found her daughter lifeless in bed on the morning of June 2 last year, an inquest in Chelmsford, Essex, heard. Right, Tahlia is pictured in a Tinker Bell top at three years old .
Sisters: Just a day earlier Tahlia (right) had been playing outside in the sun with her older sister Annaliese (left) The post-mortem examination revealed no evidence of a range of serious conditions, including meningitis or pneumonia. She may have had a minor heart defect, although it was unclear whether this would have affected Tahlia’s ability to fight the infection. Dr Marion Malone, a specialist paediatric pathologist at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London, told the hearing on Monday: ‘I have to consider all possible causes of sudden death in a previously well three-year-old child. Happier times: After the inquest Ms Glover, spoke of her heartbreak at losing her 'beautiful blue-eyed angel' Expert opinion: Dr Marion Malone, a specialist paediatric pathologist at Great Ormond Street Hospital (pictured) in London, said that, on the balance of probability, the toddler died from parvovirus, or 'slapped cheek' bug . ‘The only significant thing I did find was a very swollen brain and some inflammation of the wind pipe. I identified parvovirus from the heart and brain. It is very common in children and known as slapped cheek disease. ‘On the balance of probability, I put down the cause of death as parvovirus. This is very rare. I have not seen a case before which caused such swelling of the brain.’ Recording a verdict of death by natural causes, Essex coroner Caroline Beasley-Murray concluded: ‘Tahlia sadly died at home, a sudden and unexpected death of a little girl who seemed perfectly healthy. She clearly was much-loved.’ Beloved: Symptoms of slapped cheek virus include a flu-like illness and the distinctive red rash on the face, which can spread to the limbs.
Above, Tahlia is pictured with Annaliese (left) and at six months old (right) Ms Glover, from Southend, added the inquest had given her ‘some closure’ as she accepted nothing could have been done to save her daughter. ‘If we had gone to the doctor all they would have given us would be Calpol,’ she said. Symptoms of slapped cheek virus include a flu-like illness and the distinctive red rash on the face, which can spread to the limbs. The only risk group is pregnant women as there is a risk of miscarriage. There is no vaccine, as the virus usually only lasts a few days.
The civil case brought by Judy Huth accuses Mr Cosby of sexually assaulting her as a 15-year-old at the Playboy Mansion in Los Angeles in the 1970s. The 78-year-old is facing a series of sexual assault accusations dating back decades. He has always maintained his innocence and has never been criminally charged. Ms Huth alleges that Mr Cosby plied her with alcohol before sexually assaulting her. The decision by the court means that Ms Huth's lawyers will be able to question Mr Cosby under oath. Her lawyer, Gloria Allred, described it as a "major victory" and says she intends to take a sworn deposition from the comedian within the next month. Earlier in the week, the LA police department confirmed that it was investigating "certain complaints against him". The rise and fall of Quaaludes Bill Cosby: America's dad under fire It has already emerged from a previous lawsuit that Mr Cosby admitted giving a woman drugs before sex. Court documents relating to the case brought in 2005 Andrea Constand - an employee at Temple University in the 1970s - were published earlier this month, after the Associated Press news agency applied to a judge to have the sealed papers made public. They revealed Mr Cosby had admitted obtaining Quaaludes from several doctors to give to women before sexual encounters, but did not take them himself. Mr Cosby is now suing Ms Constand for breaching a confidentially agreement after the New York Times obtained a full copy of the deposition. Dozens of women have accused the comedian of sexually assaulting them but most of the claims are barred by statutes of limitations. They restrict the length of time in which legal actions can be taken after an alleged crime has been committed. The accusations, which Mr Cosby has described as "fantastical" and "uncorroborated", have led to some of his stand-up shows being called off and the cancellation of some TV projects.
2002: Lachele Covington, a 20-year-old actress, reportedly files a police report saying she had been inappropriately touched. No further action was taken. 2005: Andrea Constand sues Mr Cosby for sexual assault. The case is eventually settled out of court in 2006. 2014: Over the year, dozens of women make public accusations that Mr Cosby sexually assaulted them. Live shows are cancelled across the country amid protests November 2014: TV network NBC scraps plans for a new show with the comedian following allegations by TV presenter Janice Dickinson that he had assaulted her in 1982. Repeats of the Cosby Show are also pulled from cable TV December 2014: Judy Huth sues Mr Cosby for molesting her in 1974 when she was 15 years old. Mr Cosby counter-sues, claiming she is trying to extort money from him May 2015: Mr Cosby speaks publicly about the allegations for the first time. "I can't speak; I just don't want to argue; I don't talk about it," he told ABC News.
(CNN) -- Move over Disney -- a Nigerian animator has produced an educational cartoon to teach youngsters about African culture. Tired of African children watching only imported cartoons that didn't reflect their lives, Nigerian animator Adamu Waziri decided to do something about it. His creation is "Bino and Fino," a cartoon aimed at three to five year olds, about a brother and sister who live with their grandparents in an unnamed African city. "I want to create a brand that's as good as Dora the Explorer, Charlie and Lola, quality wise, made in Nigeria, that is educational, and also shows positive aspects of Nigerian/African culture, not just to Nigerian or African kids but to kids everywhere," says Waziri. The pilot episode celebrated Nigeria's Independence Day and looked at the issue of colonialism. The cartoon has also had segments teaching the numbers one to 10 in the Nigerian Igbo and Yoruba languages. He adds that he wants the program to "teach kids and show that the stuff you see on TV of starving people isn't the only thing (in Africa) -- you have a middle class here who have the same aspirations as everybody else." See also: Meet the Afropolitans . Bino and Fino isn't the only children's cartoon produced in Africa. "Tinga Tinga Tales," for example, is made in Kenya for the BBC, while "Jungle Beat" is produced in South Africa and has been shown internationally. But both cartoons, like many set in Africa, tell stories about the continent's exotic animals. Waziri was determined to do something different. "I said I'm not going do African folk tales, animals -- that's what you get in (animated movie) 'Madagascar' -- we don't want to do that," he says.
"We want to show a couple of kids in a middle class life, which I know isn't the reality of all the kids in Africa, but let's show that reality -- the reality of people using laptops, phones, going to school, doing their daily business -- no talking ants, no dancing 'jinga jinga' music -- just a cartoon of life." Two full-length "Bino and Fino" episodes have been shown on a channel on Sky TV in the UK, where Waziri says it has been well received. The next step is to attract the funding and sponsors needed to get the cartoon aired in Nigeria. It takes Waziri and his core team of four a month and a half to produce a single episode of Bino and Fino, which is just eight minutes of animation. His says the slow turnaround is off-putting for sponsors in Nigeria, where feature-length Nollywood movies are often produced in a matter of weeks. See also: Nigerian blockbusters for internet generation . Waziri adds that when it comes to entertainment, some Nigerians have a mindset of "West is best," but he is determined to change people's minds by showing it's possible to make a credible homegrown alternative to imported programs. He believes that it's not enough for Africans to complain of being underrepresented in foreign cartoons, or misrepresented by international media -- they must also do something about it. "People complain that Africa is not represented well in the media," says Waziri. "I understand that, but my point is Nigeria and other parts of Africa aren't poor, you have businessmen, the infrastructure, the ability to link up and make studios, finance it and sponsor it and make the market -- stop waiting for Disney to do it, do it yourself."
Peterborough chairman Darragh MacAnthony has launched a furious tirade against Nottingham Forest over the non-payment of a substantial fee for Britt Assombalonga. MacAnthony did not name names but took to Twitter to describe a situation he calls a ‘disgrace’ that undermined Peterborough’s efforts to recruit players on transfer deadline day. Sportsmail understands the League One club are waiting on a seven-figure sum as part of Forest’s club-record purchase of Assombalonga for £5.5million. Darragh MacAnthony has criticised a Nottingham Forest for their outstanding fee on a Peterborough player . Britt Assombalonga was sold to Nottingham Forest last summer for a fee that could rise to £5.5million . Without releasing exact details, the 38-year-old took aim at Forest owner Fawaz Al-Hasawi and called on the Football League to take action. It is believed Forest could become subject to a total transfer embargo – banning even loan signings once the window for such moves re-opens next week. Forest are currently barred only from bringing in permanent transfers as part of their punishment for financial fair play breaches. Writing on Twitter late last night, MacAnthony said: '(sic) Ok Posh fans, there wont be any incoming signings today but that has nothing to do with players having to leave etc, the real reason is due - To a certain championship club failing to make an agreed large payment (not thousands btw) last week on plyr they bought from us. Lee Tomlin joined Middlesbrough last summer but MacAnthony wasn't referring to the forward . Nicky Ajose also left Peterborough in the summer, signing for Leeds . 'This same club did this to us in August & now again. Truthfully its a disgrace & their chairman is the same.
It has put us last minute in - A terrible predicament which I shall now fix & once loan window opens, we shall bring in a couple of players to help the squad. 'Its also a shambles the Football League allow this nonsense to carry on & not for the first time. Im also sure we are not only club who - Its happened to but the knock on effect is outrageous & doesnt help a club like @theposhdotcom thats for sure! 'I dont like having to share this on twitter but our fans deserve to know why its been a quiet day & i have (given the) other chairman fair warning that- I wouldnt be messed around & that all within the game will know this should he not pay up. Sad thing is that he can afford to! !’
By . Peter Rugg . An Arkansas man in custody for allegedly killing his pregnant girlfriend claims he has no memory of assaulting her. Douglas True, 21, reportedly dialed 911 for Fort Smith Police at around 11:52 a.m. on Sunday, asking that they come to a home on the 2900 block of South 66th Street. He waved them into the driveway, and upon entering the house police discovered the body of Briana Butler stabbed to death and lying on the bathroom floor. She was 22 years old and seven months pregnant. Scroll down for video . Police say Briana Butler was found stabbed to death seven months into a pregnancy this Sunday after a fight with her boyfriend . Douglas True, 21, told police that he had fought with Butler but had no memory of stabbing her to death . Butler's daughter Bonnie, 2, was discovered sleeping in a nearby room with minor facial injuries, KFSM reports. The toddler was immediately transported to a local hospital and should make a full recovery. Upon searching the home police recovered a knife they believe was used in the homicide, and it was later confirmed that lacerations on her throat and torso were consistent with knife wounds. True was arrested on suspicion of two charges of capital murder for her and her unborn child. He has been transferred to Sebastian County Detention Center to be held without bond. Police say True called his mother to say he'd done a terrible thing and would spend his life in prison . 'True was advised of his rights and gave a statement admitting that he and Butler got into an argument that escalated to a physical altercation,' according to an affidavit. 'True stated that he was intoxicated and did not remember what happened after that. True said that he got up in the middle of the night and found Butler's body in the bathroom and went back to the couch and passed out.'
The next morning he woke up, cut a cast off his arm, then called his mother to tell her he'd done something bad and would spend the rest of his life in prison. Chief deputy prosecutor Linda Ward told the Times Record the investigation will continue before charges are filed. Butler's ex-husband and father of Bonnie, Joshua Butler, told WHBS that Bonnie had been an attentive and conscientious mother. Because Butler was pregnant, as this sonogram shows, True is being charged with two murders . 'No human being deserves to be done like that,' said Butler's ex-husband and father of Bonnie, Joshua Butler. 'To take your anger and rage out on another person and just totally take . them out, I mean that's just, cowardly right there' Eyewitness Barry Wayne, who saw True's arrest, said that a niece living in the complex where the crime took palce told him she was scared something had happened. 'She had never been in nothing like this before,' he said, 'I seen . three or four police cars and then I was sitting on the porch, and I . seen a gentlemen in the back and they said he had murdered her.' He said the girl would move out soon. 'You never know what’s going on in a person’s mind, so you always got . to be careful,' he said, 'You never know what’s going on with that . person.'
By . David Kent . Chile's World Cup preparations nearly took an unexpected turn for the worse when the team's bus driver almost ran over a female fan. Travelling at full speed along a highway the coach is seen having to slam on the brakes to avoid knocking a down a woman who ran in front of the vehicle to greet the players. Close shave: The Chile team bus narrowly avoids running over a fan after she runs into the road . Maniac: The female fan ran onto the highway in an attempt to greet the Chile national football team on board . As a squadron of police escorts pass the crowd, who wait to catch a glimpse of Chile's stars such as Arturo Vidal and Alexis Sanchez, a woman in a pink top and jeans is spotted walking along a concrete barrier in the middle of the road before stepping out onto it. Unafraid of risking her life, the fan approaches the bus and starts dancing with the speeding vehicle narrowly avoiding a fatal accident by mere centimetres. Chile open their World Cup campaign on Friday against Australia in Group B at Cuiaba's Arena Pantanal. Dicing with death: The fan started dancing in the middle of the road before the bus sharply broke . Star: Chile are hopeful that talisman Arturo Vidal (centre) will be fit for their World Cup opener vs Australia . The South American's are hoping that talisman midfielder Vidal will be fit for the clash against the Socceroos after stuggling with inflammation in his right knee following an operation on his meniscus last month. The 27-year-old has trained with the team since Wednesday and featured for 15 minutes in a 2-0 friendly win over Northern Ireland last week.
Ballot packs were sent to South Cambridgeshire District Council's 8,500 tenants on 17 October. The council said "about 65" people had contacted it to say ex-partners or dead relatives had been put on the papers. Councillor Mark Howell offered them "a heartfelt apology". The Electoral Reform Services has been informed. South Cambridgeshire council tenants are being asked to elect new tenant representatives. The council said its database did include up-to-date details of tenants who had either moved out or died, but "up to 600 were sent to people who previously held a joint tenancy and have moved out and in some cases passed away". They learnt of the mistake on Tuesday, as a result of tenants getting in touch. Mr Howell, who is cabinet member for housing, said: "Our team made a human error when running a report for the mailing and to avoid this happening again, all correspondence of this type will require double checking and final sign off from the head of service." In 2008, the council made a similar error when it was balloting residents about whether they wished to remain as council tenants. Mr Howell said that mistake was different: "In 2008, we didn't have sufficient data on the databases. "What happened here was we didn't press the right button." The Electoral Reform Services has been informed and it will make sure the mistake does not affect the outcome of the election, the council added.
Villa have lost eight successive matches and are 15 points from safety with five games of the season left. "They're probably going to be relegated," Black said. "This could very easily implode. It could very easily turn into anarchy. "I'm going to try and ensure that is not the case." He added: "If they're all relegated I can only put certain parameters down to ensure that doesn't happen." Villa will drop out of the top flight for the first time since 1987 if they fail to win at Manchester United on Saturday or if Norwich avoid defeat by Sunderland earlier in the day. Black has told forward Gabriel Agbonlahor to undergo a personal fitness programme after deeming him unfit. He will not play for at least two weeks. Black added: "The players are waiting to see what's going to happen here. They're all in limbo. "They are not great elements to motivate yourself every single day. "That's my responsibility and I will do my utmost to ensure that it continues to be done on an extremely professional basis."
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 23:00 EST, 4 April 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 23:00 EST, 4 April 2013 . It took a zombie to find Disaster at the Crossroads of the World. Two years after he disappeared from his Long Island home, Disaster the cat was found this week in the heart of Manhattan - by a Times Square haunted house promoter dressed up as a zombie. Jeremy Zelkowitz, who sells tickets for the Times Scare haunted house, spotted Disaster early Saturday morning crossing 42nd Street. Rescued: Jeremy Zelkowitz, who dresses as a zombie for a year-round haunted house exhibit in Times Square, holds a cat named Disaster which he found crossing 42nd Street in Manhattan last month . Rescued: Zelkowitz, 22, scooped up the black and white cat that appeared well-kept and neat near the haunted house, pictured, before taking it to a nearby animal hospital . He snatched up Disaster, a black and . white cat who appeared to be well-kept and neat, and brought him to a . nearby animal hospital. 'I'm a big animal lover but I have a dog so I couldn't take him,' Zelkowitz, 22, said on Thursday. 'The whole situation is very, very bizarre.' Staff at the BluePearl Veterinary Partners animal hospital scanned Disaster who had been implanted with a microchip, revealing his last known owner: New York City police Officer Jimmy Helliesen. Helliesen, 51, received a call Saturday morning from the hospital, informing him that his long-lost feline friend had been found. 'I was shocked,' said Helliesen. 'How did he get to Manhattan? That's quite an adventure.' Lost: The cat's microchip linked her to her former owner of New York City police Officer Jimmy Helliesen, pictured, who says the cat disappeared from his Long Island home two years ago .
Eager to help: Zelkowitz, seen in character on the streets of New York, says he would have adopted the cat himself but has a dog at home . For years Helliesen has adopted stray cats he finds hanging around his Brooklyn precinct. Two years ago he adopted Disaster after he strayed from the precinct and ended up getting captured by local Animal Care and Control. That's when Helliesen got him fixed and implanted with the chip. But six months after living in his Long Island home, Disaster escaped one day through an open window and never returned. Helliesen never thought he'd get the cat back - and has since taken in eight more cats he's found around the precinct who need homes. 'Disaster makes it nine,' he said. 'My wife has been very understanding.'
Craig Weir, from Carnoustie, welcomed the Terminator star on to the stage at a business event in Edinburgh last week, while his brother Paul drummed. The following night Craig joined The Libertines onstage at their show at Glasgow's SSE Hydro. His run concluded at a charity event featuring the cast of Still Game. Craig, 22, began his four-day run on Wednesday night at Edinburgh's EICC where "The Governator" was putting in a rare UK appearance at business event entitled "An Experience with Arnold Schwarzenegger". Craig and his brother Paul, 18, met the movie star and had their photo taken with him following the event. The piper said: "The opportunity to welcome Arnold to Scotland for the first time was incredible and very surreal. He was very kind to us and was excited to hear the bagpipes played live in Scotland." The following night Craig renewed his acquaintance with Pete Doherty's band The Libertines, who he has played with before. Craig joined the band to play Flower of Scotland as they walked on stage. He said: "It was amazing to play once more with my music heroes, The Libertines. "The crowd response to it was amazing. "The band were very welcoming once again and it was a great evening." Craig's Celtic rock band Gleadhraich played at a charity concert on Saturday in Stirling in aid of The Eilidh Brown Memorial Fund, which is building a respite holiday home for young people and their families fighting cancer. The bill included The Voice winner Stevie McCrorie, The Fratellis and the cast of BBC Scotland comedy Still Game. Craig's latest brush with the stars follows six dates playing with the Bay City Rollers before and after Christmas. Last year he also played We Will Rock You with Queen at the SSE Hydro. He began playing the pipes aged eight after his uncle Jack gave him a set of pipes and encouraged him to practice.
Away from the stage, Craig is studying for a postgraduate diploma in education at Aberdeen University. He said: "I've met with and played for a lot of big names in the last few years, but this week has been extra special because of the short space of time these gigs have occurred in. "It's provided a stunning start to 2016 for me and my band."
In the wake of the Baby Gammy scandal and a string of similar cases, the Thai government has passed a law criminalising surrogacy and prohibiting foreigners from seeking surrogacy services. The law, which prohibits the act of hiring women commercially to carry foetuses to term, aims to stop Thailand from being a surrogacy hub for foreign couples. It comes after a several scandals involving Australian citizens this year, including the infamous Baby Gammy saga and the tandem threat it sparked for a Victorian couple, who almost lost triplet girls they arranged through a surrogate. Scroll down for video . The world watched on in horror as baby Gammy was left abandoned by his Australian parents . It was reported that Wendy (left) and David (right) Farnell returned to Australia from Thailand with his healthy twin sister Pipah (centre) but left Gammy behind . Thai surrogate Pattaramon Chanbua, who alleged the Farnell couple from West Australia abandoned Gammy when they found out he had Down syndrome . National Legislative Assembly member Wanlop Tangkananurak said the new laws are intended to evade such recent incidents. 'Surrogacy business leaves too much long-term trouble for Thailand, so we are banning foreign couples from seeking surrogacy in our country to avoid being a hub and to prevent what we saw last year,' Wanlop said. The parliament voted 160 to 2 to pass the law Thursday night. Under the new law, a Thai couple is allowed to seek a surrogate to carry the fetus only if they are able to prove that they and their relatives are infertile. It also says that anyone involved in commercial surrogacy will face a maximum jail term of 10 years and a maximum fine of 200,000 baht ($6,100). Shannon Sanderson, 38, and Peter Trigg, 44, nearly lost the beautiful triplet girls they arranged through aThai surrogate mother, when a Perth couple abandoned their disabled son Gammy in Thailand .
The Thai Government has criminalising surrogacy in a bid to evade any further surrogacy scandals . Thailand was one of the few countries in Asia where commercial surrogacy was not specifically banned by law. There was however a regulation stating that doctors risk losing their license if they perform surrogacy for pay. Thailand became a go-to destination for couples from Australia, Hong Kong and Taiwan and a low-cost alternative to the United States. National Assembly of Thailand, where the parliament voted 160 to 2 to pass the surrogacy law on Thursday night . Thailand was one of the few countries in Asia where commercial surrogacy was not specifically banned by law . But this led to a string of scandals. In July 2014, a West Australian couple were accused abandoning an infant known as Baby Gammy, leaving him with with his surrogate mother learning he had Down Syndrome. Thai surrogate Pattaramon Chanbua alleged Wendy and David Farnell-the latter being a convicted child sex offender-left Gammy and returned to Western Australia with his healthy twin sister, Pipah. Two Victorian men, Shannon Sanderson, 38, and Peter Trigg, 44, were terrified the scandal would mean they may never get to see the faces of their unborn triplets. As the news broke around the world, Thai surrogate agencies went into lockdown, disconnecting their phones and shutting off email connections. The Gammy saga cast a controversial light on the largely unregulated business of commercial surrogacy . But Minister for Foreign Affairs Julie Bishop stepped in, negotiating with the Thai military to allow the couple caeess to the country and their children. The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs estimated that 50 Thai surrogate mothers are expected to carry babies for Australian couples by the end of 2015. There is currently a changeover period being debated to enable the children and their Australian parents to depart Thailand.
By . Robert Hardman . PUBLISHED: . 18:30 EST, 31 May 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 01:34 EST, 1 June 2012 . Cinderella, I am delighted to say, has made it to the ball. Just six weeks ago, New Britannic looked a dilapidated sight on her Kentish mooring. Few passers-by would have noticed the little brass plate commemorating her heroic part in the greatest rescue operation in British history – Dunkirk. In that sorry state, she was never going to make it to the greatest maritime party in several centuries – Sunday’s Diamond Jubilee Pageant on the Thames. She's arrived: The 'Little Ship' New Britannic, which saved 3000 . lives in the Dunkirk evacuation arrives in London to join the 1,000 . crafts taking part in the Jubilee pageant . Ahoy there: The New Britannic's crew waves to the shore as she sets sail ready to join the Royal Flotilla . But thanks to the generosity of Daily Mail readers, she is seaworthy again. Better still, she has made it to London for the first time in her 82-year existence. Yesterday, to whoops of delight from her devoted skipper and crew, she came chugging under Tower Bridge and on past some of the capital’s most famous landmarks. And, come Sunday, she will be part of the 50-strong Dunkirk contingent enjoying pride of place behind the Queen in that historic fleet of 1,000 craft. There is a real buzz building on the . banks of the Thames where this friendliest of armadas has started . arriving from all over the world. Many of East London’s docks have been turned into temporary accommodation for the smaller craft. Yesterday, beneath the shiny . skyscrapers of Canary Wharf, I found a fleet of historic boats moored . up, including several Dunkirk Little Ships.
Most . are in excellent condition but I still saw many owners in boiler suits, . crawling over their engines just to make sure that nothing goes wrong . cometh their greatest moment since 1940. Proud history: The New Britannic makes her way under Tower Bridge for the first time in her 82-year existence . Plucky: Dwarfed in between a Royal Navy vessel and the French 19th century barque Belem the New Britannic continues her journey up the Thames . One of these boats, Janthea, made two . round trips to the carnage of Dunkirk, bringing back a cargo of British . troops on the first run and French troops on the second. Her pageant crew will include Peter Lough, 72, who was a schoolboy chorister at the Queen’s Coronation in 1953. ‘It’s all going to be stunning. No . one does this sort of thing better,’ he said yesterday, proudly . producing the Coronation Medal he was awarded for his boyhood service to . the Crown. Last night, New Britannic was the latest arrival to this makeshift village in West India Docks. Her . owner and skipper, Australian engineer Greg McLeish, was at pains to . point out that his boat would never have got to London had Daily Mail . readers not heard of her plight last month and responded in their . droves. ‘I want to thank every one of them,’ he said. Full ahead: The New Britannic chugs along proudly. She was carefully restored by Skipper Greg Mcleish thanks to the generosity of Daily Mail readers . Pride of place: The 54ft craft had never ventured much beyond the Kent coast around Ramsgate when she was summoned to Dunkirk in May 1940 . The 54ft New Britannic had never ventured much beyond the Kent coast around Ramsgate when she was summoned to Dunkirk in May 1940.
Her owner, Walter Read, sailed to France with his 15-year-old son, Joe, who is believed to have been the youngest participant in the great evacuation. That one small boat is believed to have plucked 3,000 men from the beaches and delivered them safely to waiting warships. Neither Walter nor Joe ever spoke much about their experience afterwards and both men have since passed away. But, yesterday, Joe’s nephew, Tony Read, 61, was on board for the 12-hour voyage to London. What did it mean to see New Britannic prepare to take her place in front of the Queen? ‘It brings a tear to the eye,’ he said. Come Sunday afternoon, he won’t be the only one. Heyday: The New Britannic is believed to have plucked 3,000 men from the beaches and delivered them safely to waiting warships.
Newlyweds Stacie and Edgar Cobos got more than they bargained during a game drive on their Serengeti Safari Camp in Northern Tanzania. The honeymooners, from Washington DC, were on a game drive when a cheetah got a little too close for comfort - jumping on the car and peering through the open sunroof. The couple had been happily observing the family of cheetahs when the big cats decided to use the car as a perch so they could get a better view of their surroundings. But one cheetah became more interested in the contents of the car than the surrounding plains, peering through the sunroof and, at one moment, looking like it may even try to get inside. As Edgar Cobos stayed stock still looking at the animal from the back seat, the big cat looked right back, before appearing to lose interest. Scroll down for video . Too close for comfort? One cheetah even popped his head into the vehicle through the sunroof . Edgar Cobos remained calm and cool while the gigantic cat lounged just inches from his head . The heart-stopping moment came as the newlyweds were enjoying a safari camp experience with The Luxury Safari Company. The trip involves travelling through the Serengeti with a mobile camp of just six tents, following the migration and wildlife movement around the Serengeti. Guests have the opportunity to camp and dine under the stars of the Kuka Hills in the North Eastern Serengeti, while always being positioned in an exceptional wildlife area. The nature of the safari means holidaymakers can venture further away from other tourists and often get much closer to the animals. The cats perched atop the car, enjoying a better view of the surrounding Northern Tanzania plains . The Serengeti has long been famed as one of the most beautiful, wild-life rich areas of Africa .
Stumbling upon cheetah is nothing out of the ordinary in the Serengeti, which has long been famed as one of the most beautiful, wildlife-rich areas of Africa. In the North West region of Tanzania, it shares an invisible border with Kenya's Masai Mara, spanning 30,000 sq km. Aside from cheetah-spotting, wildebeest are also frequently seen, particularly during the country's annual wildebeest migration, which lasts for approximately 8-9 months of the year. Newlyweds Stacie and Edgar Cobos were visited by some friendly cheetah during their Serengeti Safari Camp . The Serengeti Safari Camp, which the couple booked, is a six-tent mobile camp that follows animal migration . The Luxury Safari Company's camp also boasts a living room tent, as well as library and bar area . Each of the six sleeping tents also has an en-suite bathroom in the rear . Aside from cheetah, another commonly spotted animal is wildebeest during their annual migration . Rose Hipwood, founder of The Luxury Safari Company said, 'Tourism drives conservation in Africa. 'If it wasn't for tourists, much of the land would have been taken over and the animals wiped out - it seems these cheetah have found another way that the tourists protecting them can help them!' Stays at Serengeti Safari Camp in Tanzania start at £2,643 for four nights, all inclusive, including flights from the UK.
By . Sarah Griffiths . PUBLISHED: . 08:25 EST, 10 October 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 09:47 EST, 10 October 2013 . It might look a little bit like a novelty static caravan, but Belgian architects have managed to squeeze essential components of a normal home into a giant egg. The pod, which measures only 215 square feet, contains a kitchen, bathroom and bedroom space in a polyester and plywood shell. The design was originally conceived as a solution for an Italian design firm that was struggling to get planning permission for an office extension. It might look a little bit like a novelty static caravan, but Belgian architects have managed to squeeze essential components of a normal home into a giant egg . The pod, which measures only 215 square feet, contains a kitchen, bathroom (seen at the centre of the image) and bedroom space in a polyester and plywood shell . Fully lit, the house can have a warm glow inside, which looks like a yellowy egg and has multiple openings to increase the amount of living space available . The Blob VB3 micro-house came about as the local planning authority refused to give permission for any permanent structures, which enabled quirky architectural firm dmvA to come up with its aesthetically-pleasing design that is small and mobile, Gizmodo reported. The firms says its egg is easily transportable and can be used as an office, guestroom or garden house as the space is so flexible. In order to squeeze the functions of a much larger home into the micro-house, the interior was designed to have lots of cubby holes to house kitchen essentials, separate the bathroom from the main space (at the pointier end of the egg) and provide space to sleep. The design was originally conceived as a solution for an Italian design firm that was struggling to get planning permission for an office extension .
In order to squeeze the functions of a much larger home into the micro-house, the interior was designed to have lots of cubby holes to house kitchen essentials and separate the bathroom from the main space . Fully lit, the house can have a warm glow inside, which looks like a yellowy egg. People who live or work in the egg can open a large upwards-lifting door or 'nose' to create a porch or canopy, extending their living space. Some of the cubbyholes are joined up to allow for people to sleep in 'bunks' alongside other holes which house their possessions . People who live or work in the egg can open a large upwards-lifting door or 'nose' to create a porch or canopy, extending their living space .
Arsene Wenger believes his Arsenal side may have 'switched off' towards the end of their victory over Crystal Palace as they escaped with a 2-1 win. The visitors had eased into a two-goal lead at half-time courtesy of an early Santi Cazorla penalty and an Olivier Giroud strike just before the break. But Palace rallied in the second-half and had Arsenal defending deep - with substitute Glenn Murray scoring a stoppage-time consolation before cracking a post with the last meaningful touch of the game. Arsene Wenger feels his Arsenal side might have 'switched' off during their 2-1 win over Crystal Palace . Arsenal striker Danny Welbeck controls the ball ahead of Palace midfielder Mile Jedinak . Arsenal forward Olivier Giroud holds off pressure from Crystal Palace midfielder Jason Puncheon . Arsenal moved third with the win and, although Wenger praised the fighting spirit of his players, he conceded they suffered a lapse in concentration as Palace pinned them back in search of a point. 'Certainly they thought that it was done,' he said of his players. 'We know in the Premier League that it's never done, especially at 2-0. With that ball on the post we were a bit fortunate. 'We can learn from every game. I believe that the players know that maybe they switched off a little bit too early. Overall I still must say that our central defenders played very well today against a very direct and a very physical game at the back. 'We missed goal number three and when they came back to 2-1 we were a bit lucky, a bit fortunate. We did well so overall I'm pleased to have won three points in a place like this. I feel quite strong and let's just continue to fight and be tight until the end.' Giroud taps home his 11th goal of the seaosn to give Arsenal a 2-0 lead at Selhurst Park on Saturday .
Arsenal's anchorman Francis Coquelin holds off Puncheon as the pair tussle in midfield . Crystal Palace boss Alan Pardew is convinced that Arsenal's second goal was was offside . Eagles boss Alan Pardew was left berating referee Mark Clattenberg as he felt Pape Souare's foul on Danny Welbeck that led to Cazorla's penalty occurred outside of the box - with Welbeck then offside in the build-up to Giroud's strike. 'The first goal was a mistake by Pape - he should do better, although it was tough on us because it looked like the incident was outside the box,' he said. 'The second goal was offside. That call should have been made. A minute before half-time you've got to get that call right.' Despite the defeat, Pardew hailed the performance of his side as the best he has seen since taking over at Selhurst Park at the turn of the year. 'We took a tactical decision to take the game to Arsenal,' he added. 'We continued with the game-plan and I was very pleased with the reaction. Its probably the best we've played since I've been manager. 'The chance when it hit that post and it fell in to the goalkeeper's hands summed our day up. I thought it was going to spin into the net. 'There was some great team play and probably the best players were on our team. But we've lost and sometimes that happens. Our final moment in that box needs to improve but we are not far away from being a decent team.' Nacho Monreal slides in to tackle Zaha, but the winger skips over the challenge and heads the ball on . Arsenal's Chilean forward Alexis Sanchez tussles with The Eagles' winger Wilfried Zaha . Following their 2-1 win at Selhurst Park, Arsenal are third in the Premier League table with 48 points .
It may be one of the most-quoted lines in American literature -- and if you dare to quote it, you might have to pay. In late October, Faulkner Literary Rights -- which represents Nobel Prize-winning author William Faulkner's estate -- sued representatives of Woody Allen's "Midnight in Paris" for misquoting the famous line, "The past is never dead. It's not even past." In the film, about a writer who travels back in time to 1920s Paris, Owen Wilson's character lightly rephrases the line as "The past is not dead. Actually, it's not even past." For the film's sin, Faulkner's estate is suing for copyright infringement and asking for "damages, disgorgement of profits, costs and attorney fees," according to the suit. Defendant Sony Pictures Classics, which released "Midnight in Paris," quickly fired back. Last living Faulkner talks about 'Pappy' "This is a frivolous lawsuit and we are confident we will prevail in defending it," the studio said in a statement, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Sony is defending the quotation as a "fair use" under copyright law, which is a defense that lets others freely reproduce copyrighted works for purposes such as criticism, comment and news reporting. Woody Allen had no comment, his publicist told CNN. But Lee Caplin, executor of the Faulkner estate, believes the movie went over the line in its use of the quotation, which comes from Faulkner's 1950 work "Requiem for a Nun." He points out that "Midnight in Paris" is a commercial enterprise, the line was important to the film and Allen or Sony should have asked permission. Ron Howard asked and received permission (for a fee) from the estate to use a Faulkner quotation in a Howard-produced TV series, he says, and Sony or Allen could have easily done the same.
"I don't think Woody is any less knowledgeable than Ron Howard," says Caplin, a lawyer and movie producer. "I think Woody's in the motion-picture business. It's called a business because you make a movie that sells tickets. When you attach Faulkner to your product, you're enhancing that product. You're enhancing it for artistic reasons, but you're mostly enhancing it for the entertaining business reasons of why you make a product more appealing." Moreover, he adds, "If Woody could have written something better, I'm sure he would have." But Neville Johnson, an entertainment lawyer who specializes in copyright and fair use, thinks the Faulkner estate is grasping. The quote is short, for one thing -- nine words, a tiny fraction of "Requiem for a Nun." "You're telling me one sentence gets you a copyright infringement action? I don't think so," he says. Caplin disagreed with that line of thinking. "It puzzles me that people think size matters," he says. In addition, copyright infringement comes into play if it can damage the "potential market" of the original work. "I guess the book will never sell another copy, don't you think?" Johnson thundered mockingly. "It's all over for Faulkner!" Looking backward with the bard of Oxford . Of all the writers to be involved in a copyright infringement lawsuit, William Faulkner would seem one of the least likely. The bard of Oxford, Mississippi, is known for colorfully evocative novels about a murky post-Civil War Southern landscape, which -- though rewarding -- are often the kinds of books forced on unsuspecting high school students. His writing isn't exactly pithy: He's been listed in Guinness World Records for constructing a record-setting 1,288-word sentence (in "Absalom, Absalom!").
Some of his best known works, such as "The Sound and the Fury" and "Intruder in the Dust," are noted for their thickets of stream-of-consciousness storytelling. For many years, the Faux Faulkner Contest honored scribblers who attempted to reproduce the master's rhythmic prose, tormented Southern characters, and endless comma-strung clauses (with parenthetical asides). Faulkner was no stranger to Hollywood himself, signing a series of contracts in the '30s and '40s to write for various studios. He was credited with six screenplays, including the adaptations of Ernest Hemingway's "To Have and Have Not" and Raymond Chandler's "The Big Sleep." His love-hate relationship with the movies was parodied in the Coen brothers' film "Barton Fink" through the character of W.P. Mayhew, a hard-drinking Southerner hailed by the title character as "the finest novelist of our time." Touring the South's literary landmarks . Indeed, Faulkner is considered a titan of American literature, often evoked with Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald among a trio of pre-World War II greats. His words -- particularly the ones approximated in "Midnight in Paris" -- still echo, says Jay Watson, the Howry Chair of Faulkner Studies at (where else?) the University of Mississippi. "It describes themes in American history, and I think that's one of the reasons why that line has had such resonance," he says. Faulkner's line is haunting and backward-looking, a warning that we forget our tangled roots at our peril -- a sentiment not often expressed in this country, he points out. "As a culture, the U.S. is pretty forward-looking and youth-oriented," Watson says, "and we very often tend to have a sharper eye on our future than on the past."
A 'very gray area' In a way, it's looking backward that's the nub of the lawsuit. Artists routinely stand on the shoulders of their predecessors, channeling ideas through their personal lenses. Done creatively, it can provide whole new meanings to the original source. Francis Ford Coppola used Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" as the basis for "Apocalypse Now"; Conrad, in turn, relied on Dante's "Inferno." Faulkner's books, too, are full of references to other works, particularly the King James Bible and Shakespeare's plays (which are both in the public domain). "He even said, at moments when he was asked to give advice to young writers, that there's an element of artistic creation that is glorified stealing," says Watson. "In order to be bold and ambitious as an artist, you have to be willing to use whatever you find wherever you may find it." Other artists have made frequent use of Faulkner. The Faulkner Institute at Southeast Missouri State University maintains a page of "Faulkner sightings." Of course, when done less than creatively, it provides openings for the attorneys -- and in our remix-happy society, full of self-produced videos and sampled music, there's a fine line between creativity and copyright infringement (or, for that matter, outright piracy). YouTube alone is full of ripped-off video files and audio tracks, says Johnson. "It's a morass out there of violations across the board," he says. But it is sometimes hard to determine when the line is crossed. Artists and their estates have sued in the past when they believed their copyrights were being infringed upon. In 2001, Margaret Mitchell's estate sued author Alice Randall and publisher Houghton Mifflin over Randall's "The Wind Done Gone," a parody of "Gone With the Wind" told from the point of view of a slave.
That case was eventually settled out of court, though an appeals court had upheld Randall's right to create the book. Fair use is a "very gray area," says Julie Ahrens, who runs the Fair Use Project at Stanford University's Center for Internet and Society. "There are lots of things that are not clear." "I get things where people are like, 'Are you sure I can do this?' And the best I can say is, 'Yes, you should be able to,' " she says. However, she doesn't see a problem with "Midnight in Paris" and "the past is not dead." Besides, the phrase has been used many times before -- in news headlines, TV shows and song lyrics. President Obama even used the line in perhaps the most famous speech of the 2008 campaign, known as "A More Perfect Union," which he delivered in response to the controversy involving his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright. Obama's speech chronicled the challenges of race in America, and also misquoted Faulkner: "The past isn't dead and buried. In fact, it isn't even past," Obama said. "The idea that one person can control the use of those particular words seems ridiculous to me," says Ahrens. "Any of kind of literary allusion is ordinarily celebrated. This seems to squarely fall in that tradition." It seems like a lot of effort over a few words -- this case of the estate of a long-dead author going up against a multibillion-dollar Hollywood conglomerate. But the impact can be deep. Ahrens is worried about a chilling effect; Caplin is hoping that a brighter line can be introduced in the dim area of fair use. It's nothing personal, he adds. He loved "Midnight in Paris."
As executor, he's just looking out for the fiduciary responsibilities of the Faulkner estate, and he's willing to let a jury decide the merits of the copyright case. "I'd love to have Woody Allen come down and have a free tour of (Faulkner's house) Rowan Oak," he says. "But if he wants to use any more of Mr. Faulkner, I would want him to give me a call and discuss a license fee."
A new witness in the police shooting of unarmed teen Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, told CNN that Brown and the police officer tussled at the police car window, then the officer shot the teen multiple times, as Brown backed away. "What I saw was when Michael and the cop were wrestling through the window," Tiffany Mitchell told CNN's Don Lemon. A shot was fired while Brown was out the window. He got free, and the officer got out of the vehicle, followed Brown and shot him, she said. He raised his hands, and the officer kept firing, she said. Police fired tear gas at a crowd of protesters late Wednesday for another night, as the group gathered to protest Brown's deadly shooting. Officers in riot gear then marched toward the protesters near a burned out gas station, which has become the gathering point for demonstrations. Police announced that they no longer considered the protest peaceful, before they fired the canisters, CNN producer Yon Pomrenze said. People fled in all directions, as the stinging clouds wafted by them. A separate small group of over a dozen people gathered outside Ferguson's police station holding up signs and chanting protests for a fifth day. Officer not named . Police have said Brown died in a dangerous struggle after trying to grab the officer's weapon, but witnesses say it seemed a brazen act of aggression by the officer on Saturday, and that Brown was unarmed and not threatening. On Wednesday, Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson told CNN that the officer had been hit and suffered swelling on the side of his face. He was taken to a hospital and released the same day, Jackson said. Five days have passed since Brown's killing, and the public still does not know the name of the person who pulled the trigger. There have been cries of a cover-up. "That doesn't give the community confidence. That doesn't make it transparent," attorney Benjamin Crump told reporters.
"And remember, we've got a long way to go before this community starts to believe that the police are going to give them all the answers and not try to sweep it under the rug." Crump was one of the attorneys who represented the family of Trayvon Martin, the teenager who was killed in a 2012 altercation with Florida man George Zimmerman. But Mayor James W. Knowles said police have received death threats against the officer and his family. They want to prevent further violence, he said. Hackers have gone after his personal information and worked people up against members of government and the police, he said. A town in turmoil -- 5 things about Ferguson, Missouri . Trouble at night . Police have asked protesters to restrict their gatherings to daylight hours, after violence has broken out repeatedly after nightfall. Protests during the day have been peaceful. Protests on Sunday and Monday ended with clashes with police and looting . Police have made 47 arrests after Brown's shooting, KMOV reported. "We understand the anger; we understand that people want answers. We understand that we've got a problem, but we're just asking people to be peaceful," Jackson said. The Ferguson-Florissant School District announced that it was pushing back the start of classes this year. School had been scheduled to resume Thursday. Civil rights . Federal civil rights investigators and the FBI carry out their own inquiry into the controversial case. In the town of 21,000, there's a history of distrust between the predominantly black community and the largely white police force. "Race relations is a top priority right now and, as I said, I'm working with the Department of Justice to improve that," Jackson told reporters Wednesday. Only three of the city's 53 officers are African-American, and Jackson said he is working to change that. Dorian Johnson, who said he saw the shooting, told CNN on Tuesday that the officer who opened fire is white.
Brown wanted to pursue an education and was keen on staying out of trouble, his mother said. He was to start classes at a local technical college this semester. Teen was two days away from starting college . What we know about Michael Brown's shooting . Trayvon Martin case fast facts . Opinion: How many unarmed people have to die?
An Arizona mother is being investigated for allegedly contributing to the death of her newborn baby, who tested positive for methamphetamine, cocaine and marijuana. According to a report by the Arizona Department of Child Safety, Amber Matuska, 31, of Tucson, neglected her son, Delmon Matuska, by exposing him to illegal substances during pregnancy. The baby died at the hospital February 5, 2014, just two and a half hours after birth. Mother: Amber Matuska (left and right), 31, has been accused of neglecting her son, Delmon Matuska, by exposing him to methamphetamine, cocaine and marijuana during pregnancy . The medical examiner has ruled that the cause of death was 'prematurity with substance abuse by his mother as a contributing factor to his prematurity and subsequent death,' according to Tuscon News Now, . Ms Matuska has not been charged in connection to her son's death due to a legal loophole in the negligent homicide statue, which states that children born within a mother's womb could be classified as a self-abortion. The Tucson Police Department, who has been investigating the case for the past seven months, said that detectives are still trying to pinpoint when exactly baby Delmon was pronounced dead. On the day of the baby's passing, police executed a search warrant at Matuska’s home, seizing cell phones, a counterfeit $20 bill and marijuana. No charges: Ms Matuska has not been charged in connection to her son's death due to a legal loophole in the negligent homicide statue . The 31-year-old woman has an extensive criminal record dating back to at least 2003, including multiple arrests on drug charges. A month after Delmon's death, the woman was again arrested on narcotics charges, according to court records. Her Facebook page indicates that Ms Matuska also has a 12-year-old child.
Matt Prior has taken a step back from England duty for the rest of the summer due to injury. The . 32-year-old revealed that he has a series of complaints which are . hampering his performances and he expects to go under the knife to sort . out his Achilles during the break. 'I'm not doing justice to myself and more importantly the team and that is what matters first and foremost,' he said. VIDEO Scroll down to watch Slow motion footage of Matt Prior and reaction from Cook . Glum: England wicketkeeper Matt Prior on the balcony at Lord's on Monday . 'I tore my quad before the first Test and my right hand has been beaten to a pulp, but the main issue is the Achilles. 'Now we have the time, I want to be pro-active about how we deal with it so I imagine that I'll have an operation. 'I've always said as long as I can do my job I will manage the pain and get on with it, but it has now got to the point where I can't do my job to the level I expect of myself.' Prior, who earned the first of 79 England Test caps against the West Indies in 2007, acknowledged that the decision could effectively end his international career. Setback: Prior was out in disappointing fashion as England slumped to defeat against India . 'It is a huge decision and not one I've taken lightly obviously because I could have played my last game,' he added. The . Sussex wicketkeeper has come under fire during an England slump which . extended to 10 Tests without a win on Monday as India triumphed by 95 . runs at Lord's, with Prior only managing 12 runs in the second innings . as Ishant Sharma tore through England's middle order. Prior says he . has made the decision for the good of the team and has wished whoever . comes in to replace him - likely to be Lancashire's Jos Buttler - the . best of luck.
'I've made my decision for the good of the team and . whoever comes in I genuinely wish them the best of luck and hope they go . well and perform and help the team win. That is all I want,' he said. 'If . that happens and I don't play again, then that was my lot. I'll be . disappointed because there are a few things that I wanted to achieve and . thought I would, but I can also look back and know I did some pretty . good things.' VIDEO Dhoni salutes 'memorable' Lord's win .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge enjoyed a concert in Ottawa last night to round off a busy Canada Day. Kate dazzled in a purple Issa Jersey dress as the Royal couple laughed and clapped while they watched acts from across the country joining 100,000 people on Parliament Hill. They were the guests of honour at the event which was part of the national celebrations marking Canada's 144th birthday. Kate had changed her clothes from her earlier red and white outfit - Canada's national colours - into the purple dress, making it an impressive five outfits in 24 hours. Pretty in purple: Prince William and the Duchess of Cambridge took part in Canada Day celebrations on Parliament Hill . Fashion queen: Kate wore a Issa Jersey dress with black shoes and had her hair swept back in a chignon. It was her fifth change in 24 hours . She was still wearing the maple leaf . brooch, which the Queen has loaned her for the tour - a glittering . diamond piece in the form of the national emblem of Canada. The Duke and . Duchess sat in the audience for around half an hour watching acts Great Big Sea, Tragically Hip and Weezer before leaving for a private event where they viewed the finale . fireworks. Earlier as they arrived for an official . Canada Day show in an open-topped landau, the Duke and Duchess of . Cambridge looked simply overwhelmed by the adulation – and the heat. Intimate: Kate and William were seen laughing and joking at the music event but they also shared several romantic moments during the evening . Purple reign: Kate Middleton's outfit drew all the attention from the admirers on Parliament Hill last night . More than half a million flag waving . people crammed the streets of the city – many having travelled hundreds, . if not thousands of miles - just to catch a glimpse of the glamorous . newly-weds in temperatures of more than 90F. In a speech to the crowds at the .
event the Duke told them how he and his wife were 'excited' by the . prospect of becoming 'part of the Canadian family' as they travel around . the country during the next seven days. The second-in-line to the throne . said: 'To be here on Canada Day - a day of unity, a day of coming . together as families, and as a nation - is even more special for us.' Rapturous welcome: First job of the day for Prince William and his wife Catherine was at the Canadian Museum of Civilisation where they took part in a citizenship ceremony to mark Canada Day. The Duchess of Cambridge wore a red hat with maple leaves . Spectacular: The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge arrive by horse drawn landau to Parliament Hill in Ottawa . Flourish: The Duchess smiles for the cameras as she shows off her hat by Sylvia Fletcher for Lock and Co . Family heirloom: The Maple Leaf brooch as worn by Kate, left, and by Princess Elizabeth, right, in 1951 when she also visited Canada . While many were keen to see the . prince, there is little doubt that it is Kate, 29, who is winning their . hearts in what is widely considered to be a dress rehearsal for the rest . of her public life. Television channels and newspapers . are offering wall to wall coverage of the new Duchess’s charm offensive - . and while she insists she doesn’t want to be seen as just a ‘clothes . horse’, Kate did not disappoint. In her first 24 hours on Canadian . soil there have no fewer than five different outfits, beginning with the . £575 smart navy Smythe les Vestes blazer, Roland Mouret shift and . Manolo Bhlanik pumps she sported on leaving Heathrow on Thursday. Display: Canadian Snowbird planes fly over the top of the Peace Tower during Canada Day celebrations . Look!
Kate points out the display to her pilot husband . Adoring public: The Duchess of Cambridge meets fans in sweltering conditions . All a bit much: A female fan who fainted is looked after by paramedics in Ottawa . This was followed by a blue and cream . lace Erdem dress and her much-loved £175 LK Bennett cream pumps for her . first two engagements, a visit to the National War Memorial followed by . a formal welcome at Government House. In the evening there was a ‘fun’ BBQ . with the cream of Canada’s youth for which Kate rolled out another pair . of old favourites, the Issa bird print wrap dress she wore the day . before she got married with a pair of Pied a Terre sling back wedge . heels. Atten-shun! The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge watch a ceremonial display by soldiers on Parliament Hill in Ottawa . An estimated half-a-million people gathered around Parliament Hill to watch the Canada Day show . Wave for the crowds: The Prince and his wife's ride through Ottawa was reminiscent of their wedding procession through the streets of London . Style icon: Kate was in a white Reiss dress that she wore for her official engagement photograph . Pomp and ceremony: The Royal couple find time to share a joke during the celebrations (left) but were solemn and silent for the more formal parts . Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper welcomed William and Kate as 'the world's most famous newlyweds' Today there were another outfit to . wow the crowds including another familiar sight, the cream £159 Nanette . dress by high street store Reiss that she wore for her engagement . portrait. The dress was topped off with a Sylvia Fletcher for Lock and Co hat. Proudly pinned to the Duchess’s dress . was The Queen Mother’s diamond Maple Leaf brooch, given to the late . monarch by the people of Canada in 1939 and passed down through a .
generation of royal women. She accessorised this time with an on-trend Anya Hindmarch tan and coral clutch, in the shape of a fan. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge share a joke as they visit the Canadian Museum of Civilisation . The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge chat during a citizenship ceremony: Kate's brooch was borrowed from the Queen . At the museum, there were 25 people from 14 countries who became Canadian citizens in front of the Royal couple . Her final outfit was to be unveiled overnight at an evening pop and rock concert. And next week Kate is set to create a . stir again when she dons full ‘western’ dress including jeans, shirt . and cowboy boot at a rodeo in Calgary. On their first full day of . engagements in Ottawa, the launch pad for their gruelling 11 day tour of . Canada and the U.S., the couple attended a Citizenship Ceremony. Popular touch: Kate greets a mother with her newborn baby (left) and receives flowers off some of the crowds outside . Charmed: The couple greeted newly sworn in Canadian citizens who presented them with flags and flowers . Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper . welcomed them to an afternoon program at Parliament Hill as 'the world's . most famous newlyweds' and said they represent 'our unbreakable link . with our past and our unqualified optimism for the future'. The Royal couple watched intently while 25 young . men and women – from vastly different backgrounds and cultures - became . fully-fledged Canadians. Each took the Oath of Citizenship, professing loyalty to the prince’s grandmother, the Queen. As each new citizen stepped forward, . William presented them with a folded Canadian flag before his wife then . handed over a small hand flag. Then it was off to the official . Canada Day celebrations in an open-topped carriage similar to the one .
the couple used on the way back to Buckingham Palace following their . April wedding. The state landau was built in the . 1890s from hand-wrought iron and carved wood. It was bought by Governor . General Earl Grey in 1911 for $4,000 and donated to the nation. But the stifling heat took its toll and Kate’s make-up began to melt. She gestured towards her cheeks and told Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s wife Laureen: ‘I’m just so hot. It’s incredible.’ Hosts: William and Catherine followed by Canada's Governor General David Johnston and his wife Sharon on the escalator (left) as they arrive for the Citizenship Ceremony where they were seated together on stage . Happy couple: Kate and William stand alongside Canada's Governor General David Johnston (left) and Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism Jason Kenney (right) As they arrived, the crowds - many . waving home-made banners saying Canada loves William and Kate - went . wild and their reception was akin to a pop concert. The couple took their places in a . VVIP section and watched the two hour show designed to celebrate the . nation’s 144th birthday and featured both music and military displays. William also gave a short speech to . thunderous applause and high pitched screams in which he thanked the . Canadian people for their welcome. He talked of his and Kate's family ties to Canada - in . French and English, as he had a day earlier. The star attraction: Signs carried by the crowd included 'Canada loves Will and Kate' Prince William said that Kate had learned about . Canada from her late grandfather, 'who held this country dear to his . heart for he trained in Alberta as a young pilot during the Second World . War'. On his side, he spoke of his . grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II.
The queen, he said, 'has asked me to . convey her warmest good wishes to the people of Canada, and her happy . and abiding memories of being on Parliament Hill with Thee Duke of . Edinburgh one year ago'. The prince referred to his . grandmother as 'the Queen of Canada,' since she remains Canada's head of . state, drawing a loud cheer from the crowd. He said the queen was watching their Canada tour with interest. Aides have told the Mail the couple . have been ‘thrilled and touched’ by the way in which the country – where . the Queen is still head of state – has taken them to their hearts. ‘It’s unbelievable. I don’t any of us expected anything like this,’ they said. Some people had waited through the night to see the Royal couple . Patriotism: Canadians dressed in red and brandishing signs supporting Kate and William swamped the event . Fans wait to catch a glimpse of the Royal couple .
In the typical textbook picture, volcanoes, such as those that are forming the Hawaiian islands, erupt when magma gushes out as narrow jets from deep inside Earth. But that picture is wrong, according to a new study from researchers at Caltech and the University of Miami in Florida. New seismology data are now confirming that such narrow jets don't actually exist, says Don Anderson, the Eleanor and John R. McMillian Professor of Geophysics, Emeritus, at Caltech. In fact, he adds, basic physics doesn't support the presence of these jets, called mantle plumes, and the new results corroborate those fundamental ideas. "Mantle plumes have never had a sound physical or logical basis," Anderson says. "They are akin to Rudyard Kipling's 'Just So Stories' about how giraffes got their long necks." Anderson and James Natland, a professor emeritus of marine geology and geophysics at the University of Miami, describe their analysis online in the September 8 issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. According to current mantle-plume theory, Anderson explains, heat from Earth's core somehow generates narrow jets of hot magma that gush through the mantle and to the surface. The jets act as pipes that transfer heat from the core, and how exactly they're created isn't clear, he says. But they have been assumed to exist, originating near where the Earth's core meets the mantle, almost 3,000 kilometers underground—nearly halfway to the planet's center. The jets are theorized to be no more than about 300 kilometers wide, and when they reach the surface, they produce hot spots. While the top of the mantle is a sort of fluid sludge, the uppermost layer is rigid rock, broken up into plates that float on the magma-bearing layers. Magma from the mantle beneath the plates bursts through the plate to create volcanoes.
As the plates drift across the hot spots, a chain of volcanoes forms—such as the island chains of Hawaii and Samoa. "Much of solid-Earth science for the past 20 years—and large amounts of money—have been spent looking for elusive narrow mantle plumes that wind their way upward through the mantle," Anderson says. To look for the hypothetical plumes, researchers analyze global seismic activity. Everything from big quakes to tiny tremors sends seismic waves echoing through Earth's interior. The type of material that the waves pass through influences the properties of those waves, such as their speeds. By measuring those waves using hundreds of seismic stations installed on the surface, near places such as Hawaii, Iceland, and Yellowstone National Park, researchers can deduce whether there are narrow mantle plumes or whether volcanoes are simply created from magma that's absorbed in the sponge-like shallower mantle. No one has been able to detect the predicted narrow plumes, although the evidence has not been conclusive. The jets could have simply been too thin to be seen, Anderson says. Very broad features beneath the surface have been interpreted as plumes or super-plumes, but, still, they're far too wide to be considered narrow jets. But now, thanks in part to more seismic stations spaced closer together and improved theory, analysis of the planet's seismology is good enough to confirm that there are no narrow mantle plumes, Anderson and Natland say. Instead, data reveal that there are large, slow, upward-moving chunks of mantle a thousand kilometers wide. In the mantle-plume theory, Anderson explains, the heat that is transferred upward via jets is balanced by the slower downward motion of cooled, broad, uniform chunks of mantle. The behavior is similar to that of a lava lamp, in which blobs of wax are heated from below and then rise before cooling and falling.
But a fundamental problem with this picture is that lava lamps require electricity, he says, and that is an outside energy source that an isolated planet like Earth does not have. The new measurements suggest that what is really happening is just the opposite: Instead of narrow jets, there are broad upwellings, which are balanced by narrow channels of sinking material called slabs. What is driving this motion is not heat from the core, but cooling at Earth's surface. In fact, Anderson says, the behavior is the regular mantle convection first proposed more than a century ago by Lord Kelvin. When material in the planet's crust cools, it sinks, displacing material deeper in the mantle and forcing it upward. "What's new is incredibly simple: upwellings in the mantle are thousands of kilometers across," Anderson says. The formation of volcanoes then follows from plate tectonics—the theory of how Earth's plates move and behave. Magma, which is less dense than the surrounding mantle, rises until it reaches the bottom of the plates or fissures that run through them. Stresses in the plates, cracks, and other tectonic forces can squeeze the magma out, like how water is squeezed out of a sponge. That magma then erupts out of the surface as volcanoes. The magma comes from within the upper 200 kilometers of the mantle and not thousands of kilometers deep, as the mantle-plume theory suggests. "This is a simple demonstration that volcanoes are the result of normal broad-scale convection and plate tectonics," Anderson says. He calls this theory "top-down tectonics," based on Kelvin's initial principles of mantle convection. In this picture, the engine behind Earth's interior processes is not heat from the core but cooling at the planet's surface. This cooling and plate tectonics drives mantle convection, the cooling of the core, and Earth's magnetic field.
Volcanoes and cracks in the plate are simply side effects. The results also have an important consequence for rock compositions—notably the ratios of certain isotopes, Natland says. According to the mantle-plume idea, the measured compositions derive from the mixing of material from reservoirs separated by thousands of kilometers in the upper and lower mantle. But if there are no mantle plumes, then all of that mixing must have happened within the upwellings and nearby mantle in Earth's top 1,000 kilometers. The paper is titled "Mantle updrafts and mechanisms of oceanic volcanism." At school, we were all taught that volcanoes—just like the one rumbling away in Iceland—erupt when narrow jets of magma are forced outwards from the core of the Earth. It's a compelling enough story that it's appeared in textbooks for decades—but it's also, apparently, completely wrong. So, the theory we all know and love goes that these long, thin columns of magma—referred to by those in the know as mantle plumes—act a bit like pipes. There's a well of liquid rock close to the core of the Earth and, though we don't quite know how when they formed, these narrow outlets that are 2,000 miles long and less than 200 miles across allow it to vent out to just below the Earth's crust, in the mantle. Where those columns sit in the mantle there are hot spots—and when the Earth's stiff crust fractures slightly, the magma can burst up and out as a volcano. The problem is that such long, thin columns of magma aren't easily explained by basic physics. "Mantle plumes have never had a sound physical or logical basis," explains Don Anderson, Professor of Geophysics at Caltech. "They are akin to Rudyard Kipling's Just So Stories about how giraffes got their long necks."
Advertisement That may sound harsh, but he has evidence to back his point: despite scientists holding that the current volcano theory is accurate, seismological searches for the plumes—the only way to look that deeply into the planet—have yielded no trace of them. But Anderson has a new theory, which he's just published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Based on the latest seismological analysis of the planet's structure, Anderson and his team have discovered that the plumes are far bigger than anyone ever considered in the past; in fact, there are huge chunks of hot mantle rising at any one point, which are thousands of miles across. Sponsored Imagine a lava lamp inside the planet, with wax replaced by molten rock, and you're not far off. When the hot stuff gets to the top, some of it cools and then falls in long, narrow channels. So, in essence, the new theory is kind of the reverse of the old one. In terms of volcanoes on the surface, the new theory means that their magma actually comes from much closer to the surface of our planet, at the top of Earth's mantle, rather than jetting up from closer to the center of the Earth. Interestingly, that means that volcanic eruptions aren't fueled by excess heat from the core, but rather how the magma close to the surface cools over time. Of course, that doesn't make eruptions any less damaging when they happen—but it does mean that we can rewrite the textbooks. [PNAS via Caltech via PhysOrg] Image by Pablo Hidalgo/Shutterstock
By . Toni Jones . Girls rock. And this season the only accessory you really need hanging off your arm is your best friend. Model mates Poppy Delevingne and Alexa Chung set out on a seriously stylish girls-only roadtrip for online fashion magazine The Edit earlier this summer. As well as posing in their classic convertible the two beautiful BFFs opened up about their ten year friendship, their wildest nights out, and why they feel it's so important to support and encourage the women in their lives. Poppy, 28, first met Alexa, 30, ten years ago at a casting call, and recalls that even then the brunette had stand out style. Poppy says: 'I remember thinking she was very beautiful, almost cat-like, but definitely a bit of a bloke. She was wearing skinny jeans that I wanted/needed in my life immediately – a feeling I had no idea would resonate every time I saw her.' No boys allowed: Model mates Alexa Chung and Poppy Delevingne head to Ibiza for a girls-only roadtrip. Alexa wears: Cape by Talitha; shirt by Roberto Cavalli; shorts by . Rag & Bone, Poppy: Jacket and dress by Saint Laurent by Hedi Slimane . Poppy: Top by Zoe Karssen; skirt by Michael Kors; scarf by Alessandra Rich, . Alexa: Shirt by Elizabeth and James; choker by Givenchy. Shawl throughout by Stella McCartney . Alexa: Shirt by By Malene Birger; bikini top by Lisa Marie Fernandez; shorts by Rag & Bone; hat by Gucci; rings throughout Alexa's own, Poppy: Cardigan by Apiece Apart; top by Helmut Lang; shorts by Miguelina; sunglasses by Ray-Ban. Hat by Planet Cowboy; dark brown boots by Mexicana; tan boots by Isabel Marant .
Aside from their mutual love of fashion, both women share a fondness for wild times. 'The real turning point was when we went moonlit skinny-dipping in the sea at Cannes. It was spectacular. At 4:00 a.m., rummaging through bushes for our stray couture, I realized it wasn’t just another friendship,' says Poppy. The fashionista friends are lucky enough to have toured the world together, for work and fun, but of the two Poppy maintains that it is Alexa who has the most amazing stories: 'I love living vicariously through tales of her love life. That was one of the reasons for inviting her on this trip – we’re boy-crazy. James (Poppy's new husband) knows I’m boy-crazy and always will be, but Alexa is really boy-crazy. 'What else? (Alexa) scoffs pasta for breakfast, sunbathes topless and is brilliant with people – in short, the perfect vacation companion.' Alexa: Dress by Chloé; boots by Isabel Marant, Poppy: Cape by Chloé; shirt by Alessandra Rich; shorts by Rag & Bone; boots by Isabel Marant . Poppy: Shirt by Alessandra Rich; shorts by Rag & Bone, Alexa: Dress by Chloé; hat by Planet Cowboy . Poppy: Top by Miguelina; shirt (around waist) by Elizabeth and James; skirt by Jason Wu; hat by Gucci, Alexa: Dress by Preen by Thornton Bregazzi; choker by Givenchy . Poppy, pictured in a selection of Americana-inspired designer denim and dresses, also delves into her relationship with sister and model-of-the-moment, Cara Delevingne: 'When it comes to work, I’m not competitive at all.
Having Cara as my baby, I had to learn quite quickly that I couldn’t be competitive because I had a sister who meant more to me. 'And I knew she was going to be brilliant, so I had to become very aware of not comparing. 'I don’t understand women who don’t encourage each other. I think compliments and showing affection are really important, too. Women don’t do that enough and it’s so essential, because even if you’re shy about giving a compliment, it’s good energy, it’s uplifting.” Alexa: Shirt by MiH Jeans; bra by Stella McCartney; jeans by Saint Laurent by Hedi Slimane; ribbon stylist’s own, Poppy: Shirt by IRO; top by T by Alexander Wang; skirt by Nina Ricci; hat by Gucci; rings throughout Poppy's own . Alexa: Poncho by Michael Michael Kors; boots by Isabel Marant; necklace by Givenchy, Poppy: Scarf by Barbajada; top by Miguelina; skirt by Jason Wu; boots by Isabel Marant . Poppy: Jacket by Emilio Pucci; shirt by Dolce & Gabbana, Alexa: Dress by Dolce & Gabbana; choker by Givenchy; scarf by Marc by Marc Jacobs Recreate Alexa¿s feline-flick eye makeup with Eyeko + Alexa Chung Eye Do . Liquid Eyeliner . Poppy: Shirt by Alessandra Rich . Alexa: Dress by Chloé .
Editor's note: On CNN's "State of the Union," host and chief national correspondent John King goes outside the Beltway to report on the issues affecting communities across the country. Neal Williams has installed both high- and low-tech security as crime has risen in his neighborhood in decline. LAS VEGAS, Nevada (CNN) -- Neal Williams carefully picked his house 14 years ago with his wife and children in mind. "Just a nice neighborhood," is how he recalls it. "A lot of comfortable people to be around. Enjoyable nights walk around and walk down the street and say hi, talk to people." Not any more. "I have sat in my upstairs windows and watched kids trying to break into a house next door," Williams laments. One of his windows was recently broken, and he came home one day to see evidence someone had tried to kick in his door. He has installed new security systems, some high-tech, and also taken a low-tech precaution of deliberately not applying oil to a gate hinge. "This is my infamous squeaky gate," he tells a recent visitor. "That is one of my alarms." Las Vegas is in many ways ground zero of the nation's housing crisis. "Bank Owned" signs are visible all over town -- so many foreclosures, in fact, that local real estate brokers have set up bus tours to take potential buyers and investors around town. Some agents are beginning to see evidence of progress. They report that inventory is down some and that more properties now bring multiple offers. Williams, however, says all he sees are the downsides. There are many vacant homes in his neighborhood because of foreclosures, and others have been rented out by banks that can't sell them. And with renters, he says, the sense of community has given way to more trash, graffiti and worse. "There was a shooting just recently a couple of doors down," Williams said.
"We've been robbed on several occasions." There is a financial price as well; Williams is current on his mortgage, but his home's value has collapsed. Watch the pain and joy of the Vegas housing market » . "I'm scared to look -- really scared to look," Williams says. "I know it has gone down quite a bit. My wife says more than half. I honestly don't know." His neighbor of just six months is moving, at a big loss, because of the rising crime. But not Williams. "Do I want to put up with the embarrassment of people saying, 'You look like you live in a prison?' Yeah I'll deal with that embarrassment, but I know that I am safer and that is how I look at it." Why not move? "Well I'm a stubborn son of a gun. This is my house. This is where I am staying." Only a few miles away is what you might call the flip side of the foreclosure fallout. Donald Leffert and his wife, Robyn Eddy-Leffert, just moved into their first home. "It was pre-wired for stuff --- networking," Donald said. "It was in a location we wanted. There was very little that needs to be done." They had been looking at condos, but the crash in housing prices made bigger homes within reach. While checking out the yard, Donald found the stunning evidence: The real estate brochure from when the house was on the market two years ago. It is identical to his brochure, with two exceptions. The list price then: $400,000. Now: $179,000. "Everything else on the paper is exactly the same," Donald says as he puts the papers side by side. "The only difference is the date and the price." A few small toys they found while preparing to move in makes them mindful their joy comes at the expense of some other family's foreclosure.
"It's pretty sad when you think about the people who have lost their homes," Eddy-Leffert said. "You can't go into a house thinking of it being someone else's house or someone's home."
Military officials say they will register weight before professional exams, to link promotion and fitness. Defence Minister Ruben Saavedra has said soldiers "must be prepared both on an intellectual and physical level". And the police have forbidden overweight members to wear uniforms until they slim down. The move may already have delivered results, if unexpected ones. In the town of Oruro south of La Paz, two policemen patrolling in civilian clothing succeeded in catching some thieves in a street market, apparently because they weren't in uniform. On 2 December, President Evo Morales suggested that soldiers and officers who neglected their fitness should not be promoted, insisting that staying in good shape was a "responsibility" of the security forces. Soldiers and police have complained of a lack of sports facilities, so the government has been supplying equipment to barracks and police stations.
By . Lydia Warren . Toronto Mayor Rob Ford today claimed that rehab saved his life as he returned to work following nearly two months in rehab. The beleaguered politician, 45, looked decidedly slimmer at the press conference as he apologized for his previous outbursts and drug use, and said he took full responsibility for his actions. 'Like a lot of people dealing with substance abuse, I was in complete denial,' he said at the press conference at City Hall. 'But soon it became obvious that my alcohol and drug use was having a serious impact on my family and on my health and on my job as mayor. 'After experiencing some of the darkest moments in my life, I decided that enough was enough. I had become my own worst enemy.' Scroll down for video . Apologies: Toronto Mayor Rob Ford apologized for his actions on his first day back on the job following rehab . Do you think Rob Ford will relapse? Ford said he underwent 'intensive therapy' and physical training at Greenstone rehab center in Bala, Ontario, where staff forced him to confront his 'personal demons'. 'I now know that the staff at Greenstone saved my life,' he said. 'Thanks to my treatment I can proudly say today that I have begun the process of taking control of my life.' He continued: 'But folks, this is a long long road to recovery. No matter what I do, I will never be able to change the mistakes that I have made in the past. 'When I look back on some of the things I have said and some of the things I did when I was using, I am ashamed, embarrassed and humiliated. I was wrong and I have no one but no one to blame but myself. I want to sincerely apologize.' Echoing earlier sentiments about wanting to run for re-election in November, Ford vowed to serve Toronto for 'many, many years'.
Back to work: Toronto Mayor Rob Ford arrives at City Hall on Monday after nearly 2 months in rehab . Exclusive event: Media Relations officer Amin Massoudi . (center) organizes the select media outlets who are permitted into . Ford's news conference after he arrived at City Hall in Toronto . Although he thanked his family, he did not mention his long-suffering wife Renata by name in the speech. Rob Ford . Ford, who said he will continue to undergo treatment, spoke shakily throughout the appearance and would not take any questions before he left the room. He had . entered the Greenestone facility in Ontario on May 1 to be treated for . alcohol addition after announcing in April that he was seeking . treatment. He made the decision after another video surfaced that apparently showed him smoking crack; Ford . admitted last year after reports of a similar video that he had smoked . crack in a 'drunken stupor,' following months of denials. He held Monday's press conference in his protocol office - a space that holds just 25 people - so only certain publications were invited, Ford’s communications director Amin Massoudi told the Star. Unhealthier days: Ford is pictured in November last year; he looked decidedly slimmer at Monday's press conference and said he had been working with personal trainers while in rehab . The venue meant that reporters from the . national wire service The Canadian Press, Now Magazine and Toronto . Community News are not welcome - and even the president of the city hall . press gallery. The decision allowed for yet another chapter in Ford's rocky relationship with the media. City spokesperson Wynna Brown said the member's lounge, which is available, would have been more appropriate because it allows for more people. 'From a city point of view, this is not reflective of the approach or the collaborative relationships we have and value with members of the media, particularly our colleagues in the city hall press gallery,' she said.
Jonathan Goldsbie, a Now Magazine reporter who was left off the invite list, told the Sun he felt 'shock, anger, frustration and momentarily, disbelief' to have been left of the list. Out and about: Toronto Mayor Rob Ford spent his final Saturday before returning to work shopping in Barrie, Ontario, where he posed for photos. He has been in rehab since the start of May . 'The . decision to hold it in the protocol lounge is an entirely arbitrary one . that offers no tangible benefit to the mayor or his staff,' he said. David . Nickle, president of the city hall press gallery and a reporter for the . Toronto Community News, said the mayor has often limited the media's . access, but never to news conferences. 'I feel the mayor should be facing all the Toronto media that are interested in hearing him,' he said. Ford previously announced plans to launch his re-election campaign on July 1 - Canada Day. Speaking to the Toronto Sun, he said: 'I will be back, I guarantee you. I am coming back and you will see a different Rob Ford.' He said he felt 'great' and was benefiting from the self-imposed exile. Treatment: Ford had entered the Greenestone facility in Ontario, pictured, in May and likened the experience to going to football camp as a youngster . 'It . reminds me of football camp. Kind of like the Washington Redskins camp I . went to as a kid,' he said, adding 'I am working out every day and I am . learning about myself, my past and things like that.' But he said he was missing his family; the only time he had seen his wife and children was for a trip to Crabby Joe's on his birthday, and he added that he was anxious to get back to them. On the subject of his addiction, he acknowledged that it was his own fault. He said: 'No one has enabled me.
We were talking about the enabling thing the other day in a meeting. You do booze or drugs because you want to do it. I take full responsibility. I have learned my lesson.'
By . Chris Pleasance . Her sculptures may be wooden, but artist Stefanie Rocknak's creations are anything but lifeless as these beautifully detailed pictures show. From a cyclist with veins standing out on his arms, to a face contorted in fear, Rocknak, who is also a professor of philosophy, hand carves each figure when she is not busy in the classroom. While a basic design can take just a few days to complete, more detailed work can take anything up to a month and a half to finish. Sculptor Stephanie Rocknak takes anywhere between a few days and a month and a half to create wonderfully detailed wooden designs such as this one, called The King . Made from two pieces of basswood, one for the body, head and crown, and another for the hands, The King was displayed in the windows of Saks on 5th Avenue, New York . The figure, which was completed in February 2008, was inspired by exhibits in the National Portrait Gallery in London, and the National War Museum in Warsaw, Poland . This piece, The Queen, was finished in August 2010 and designed as a counterpart to The King. The figure is also made from basswood, and her crown is made from many pieces slotted together . Her work has been exhibited all over the world, and a statue of Edgar Allan Poe she designed will take pride of place in Edgar Allan Square in Boston after it is unveiled in October. The brass figure beat 265 other entries from 42 and 13 countries to win the commission, and is designed to look as if Poe has just stepped off the train to visit his parents. Her sculptures have also been displayed in the Smithsonian, the windows of Sak's on 5th avenue, and in the Mariner’s Museum, on the Hudson River Sloop.
Rocknak can spend up to 1,000 hours getting the details of a sculpture just right, such as the delicate floral designs which run down The Queen's sleeves and the garlands around her neck . The Biker sculpture was created from two pieces of wood in 2005 and was one piece in a three-part commission called The Triathlete, which included a runner and a swimmer . The arms on the rider show the level of detail that goes into Rocknak's work, with his veins, sinewy muscle and wristwatch all painstakingly carved out . Rocknak was artistic from a young age, . training as a painter, before travelling to Rome in 1987 where she was . inspired by the likes of Michelangelo, Dontatello and Bernini and turned . to sculpture instead. While she intended to become a stone sculptor, she started working in wood first as her mother used to refurbish wood furniture, her father was a carpenter, and her grandfather had a wood shop in his ship yard. She always intended to start using stone, but fell in love 'the warmth and unpredictability of the wood,' and never went back. The Swimmer was part of the same commission. Speaking about the work, Rocknak said she was interested in capturing people in motion, as she found posed characters uninteresting . The Swimmer was carved from a single piece of wood and formed part of a three-part collection, which included The Rider. The third part, The Runner, was a huge runner's leg, also made from basswood . Rocknak says her art is deliberately simple to understand, and aims to be visually rich and detailed rather than intellectually complex or conceptual . Steering . away from modern 'conceptual' art which Rocknak says is often . overly-complex, she aims to create figures which are 'immediate and . obvious; ideally, they do not need a theory to do their talking.' One .
of her commissions, The Triathlete, featured three figures including a . bike rider, a swimmer and a giant runner's leg to represent the three . stages of a race. At . the time she was creating the work, Rocknak said she preferred creating . figures in motion as she found 'posed' figures uninteresting. Rocknak says she was inspired by stone masters such a Michelangelo and Donatello but chose to work in wood as her father was a carpenter and her mother used to repair wooden furniture . Rocknak also uses her talents to capture human emotions in wooden sculptures. This piece is simply called Terrified and captures a wide-eyed woman with her head thrown back in fear . This work, called Ghastly Nights, captures a woman's fear and frustration which keep her awake .
By . Charlie Eccleshare . Didier Drogba is known to hold a lot of influence in the Chelsea dressing room, and the returning Ivorian has flexed his muscles again by claiming back his old squad number. Oscar has worn the No 11 shirt since joining in 2012 - the year Drogba departed - but has allowed the striker to pull rank and take his preferred shirt number back. The squad number clearly means a lot to Drogba, and he took to Instagram to express his gratitude. He wrote: 'Back to my favourite shirt number 11. Thanks to oscar_emboaba for this privilege!!! #avecclasse #whynot #trueblues #cfc.' VIDEO Scroll down to watch Jose Mourinho talk about Cech and Courtois' rivalry . Thank you kindly: Didier Drogba took to Instagram to thank Oscar for letting him take back his No 11 shirt . Time for a switch: Drogba put this picture up on Instagram accompanied by his message of thanks . The change means Oscar will take the No 8 shirt that was worn by legendary midfielder Frank Lampard, and the Brazilian is looking forward to the challenge of emulating the veteran. 'Didier is a Chelsea legend and a senior player. I am happy for him to take the 11 and for me to take the 8,' Oscar told the club's official website. 'Lamps is another legend at this club and I hope I will be as successful in the shirt as he was.' Return of the King: Drogba came back to Chelsea this summer after leaving as a hero in 2012 . Legend: Frank Lampard is the top goalscorer in Chelsea's history but left the club this summer . Team player: Oscar posted a message on Twitter explaining the new shirt situation . New season, new shirt: Chelsea midfielder Oscar posts a picture of his new No 8 shirt for the new season .
He later posted a picture of his new shirt number along with the message: 'So, @didierdrogba will wear number 11 and I am going to the number 8. #ComeOnChelsea' Drogba said: ‘I am very pleased to be able to return to the number 11 shirt and I am very grateful to Oscar for allowing me to make this change.’ Elsewhere in the squad, Thibaut Courtois is handed the No 13 jersey, with Petr Cech keeping his No 1 shirt. Eden Hazard is Chelsea's new No 10, replacing Juan Mata who left to join Manchester United, and Victor Moses switches to the No 18 shirt previously worn by Romelu Lukaku. Taking a tumble: Oscar goes down injured in pre-season but should be fit for the start of the new campaign . As a gesture of goodwill, Chelsea are allowing fans who have bought shirts with the old names and numbers on the back to exchange them at the club's shop. All returned shirts will be donated to the Chelsea Foundation, the club's charity organisation which attempts to use sport to bring about positive changes in people's lives and their communities. Unlucky for some: Thibaut Courtois has been given the No 13 shirt, as Petr Cech keeps the No 1 jersey .
By . John Hall . It was the pride of the Sunderland shipyards before being used to save Soviet civilians from the German onslaught during the Second World War - but now this cargo vessel lies rusting at the bottom of the Black Sea. The Bryansk, a 100-metre-long ship used by the Soviet navy before being sunk by the Nazis, has sat on the Odessa Bay seabed, near Ukraine's southern coast, for 73 years. Now a diver and underwater photographer has captured a series of stunning images of the 116-year-old steam ship's rusting hulk - which has now been home to the Bay's jellyfish and rays for far longer than it was ever in service. Stunning: The Bryansk has sat on the Odessa Bay seabed, near Ukraine's southern coast, for 73 years. It was built in Sunderland in 1898, before joining the Soviet navy and eventually being sunk by the Nazis in 1941 . Explore: Diver and underwater photographer Andrey Nekrasov has captured a series of stunning images of the 116-year-old steam ship's rusting hull - which has now been home to the Odessa Bay's jellyfish for far longer than it was ever in service . History: The cargo was built in Sunderland by shipmakers Short Brothers Limited in 1898, and original flew the British flag as the Minterne. It was renamed several times over the coming years, including to the Inocencio Figaredo in 1920 - the name under which it was sailing when this photograph was taken . The steam-powered ship was built in Sunderland by shipmakers Short Brothers Limited in 1898, and flew the British flag under its original name the Minterne. It . was renamed the Nancy Lee in 1903, the Grelford in 1916, the Holms . Island in 1917, the Olvaarriaga in 1919, the Inocencio Figaredo in 1920 .
and finally the Bryansk in 1938 - having earlier left service in Britain to join the navy of the Soviet Union. In 1941, Romanian and German troops besieged the Soviet city of Odessa, and the Bryansk was used to transport wounded people and valuable equipment across the Black Sea to Sevastopol . Life: Although the ship was built in 1898, it has been underwater since 1941 - meaning it has been home to jellyfish (pictured) for longer than it was ever in service . Awe: Underwater photographer Andrey Nekrasov, 42, recently visited the wreck, which is in a part of the Black Sea popular with divers. 'When I dived into the hold the change from outside the ship was so striking that I forgot to breathe,' he said . Important: In 1941, Romanian and German troops besieged the Soviet city of Odessa, and the Bryansk was used to transport wounded people and valuable equipment across the Black Sea to Sevastopol . Facing a Luftwaffe attack on August 21nd . 1941, the ship's captain K.S. Gorenko tried evasive manoeuvres but the . ship sustained serious damage and it sunk to the bottom of the Black Sea along with its crew of 30 to 45 people. The ship had only managed to last 13 days into the 73-day Nazi siege on the now-Ukrainian city, and all that is left of it underwater today is its hull. Underwater photographer Andrey . Nekrasov, 42, recently visited the wreck, which is in a part of the . Black Sea popular with divers. 'When . I dived into the hold the change from outside the ship was so striking . that I forgot to breathe In contrast to the outside, where water . clarity so poor that visibility was just 3 metres, inside the hold it . was 15 metres. This meant I could see everything very clearly,' he said.
End: Facing a Luftwaffe attack on August 21nd 1941, the ship's captain K.S. Gorenko tried evasive manoeuvres but the ship sustained serious damage and it sunk to the bottom of the Black Sea along with its crew of 30 to 45 people . 'The . entrance to the hold looked like a luminous emerald rectangle. Iron . bars and their supports had managed to resist eroding over time. As a . result, the hold reminded me of the interior of a Gothic cathedral, as . rays of light made their way through the space,' Mr Nekrasov added. 'It . was silent and I almost experienced some kind of religious feeling, as . if I was in an underwater temple,' he went on to say. Like many battles of the Eastern Front, the siege of Odessa exacted a heavy toll on troops and civilians. Another . ship involved in the evacuation of Odessa, the Lenin, was torpedoed by a . German submarine near the Crimean coast, leaving 2,000 dead.
By . Peter Allen . PUBLISHED: . 13:43 EST, 16 September 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 05:05 EST, 17 September 2012 . The cyclist shot dead in the Alps may have been the ‘main target’ of the massacre, French police say – not the British al-Hilli family. Investigators made the extraordinary claim as Sylvain Mollier, who worked in the nuclear industry, was ‘temporarily buried’ in a secret ceremony yesterday. This went against the wishes of the 45-year-old’s family, who had asked for him to be cremated. Crime scene: The bullet-riddled BMW where the bodies of Saad al-Hilli, his wife, Iqbal, and mother-in-law Suhaila Al-Allaf were discovered along with his daughters Zeena and Zainab . It is believed forensic experts still want to examine his body for clues, which would have been impossible if the remains had been destroyed. Just 30 people attended the funeral, . which took place at 6.30pm last night - a day when the burial site is normally closed. It was deliberately . kept hidden from the media, employees told French broadcaster RTL. French investigators are examining the theory that he may have led a ‘double life’ and been the intended target of the shooting. Until now the investigation had focused on the deaths of British aerospace engineer Saad al-Hilli, 50, his wife Ikbal, 47, and his mother-in-law Suhaila al-Allaf, 74, who were shot in the countryside near Annecy in their BMW estate car. Mr al-Hilli’s seven-year-old daughter Zainab was discovered badly beaten by a passing British cyclist shortly after the attack.
Burial: Relatives of Sylvain Mollier at Ugine Funeral Home after police refused to allow them to cremate him as they continued their investigation . Her four-year-old sister, Zeena, was found unscathed hiding under her dead mother’s skirt eight hours later. The family, from Claygate, Surrey, had been camping near Lake Annecy when they were attacked. Victim: Saad al-Hilli, 50, the father murdered near the village of Chevaline, near Lake Annecy, in the Haute-Savoie region of France . It had been thought that Mr Mollier was killed because he witnessed the shootings as he cycled past. But Lt Colonel Benedict Vinnemann, who is leading the gendarme inquiry, revealed he was considering other possibilities. He said: ‘Was the al-Hilli family the main target? Was it not the cyclist? Only ongoing work on the scene can answer this question clearly. ‘We’re talking about someone whom everybody says was a gentleman, but who’s to say he did not lead a double life?’ Mr Mollier worked for Cezus, a subsidiary of the Areva Group, specialising in zirconium metalworking for nuclear fuel containers. Cezus is owned by the Areva group which in 2007 was forced to deny a report in Der Spiegel that it had flouted UN sanctions by providing Iran with enriched uranium. He lived in Ugine, close to the isolated beauty spot on the edge of the village of Chevaline where the shootings took place. He had two teenage boys from a previous marriage while his second wife, a pharmacist, gave birth in June. Mr Mollier was still on paternity leave and had been using his spare time to cycle around the countryside. He was identified after his partner, worried about not seeing him return, alerted the police.
The two survivors, Zainab and Zeena, are back in Britain and are believed to have been reunited at a secret location near London. They are being closely protected, amid fears that whoever was responsible for the attack may try to harm them.
Wuhan, China (CNN) -- Professor Kou Zhangbing conducts a health check. He tenderly calls the patient over with a tap of his hand, checks tongue and teeth for injuries, eyes for mood, and skin for scratches. As a treat, he hands out a salted fish. "The most important thing we can do is to keep them healthy," he says. Kou is one of a handful of Chinese scientists trying to save the finless porpoise, a freshwater species found in the Yangtze River. Rarer than China's giant panda, this famed species now teeters on the brink of extinction. Recent surveys suggest that there are a mere thousand animals left, down dramatically from similar surveys conducted just six years ago. "If proper measures aren't taken they will be extinct in 10 years, but to be honest, we only have five years to take action," said Zhang Xinqiao of the World Wildlife Fund. Professor Kou and his colleagues research the rare mammal in a series of deep blue pools at the Institute for Hydrobiology in Wuhan. They are trying to understand these curious creatures and possibly breed them for the wild. "I spend more time with them than with my family," said Kou, "They have become an indispensable part of my life." It's mating season, so they dance underwater and act a little strange. Occasionally, a porpoise swims right up to the viewing glass and all but presses its face against it. The porpoise's face is set in a permanent quizzical smile. Dark and forward-facing eyes carefully monitor the movements of its visitors. Porpoises are smaller and stouter than their dolphin cousins; they have shorter beaks, and live in smaller groups. Those groups could be getting even smaller in the wild. Asia's longest river is also one of its most polluted. Scientists estimate that about 800 million tons of wastewater is dumped into the Yangtze every year.
Pollution, overfishing, and intensive development on the Yangtze have all combined to push the porpoise near extinction. "All of these human activities have destroyed the natural habitat of the finless porpoise, taking away their food supply and even injuring and killing them directly," said Zhang. He said the prospect of survival in the Yangtze is bleak, but he clings onto hope for the species. That hope, such as there is, can be found West of Wuhan in Tian-e-Zhou oxbow lake. Once part of the Yangtze, the lake was formed from a bend in the river and then separated from the main stream. "This is the best chance we have to keep the species alive," said Gao Daobin, an official in charge of the park. "We only have this animal in China and kids will start asking questions when they learn about it. They will ask 'why did it go extinct?'" It's no idle fear. The Baiji dolphin, a regal animal with its trademark pointed beak, went functionally extinct in the Yangtze in 2006. Scientists believe there may be individual animals in the murky water, but it could never sustain the species. So the finless porpoise is the last remaining freshwater cetacean left in China. Gao shows us a breeding pen separated from the lake by just a net. A handler drops individual fish into the mouth of the captive porpoises. They have to make sure to give exactly the right nutrients. They will be released into the lake, where the fewer than 40 porpoises could represent their last stand. "Nobody cared about them in the past, but attitudes are changing. Now, if they go extinct, all of our years of work will be meaningless," said Gao.
A woman who spent a decade trying every diet under the sun has undergone a body transformation in just 12 weeks. Lisa O'Daly, 33, from South East London, struggled with her shape since her early 20s and has never managed to shift excess weight, especially around her middle. After giving everything from Weight Watchers to the Dukan diet a go over the last 10 years, she finally got the toned, taut body she dreamed of after discovering weightlifting, and pairing it with a healthy diet. Scroll down for video . Lisa's body fat percentage went from 24 per cent to 19 per cent, and she lost 2.3kgs in just 12 weeks . While her weight only dropped 5lbs from 9st 12lbs to 9st 7lbs, her size changed dramatically. The former size 14 can now fit into size 8 clothes, and her body fat percentage has dropped from 24 to 19 per cent, showing off her toned muscles. Lisa said: 'I've tried every diet you can think of but nothing really stuck. At first, it was bizarre muscling my way into the weights room at the gym.' Lisa had spent every year since she finished university trying two or three diets a year. Her eating plans included the Zone diet, the 5:2 diet, weight watchers, Carol Vorderman's 21 day detox, No carbs after 5pm, Low carb evenings, the Ducan diet, and juice fasting. But Lisa yo-yoed and couldn't keep the weight off, ranging between a size 8 and 16 over 10 years. As soon as she was under stress she would turn to doughnuts, chocolate and coffee and would skip the gym when her job in HR got busy. She embarked on the USN fitness programme that combines healthy eating with intense weight training . All her eating and exercise habits have changed and she's clued up on how to maintain a healthy lifestyle .
When her friend Tarryn suggested she try the Ultimate Sports Nutrition programme Lisa never thought she would find herself at home with bench pressing in the weights section. But in just 12 weeks of the fitness programme that combines healthy eating with intense weight training she lost 2.3kg and developed a six pack. The free body transformation challenge is based around a five day programme with two rest days, booked online, but the optional USN supplements and shake powders are paid for, available through their website. Thanks to switching snacking on Ben and Jerry's and Dairy Milk to lean meat, veg and brown rice Lisa sent her body fat from 24 per cent down to 19 per cent. She followed a plan of daily exercise to tone her abs, arms and legs and tried out protein supplements to help kick-start her complete makeover which saw her go from a size 14 to a size 8. Breakfast: Nothing . Lunch: Three courses of soup with bread, cheesy pasta, and a cake for desert . Dinner: Large spaghetti bolognese . Snack: Lots of full-fat milk coffees, doughnuts . Pre and post-workout whey protein shake . Breakfast: Porridge . Lunch: Salad with grilled chicken, brown rice . Dinner: Fish with steamed vegetables . Snacks: Handful of nuts . Pre-workout USN supplements: Xedra Cut Slim Pack and CLA Thermo . She took protein supplements to help her complete makeover which saw her go from a size 14 to a size 8 . Day 1 – Legs and abs (squats, lunges, free weights) Day 2 – Chest and triceps (flat bench dumbbell presses and overhead chest extensions) Day 3 – Shoulders (overhead presses and raises) Day 4 – Back and biceps (barbell rows, dead lifts and curls) Day 5 – Circuit with plank and crunches .
Lisa followed the USN programme pretty closely, working out for 45 minutes a day throughout the 12 weeks, for five days a week with two days off. She gradually increased the weights as she got further through the programme. Week 1 - arm curling 2kg, leg press 65kg . Week 12 - arm curling 8kg, leg press 200kg . Lisa said: 'I'd started loads of diets, and sometimes finished them, but it never worked. I'd fall back into my old eating habits and put it all back on. 'I thought I was eating healthily and even went to spin classes at the gym but I still had rolls around my stomach. I assumed food was good for me just because it says low carb and low fat on the label. I assumed it was good for me. 'I wasn't obese or and people didn't look at me and think I was fat, but I wasn't happy and I knew that I needed to lose a few pounds. When I hit 11 and a half stone I became officially classed as overweight and that shocked me into action. But I wanted to do something that was maintainable which USN is. 'The weight came off really quickly and after just six weeks people were noticing that I'd changed. 'But it's stayed off too. All my eating and exercise habits have changed and I've clued up on healthy eating.'
Relatives of the 96 fans who died gasped as David Duckenfield told the new inquests: "I apologise unreservedly to the families." He said: "Everybody knew the truth, the fans and police knew the truth that we'd opened the gates." Mr Duckenfield, 70, said he would regret the lie "to his dying day". He was in charge of policing at Sheffield Wednesday's stadium on 15 April 1989 when a fatal crush developed in terraced pens allocated to Liverpool fans. The court heard that on the day Mr Duckenfield told Graham Kelly, of the FA, that some fans had got in themselves through gate C, when the truth was that he had ordered the gate to be opened. Christina Lambert QC, counsel for the inquests, said some witnesses have spoken of having a "clear recollection" that Mr Duckenfield "made reference to gates having been stormed". He said he does not recall being as "dramatic" as that. Ms Lambert asked: "Did you appreciate that what you said and indeed, what you did not say, could or might bear that meaning to Mr Kelly and others?" He replied: "Yes ma'am. I didn't give him sufficient information to appreciate the situation as it occurred." Mr Duckenfield went on to say: "It was a situation I was totally untrained for, totally unprecedented, and I make no excuses. I was the man who did it. But I faced a difficult situation. "I said something rather hurriedly, without considering the position, without thinking of the consequences and the trauma, the heartache and distress that the inference would have caused to those people who were already in a deep state of shock, who were distressed. I apologise unreservedly to the families." He told the court that he had "no idea" what motivated him to lie.
Earlier, Mr Duckenfield said it was "one of the biggest regrets of his life" that he did not consider the consequences of opening the gate. He said he was unaware that turnstiles at the Leppings Lane end fed into an inner concourse and that gate C was opposite a tunnel into the terraces. Mr Duckenfield said he did not think before opening the gates about blocking the tunnel off with a line of police officers - as had happened in previous years. The inquests heard he had not been aware that at 14:30, some 5,700 fans were still trying to enter the ground outside the Leppings Lane turnstiles because he did not know the club had a system for monitoring the supporters. It meant 800 fans would have to go through each turnstile in 30 minutes to get in for kick-off. Mr Duckenfield said he "accepted" this was "not going to happen". Mr Duckenfield, who had been stationed in the police control box with a bank of TV monitors, said he was "shocked" at the request from Supt Roger Marshall to open the Leppings Lane gates after police became "overwhelmed" by the number of fans. The witness continued: "I was shocked and taken aback by it and thinking, 'Where are these people going to go if I open the gates?"' He said another message then came through on the police radio from Mr Marshall saying: "If we don't open the gates someone's going to get killed." Mr Duckenfield said: "That really was a shocking, terrifying moment to feel you had got to that situation." Another officer in the police box, Mr Bernard Murray, then said to him: "Are you going to open the gates?" the jury heard. Mr Duckenfield said: "I remember saying to him quite clearly, Mr Murray, if people are going to die I have no option but to open the gates. Open the gates."
He said he thought fans would feel "relief and comfort" in being released from the crush of the turnstiles on to the concourse. "I think it is fair to say it is arguably one of the biggest regrets of my life that I did not foresee where the fans would go when they came in through the gates," he continued. "I was overcome by the enormity of the situation and the decision I had to make and, as a result of that, this is probably very hard to admit, as a result of that I was so overcome probably with emotion of us having got into that situation that my mind for a moment went blank." Mr Duckenfield was questioned in front of about 200 relatives of those who died as a result of the disaster. Ms Lambert asked him if he "should have taken steps" to delay the start of the match. He responded: "I accept that view now, ma'am". Asked what he would have done had he known there were so many supporters waiting to enter, he replied: "I would have informed the club. I would have informed the referee that we had a difficulty arising and that on the evidence we had available, we should consider delaying the kick-off." On the day of the match, police could only judge how full the pens in the terraces were by looking at CCTV and the terraces. There were counters on the banks of turnstiles but these did not track how many people were going into each pen. Earlier, Mr Duckenfield also told the jury he could not account for his movements for a period of more than two hours before he took up his position in the police control box on the afternoon of the semi-final. He told the inquests his mind was "a complete blank" and he could only remember being taken "taken out" in a police car by a colleague and "we drove around".
Ms Lambert put it to Mr Duckenfield that this was a "significant period of time" and would have been a "golden opportunity" to get to know the ground better, on what was to be his first match as commander. Mr Duckenfield agreed that it was, but said he could not recall whether it was an opportunity he had taken. Ms Lambert also said it would have been a good opportunity for Mr Duckenfield to survey the turnstiles at the Leppings Lane end. Again, Mr Duckenfield agreed. He accepted it was "part of his job as a match commander to have a basic knowledge of the layout of the stadium". Earlier the retired officer said he had urged police to ensure both sets of fans had "a good day out." He wrote a briefing document for officers before the FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest, the jury was told. In the note he said: "I cannot stress too highly the word safety. The ground will be full to capacity". He recalled telling officers that " it was supposed to be a wonderful occasion for both the Liverpool and Notts fans. They were to come along and enjoy themselves, and we, the police service, were to ensure that they had a good day out. "We were to be tolerant, understanding of their enthusiasm, treat them with respect, and put ourselves forward as a professional and caring organisation". The inquests continue. BBC News: Profiles of all those who died
BEIJING, China (CNN) -- Travelers to China who display flu-like symptoms may be randomly quarantined over concerns of the swine flu virus, the U.S. State Department warned. A child traveling with his parents wears a face mask after they arrive at the Beijing, China, airport. There have been cases of children being separated from parents after either tested positive for the virus, also known as H1N1, a travel alert said Friday. Chinese officials may give medications to minors in such cases without consulting their parents, according to the alert. "Although the proportion of arriving Americans being quarantined remains low, the random nature of the selection process increases the uncertainty surrounding travel to China," the alert said. Swine flu is a respiratory disease of pigs transmitted to humans and caused by type A influenza virus. Symptoms include fever, lethargy, lack of appetite and coughing. There have been about 48,000 confirmed cases worldwide, including 519 in China, according to the World Health Organization. The Chinese government has taken measures to stop the spread of the virus. They include placing passengers who have fever or flu-like symptoms on a seven-day quarantine, the alert said. Others facing quarantine include those sitting close to travelers with symptoms, those with elevated temperatures and those from areas where virus outbreaks have occurred. A 15-year-old from Topeka, Kansas, told CNN on Monday that she was quarantined in Beijing for a week. "Apparently, I was sitting too close to a man who had a fever on the 14-hour plane ride," Kaitlin Hannigan said, adding that she initially thought she had a fever, but her temperature was fine when officials checked it. A day after she arrived in Beijing with an educational group, government officials showed up at her hotel.
"They were wearing quarantine suits, goggles and masks and, like, full body suits and gloves, and said I had to be quarantined for seven days because I came in contact with that guy," Hannigan said. Earlier in June, New Orleans, Louisiana, Mayor Ray Nagin was quarantined in Shanghai after possible exposure to the virus. Nagin was headed to Australia on an economic development trip when he was quarantined for four days after sitting beside a passenger who was being treated for suspected swine flu symptoms. Nagin showed no signs of illness. State officials warned Americans traveling to China that they have to follow local quarantines procedures. "The U.S. Embassy will be unable to influence the duration of stay in quarantine for affected travelers," the statement said. The travel alert expires in September.
The Swiss third seed's 300th Grand Slam match win was secured 6-4 3-6 6-1 6-4. Australian Nick Kyrgios was involved in an argument with an umpire as he lost 6-3 6-4 1-6 6-4 to Tomas Berdych. Top seeds Serena Williams and Novak Djokovic won in straight sets, while former champion Maria Sharapova also went through. Williams, of the United States, was in imperious form, taking just 45 minutes to beat 18-year-old Russian Darya Kasatkina 6-1 6-1. Serb Djokovic was not at his best against Italian Andreas Seppi, but won 6-1 7-5 7-6 (8-6), thanks in part to the Italian finding the net too often with his returns. Sharapova needed three sets to beat unseeded American Lauren Davis, the Russian fifth seed dominating the latter stages to win 6-1 6-7 (5-7) 6-0. Poland's number four seed Agnieszka Radwanska had a rather more straightforward day, beat Puerto Rican Monica Puig 6-4 6-0. The 34-year-old Swiss had won a tight battle against Dimitrov in Brisbane in the build-up to the Australian Open, but was a more comfortable winner on the bigger Grand Slam stage. Both men displayed the elegant shot-making for which they are known, but had Federer been more effective on break points in the second set, he might have won it in three sets. Federer failed to recover an early deficit in the second set and had converted only one of eight break points going into the third, only to step on the gas and leave Dimitrov in his wake. "Grigor was playing well and I thought I was struggling a little bit," said Federer, who plays Belgian David Goffin in round four.
"It was an important start to the third set. Thankfully I got the early break and was able to stay in the lead." Kyrgios has rarely been far away from controversy at the Australian Open, having been fined for uttering an audible obscenity during his first-round win over Spain's Pablo Carreno Busta. He then had to leave the court during his second-round match against Uruguay's Pablo Cuevas because of a problem with his shorts. Against Berdych, Kyrgios launched into a rant at umpire James Keothavong, claiming that he could hear music from the stands, and that it was disrupting his game. The Australian, having lost the first two sets, took the third convincingly following the confrontation with Keothavong, but sixth seed Berdych came through to close out the match. It took two hours and 14 minutes for five-time Grand Slam champion Sharapova to see off Davis, the world number 103, and claim the 600th victory of her 15-year career. "Wow. I've won 600 matches?" said the 28-year-old. "Is this like a friendly reminder that I'm getting old? Might be." Sharapova next faces a tough test against 18-year-old Bencic, with the winner earning a potential quarter-final against Serena Williams. Bencic, coached by Melanie Molitor [mother of Martina Hingis], has won her last 15 three-set matches dating back to the 2015 French Open. Australia's Daria Gavrilova followed up her shock victory over two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova with a dramatic 6-4 4-6 11-9 win over Kristina Mladenovic of France. The 21-year-old, who beat three top-10 players in 2015, has made the fourth round for the first time and will face Spain's Carla Suarez Navarro next.
"I'm just really excited and I want to hug the whole stadium," Gavrilova, the world number 39, said afterwards. Among the many matches postponed on a day of rain in Melbourne was the all-British doubles meeting between Johanna Konta and Heather Watson, and Jocelyn Rae and Anna Smith. With all four players in the GB Fed Cup squad, and team captain Judy Murray sure to be courtside, it could yet prove significant in terms of planning for next month's qualifier in Israel. The postponements mean a packed schedule on Saturday, with Konta up against Czech Denisa Allertova first on Hisense Arena at 00:00 GMT, and fellow British number one Andy Murray against Portugal's Joao Sousa first in the Margaret Court Arena night session at 08:00. For full details of our Australian Open coverage check out our listings page.
The firm's final results for the year ended 31 March 2015 also show a rise in pre-tax profit by 11% to £10.8m. Without one-off costs, adjusted profit rose to £16.6m. Iomart listed its "highlights" as "strengthened relationships" "with major vendors such as Microsoft and EMC" and better "opportunities from the market for Hybrid Cloud solutions". A hybrid cloud is where some resources and provided and managed in-house where others are sourced externally. Iomart said it had benefited from the increasing complexity of a hybrid cloud. These include questions about cost, value, effectiveness, security and compliance, around the core business of providing data storage capacity in several centres. Chief executive Angus MacSween said customers were seeking to combine their own IT hardware with contracts for use of private space in a separate data centre, along with use of the publicly-available cloud. "The effective management of all these is the opportunity for Iomart which we would collectively term the hybrid cloud," he said. The company has been buying other firms over the past year, helping to drive up those revenue figures figures. Including acquisitions, the hosting of cloud data rose in value by 23% to £55m, though without them, growth was 9%. Revenue fell slightly in Easyspace, the division which supports clients' websites and email. On Monday, it was announced that Iomart had bought the London-based cloud computing consultancy, SystemsUp, for at least £9m.
The billionaire and reality TV star said Mr McCain was only considered a hero because he was a prisoner of war. He then added: "I like people who weren't captured." The comments prompted strong criticism across the party. Rival contender Rick Perry said the remarks were a "new low" in US politics. Mr Trump later sought to clarify his remarks, although he did not apologise. "If a person is captured, they're a hero as far as I'm concerned," he said. "I don't like the job John McCain is doing in the Senate because he is not taking care of our veterans.'' The two have clashed before, with Mr McCain accusing Mr Trump of having "fired up the crazies" with his attacks on Mexican immigrants. Mr McCain was held for five-and-a-half years after his plane was shot down in the Vietnam war. Mr Trump avoided service through student and medical deferments. The 2008 presidential candidate is yet to respond to Mr Trump's remarks, although his daughter Meghan tweeted she was "disgusted". Many of Mr Trump's rivals for the nomination lined up to attack him. There are currently 15 people running to be the Republican presidential candidate. Mr Trump has led in some early polls, although analysts have predicted his appeal is likely to wane as the contest develops.
The race was held over three days in May, with starts or finishes at Bridlington, Leeds, Scarborough, Selby, York and Wakefield. The tourism body said the event was seen by more than 1.2 million people. In 2016, the three-day men's race is to start on 29 April, with a women's race on 30 April. More on this story and other news from Leeds and West Yorkshire There were one million spectators at the race with about one in five from outside Yorkshire, said Welcome to Yorkshire. Some of those attended more than one day of the event, boosting the overall figure. The new race was set up after the successful Tour de France Grand Depart was held in Yorkshire during 2014. Those scenes prompted the tour's race director Christian Prudhomme to describe 2014 as the "grandest Grand Depart". Spending by all spectators at the Tour de Yorkshire amounted to £49,711,436 and the average stay for visitors from outside the county was two and half nights, according to the survey of the race. The total included accommodation costs and spending on items such as food, drink, transport and souvenirs. The survey was conducted by independent research agency GRASP, using 1,500 respondents who were questioned at a race stage or online. The data was analysed by Leeds Beckett University.
Royal Bank of Scotland’s bosses were warned about the danger of a computer meltdown two years before an IT glitch caused chaos for millions of its customers. But it has paid customer less than £5 compensation on average, with 2.7million receiving less than £1. The explosive details emerged yesterday as the state backed lender was hit with a record £56million fine for a botched software upgrade in June 2012 which locked millions of its customers out of their bank accounts. Royal Bank of Scotland was hit with a record £56m fine for a botched software upgrade in June 2012 . Underlining the seriousness of the failings, the fine marks the first joint penalty between City watchdog the Financial Conduct Authority and the Bank of England’s Prudential Regulation Authority, established to prevent another financial crisis. Issuing its first penalty - of £14million - the PRA said the RBS’s ‘IT incident’ could have had ‘adverse effects on the stability of the financial system’ by disrupting the clearing system, which is used to settle payments among banks. Tracey McDermott, the FCA’s director of enforcement and financial crime, said: ‘Modern banking depends on effective, reliable and resilient IT systems. The bank’’s failures meant millions of customers were unable to carry out the banking transactions which keep businesses and people’s everyday lives moving.’ Business Secretary Vince Cable said: ‘This is another disastrous fine for RBS after a series of failures. RBS’s priorities under Fred Goodwin meant that it neglected its IT systems, which in some cases are now decades out of date.’ The issues in June 2012 stemmed from a botched upgrade to the software that processed updates to customers’ accounts overnight. The disruption lasted for more than a week for RBS and NatWest customers, and more than three weeks for Ulster Bank, RBS’s Irish subsidiary.
Business Secretary Vince Cable said: ‘This is another disastrous fine for RBS after a series of failures' RBS admitted to ‘unacceptable weaknesses’ in its computer systems as around 6.5million customers – equivalent to 10pc of the UK population – could not pay bills or receive money and wages into their bank accounts. It revealed that it has paid a total of just over £70million in compensation to customers who were hit with overdraft charges or incurred other expenses because of the meltdown. But the lender, which promised to ensure no customers are left out of pocket, admitted this equates to an average of just £4.83 for the 4.7million retail customers of RBS and NatWest customers affected. Some 2.7m customer received less than £1 due to lost interest on current accounts and savings. The bank could not provide a breakdown of compensation for Ulster Bank and business customers. Last night one MP branded the compensation ‘derisory’. John Mann, Labour member of the Treasury Select Committee said: ‘This compensation is equivalent to not much more than a pint of beer. Yet again customers are not being looked after while people at the top get excessive pay and bonuses.’ Yesterday regulators revealed that the dangers of the ‘batch scheduler’ software failing were flagged up to management on August 1 2010, just under two years before the systems meltdown. RBS chairman Sir Philip Hampton said: 'I want to apologise to all customers in the UK and Ireland that we let down two and a half years ago' For this reason it fined RBS for ‘breaches’ covering the period from August 1 2010, to July 2012, when the problem was finally fixed. RBS’s new chief administration officer Simon McNamara, brought in last year to clean up the mess, yesterday insisted the specific problem was ‘not explicitly called out’ to RBS bosses by internal auditors.
He said the bank had committed to spend £750million by 2015 on making its IT systems more secure and added that the ‘door is open’ to customers who believe they are still out of pocket as a result of the failings. Former chief executive Stephen Hester waived his £963,000 bonus over the IT debacle. The latest fine comes as he already faces pressure to hand back a £1million long term shares bonus he received earlier this year, despite being ousted from his position last summer. Last week RBS was fined £400million by UK and US regulators for rigging the £3 trillion a day foreign exchange market under Mr Hester’s watch. RBS chairman Sir Philip Hampton said: ‘Our IT failure in the summer of 2012 revealed unacceptable weaknesses in our systems and caused significant stress for many of our customers. As I did back then, I want to apologise to all customers in the UK and Ireland that we let down two and a half years ago.’ RBS and NatWest have 26million UK customers, 4,000 ATMs and 2,120 bank branches.
Chapel Hill, N.C. (CNN) -- Margo Balboni is cramming college into three years to cut down on the cost of her student loans. As it is, the University of North Carolina sophomore expects to graduate in a few years with $20,000 in debt. "I try not to think about it too much," said Balboni, "The last thing I want is to be financially dependent on my parents." Balboni is scared of the student loan bills she may face when she graduates in a few years. But come July, millions of college graduates may see their payments jump. That's when the interest rate on federally subsidized college loans is set to double. Unless Congress decides to freeze current interest rates, the more than 7 million Americans will see their annual rates jump from 3.4% to 6.8%. Just the thought of that, said Balboni, "definitely makes my anxiety go up several notches." The issue is fast becoming a political football, and one President Barack Obama hopes to score with young voters. But his likely Republican opponent is trying to take the ball off the field by also supporting the freeze. Romney camp: Why we will get the young people . This week, Obama begins an all-out push for Congress to extend the low rates on these loans. "We can't make higher education a luxury," he said during a rally in North Carolina Tuesday. "It's an economic imperative. Every American family should be able to afford it." That message is red meat to the college crowd, a group the president has to energize in big numbers before November. In 2008, the president won two-thirds of 18-29 year olds. Sen. John McCain won 32%. That year young voters made up one-fifth of the electorate. That may not sound like a large enough voting block to decide an election but, on the state level, young voters can make a big difference.
In North Carolina during the last election, Obama won by just 1%, or 14,177 votes. But he carried the state's young voters by an overwhelming 74%. The youth vote clearly helped provide a cushion for his upset victory and the state's 15 electoral votes. Since then, the dynamic has changed. Youth turnout dropped 6% between the 2008 presidential election and the 2010 midterms. Though a drop off in turnout among young voters is predictable when there's no presidential candidate on the ticket, there are other reasons the Obama team has to worry about a lower turnout. Young people have been hit especially hard during the recession, with more than half of recent college graduates unemployed or underemployed. And a recent Harvard University Institute of Politics survey showed that while young people still overwhelmingly support Obama, they are now less likely to vote this fall, more disillusioned about the economy and politics in general. "It's not too late for Obama to relight some fires," said Hodding Carter, Public Policy Professor at UNC. "I do not think it's possible for him to ignite the kind of conflagration in the entire youth that he did last time." Carter believes young voters are easily disillusioned by the gridlock in Washington. They "essentially looked up and said 'but it didn't work right away so the hell with it.' And that's always a problem with the youth vote." Student loan rate hike: What you need to know . So the president is now stepping up his effort to appeal to young voters. This week he's visiting college campuses in states he carried in 2008 and those that will be in play in 2012 -- North Carolina, Colorado and Iowa. He is pushing the "keep-college-loans-affordable" message and pointing the finger at Republicans. His speech in North Carolina included an attack on a Republican congresswoman for her position on student loans.
He didn't mention her name but the president recounted the comments of Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC) who had told a talk radio host that she had "very little tolerance" for students who graduate with large amounts of debt. "Can you imagine that?" the president asked the crowd, which responded with loud boos. What he doesn't mention is that Romney came out this week in favor of extending a freeze on the current interest rates. "With the number of college graduates who can't find work or who can only find work well beneath their skill level, I fully support the effort to extend the low interest rate on student loans," Romney said before a campaign event in Astor, Pennsylvania on Monday. Romney is making a play to dampen enthusiasm for the president among young voters. At the Pennsylvania event he told reporters, "I think this is a time when young people are questioning the support they gave to President Obama three and a half years ago." One issue the Romney campaign is certain to hit on: the unemployment rate among 20-24 year olds is five points higher than the national average. In his comments on the youth vote, Romney added, "He (the president) promised a future with good jobs and good opportunity; that hasn't happened." But it may be in the administration's interests to keep the subject in the headlines, continuing to suggest that the Republicans will stand in the way of a deal. It will cost the United States $6 billion to extend the student loans for just one year, according to the Congressional Budget Office. John Kline, the Republican chairman of the Education and Workforce Committee, has called it an "untenable situation" in which "we must now choose between allowing interest rates to rise or piling billions of dollars on the backs of taxpayers." Kline said he is working to find "a responsible solution" -- a way to pay for an extension of the freeze.
On Tuesday, Obama attacked Congress for continuing subsidies for oil companies and for its failure to increase taxes on the wealthy, leading the crowd to chants of "no!" to questions such as "Do we want tax cuts for the rich?" The current interest rate reduction passed with bipartisan support in 2007, but Republicans have pointed out that then-Sen. Obama missed two votes on the issue. The White House has pointed out the president was campaigning at the time and was prepared to return to cast his ballot if needed for the vote; then-Sen. Joe Biden and Sens. Chris Dodd and John McCain also missed the vote. The back and forth in Washington is seen as just more noise to the students who face a rate increase on July 1. Balboni, the UNC sophomore, said her biggest fear is the possibility she'll be so deeply in debt, she'll have to move into her parent's home after graduation. "Yeah it's the 800-pound guerilla in the room. It's everyone's plan Z. Nobody wants to go all the way to that."
By . Daniel Martin . Controversial: The health watchdog NICE has called for more obese people with the condition to be considered for a gastric band or bypass . Free weight-loss surgery could be offered to nearly a million diabetes patients. The health watchdog yesterday called for more obese people with the condition to be considered for a gastric band or bypass. At a stroke, NICE’s ruling doubles to 1.8million the numbers qualifying for taxpayer-funded surgery. But campaigners said it was wrong to offer operations costing £5,000 when the NHS faces a £30billion deficit and NICE is denying cancer patients life-extending drugs. They warned the obese should instead be told to eat less and exercise more. ‘We’ve got a mismatch between what NICE recommends and what the country can afford,’ said Tam Fry of the National Obesity Forum. ‘Thousands of people will look at this and say – I fit that criteria, I want the surgery. This is going to stretch clinical commissioning groups to the limit – we’ve got a creaking Health Service as it is. We could end up with a situation where clinical commissioning groups say we can’t get the extra midwives we need for the local hospital, we can’t pay for life-saving drugs for people with cancer – because other people have been given the right to have expensive bariatric surgery.’ The surgery covers procedures including gastric bands and gastric bypasses, where the digestive system is rerouted past most of the stomach. NICE said a gastric bypass on the NHS costs £5,410 and a gastric band £2,473. Weight-loss surgery is given to patients who are morbidly obese with a body mass index score of more than 40. It is also offered to those who have a BMI over 35 with another serious health condition, such as type 2 diabetes.
Around a million people qualify under these rules – although in practice only around 10,000 operations are carried out every year. But now NICE is suggesting that diabetics with a BMI score of 30 or more should be considered for an assessment for weight-loss operations on the NHS. Diabetes UK says the new rules mean between 850,000 and 900,000 extra people could qualify. Rise: The ruling would double the number of people who could qualify for taxpayer-funded surgery to 1.8million . It will be up to individual clinical commissioning groups, which hold local NHS budgets, to decide whether the surgery should be funded in their areas. Britain is in the grip of an obesity epidemic and 2.9million people now have diabetes, a condition which in its type 2 form is linked to poor lifestyle. Mark Baker, director of clinical practice at NICE, said: ‘Obesity rates have nearly doubled over the past ten years and continue to rise, making obesity and overweight a major issue for the Health Service. ‘Updated evidence suggests people who are obese and have been recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes may benefit from weight loss surgery. More than half of people who undergo surgery have more control over their diabetes following surgery and are less likely to have diabetes-related illness; in some cases surgery can even reverse the diagnosis.’ NICE says that by losing weight patients can reduce the damaging consequences of diabetes, such as the risk of blindness or heart attack. Its guidance states that an operation is repaid in savings to the NHS within three years. After that, there are gains of around £4,000 per year per patient. But Roger Goss of Patient Concern said: ‘NICE doesn’t seem to know the NHS is heading for a deficit. They are wasting our money.
Obese people should be encouraged to eat less and take more exercise – rather than having this expensive treatment paid for.’ Simon O’Neill, from the charity Diabetes UK, said: ‘Bariatric surgery should only be considered as a last resort if serious attempts to lose weight have been unsuccessful and if the person is obese. ‘It can lead to dramatic weight loss, which in turn may result in a reduction in people taking their type 2 diabetes medication and even in some people needing no medication at all. This does not mean, however, that type 2 diabetes has been cured. ‘These people will still need to eat a healthy balanced diet and be physically active.’ The BMI score is a simple measure based on height and weight with a score higher than 25 indicating overweight and 30 or more being judged as obese.
By . Chris Greenwood . PUBLISHED: . 21:43 EST, 17 October 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 04:38 EST, 18 October 2013 . An off-duty police officer shot dead while tackling a psychotic gunman has been named the bravest officer in England and Wales. Pc Ian Dibell, 41, was hit at point blank range as he tried to stop Peter Reeve, 64, gunning down his neighbours. Just minutes earlier the paranoid gunman fired seven times at his neighbour and his girlfriend in the communal hallway of their home. Pc Ian Dibell, left, who has been posthumously given a national bravery award . after he was shot dead when he tried to wrestle a weapon from deranged . gunman Peter Reeve, right . The Essex officer’s self-sacrifice was honoured at the Police Bravery Awards, organised by the Police Federation of England and Wales. Prime Minister David Cameron and Home Secretary Theresa May joined dozens of police officers at the annual event in Central London. Among them were frontline officers who tackled armed robbers, rescued people from burning buildings and dived in freezing water to save drowning children. Mr Cameron said it is ‘humbling’ to read the extraordinary acts of heroism undertaken by officers in the line of duty. ‘Every single day, around our country, the police put themselves in harm’s way to keep us safe,’ he said. ‘Without the rule of law, there is no freedom worth its name – and it is right that we recognise the work of those who do so much to uphold it.’ ‘Britain’s police are the best in the world, ordinary men and women who do extraordinary things.’ Theresa May honoured Pc Dibell at the London event . The awards come during a tense week . for relations between the police and the Government amid further .
fall-out from ‘Plebgate’ Andrew Mitchell affair. Mr Cameron said his Tory party . colleague, who rowed with officers at the gates of Downing Street . deserves an apology over his treatment by three senior police . representatives. Pc Dibell was killed in an extraordinary confrontation a short distance from his home in Clacton, Essex, in July last year. The . officer walked out of his home to see Reeve chasing his neighbour in . his car while firing a pistol at him through the windscreen. Grabbing his warrant card to put himself on duty, Pc Dibell ran towards the car and dived through the driver’s side window. Witnesses . described hearing a loud bang before the officer fell to the road, . clutching his chest. He died at the scene from his injuries. Reeve then ran over his neighbour – who escaped with minor injuries – and crashed his car before travelling to a village graveyard where he turned the gun on himself. Mrs May said: ‘Ian Dibell’s death is a reminder not just of the bravery police officers show on a daily basis, but also the depth of their commitment to public service. ‘Pc Dibell was off-duty when he stepped in to help a neighbour in distress. He could have walked away, but he chose to put himself in harm’s way. ‘His bravery, and that shown by thousands of his colleagues up and down the country, is yet another reminder that we have the best police officers in the world.’ Steve Williams, who leads the Police Federation, said: ‘For every act of courage and bravery recognised here today there are hundreds more that occur in our communities every day that go unrecognised. ‘Officers put others’ lives before their own. Sadly, as our winner’s story highlights, this can have tragic consequences.
‘Pc Ian Dibell was a valiant team player, his bravery on that fateful day typifies his whole life – always putting others before himself.’ :: Merseyside Pcs Nathan Jackman and Peter Stevens who tackled a violent knifeman after he attacked a man and a woman. :: Off-duty Pc Sara Widdrington, from North Yorkshire, who fearlessly tackled a gunman in a local store while shopping with her son. :: West Midlands Pcs Stephen Fletcher and Rory Stuart-Knill who were ambushed by a masked gang of up to 40 people armed with petrol bombs during the 2011 riots. :: Pc Martin Bentley, of Norfolk who pursued and caught a violent armed wife-beater despite being stabbed. :: Pc Alun Morgan, of Dyfed Powys Police, who dived into freezing quarry waters to rescue a drowning 15-year-old boy. :: Pc Nicholas French, of Gloucestershire, who single-handedly tackled a man armed with a knife who was trying to kill his wife in a garage. :: Met Pcs Stephen Barker, Thomas Harding, Shumal Haque, Alastair Hinchliff and Andrew Robb who suffered horrific injuries when they confronted a deranged knifeman in a butcher.
Longtime Fox News contributor and fill-in host Laura Ingraham is in line for her own show on the channel, possibly in a key prime time hour. On Monday a source with knowledge of the matter told CNN that there are talks underway between Ingraham and Fox executives, but no decisions have been finalized. The addition of an Ingraham talk show could be part of a bigger-picture reshuffling of Fox News Channel's highly rated schedule. A Fox spokeswoman declined to comment and Ingraham did not respond to a request for comment. Ingraham has been a paid contributor to Fox News since 2007. The show that's been discussed would be a big promotion. Matt Drudge, who is well-sourced in conservative media circles, spurred intrigue about potential changes when he tweeted this on Monday: "FALL PREVIEW: Laura Ingraham's prime time to shine! After years in the trenches, much deserved." Drudge got tongues wagging, which may have been his goal. The prime time hours on cable news are 8, 9 and 10 p.m. When Megyn Kelly left for NBC in January, Tucker Carlson took over her 9 p.m. time slot. Then in April when Bill O'Reilly was removed amid a sexual harassment scandal, Carlson moved into O'Reilly's 8 p.m. time slot and the channel's 5 p.m. conservative talk show "The Five" moved to 9 p.m. Sean Hannity remained in place at 10 p.m. Now there is speculation inside and outside Fox that another schedule shake-up is in the works. The cable news channel seems to be exploring programming options in the event that Eric Bolling does not return. Bolling is the centerpiece of the 5 p.m. show that was created when "The Five" moved to 9. It is called "Fox News Specialists."
Earlier this month Bolling was suspended pending a probe into accusations that he sent lewd texts to colleagues, which he has denied. If Fox News executives need to replace "The Specialists," "The Five" could be shifted back to its original 5 p.m. time slot. Then Ingraham could take over at 9 p.m. Alternatively, Hannity could move up one hour to 9, and Ingraham could take over at 10. Or maybe Fox executives have something in mind that nobody else has thought of yet. Along with the Bolling suspension, another subplot is the ratings race between Fox and MSNBC. The MSNBC host Rachel Maddow has snapped Fox's winning streak in the 9 p.m. hour. So Fox executives are asking themselves: Would Ingraham be a better match against Maddow than "The Five" currently is? Ingraham is a vocal supporter of President Trump, just like some of the co-hosts of "The Five." She is already a popular radio talk show host, with a three-hour morning time slot on stations across the country. She also operates a conservative-themed news and features site called LifeZette. Fox News Channel is in discussions with the conservative radio host Laura Ingraham that could result in her coming to the 21st Century Fox-owned cable-news network as a regular host, a person familiar with the outlet’s plans confirmed early Tuesday. The two sides are believed to be in early talks, and no decision has been made regarding the time slot Ingraham might anchor, or even when she might join the company in the new role. No deal has been signed, and there is no sense at this time when one might come to fruition, this person said. She already serves as a Fox News contributor.
Revelation of the talks, which surfaced Monday on The Drudge Report and were further detailed by CNN, show Fox News Channel continuing to mull tinkering with its program line-up as it grapples in real time to find alternatives for hosts who have come under recent fire. Fox News replaced mainstay Bill O’Reilly in April after he parted ways over advertiser reaction to disclosures of settlements paid to women who had accused him of sexual harassment and other improprieties. The network’s current primetime lineup features Tucker Carlson at 8 p.m, the panel show “The Five” at 9 p.m., and Sean Hannity at 10 p.m. And though Fox News remains cable’s most-watched news network, it has had to contend with a resurgent MSNBC, where a primetime lineup led by Rachel Maddow has expanded its audience. Related Fox, Major League Baseball Strike New Rights Pact Official Name of New Fox Is, Uh, Fox -- and Other Takeaways From Annual Stockholders Meeting Ingraham has a long association with Fox News, having served as a fill-in for both Hannity and O’Reilly. Executives at the network have remained open to the idea of tweaking its primetime lineup, Fox News co-president Jack Abernethy told Variety in July. Fox News is also mulling talent options due to the recent suspension of Eric Bolling, the former commodities trader who served as co-host on the late-afternoon program “Fox News Specialists,” this person confirmed. Bolling was suspended earlier this month, when Fox News said it planned to investigate recent allegations made in a Huffington Post report that Bolling may have sexually harassed colleagues. Bolling has denied the charges and said he intends to clear his name.
Fox News is not commenting, but people familiar with the talks who were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly said Ingraham is seen as a compatible fit between the network's conservative prime-time hosts Tucker Carlson and Sean Hannity. Under that scenario, the roundtable show "The Five" -- which moved to 9 p.m. Eastern time when the network had to shuffle its program line-up after Bill O'Reilly exited in April -- would move back to its original time slot of 5 p.m. Eastern to make room for Ingraham.
New Delhi (CNN) -- The leaders of five of the world's top emerging economies moved closer Thursday toward establishing a development bank that could one day serve as an alternative to the World Bank. The leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- collectively known as the BRICS -- "agreed to examine in greater detail a proposal to set up a BRICS-led South-South Development Bank, funded and managed by the BRICS and other developing countries," said Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. The leaders were meeting in New Delhi on Thursday for their fourth annual summit. Finance ministers from the five countries have been directed to look into the idea of the development bank and report back at the next summit, Singh said. The leaders also asked the International Monetary Fund to speed up changes in its governance to better represent the developing world as a voting bloc. "The rapid recovery of the BRICS economies from the financial crisis highlighted their role as growth drivers of the global economy," Singh said. Together, the BRICS nations make up more than 40% of the world population and one-fifth of the global economy. The group called for peaceful resolutions of the Syria and Iranian crises. "We agreed that a lasting solution to the problems in Syria and Iran can only be found through dialogue," Singh said. Besides the IMF, the leaders also urged reforms of the United Nations and other international bodies for a larger voice for the developing world. "Institutions of global political and economic governance created more than six decades ago have not kept pace with the changing world. While some progress has been made in international financial institutions, there is lack of movement on the political side," Singh said. "BRICS should speak with one voice on important issues such as the reform of the UN Security Council."
The tech firms are investing in rival efforts to beam the internet down to the ground from flying objects in the stratosphere - twice as high as aeroplanes normally fly. Facebook aims to build a network of laser-beaming drones that will tightly circle known black-spots. Google also has a drone project about which it's tight-lipped. But the company is more open about an attempt to send "strings" of giant balloons circumnavigating the globe to provide persistent data links to the parts of the planet they pass. The schemes may both seem far-fetched. But the brains behind both companies' efforts told the BBC they are convinced they have a real shot at connecting the 57% of the world's population still offline. Of the two projects, Facebook's plan is arguably at an earlier stage. "It has not flown yet, that's the next milestone," the social network's engineering chief Jay Parikh acknowledges. But he says he hopes the first drone will be airborne before the year's end. "Don't tell Mark I said that," he hurriedly adds, referring to Facebook's chief executive. "I'm trying to manage Mark's expectations." The aircraft is called Aquila 1 and was recently built in Somerset, England before being shipped to a secret test site. The drone is wider than a Boeing 737 jet but looks quite different, since there's no need to carry passengers or a pilot. The sleek giant structure is made of a thin layer of foam covered in carbon fibre, with four propellers attached. "The whole structure is 142ft (43m) wide but weighs less than a Toyota Prius," Mr Parikh explains. "The structure and stiffness of the plane is all in the carbon fibre of the wing and that supports everything, the [internet-providing] payload, the batteries, and the solar panels on top."
The aim is to build a fleet of the drones with radio transmitters fitted underneath to beam data across a 100 mile (160km) diameter zone below. Terminals on the ground would use the signals to provide the internet to people's computers. Facebook wants the drones to stay aloft for three months at a time. That alone would be an impressive feat - the current record is about a fortnight. But the really tricky bit involves creating a sky-high network with several drones acting as intermediary connection points, so that a fast connection sent from a city can be distributed outwards to the final aircraft in the chain as far as 300km (186 miles) away. To help keep data speeds high, Facebook aims to beam lasers between the aircraft across significant distances. "The analogy that we have come up with is this: If I took a US dime [18mm in diameter] and I walked 11 miles away from you, and then you had a laser in your hand, you would have to hit that dime," says Mr Parikh. "And by the way, these are not stationary targets - these are moving. "So, we have to do this and keep this pointed and connected while the one point and the other point are moving. "It's pretty freaking hard." The firm has already trialled the tech in its California labs, but making it work 27km above ground will not be easy. Project Loon's balloons have been taking to the skies since June 2013. "We've flown almost 1,000 balloons at this point," Mike Cassidy, vice-president of Project Loon, tells the BBC. "We've flown almost 20 million kilometres around the world. "One of our balloons went around the world 19 times." The balloons travel with the winds, usually along an easterly or westerly latitude. Google keeps each one on course by pumping helium in and out of a bag fastened inside the balloon's outer plastic envelope.
This causes it to rise or fall, letting it find winds that will take it in the desired direction. Rather than try to keep each balloon over one spot, Google's goal is to create a circular sequence. So, as one goes out of range of antennas on the ground, another takes its place, providing a continuous internet connection. Initially, the firm struggled to keep its balloons aloft for much more than a week. But it now regularly keeps them aloft for 150 days. "Even a millimetre-sized hole in a balloon will bring it down in a few days," explains Mr Cassidy. "So, you need to study every phase of the process from manufacturing to packaging to shipping to launch. "We just slowly found the holes by failure analysis." Rather than use lasers, Google relies solely on radio frequencies to transmit its data. Equipment hanging below each aircraft connects to a base station in range below and then sends out the resulting data link to other antennas it can reach, which in turn link up to people's individual computing devices. At present, Loon balloons can cover a circular area spanning 80km (50 miles) in diameter. The balloons can also transmit signals to each other to extend the internet when there is no base station nearby. The firm says it has already linked up two balloons more than 100km apart and transferred data at about 500 megabits per second. But that's a fraction of the tens or even hundreds of gigabits per second rates Facebook believes its lasers are capable of. "Radio technology is generally a more developed technology than freespace optical communication," Google's Mr Cassidy said, explaining his approach. "It's been around longer, the components are typically less expensive. "But we'll definitely look at all technologies that provide good performance." As both schemes advance and more equipment takes to the skies, the risk of an accident increases.
Even if Aquila weighs less than a car you still wouldn't want one hurtling towards you or a passenger jet at speed. Mr Parikh, however, is quick to stress there is no imminent risk. "This thing is not yet certified to fly over people's heads," he says. "We will have to do thousands or tens of thousands of fight hours, induce failures, see how these things manage the stress, the [cold] temperature, all of that." But Google's balloons are already active. Indeed, the firm hopes to start providing connections to early adopters in Indonesia and Sri Lanka soon. "We put transponders on all our balloons, which is not required," says Mr Cassidy, "so, just like an aeroplane, air traffic control can always see where the balloons are." But he acknowledges, things do not always go according to plan. "We have had some balloons come down at a time earlier than we expected," he discloses. "But in all those cases we did steer them to an area that was safer to land [and] contact air traffic control to co-ordinate the descent." Assuming life-threatening collisions can be avoided, one expert agreed both projects had potential, not least because they should prove much cheaper than sending up more satellites or other existing alternatives. "They are talking about co-operating with existing communications service providers, which convinces me they won't be Wild West kinds of projects," says William Hahn from the tech consultancy Gartner. "We are seeing more options in a number of different areas as well: we have lower Earth-orbit satellites than we used to have and the cost of optical fibre is coming down. "But there are still some very large populations that are hard to reach and hard to serve, and at least in the mid-term I think these new schemes could be part of the solution."
That just leaves the problem - how do you work out where best to deploy all this gear? No-one is suggesting the drones or balloons could provide blanket access. But at present, even the best internet coverage maps break down when you zoom in close enough. Facebook believes its artificial intelligence division could have the solution. "The team has just developed deep expertise at image recognition," reveals Facebook's Mr Parikh. "We've adapted that technology to be able to take in high-resolution satellite imagery and then be able to process it understanding what human dwellings look like. "So, here's a building, here's a home, here's a teepee, here's a train, here's a car - whatever it is, we are now able to come up with a way of better understanding where these people are." The social network has not made its data public yet. And like much else involved with the two connectivity projects, a lot has to be taken on trust at this point. But both Google and Facebook have a big financial incentive to get more people online and a willingness to keep spending until they achieve it. "Our philosophy is to do lots and lots of testing," concludes Google's Mr Cassidy. "If your choice is to sit around for a year or two planning and design and then do one big test, then the test may or may not work. "We like rapidly iterating, and I think from an engineering perspective that's the fastest way to get to a working system." Mr Parikh will provide more details about Facebook's drone at a meeting later this Wednesday, and will feature on Friday's edition of Tech Tent on BBC World Service
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 11:05 EST, 21 April 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 06:15 EST, 22 April 2013 . At least three people have died in flooding that is causing havoc across the Midwest. In all three deaths - two at the same spot in Indiana and one in Missouri - vehicles were swept off the road in flash floods. The flooding was started by torrential rain last week which caused the Mississippi and many other rivers to surge in Missouri, . Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan and Indiana. And the misery is not over as forecasters say more rain is expected tonight and tomorrow in many places. Scroll down for video . Submerged: Joe Biggerstaff wades away from his mother's home north of downtown Grand Rapids, Michigan. The rising Grand River has driven hundreds of people from their homes . Floods: Homes in Robinson Michigan are completely engulfed by flood waters from the Grand River . Grand Rapids Mayor George Heartwell has declared a state of emergency as the city, like so many others across the Midwest, deals with rising waters . Depth: Traffic clogs the Pearl Street bridge as crowds of people check out the level of the swollen river in downtown Grand Rapids. The river hit a record 21.86ft yesterday morning . Danger: Flood water nearly reaches the crossing of CSX trestle bridge in Grand Rapids. The bridge is seen here with freight train on it . Emergency: Grand Rapids Mayor George Heartwell declared a state of emergency as the flooding river poured into the basements of several hotels and other downtown buildings . Flood waters claimed the life of . an Indiana man and Missouri woman after their vehicles were submerged as . the Midwest braces for potentially record-level flooding and torrential . downpour. Robert Morgan, 64, of Arcadia, Indiana, died Friday attempting to drive his car through the rising water. He was carried 100 yards . downstream in Hamilton County, according to a .
statement from the Hamilton County Sheriff's Office. Police responded to a 911 call from a . motorist who said his vehicle was sinking in the same spot where Morgan's car was submerged. Upon arrival, rescuers found an unoccupied truck 200 feet from the . roadway. The phone that called 911 belonged to an Arcadia resident, but . the owner had not been found, police said. Observing: Pedestrians walk along the Pearl Street bridge as crowds of people check out the level of the Grand River in downtown Grand Rapid . Bob Bailey tinkers with a pump as he tries to keep floodwater from the Mississippi River out of one of his rental properties in Clarksville, Mo. Powerful rain have swollen many rivers and streams across the state to record or near record levels . Escape: Kate Krueger removes belongings from the flooded home she rents on the Grand River north of downtown Grand Rapids. She is helped by her friend Wendy Kondracki . Misery: Mr Biggerstaff wades past a floating clothes dryer in his mother's home. The flooded river has caused misery over a large swathe of Michigan . Also killed was a still unidentified 80-year-old woman in De Soto, Missouri. The woman's car was washed off Veteran's Drive on Thursday afternoon, Fox St. Louis reported. Spots south of St. Louis are not . expected to crest until late this week, and significant flooding is . possible in many places. Adding to concern is the forecast. National Weather Service meteorologist Julie Phillipson said an inch of . rain is likely in many places tonight and into Tuesday, some places . could receive more than that. Torrential rains over the last few days have led to flooding in parts . of Missouri, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin, resulting . in blocked roads, closed schools and rescues by boat from homes . surrounded by flood waters.
An all-too-familiar springtime ritual played out around the nation’s . heartland this weekend as volunteers, National Guardsmen and even prison . inmates joined together in an effort to ward off fast-rising . floodwaters. Dangerously high waters . dotted at least six Midwestern states following torrential rains this . past week that dumped up to 7 inches in some locations. Record flooding . was possible in some places as dozens of rivers overflowed their banks. Homes and businesses have been evacuated across several states as waters continue rising . Steve Ravenscraft of North Park Ave. continues to clean up following this past week's flooding, Saturday, April 20, 2013 in Lombard, Ill. Cars overtaken by flood waters have been responsible for two deaths in the region . In Illinois, Gov. Pat Quinn addresses flooding concerns throughout the state, during a press conference along the Fox River . River towns are not yet in the clear: . An inch or more of rain is in the forecast as well as continuing . accumulation of snow to the north, especially in Minnesota and the . Dakotas. Flood watchers along both the . Missouri and Mississippi rivers know that once that snow - record levels . in some cases - melts, a lot of it ends up in the big rivers. In scenic Grafton, a small tourist . town 40 miles north of St. Louis, floodwater 3 inches deep seeped into . the basement of Pam and Dennis Bick's home where they've lived for four . decades. 'We have time to figure out what to . do, where we would go and where we would put everything,' Pam Bick, 57, . said. 'I don't want it to come up any more. But I can't stop it.' The . water levels forced evacuations, closed roads, swamped hundreds of . thousands of acres of farmland and shut down much of the upper .
Mississippi River to barge traffic. Two . Mississippi River bridges were closed and a third was shut down for a . few hours after 114 barges broke loose Saturday night south of St. Louis . and floated down the fast-moving river toward Jefferson Barracks Bridge . in St. Louis County. A hydrologist with the USGS, leaves the monitoring station near the Brown Street Overlook as flooding on the Wabash River continues, in West Lafayette, Ind. Chad Keedy and stepdaughter Jordan DeBolt of Chillicothe, Ill., paddle through flood waters in their neighborhood as the Illinois River rises due to heavy rains earlier in the week . Kaitlyn Keedy, 10, walks through a flooded portion of her neighborhood along in Chiilicothe, Ill. The Missouri Department of Transportation shut . down the bridge at 2 a.m. Sunday for an inspection; it reopened at 8 . a.m. Because of . the danger posed by the runaway barges, the U.S. Coast Guard shut down a . 15-mile stretch of the river, much of which was already effectively . closed between the Quad Cities and north of St. Louis after the Army . Corps of Engineers shut down most locks in that stretch or river. Coast . Guard Petty Officer Michael Weelmaa said the barges had been moored . along the side of the river when they broke free, and it wasn’t clear . how that happened. By midmorning Sunday, all of the barges had been . corralled with help from several St. Louis-area tow operators, Weelmaa . said. Several Mississippi River towns north of St. Louis were expected to see crests sometime Sunday, including Clarksville, Mo.
Michelle VanDuynhoven gives her husband, John, a letter to mail at their home in Lincolnshire, Ill. A person observes the flooding on the Wabash River from the Brown Street Overlook, in West Lafayette, Ind. Volunteers . in the tiny community have worked endlessly since Wednesday to build a . makeshift sandbag levee that seemed to be holding as the crest— expected . to be 11 feet above flood stage — approached. Even prisoners from . far-away Jefferson City were brought in to help. Richard . Cottrell, 64, emerged from his two-story brick home — dating to 1845, . the oldest dwelling in town — around breakfast Sunday to walk his beagle . and survey Mississippi’s persistent rise. A sandbag wall just in front . of his house was holding the river at bay as workers a half a block away . hustled to fortify it. After two days of endless sandbagging, Cottrell thought he could rest . Saturday night, but the constant beeping of heavy equipment outside and . flood worries kept him up. 'I had a rough night last night. I had an anxiety attack,' said Cottrell, who also owns a downtown antique store. Trish . Connelly, 57, was optimistic the town would beat back the river. Her . plan to open a new fine arts gallery downtown this weekend were on hold . “until we know what the river is going to do,” she said. Towns are bracing themselves as flood waters are expected to crest Sunday and could reach record heights . A boat sits in a flooded portion of a neighborhood in Chiilicothe, Ill. 'This is frustrating for people,' Connelly said. 'This isn’t as bad as 2008, but thank God it stopped raining.' Gov. Jay Nixon on Saturday toured the unprotected-by-choice town that was .
also flooded in 2008, 2001, 1998, 1995 and many times before that. 'The . water is continuing to rise but it is our full hope and expectation . that these walls will hold,' Nixon said of the sandbag levees. Clarksville has a flood protection system in which a temporary levee — . aluminum slats filled with sand — can be built if the river rises, but . the Mississippi was too quick this time. Recreational . traffic on the river has been halted, too, including the Mark Twain . Riverboat that offers excursions at scenic Hannibal, Mo. Owner and pilot . Steve Terry has moored the ship since Thursday, with no end in sight. Even . crossing the river was difficult. One of two bridges at Quincy, Ill., . closed Friday, and the narrow two-lane bridge at the Missouri town of . Louisiana was shut down Saturday. To get across, people in the . Louisiana, Mo., area either had to drive 35 miles north or 50-plus miles . south. Louisiana, . Mo., resident Erica Campbell, whose rented home in a low-lying area of . town was flooded for the second time in three years, and she said she’s . had enough. Campbell, her husband and their eight kids are packing up. 'We’re planning to move to the country — as far away from water as I can get,' Campbell, 35, said. Smaller . rivers across the Midwest were swelling, too. In Illinois, heavy . equipment manufacturer Caterpillar will shut down its East Peoria, Ill., . factory Sunday as the Illinois River approaches an expected 30-foot . crest early next week. Several . Indiana towns were threatened by high water, forcing hundreds of . evacuations. The Wabash River in Tippecanoe County reached more than 14 . feet above flood stage on Saturday, the highest level since 1958.
Indiana Gov. Mitch Pence took a helicopter tour Saturday of damage in . Kokomo, Tipton and Elwood. The . mayor of Grand Rapids, Mich., declared a state of emergency Saturday, . the same day high water forced the evacuation of the Courtyard Marriott . Hotel and an apartment building.
(CNN) -- Getafe became the third Spanish football club to pass into foreign ownership on Thursday after signing a deal with Dubai's Royal Emirates Group. The Madrid-based team followed in the footsteps of Malaga and Racing Santander, which were also taken over by overseas interests in the past year. Royal Emirates Group, a conglomerate chaired by Sheikh Butti Bin Suhail Al Maktoum, has a portfolio of more than 200 companies including oil and gas, renewable energy, travel and tourism, health care, water purification, real estate & construction. The deal is worth between €70-90 million ($101-131 million) and will see the club's title rebranded to "Getafe CF Team Dubai." Getafe's previous owner and president Don Angel Torres Sanchez signed over to his successors in a ceremony at Dubai's Burj Al Arab hotel on Thursday, accompanied by club captain Manu del Moral. The group said it was heavily involved in sports in the United Arab Emirates and abroad. "The investment in Getafe CF is an evolution of this vision and an expression of renewed confidence that Dubai's businesses are more confident today to make large investments abroad as well as at home," Royal Emirates partner managing director Dr. Kaiser Rafiq said. "Caring for community needs through sport is at the heart of what the Royal Emirates Group aims to achieve. This will send the positive message to the world that Dubai cares." Rafiq said that, being conscious of football's popularity with young Arabs, the group hoped to build a bridge between Europe and the Middle East ahead of the 2022 World Cup to be staged in Qatar. "Royal Emirates Group plans to invest heavily in inducting new blood and promoting the team in the region," he said. Getafe, first formed in 1946 and refounded in 1983, has been in Spain's top flight since 2004-05.
The club made a strong start to this season but hopes of qualifying for Europe have evaporated, with coach Michel's team 14th out of 20 with six matches remaining. Malaga became the first Spanish club to be bought by a foreign investor when Qatari billionaire Sheikh Abdullah Al Thani paid a reported €36 million ($52 million) in June 10. He splashed out on players and hired former Real Madrid coach Manuel Pellegrini, but the club is battling to avoid relegation. Santander sold out to Indian businessman Ahsan Ali Syed in January, with his Western Gulf Advisory company taking over. Since replacing coach Miguel Angel Portugal with the club's former boss Marcelino, the Cantabria-based team is four points above 17th-placed Malaga.
By . Matt Chorley, Mailonline Political Editor . Ed Miliband today boasted he is 'more competent' than David Cameron, as a damning poll showed Labour is more unpopular than any opposition party for three decades. The Tories have secured a two-point lead in to separate opinion polls, with just a year to go until the general election. Labour is on just 31 per cent in the latest ICM survey, lower than even Neil Kinnock, William Hague and Michael Howard who all led their parties to defeat on polling day. The latest ICM poll puts Labour on just 31 per cent, the lowest level of support for an opposition party a year out from a general election . The polls will make grim reading for Ed Miliband, after he launched a new policy to guarantee patients would see a GP within 48 hours . The economic recovery has seen an improvement in the Tories' fortunes in the polls. The new ICM poll for The Guardian puts the Conservatives on 33 per cent with Labour on 31 per cent, the lowest since the immediate aftermath of the disastrous 2010 election. A year before the 2010 election the Tories were ahead on 39 per cent, with Gordon Brown's Labour on 28 per cent. In 1996, 12 months before Tony Blair's first electoral landslide, Labour was on 45 per cent with John Major's Tories on just 28 per cent. Labour under Mr Kinnock was also ahead in 1986 and 1991, before being beaten by the Tories a year later. The polls are certain to trigger fears in Labour ranks that the party is failing to 'seal the deal' with voters with a year until Mr Miliband tries to take power. Polls at the weekend showed two-thirds of people backed Labour's policies on energy bills, railways and rent controls, but only 23 per cent think Mr Miliband is up to the job of being Prime Minister. It is the first time the Tories have been ahead in the polls since before the disastrous 'omnishambles' budget in 2012 .
The rise in the Tory fortunes has come as the economic recovery gains pace, raising fears in the Labour party that their attacks on the cost of living could be eroded if voters start to feel better off . Former Labour trade minister Lord Diby Jones today slammed the party for being anti-business. Several senior Labour figures are worried about the party's reputation in the business community, after a series of attacks on banks, energy firms and house builders. Speaking on the BBC's Daily Politics Lord Digby Jones, former Trade Minister, said: 'The Labour leadership is one of the least business friendly leaders of political parties I’ve seen for years.' Tory MP Brooks Newmark said: ‘Even Digby Jones, who served alongside Ed Miliband under Gordon Brown, realises that Labour’s short term gimmicks would stop businesses creating jobs and risk the recovery. ‘Ed Miliband has no plan and his only policies are the same old Labour solutions of more spending, more borrowing and more taxes.' To counter the criticism, Mr Miliband today insisted he was better than Mr Cameron. The Labour leader played down the significance of a set of polls which showed Conservatives establishing a lead over his party for the first time since George Osborne's 'omnishambles' budget more than two years ago. Two surveys - an ICM poll for The Guardian and another carried out for Tory peer Lord Ashcroft - gave Mr Cameron's party a two-point lead, a year ahead of the 2015 general election. Just days ahead of elections to English councils and the European Parliament on May 22, Mr Miliband insisted he was right to focus on the 'cost-of-living crisis' facing British families. Despite positive economic figures over recent months, ordinary people were 'deeply discontented' with the way in which the country is being run, and feel that the benefits from growth have been skewed towards those at the top of society, he said.
Challenged over whether voters saw him as a potential prime minister, Mr Miliband told BBC1's Breakfast: 'My approach has been to talk consistently about the big questions our country faces and the biggest question of all that every country is wrestling with - are we going to be run for a few people at the top, with growing gaps between the richest and everybody else, or are ordinary people going to get a fair shot? 'I am going to keep talking consistently about that, because I think that is the biggest question our country faces.' Asked if this approach would make him a better PM than Mr Cameron, the Labour leader said: 'It makes me more personally competent because I get what people are feeling and we can do something about it. 'The most important thing as a Prime Minister is to understand what people think and what you can do about it and to show the difference you can make to their lives, and that's what I will do, and solidity of belief and purpose.' David Cameron and Boris Johnson celebrate winning a table football game yesterday, as the first poll emerged putting the Tories ahead . The ICM poll for the Guardian, released as US president Barack Obama's former campaign guru David Axelrod arrived in London to begin work with Mr Miliband's party, put the Conservatives on 33 per cent, with Labour sliding six points since April to 31 per cent, Ukip on 15 per cent - a four point gain since last month - and the Liberal Democrats up one point to 13 per cent. Mr Miliband was given a net approval rating of minus 25, with 51 per cent of voters believing he is doing a bad job and just 26 per cent believing he is doing well. Mr Cameron enjoyed a dramatic improvement from the minus 15 rating he received 12 months ago, to plus two now, with 44 per cent of voters believing he is doing a good job, against 42 per cent who think he is doing badly.
The first in a series of weekly telephone surveys carried out for Lord Ashcroft put David Cameron's party on 34 per cent, two points ahead of Labour on 32 per cent, with the UK Independence Party third on 15 per cent and Liberal Democrats trailing on 9 per cent. But Mr Miliband said: 'Polls go up and down. I've seen that over three and a half years in this job. I think what matters is talking about the bread and butter issues people face - energy prices, childcare, the NHS, how we can improve GP access, something Labour is leading the other parties on. 'We will talk about the issues that matter to people. We will focus on these questions. The people will make the decisions a week on Thursday and at the general election.' Mr Miliband said he was 'very disappointed' at the Government's response to his high-profile announcement yesterday of a Labour promise to give all NHS patients access to a GP within 48 hours. 'They say doctors can't deliver it,' he said. 'They are writing off the idea that we can deliver appointments in 48 hours and so we are going to have to wait more than a week. That's not good enough. I'm determined we can make a difference.'
Arsenal are closing in on £24million move for Portugal midfielder William Carvalho, according to reports in the Portuguese press. The 22-year-old had been looked at by Manchester United, but it seems it is Arsene Wenger who is closing in on the Sporting Lisbon star. Ojogo claim Arsenal are close to agreeing a deal for £24m, despite the player having a release clause of £37m in his contract. VIDEO Scroll down to watch William Carvalho score a brilliant lob . On the move? Sporting midfielder William Carvalho is close to a move to Arsenal, according to reports . Portugal view: Ojogo reports William Carvalho is close to joining Arsenal while Record looks at the trouble at Benfica after they lost both game in the Emirates Cup . The Portuguese press are also reporting Jackson Martinez’s goal for Porto against Everton in Leon Osman’s testimonial. Portugese paper Record look at the trouble at Benfica after they lost both games at the Emirates Cup and pressure mounts on manager Jorge Jesus. And A Bola go with the headline ‘Jesus asks for reinforcements’. Over in Spain and the Madrid based papers are looking at the signing of Costa Rica goalkeeper Keylor Navas. The goalkeeper signed a six-year deal at the Bernabeu for £8m. AS have the quote the goalkeeper saying: 'To be No 1 is complicated; I am going to work with humility'. The two sides of Spain: AS look at the arrival goalkeeper Keylor Navas at Real Madrid while Mundo Deportivo look at the transfer activity at Barcelona and focus on Dani Alves . Mobbed: Keylor Navas touches down in Madrid and is met by hundreds of fans at the airport .
Marca have the headline: ‘The future is already here’ While Carlo Ancelotti says: 'We are going to get better' despite their poor results in pre-season. Barcelona based paper Mundo Deportivo look at the transfer activity at the Nou Camp and claim the key is Dani Alves. The headline is: ‘Alves has the key’ while they say; ‘Two signings if he goes, one if he stays.' Italian view: Tuttosport look at the situation at Juventus with an interview with Giorgio Chiellini while La Gazzetta dello Sport examines the state of the two Milan clubs . ‘Barca want to transfer him for a good price, saving his wage and Dani must make a decision’ The paper also claim that Arsenal defender Thomas Vermaelen, a reported target for Manchester United, is closer to a move to Barca. Over in Italy, Corriere dello Sport say: ‘Pjanic challenges Juve - Juventus favourites for the Scudetto, but Roma has everything it needs to challenge’ While Tottosport quote Giorgio Chiellini, saying: 'Conte's exit was a shock, but Allegri will make us unpredictable. Our fans wouldn't have been happy even with Guardiola. We're still the favourites.’ La Gazzetta dello Sport look at the two faces of Milan, Inter - new group with a different mentality, Vidic, and Osvaldo on his way. Milan - three defeats, 10 goals conceded, reinforcements needed if they are to aim for the Champions League, Cerci targeted.
By . Michael Zennie and Alex Greig . PUBLISHED: . 00:59 EST, 5 July 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 02:48 EST, 5 July 2013 . The two women who are suing after they were subjected to a humiliating and invasive cavity search on a Texas roadside on Memorial Day last year have spoken out about their ordeal. Brandy Hamilton, 26, and Alexandria Randle, 24, told reporters how they were ordered out of their vehicle, not permitted to put on clothes to cover the bikinis they'd been wearing at the beach that day, and given cavity searches right by the side of the road. The disturbing video of the event, which was caught on the dashcam, captures one of the women asking in disbelief, 'Are you serious?' when the officers tell her they're going to give her a cavity search. Humiliated: Alexandria Randle (left) and Brandy Hamilton (right) were subjected to a roadside cavity search last year . Ordeal: Randle (centre, bottom) and Hamilton (right, bottom) speak out about the event last year . Trooper Nathaniel Turner is one of three officers involved in the traffic stop being sued. He is accused of ordering the invasive body cavity search . The women are sharing new details about what happened to them that day. Alexandria . Randle still can't believe what happened to her and her friend. She felt 'violated' and 'embarrassed' by the body cavity . search on the side of a Texas highway after they were stopped . returning from a weekend at the beach. 'I couldn't even imagine if this were to happen to one of my little cousins I just want this to be the last time this happens here,' she told KHOU11.
Speaking about police searching people for drugs, Brandy Hamilton said, 'If it comes to that, then take the person into jail, you don't have to do it on the side of the road.' 'It's been traumatizing,' she said. 'I don't know if I can trust the cops anymore, it's just been very - a very horrific situation to me.' The women are suing the Texas . Department of Public Safety and the sheriff of Brazoria County, Texas, . where the stop occurred. Their lawyer alleges that the search was meant . to humiliate them and was conducted without probable cause. The . female officer who performed the invasive search, which included inserting a finger into the women's vaginas, is accused of using the same . pair of gloves to search both women. The entire 40-minute traffic stop . was caught on the trooper's dashboard camera. Brandy Hamilton (foreground) and Alexandria Randle (background) were both forced to get out of their car and handcuffed while wearing their bikinis . Painful: Miss Hamilton can be seen grimacing in pain as she receives and invasive body cavity search . Attorney . Allie R. Booker told MailOnline her client's case is startling similar . to a July 2012 case in Dallas in which DPS trooper Kelly Helleson . aggressively searched Angel Dobbs and her niece, Ashley Dobbs - . including giving them a body cavity search and not changing gloves . between searching the two women. Booker said a third case, that has yet to become public, bears the same hallmarks, as well. 'How are these people behaving in the same manner, hundreds of miles away from each other. There's got to be some factor at the DPS that makes these officers think they can do this,' she said. Trooper Turner has been suspended as part of an internal investigation by the Department of Public Safety . Miss Hamilton and Miss Randle were on .
their way home to Houston from Surfside Beach on May 28, 2012, when they . were stopped for speeding by DPS trooper Nathaniel Turner. Turner . immediately asks both women to step out of their car. Both were wearing . only their two-piece swimsuits from their time at the beach. Ms Hamilton, the driver, asks if she can put her dress on to cover up. 'Don't worry about it. Come out here,' the trooper tells her. Turner . says he can smell marijuana in the car and accuses the women of smoking . and driving. He later claimed that he found a piece of a smoked . marijuana blunt under the back seat of the car. He then makes the two women sand on the side of a busy highway in their swimsuits while he calls for backup. 'One of them has got her zipper open on her pants of her daisy dukes shorts - whatever they are,' the trooper says on the radio. Two more troopers show up - including Jennie Bui. Bui, as trooper Turner explains, 'is going to search you.' 'I ain't, because I ain’t about to get up-close and personal with your woman areas… she is going to put some gloves on,' he says. 'You're going to go up my private parts?' asks Hamilton, sounding bewildered. Despite numerous pleas from the two women not to perform a body cavity search, Bui ignores them. Both women can be seen with pained looks on their faces as the trooper probes their genitals. Both Miss Hamilton (left) and Miss Randel (right) allege their civil rights were violated and they suffered pain and humiliation in the searches . Miss Randle sobs uncontrollably as she is probed. At one point Turner says: 'Don’t smoke weed in your car and you won’t have to go through this.'
Booker, the lawyer for the two women, said the behavior of the troopers was outrageous. 'If the cavity search alone isn't enough and say it's their fault that you basically just sexually assaulted them - that's humiliating,' she said. Turner later released both women and issued Miss Hamilton a citation fro possession of drug paraphernalia. She is still fighting the charges in court, though she contends the marijuana wasn't hers. Trooper Bui was fired last week by the DPS. Trooper Turner has been suspended, Booker said. 'These police officers are here to protect and serve,' Brandy Hamilton told KHOU11. 'And they did not protect me at all. Not one of them.'
Updated: Michael Wolff To Head E5 Global’s Adweek Group Updated: Several more sources have confirmed that Michael Wolff will be joining E5 Global Media as the editorial director of the Adweek Group of magazines. While all acknowledge that major change is needed in terms of the group’s strategic direction, many are uncertain if Wolff is the person to provide it. As one source put it, “How does [E5 Global Media CEO Richard] Beckman go from Peter Kaplan to [Wolff]? Does he have a plan or is he flailing for a big name?” We will probably find out as soon as this afternoon, according to additional sources. Other sources also said that the announcement had been delayed on Friday due to Beckman being out of town. The expectation is for a formal announcement on Monday, or Wednesday at the latest. SEE ALSO: Wolff On Times: Liddle, AA Gill, Lawson And I Are Fundamentally Useless Original post: We’re hearing a great deal of rumbling about dramatic changes coming Friday to E5 Global Media’s Adweek Group, including the strong possibility that professional media provocateur Michael Wolff could be announced as the group’s editorial director. And with that, comes the expectation that after years of hanging together separately, Adweek, Brandweek and Mediaweek could eventually be combined into one single publication. Repeated emails to Wolff, who currently sits on the board of Newser.com, the aggregation site he founded three years ago, and E5 Global CEO Richard Beckman, were not returned. At the publications, lower-level staffers are concerned and senior execs are staying mum. One exception: an elliptical evening tweet from Adweek Digital Editor Brian Morrissey predicting “tmrw should be an interesting day at the office.
Newser CEO Patrick Spain told us Thursday that he hadn’t been informed of Wolff taking the job, but said that it shouldn’t affect the company. “He blogs for us, he’s founder and a director but not actively involved in operations.” He added, “I’ve never been too focused on Michael’s outside activities.” Those include his column for Vanity Fair and a new gig as contributing editor to Wired. Rumors that Wolff is joining E5 Global began after ex-Daily Finance media reporter Jeff Bercovici wrote that Wolff had been sighted three times at the E5 Global’s offices late last month. Both E5 Global and Daily Finance’s parent, AOL (NYSE: AOL), have offices in the same building. E5 Global, which bought eight of Nielsen’s media-entertainment related trade mags, including The Hollywood Reporter, Billboard, Adweek, Brandweek and Mediaweek at the end of last year, has been trying to find an editorial director since the start of the summer. More as we know it. Save E-mail Print Most Popular RSS Reprints Wolff Named AWM Editorial Director -By Lucia Moses Photo by Mark Schaefer Michael Wolff Wolff brings a long history of making waves in media, as a columnist for New York magazine and Vanity Fair, founder of news aggregator Newser and author of Rupert Murdoch bio The Man Who Owns the News. He is the winner of two National Magazine Awards. “There is no editor and writer that has more passion and edge about the media business than Michael Wolff,” said Richard Beckman, CEO of AdweekMedia parent e5 Global Media, in announcing Wolff’s hire. Beckman said e5 would be making a significant investment in its print and digital businesses to make them “the absolute cutting edge” industry voice.
Wolff, well known for taking provocative stances in his media coverage, said he saw an opportunity to use the publications to tell the story of how the media industry is undergoing what he called “one of the greatest examples of modern industrial transformation.” “This is the opportunity we have—to not only be great for the media business, [but also] put ourselves in the sweet spot of what we’re covering,” he said. “But most of all I want to have a lot of fun covering it. I want to make some trouble.” Wolff is the latest high-level hire by e5, which formed with the purchase of Adweek, along with The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard, from Nielsen at the beginning of the year. In May, Beckman, formerly the top ad salesman at Condé Nast, brought in celebrity newsweekly vet Janice Min to head up a relaunch of The Hollywood Reporter. Michael Wolff, the award-winning journalist and entrepreneur, has been named editorial director of AdweekMedia, the umbrella brand of Adweek, Mediaweek and Brandweek, effective Monday, Oct. 4.Wolff brings a long history of making waves in media, as a columnist for New York magazine and Vanity Fair, founder of news aggregator Newser and author of Rupert Murdoch bio The Man Who Owns the News. He is the winner of two National Magazine Awards.“There is no editor and writer that has more passion and edge about the media business than Michael Wolff,” said Richard Beckman, CEO of AdweekMedia parent e5 Global Media, in announcing Wolff’s hire.
Beckman said e5 would be making a significant investment in its print and digital businesses to make them “the absolute cutting edge” industry voice.Wolff, well known for taking provocative stances in his media coverage, said he saw an opportunity to use the publications to tell the story of how the media industry is undergoing what he called “one of the greatest examples of modern industrial transformation.”“This is the opportunity we have—to not only be great for the media business, [but also] put ourselves in the sweet spot of what we’re covering,” he said. “But most of all I want to have a lot of fun covering it. I want to make some trouble.”Wolff is the latest high-level hire by e5, which formed with the purchase of Adweek, along with The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard, from Nielsen at the beginning of the year. In May, Beckman, formerly the top ad salesman at Condé Nast, brought in celebrity newsweekly vet Janice Min to head up a relaunch of The Hollywood Reporter. Share on LinkedIn Save E-mail Print Most Popular RSS Reprints Wolff Named AWM Editorial Director -By Lucia Moses Michael Wolff Wolff brings a long history of making waves in media, as a columnist for New York magazine and Vanity Fair, founder of news aggregator Newser and author of Rupert Murdoch bio The Man Who Owns the News. He is the winner of two National Magazine Awards. “There is no editor and writer that has more passion and edge about the media business than Michael Wolff,” said Richard Beckman, CEO of AdweekMedia parent e5 Global Media, in announcing Wolff’s hire. Beckman said e5 would be making a significant investment in its print and digital businesses to make them “the absolute cutting edge” industry voice.
Wolff, well known for taking provocative stances in his media coverage, said he saw an opportunity to use the publications to tell the story of how the media industry is undergoing what he called “one of the greatest examples of modern industrial transformation.” “This is the opportunity we have—to not only be great for the media business, [but also] put ourselves in the sweet spot of what we’re covering,” he said. “But most of all I want to have a lot of fun covering it. I want to make some trouble.” Wolff is the latest high-level hire by e5, which formed with the purchase of Adweek, along with The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard, from Nielsen at the beginning of the year. In May, Beckman, formerly the top ad salesman at Condé Nast, brought in celebrity newsweekly vet Janice Min to head up a relaunch of The Hollywood Reporter. Michael Wolff, the award-winning journalist and entrepreneur, has been named editorial director of AdweekMedia, the umbrella brand of Adweek, Mediaweek and Brandweek, effective Monday, Oct. 4.Wolff brings a long history of making waves in media, as a columnist for New York magazine and Vanity Fair, founder of news aggregator Newser and author of Rupert Murdoch bio The Man Who Owns the News. He is the winner of two National Magazine Awards.“There is no editor and writer that has more passion and edge about the media business than Michael Wolff,” said Richard Beckman, CEO of AdweekMedia parent e5 Global Media, in announcing Wolff’s hire.
Beckman said e5 would be making a significant investment in its print and digital businesses to make them “the absolute cutting edge” industry voice.Wolff, well known for taking provocative stances in his media coverage, said he saw an opportunity to use the publications to tell the story of how the media industry is undergoing what he called “one of the greatest examples of modern industrial transformation.”“This is the opportunity we have—to not only be great for the media business, [but also] put ourselves in the sweet spot of what we’re covering,” he said. “But most of all I want to have a lot of fun covering it. I want to make some trouble.”Wolff is the latest high-level hire by e5, which formed with the purchase of Adweek, along with The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard, from Nielsen at the beginning of the year. In May, Beckman, formerly the top ad salesman at Condé Nast, brought in celebrity newsweekly vet Janice Min to head up a relaunch of The Hollywood Reporter. Subscribe to Mediaweek
Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim warned his players not to rest on their laurels, telling them that they face the most difficult night of their careers when they defend their 3-1 lead at Stade Louis II against Arsenal on Tuesday night. Portuguese coach Jardim emphasised the threat of Mesut Ozil and Santi Cazorla and is trying to prepare his players for an expected attacking onslaught from Arsenal, with the Barclays Premier League side needing to at least three goals to go through in the Champions League tie. Jardim said: 'At this stage we're now at half-time and we're two goals ahead but it's true that our opponents have so many quality players in their squad. So it will be very difficult for us and everyone knows if it will be the most difficult game we've had in years. Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim speaks during his Champions League press conference on Monday . Jardim feels Arsenal still pose a threat even if Monaco carry a 3-1 lead from their first leg win at the Emirates . Monaco train at their base in La Turbie, France as they prepare for the second leg . Monaco striker Dimitar Berbatov stretches as he joins the rest of his team-mates for a training session . 'I don't think Arsenal underestimated - it's just that we played a dream game at the Emirates. When facing such a team as Arsenal with players like Santi Cazorla, Mesut Ozil and Danny Welbeck, it's true we can't take it easy and have to focus on the game we played at Emirates. 'In comparison to pervious years French teams are playing at a better level in the Champions League. Paris Saint-Germain knocked out Chelsea and they showed the quality of the work done here in France. It was the same case for Monaco. What we're trying to do is to show the quality of the work.
Maybe it's the year of France to beat the English.' Monaco midfielder Nabil Dirar said: 'No-one expected us to win at Arsenal and we enjoyed the moment but then we forgot it straightaway. Because we know they have quality players so we know we might have a little advantage but tomorrow it'll be a very difficult game. I think we'll see the real face of Arsenal tomorrow. But we have our strengths and we can play counter attack.' Monaco bring a 3-1 first leg lead back home with them after their victory at the Emirates . Former Chelsea defender Ricardo Carvalho takes part in Monaco's training session . Monaco's Portuguese duo Joao Moutinho (centre) and Silva Bernardo (left) battle for the ball . Premier League side Arsenal need to win 3-0 or do even better to go through in the Champions League tie . Monaco are preparing to defend their 3-1 lead at Stade Louis II stadium against Arsenal on Tuesday night .
(CNN) -- The human rights group Amnesty International is calling on the United Nations to impose an arms embargo on Israel and the Palestinians, saying both sides used weapons supplied from abroad to carry out attacks on civilians during their three-week conflict in Gaza. Palestinian children make coffee behind a bullet and rocket riddled wall in Rafah, Gaza, on January 24, 2009. The London-based group issued a 38-page report Sunday night that detailed "evidence of war crimes and other serious violations of international law by all parties." Israeli forces used white phosphorus and other weapons supplied by the United States, killing hundreds of civilians and destroying homes, the group said. The use of white phosphorus is restricted under international law. In the early days of the Gaza conflict, the Israel Defense Forces denied using the ordnance. But later, Israeli officials said only that any shells fired in Gaza were "in accordance with international law." Amnesty said its researchers found munitions fragments littering school playgrounds, hospitals and homes after the 22-day fighting in Gaza ended in January. Many of the munitions used by the Israeli army were American-made, and included bombs, white phosphorus remains and missiles seemingly launched from unmanned drones, Amnesty said. "To a large extent, Israel's military offensive in Gaza was carried out with weapons, munitions and military equipment supplied by the U.S.A. and paid for with U.S. taxpayers' money," Malcolm Smart, Amnesty's Middle East director, said in the report. He called on the United States to immediately suspend military aid to Israel. The United States is to provide $30 billion in military aid to Israel under a 10-year agreement that runs till 2017 -- a 25-percent increase compared with the period preceding the Bush administration, Amnesty said. The group also took to task Hamas, the Islamic militant group that has ruled Gaza since 2007. It said it found remains of Qassam and Grad rockets fired by Palestinian armed groups in civilian areas.
Grad rockets have a longer range than the crude, home-made Qassams. Israel said Palestinian militants have fired about 10,000 rockets and mortars into Israel in the past eight years. "These unsophisticated weapons are either smuggled into Gaza clandestinely or constructed there from components secretly brought in from abroad," Amnesty said. Israel's foreign ministry responded harshly to the report, calling it biased and "dedicated almost exclusively to the censure of Israel." The ministry said the report does not mention Hamas' "deliberate use" of civilians as human shields. It also said Israel's use of weapons complied with international law and denied that its forces targeted civilians. "The comparison of the supply of weapons to Israel and the Hamas in inappropriate," the ministry said in a statement. "Israel is a sovereign nation that is obligated to use force to protect its citizens, while Hamas is a terror organization." Israel launched the attack on Hamas in Gaza on December 27 with the stated aim of ending rocket attacks on southern Israel. More than 1,300 Palestinians died and about 5,400 others were wounded. Thirteen Israelis, including 10 soldiers, were killed in the fighting. Since the two sides declared a cease-fire on January 21, militants have sporadically fired rockets into Israel. Israel has responded with airstrikes.
Wayne Rooney, Mario Balotelli and Frank Lampard are successful footballers because their faces are the optimum shape. That’s according to new research, which compared the facial-width-to-height ratios (FWHRs) of high-ranking footballers to their on-pitch record. It discovered that players with faces that are wider than they are tall are more likely to score goals, but also commit fouls. Wayne Rooney (left) and Mario Balotelli (right) are successful footballers because their faces are the optimum shape, claims new research. Experts discovered that players with a high facial-width-to-height ratios (FWHRs) are more likely to score goals, but also commit fouls . The Manchester United star, nicknamed Shrek because of the shape of his head, has the features that mark out the best forwards from the rest, claim experts from the University of Colorado at Boulder. Mr Rooney, who will be awarded with a Golden Cap at Wembley on Saturday to mark his 100th appearance for England, has also received six red cards in his career. While Italian Mr Balotelli has scored 33 goals in his international career, but has also received 50 yellow cards in his career for fouls and other offences. Dr Keith Welker from the university analysed 1,000 players from 32 countries at the 2010 South Africa World Cup. Researchers from the University of Colorado at Boulder analysed 1,000 players from 32 countries at the 2010 South Africa World Cup. They measured each of the players' faces on a FWHR chart (pictured). FWHR is the distance between the cheekbones divided by the distance between the mid-brow and the upper lip . Footballer Peter Crouch (left) has a low-ratio face, while Frank Lampard's face scores higher on the FWHR scale. Both midfielders and forwards with greater FWHRs were more likely to commit fouls .
He measured each of their faces on a FWHR chart. Both midfielders and forwards with greater FWHRs were more likely to commit fouls. Forwards with higher FWHRs also were more likely to score or lay on goals, according to the findings published in the journal Adaptive Human Behaviour and Physiology. A recent report found that men with wider faces earn around £1,300 more than those with narrow faces when asking for a bonus. However, researchers from the University of California said this comes with a compromise, as wide-faced people fared less well when it came to business negotiations. A separate study from Singapore Management University found that women are drawn to men with broader faces for short-term relationships, but they do not tend to see them as husband material. This could be because men with wider faces are perceived to be more dominant and aggressive. While this may initially make them appear desirable, they are less appealing traits in a long-term partner. ‘Previous research into facial structure of athletes has been primarily in the United States and Canada,’ said Dr Welker. ‘No-one had really looked at how facial-width-to-height ratio is associated with athletic performance by comparing people from across the world.’ FWHR is the distance between the cheekbones divided by the distance between the mid-brow and the upper lip. Past studies have shown a high FWHR is associated with more aggressive behaviour. For example, high FWHR is associated with greater antisocial and unethical behaviour, but also greater success among CEOs and achievement drive among US presidents. A recent report found that men with wider faces earn around £1,300 more than those with narrow faces when asking for a bonus. However, researchers from the University of California said this comes with a compromise, as wide-faced people fared less well when it came to business negotiations.
The Colorado-based researchers for the latest study chose to look at the World Cup because of the quality and quantity of the data available. The theory also applies to other sports, such as rugby and cycling. Examples include rugby player James Haskell (left) and Olympic medal winner Chris Hoy (right). Scientists have several ideas about how FWHR may be associated with aggression. One possibility is it is related to testosterone exposure earlier in life . Dr Welker said: ‘There are a lot of athletic data out there. ‘We were exploring contexts to look at aggressive behaviour and found the World Cup, which quantifies goals, fouls and assists, provides a multinational way of addressing whether facial structure produces this aggressive behaviour and performance.’ The theory also applies to other sports, such as rugby and cycling. Examples include James Haskell and Olympic medal winner Chris Hoy. Scientists have several ideas about how FWHR may be associated with aggression. One possibility is it is related to testosterone exposure earlier in life. Testosterone during puberty can affect a variety of physical traits, including bone density, muscle growth and cranial shape, added Dr Welker.
The 25th Oil and Gas Survey found 67% of north east Scotland businesses had shed staff at a faster rate than at any time in the survey's history. But a similar proportion felt the sector had reached "rock bottom" and the rate of job cuts would now slow. More than 40% had cut pay or changed benefits to cope with low oil prices. The survey, conducted by Aberdeen & Grampian Chamber of Commerce in partnership with the Fraser of Allander Institute, canvassed the views of 130 businesses, employing more than 308,000 UK staff in total. The findings included: James Bream, research and policy director at Aberdeen and Grampian Chamber of Commerce, said: "We're likely to remain in an uncertain position through 2017 and 'the bottom' will arrive at different times and feel different for each company. "It is clear that companies are striving to become fitter, leaner and they are working hard to look for new markets to secure their future and employment levels where that is within their control. "There is no question of complacency in the north east and our brilliant people will continue to demonstrate that the oil and gas sector should be considered a success story in generating economic value for the UK economy." The survey was conducted in September. Meanwhile, the UK's oil and gas industry has claimed chemical discharges to sea and emissions to the air have continued on a downward trend over the last 15 years. Trade body Oil & Gas UK said the average oil-in-water concentration last year was less than half of the recommended limit set by the OSPAR Commission. That was despite the industry's first increase in production since 2000. The findings are contained in Oil & Gas UK's Environment Report 2016.
Mick Borwell, health, safety and environment policy director with Oil & Gas UK, said: "The environment report comes at a challenging time for the UK oil and gas which is working extremely hard to navigate through the downturn, while maintaining environment and safety standards. "Despite the UK Continental Shelf being a mature basin with technically challenging production, the overall trend for the last 15 years is downwards for discharges, emissions and accidental releases. Put simply, we are using the same amount of chemicals and emitting less CO2 in the production of more oil and gas. "Industry is committed to minimising the effect on the natural environment and all operators have an environmental management system which is designed to minimise environmental effect."
By . James Rush . PUBLISHED: . 04:52 EST, 20 February 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 09:45 EST, 20 February 2013 . John Coatman has been awarded nearly £70,000 after winning an unfair dismissal case against Salford Council for being sacked after raising concerns about inaccuracies in a report about children at risk of abuse . A council worker sacked after pointing out inaccuracies in a report about children at risk of abuse has been awarded £67,995 in an unfair dismissal case. John Coatman, 59, received the payout after a battle with Salford Council, which started in 2008. He says the case caused him so much stress he suffered a stroke. But Mr Coatman, from Salford, has now said it felt 'fantastic' to know he had won 'after years of hell'. He said: 'Even though the tribunal was a success I still wasn't sure I'd get the pay-out I felt I deserved, so this is very important to me. 'I would have taken £50,000 three years earlier if they had offered it, but this has caused me years of stress.' Mr Coatman won his case after an employment tribunal, which began in September 2011. It heard that he emailed a top Salford council director in 2008 over concerns that figures in his line manager's report on the safety of children at risk of abuse were inaccurate. The council's children's services department was under pressure at the time because it was deemed 'inadequate' by government inspectors. Mr Coatman, a statutory returns analyst, says he raised concerns but they were dismissed and his manager asked him to lie about the figures - which his manager denied before the tribunal. But the tribunal heard Mr Coatman was 'disgusted' and sent an email raising his concerns to Jill Baker - then director of the department.
He also sent the email to Ofsted, the Audit Commission and Government Office North West. The figures were eventually rectified, but Mr Coatman alleged that after sending the emails he was threatened with disciplinary action, subjected to intimidating behaviour by some staff and forced to move desks before being suspended. His managers said they suspended him for allegedly communicating with colleagues in a highly inappropriate and threatening manner and failing to follow management requests. At a disciplinary hearing, it was alleged the council's trust and confidence in Mr Coatman had broken down. He claimed the allegations were malicious and took the council to a tribunal, which ruled his dismissal was unfair. His award takes into account loss of earnings and pension over three years. Stress: Mr Coatman said the case has caused him so much stress he suffered a stroke . In 2009, Mr Coatman was admitted to Salford Royal hospital suffering from a minor stroke. He said: 'The doctors couldn't work it out because I was physically fit, I played football and worked out, but then they asked if I'd been experiencing stress, and of course I had. It has been very, very difficult.' Mr Coatman has since found a new job with a management consultancy firm. He said: 'I am enjoying being in work again and even more so because my colleagues are great to work with.' Councillor John Merry, who oversees children's services, said: 'We are in a different place now to when Mr Coatman was employed at the council and action has been taken to improve the service. Ofsted has recently lifted the improvement notice and congratulated officers for the good progress made in the last two years.' Inaccuracies: Mr Coatman says he raised concerns but they were dismissed, and his manager asked him to lie about the figures - which his manager denied. Pictured is Salford Civic Centre, the administrative headquarters of the council .
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 18:14 EST, 19 August 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 09:05 EST, 20 August 2013 . It's the hilarious prank that turned a walk in the park into a wild bunga bunga party. Pranksters Roman Atwood and Dennis Roadys pitched a tent in various outdoor spaces like parks and sidewalks and viciously shook it from the inside as an audio recording of a woman in the throes of passion plays loudly. The not-so-subtle YouTube clip has gone viral with nearly 400,000 views. But it's the hilarious reactions of unsuspecting passersby that really makes the footage so watchable. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO . Hilarious: This group of guys laugh hysterically as the tent shakes behind them . Overshare: This passerby holds his phone near the tent to share the hilarious sounds with the person he was speaking to . Prankster: Dennis Roadys holds up a recording device playing the sound of a woman having sex as he stands inside the tent and shakes it . A group of three young men laugh hysterically, holding their sides, as the tent shakes behind them. One pedestrian stops talking on his phone and holds it up next to the shaking tent so the person he is talking to can hear the screams of the woman. Another man starts taking photos of the vibrating tent, while security guards poke around at the entrance of the structure to see what's going on. But the prank doesn't go down well with law enforcers, who received numerous reports from concerned locals that a woman was being assaulted in the tent. More A real cat burglar! Cheeky Norris steals jumpers, dusters, food and even underwear during night prowls . Who'd spend £70k on a birthday bash for one-year-olds? Elton John's favourite party planner explains why parents are splashing out on lavish celebrations for kids .
Smoke and mirrors: Artist creates stunning pyrotechnic images by torching gasoline in mid-air (with a little help from Photoshop) One of the officers opened the tent and demanded the pranksters hand over their identification. 'Do you have ID because this has been called in as a rape?' the irate officer demands, as another two cops stand nearby. 'You know who I am Is there any crime committed,' the prankster, who can't be seen on camera, said, acknowledging he is already known to local police. The officer responds that a crime may have been committed. 'Yeah there might be [a crime committed] once we talk to the prosecutor's office,' he said. 'We're going to send it up because that's, that's just what's going to happen.' Curious: A security guard pokes his head into the tent to find out what's going on . Snapper: This man laughs hysterically as he starts taking photos of the shaking tent . Humored: These women are in stitches at the sight of the shaking tent . Cheeky: Pranksters Dennis Roadys and Roman Atwood creep up behind two unsuspecting men sitting on a bench carrying a tent before they play the prank . Shocked: The surprised men jump to their feet after hearing the sounds of a woman being pleasured . Atwood and Roadys are prolific pranksters, with close to 1.5 million followers on YouTube and across other social media platforms. According to Columbus Underground, Atwood has been filming and producing videos since high school, including a series of DVDs called 'The Nerd Herd' which he sold at Warp Tour 2006. Roadys started performing standup comedy when he was 17 in Cincinnati, and served in the U.S. Army from 2001 to 2010. The comedy duo met each other through a Craigslist advertisement several years ago. 'We film for fun. Comedy is what we all enjoy.
Our videos just recently became 'wildly popular' and definitely surpassed our expectations,' Roadys told Columbus Underground. 'Before, we were just another YouTube channel. Now, we have been dubbed a 'viral video production team' by whatsgoodmusic.com and 'the new internet standard' by a TBS Television Producer.' Confrontation: A police officer inspects the tent after receiving complaints . Interrogation: This police officer demands ID from the pranksters after locals reported a woman was being assaulted inside the tent .
The Pope entered Scotland’s independence debate yesterday, saying he would be worried by a vote to split up the UK. Pope Francis said the break-up of countries such as the former Yugoslavia that had been forced together was justified because its people were so diverse. But asked about breakaway regions such as Scotland and Catalonia in states where people had long been united, he said the case for independence was ‘not so clear’. Pope Francis and the US President Barack Obama has both spoken out against Scottish independence, in a blow for Alex Salmond . In remarks that may resonate with . Scotland’s Catholics, he said: ‘All division worries me. There will be . cases that are just, but the secession of a nation without a history of . enforced unity must be taken very carefully and analysed case by case.’ He is the latest high-profile figure to question Scottish independence ahead of the referendum in less than three months. Barack . Obama dealt a blow to the nationalist cause last week by urging . Scotland not to leave the UK, while Hillary Clinton, who is tipped to . replace him as US president in 2016, told BBC’s Newsnight on Thursday: . ‘I would hate to have you lose Scotland.’ Harry Potter author JK Rowling donated £1million to the Better Together campaign against independence this week. US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told BBC Newsnight that she hoped Scotland would not leave the UK. She said a 'Yes' to independence vote would be a 'loss for both sides' Pope . Francis told La Vanguardia newspaper in Spain, where the debate about . Catalonian independence has been boosted by events in Scotland: ‘There . is independence through emancipation and through secession. Independence . through emancipation includes the Americans, who emancipated themselves . from the European states. ‘Independence . of people through secession is a dismembering. Obviously, there are .
peoples with cultures so diverse that they cannot be connected. The . Yugolsav case is very clear, but I wonder if it’s so clear in other . cases, with other peoples who have been united up until now.’ Scottish . National Party MSP Dave Thompson said: ‘We welcome the call by Pope . Francis for voters to analyse the case for independence. Most people . will conclude that independence is the surest route to a more socially . just Scotland.’ Harry Potter author JK Rowling (left), with her husband Neil Murray, was the victim of vicious online abuse from supporters of Alex Salmond (right) after donating £1 million to the 'Better Together' no to independence campaign .
The incident happened at about 15:25 BST between Abergavenny and Raglan. Two passengers and the pilot have been taken to hospital. Air accident officials have also been alerted. The road is closed, with two South Wales fire engines at the scene. Crews believed there were about 120 litres of fuel on board, which was contained as they stopped the leak.
By . Emily Crane . A teenager has been seriously burnt after allegedly asking friends to wrap him in paper towels and set him alight in a Jackass-style prank. Police were called to a home at Reynella East, south of Adelaide, early on Monday after paramedics reported that a man had been set on fire. The 19-year-old man was at a friend's house when he allegedly asked to be wrapped in paper towel and set alight. A 19-year-old man has been seriously burnt after allegedly asking friends to wrap him in paper towels and set him alight in a stunt that would be carried out by the cast of Jackass (pictured) He received serious burns to both arms and superficial burns to his hands, police said. His injuries are not considered life-threatening and he is undergoing treatment at the Flinders Medical Centre. Police have charged a 16-year-old boy from Morphett Vale and a 19-year-old man from Reynella East with committing acts to cause harm. The teenager's injuries are not considered life-threatening and he is undergoing treatment at the Flinders Medical Centre . 'This is a stark reminder that if you participate in these Jackass stunts, you may end up on the wrong side of the law,' Chief Inspector Ashley Gordon said. 'Don't be fooled into thinking that if you've got permission you'll be protected from criminal charges you won't.' Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Jesse 'LJ' Matthew was a 'person of interest' in the search for Hannah Graham . The ‘person of interest’ in the case of missing UVA student Hannah Graham admits that he bought her drinks but denies he drove off with her in his car, MailOnline can reveal exclusively. Jesse ‘LJ’ Matthew has confirmed he met the 18-year-old in Charlottesville’s Downtown Mall on the night she went missing and bought her drinks at a local bar. But Matthew, a nursing assistant at UVA Hospital, told his mother that Hannah did not get into his car and that the pair ‘went their separate ways.' Matthew’s grandmother, Christine Carr, told MailOnline on Saturday: ‘I have been talking with his mother. ‘He said he went his way and she went hers. He told his mother he bought her some drinks. He said she did not get into his car. ‘The girl went her way and he went his.’ Matthew has lived in Charlottesville his . whole life, where he works in the operating room of the UVA Hospital, . sources told MailOnline. He is a nursing assistant who transports . patients to the operating room. His grandmother, Mrs Carr, says she . instantly recognized her grandson ‘LJ’ when she watched the video tape . released by police investigating Hannah’s disappearance. She told MailOnline: ‘I saw the video tape. That is him, that is LJ. The police went through his car and his apartment. ‘They took away his car and three bags out of his apartment.’ Mystery . man: Police released this footage in their search for a man in dreadlocks. He has now been revealed to be Jesse 'LJ' Matthew, a nursing assistant at UVA Hospital . Acquaintances immediately recognized this man as Matthew . Big .
break: The local police chief described the find of Matthew as a 'person of interest' as a major break in the disappearance of University of Virginia student . Hannah Graham (pictured) Several acquaintances corroborated Mrs Carr's story to MailOnline. 'That's definitely him!' one close friend said. 'He is always wearing those dumb shorts.' Mrs Carr added she was confident her 32-year-old grandson, who has dreadlocks, has nothing to do with the disappearance of Hannah, who has not been seen since the early hours of last Saturday morning. ‘LJ would never hurt anybody,' Mrs Carr, 82, from Charlottesville, told MailOnline. 'I know he is a good boy. I have known him all his life. ‘I’m sure he had nothing to do with it. He is a good boy. He has worked ever since he was able to work. He has never been in trouble. He would do anything to help anybody. ‘I practically raised LJ,' Mrs Carr added. 'His mom was working and I looked after him and his sister, Nicky. ‘He had a live-in girlfriend but I don’t know what happened. They lived together at his apartment.' Mrs Carr said she last saw her grandson on Thursday, when he visited her house along with his mother. ‘He had two bowls of greens and he took some with him,' Mrs Carr said. 'He loves my cooking.’ UVA community members raise their candles in support of the missing during a student-led vigill . Top cop: Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo talks to reporters Friday about new leads in the Graham case . Officers scoured Matthew's the building in search of evidence all day Friday . Chief Tim Longo, of the Charlottesville PD, had identified a dreadlocked man — now identified as Matthew — as the ‘person of interest’ in the hunt for Graham.
He was spotted in surveillance footage with his arm round her waist before apparently vanishing in his car together, police said on Friday. Police believe he bought the underage girl an alcoholic drink and have 'every reason to believe' that she was with him when he left 15 minutes later in his 1998 burnt orange Chrysler coupe. The car was searched and seized by police after it was found parked outside a housing complex on Hessian Hills Way, where Matthew lives. Officers spent most of Friday scouring through Matthew's apartment just outside Charlottesville, located about 3 miles from the Downtown Mall where Graham was last seen. Longo told MailOnline that investigators were carrying out a 'forensic . search' of the two-bedroom apartment in Hessian Hills Way, Albemarle . County. 'They will be looking for blood, hair, fibers, the things we are interested in these kind of cases,' he told MailOnline. ‘We’re interested in him,’ Longo added to reporters. ‘We’re interested in talking to him, we’re interested in his interactions with Hannah.’ Law enforcement officials have been issued with multiple warrants for properties within Charlottesville. Details of the warrants remain sealed on the orders of a judge, and will remain secret for up to 180 days, unless the judge changes the ruling. Chief Longo described the finding of Matthew's apartment as a 'big break' in the case. He later tempered his declaration by saying, 'I would hope that is is.' Heartbroken . and hopeful: Hannah with her brother, James, mother, Sue and father, . John. The Graham's issued a joint statement on Tuesday saying they are . hopeful Hannah will be found . With friends: Hannah with a group of friends who have all described her disappearance as extremely uncharacteristic . On Thursday night, thousands gathered for a vigil in the University of Virginia Amphitheater in honor of Graham.
Students held candles and played music, all with one message: bring Graham home. In . a statement released through the police, parents John and Susan Graham, . said: 'Hannah is beyond precious to us, and we are devastated by her . disappearance. It is totally out of character for us not to have heard . from her, and we fear foul play.' The huge search for Hannah Graham involving hundreds of volunteers from across Virginia was still underway on Saturday. Authorities . have said they do not know why she texted her friends at 1.20am on . September 12 to say she was lost near to the UVA campus — an area she . knows very well. Hannah . was last seen by friends at Camden Plaza Apartments, in Charlottesville . at 11.50pm on Friday night at a party with another male friend and . police have said she was heavily intoxicated. At . 1.20am, friends waiting at a party for the student got a text from her . saying that she was lost in the area around 14th and Wertland Streets, . which is near the student;s own off-campus home. Surveillance . footage released on Wednesday places her half-a-mile away at the . Charlottesville downtown mall just 20 minutes before the text. The . 5'11' softball player, whose parents are English, was wearing black . pants and a gold top that had black mesh cut outs on the evening she . went missing a week and a day ago. Confusion: This map shows Hannah Graham's movements on the night of Friday 12 and Saturday 13. At 11.50pm she was seen at a party by friends with another male friend. She then seemed to head westward toward the Charlottesville downtown mall . Crucial: The last footage of Hannah is from approximately 30 minutes before she called her friends to say she was lost .
Nairobi, Kenya (CNN) -- Twenty men are engaged in fiery debate on a sidewalk near Nairobi's Westgate mall, where terrorists stormed the shopping center and killed at least 67 people. A man at the center gestures emphatically as some listen and nod. Others shake their heads. Here and at coffee shops and barbershops and social spots the debate is much the same: Should Kenya withdraw its troops from Somalia after terrorists stormed the mall? The terrorists who attacked the mall on Saturday claimed to be members of Somalia-based Al-Shabaab and barked out their resentment of Kenyan troops in their country. "They said, 'We are the Al-Shabaab, we are here to kill you for killing our women in Somalia,'" said Jane Kamau, who hid in a box when attackers opened fire at the mall. Kenya entered a high-stakes gamble two years ago when it sent troops to neighboring Somalia to flush out the Islamist militants it accused of kidnapping and killing foreigners in the coastal area. The abductions affected Kenya's once-bustling tourism industry, a major hit to the nation's revenue. Al-Shabaab vowed to attack Kenya until it withdrew its troops. Since then, grenades have landed at bus stops, churches, mosques and bars, killing dozens. Militants have regularly taken to social media to brag about their attacks and to threaten more. 'We need to protect our borders' John Mutua, part of the sidewalk debate, said keeping troops in Somalia is not the best option. "We need to get them out," said the 34-year-old businessman. "They'll keep killing us, and we'll continue killing them --- it will never end. We should all stop fighting, start afresh." Next to him, bank teller John Kamau, 28, shakes his head vehemently. "That's nonsense, it's not that easy," he said. "We're already in too deep.
We will be considered cowards if we get out. They (Al-Shabaab) started it by killing and kidnapping people in our own land." Mutua waves him off. He tries to draw in a Kenyan soldier standing guard near the cordoned-off area near the mall. "Do you guys like being in Somalia?" Mutua asks. The soldier glares at him and turns the other way, clutching a long rifle. At a barber and hair-stylist shop about 20 miles from the mall, a similar debate is under way. Jane Njeri sits under a buzzing hair dryer. She pops her head out long enough to give her two cents, before tucking her head back. "The reason the troops invaded is because our borders were porous to begin with," she said. "We need to fix our security. We need to protect our borders. Those troops fighting in Somalia, we need to bring them home to help with those efforts. If we fix our security, we don't have to fear terrorists." Philex Ambani, 23, said sending the troops there was not a good idea to begin with. But they should stay, he said. "If they want our soldiers to get out, they need to stop killing us," he said. "It's that simple. It wasn't worth it to go there over a bunch of tourists, but we are already there. We can't give up now. " The Westgate mall standoff ended Tuesday, according to government officials. It was the worst terror attack in the nation since al Qaeda blew up the U.S. Embassy in 1998, leaving more than 200 dead. Kenya's president steadfast . Kenya is East Africa's biggest economy and a crucial trade route into the rest of the continent. It is also a major U.S. ally in the war against Islamist militants in the region.
It provides an important buffer of stability in a region that includes the fledgling Somali government and the politically tense Sudans. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has ruled out the withdrawal of the military, which is now part of the African Union forces battling the militants in Somalia. "We went as a nation to Somalia to fight the war against terror unleashed on Kenyan people, Somali people and people around the world," Kenyatta said this week. "This is not a Kenyan war, this is an international war." Godwin Murunga, deputy director of the African Leadership Centre in Nairobi, said the threat facing Kenya is complex and withdrawal from Somalia is not advisable. But revamped security in the nation, he said, will go a long way. "Kenya needs to bring its citizens together to recognize security threats, to mobilize them into a common security consciousness and surveillance system that they trust and have confidence in," Murunga wrote in an opinion piece for CNN. 'Don't ask me about Shabaab' Having seen what happened to many of the victims of the mall massacre, Agnes Mumbua said she will do whatever she can to help protect herself. A Catholic, she plans to learn how Muslims pray and the names of major Islamic figures. Survivors of the mall massacre have said attackers asked victims whether they were Muslims. Those who failed to answer questions about Islam were killed, they said. "If learning the Quran will help save me, I will do what it takes," she said. "It seems the Kenya government is not leaving Somalia soon, so I might as well protect myself." Government officials have said the terror attack killed 62 people and five of the suspected 15 terrorists. At least 61 people remain missing, the Kenyan Red Cross has said. Back on the sidewalk near Westgate, insurance agent Frederick Omolo shakes his head when asked his opinion about Al-Shabaab. "Don't ask me about Shabaab.
I don't want to hear that word in my life, ever," he said. He's listening to the debate on the militant group, a brown envelope in his hand. In it are life insurance documents for his friend John, whom he was going to meet at a coffee house at the mall. He was in the parking lot on his way to drop them off for John to sign when he heard gunshots and took off, clutching the envelope. His friend never left the mall. No one has seen him since. "On second thought," Omolo said, "let's improve our security big time, post armed cops in major public venues, do a sweep of areas suspected of harboring terrorists, then keep our troops in Somalia to do the job." Omolo passed by the mall every day during the hostage crisis and sat on a sidewalk behind the police barricade, holding the insurance papers. They are still in the brown envelope.
By . James Rush . Created: . 11:18 EST, 3 March 2014 . An investment banker who claims a man with the same name stood in for him at his own wedding has failed in his attempt to avoid a big money divorce suit. Former top-earning UBS banker Amit Goyal, 36, told a judge his headhunter wife Ankita 'married another Amit Goyal' at a ceremony at a four star hotel. He said he was relaxing at home six hours away while the service was taking place. Amit Goyal (left), 36, told a judge his headhunter wife Ankita (right) 'married another Amit Goyal' at a ceremony at a four star hotel . The high-flying city couple, who lived at Canary Wharf, London, met on Indian dating site Shaadi.com. They were married on September 15, 2003, in the Indian city of Meerut - but Mr Goyal insists he was 'not present at the ceremony'. He claimed his 33-year-old wife could neither divorce him, nor claim any financial support, because they were never married in the first place. However, Judge Mark Everall QC granted Mrs Goyal a decree nisi last year after describing her husband as an 'unreliable' witness and ruling that 'there was a valid marriage between the couple'. Challenging that decision at the Court of Appeal, Mr Goyal pointed to a mysterious thumb print on his marriage certificate - and an absence of wedding photos - in a bid prove himself a bachelor. In his judgement, Judge Everall also said that Mr Goyal was £300,000 in debt - despite earning £185,000-a-year, plus bonuses, before he was made redundant. The Hotel Samrat Heavens, in the Indian city of Meerut, where the marriage between Ankita Goyal and Amit Goyal took place .
His complaints were thrown out by the judge, who said he had 'no prospect' of blocking his wife's divorce petition. Mr Goyal met his wife on the Indian matrimonial website in 2003. He had then been accepted to study at the 'very prestigious' INSEAD business school in Paris, having worked in London since 2002, but agreed to meet his prospective bride back in his homeland. The pair became engaged three days after they met and a wedding was fixed for the following month with the consent of Mrs Goyal’s senior army officer father. Speaking after the hearing, Mrs Goyal said she was 'very happy' at the outcome which would have 'massive implications' for her future . 'Mrs Goyal and her parents were happy to go along with the plan. Mr Goyal was a well-educated young man with evidently good prospects in the well-paid world of international finance,' Judge Everall said in his ruling. He flew to New Delhi and his fiancee’s family arranged a 'short marriage ceremony', in advance of the full festivities, in order to speed along her French visa application prior to the couple’s flight to Europe. However, the banker asserted that his wife tied the knot with an imposter at Meerut’s luxury Hotel Samrat Heavens, claiming that he had been six hours’ away in his home town, Bathinda, on the morning of the nuptials. 'His case is that Mrs Goyal and he were not married on September 15, 2003; he was not present at any ceremony that may have taken place on that day. His case is that she married another man that day,' Judge Everall explained. Mr Goyal said this meant his subsequent 'marriage', celebrated just three days later, was invalid - even though the groom’s name on the wedding certificate for the previous ceremony matched his own.
The pair moved to France and then the UK, before their daughter, now six, was born in 2007. But their relationship 'irretrievably broke down' and Mrs Goyal moved out of their Docklands home in 2011. Mr Goyal claimed that he had 'not read the certificate carefully enough' in 2003 and that the first time he noticed the discrepancies in the dates was more than a year after the relationship ended. Judge Everall heard expert evidence that a photograph, supposedly depicting the groom on the marriage certificate, was not of Mr Goyal, and a thumb print on the document, which was purportedly his, belonged to someone else. The expert also highlighted a number of 'oddities' about the registration of the marriage. 'Standing back and having regard to . all the evidence and Judge Everall’s reasoning, I do not detect that he . had any real difficulty in arriving at his conclusion. Indeed, . having regard to his finding that Mr Goyal’s evidence pointed to him . being unreliable, it seems to me that the conclusion to which he came . was, in reality, the only one which was open to him' - Lord Justice Kitchin . Nonetheless, the judge said that 'the overwhelming probability on all the evidence is that Mrs Goyal did not marry, and did not intend to marry, a different Amit Goyal on 15th September, 2003. 'Why should she do so? Why should she do this on September 15 and then marry Mr Goyal on September 18 and fly with him to France?' the judge asked. Mr Goyal was a 'highly educated and intelligent man' who had worked for Barclays, Deutsche Bank and UBS and who was 'precise and careful'. But the judge said of him: 'I did not find him a satisfactory witness'.
Rejecting his claim that he did not check the marriage papers until long after the split, the judge said his evidence about that was 'unconvincing and implausible'. 'I find there was a valid marriage between Mrs Goyal and Mr Goyal on September 15, 2003, in Meerut, India,' the judge concluded, before formally ending their union. On appeal, Mr Goyal argued in person that it 'simply was not possible' that he could have made the ceremony in time, because he was in Bathinda at 9am on the day of the wedding. Pointing to the lack of wedding snaps, he said: 'Marriage is the one of the most sacred things in the Hindu religion. If you say to someone there is a marriage without photographs, it simply does not add up.' But Lord Justice Kitchin said: 'Standing back and having regard to all the evidence and Judge Everall’s reasoning, I do not detect that he had any real difficulty in arriving at his conclusion. 'Indeed, having regard to his finding that Mr Goyal’s evidence pointed to him being unreliable, it seems to me that the conclusion to which he came was, in reality, the only one which was open to him.' The judge concluded: 'I’m satisfied there is no prospect of success in this application. It must therefore be dismissed.' Speaking after the hearing, Mrs Goyal said she was 'very happy' at the outcome which would have 'massive implications' for her future.
The two firms say they have reached agreement on a cash and shares offer which gives investors a 50% premium on BG Group's share price on 7 April. The deal could be one of the biggest of 2015 and could produce a company with a value of more than £200bn ($296bn). BG Group's shares opened up 42% on the London Stock Exchange at 1,293.5p. Shell's £177bn market capitalisation dwarfs that of BG, which now stands at £31bn after a 20% fall in its share price over the past year. BG Group is the UK's third largest energy company, and currently employs about 5,200 people in 24 countries. It was created in 1997 when British Gas demerged into two separate companies: BG and Centrica. BG took control of exploration and production while Centrica took charge of the UK retail business of the former British Gas. In 2000, BG split into BG Group and Lattice Group. Shell said BG Group shareholders would enjoy higher dividends, as it confirmed its intention to pay its existing shareholders $1.88 per ordinary share this year. That compares with a dividend of just $0.14 that BG Group shareholders can expect to receive this year. The oil giant also said it expected to commence a share buyback programme in 2017 of at least $25bn. Shell said it would also provide BG Group shareholders with a "mix and match facility", allowing them to vary how much they receive in cash and new Shell shares. Shell and BG Group expect to make annual savings of $2.5bn following the deal. But Shell chief executive Ben van Beurden said he remained committed to North Sea oil and expected to invest £4bn between 2016 and 2018. Shell said the deal would also add 25% to its proven oil and gas reserves and 20% to production capacity, particularly in Australia's liquid natural gas (LNG) market and in deep water oil exploration off the Brazilian coast.
BG Group shareholders will own approximately 19% of the combined group following the deal. The deal comes at a time of uncertainty for oil and gas companies. In the past six months the price of oil has fallen by about 50%. Meanwhile, analysts have warned that investment in North Sea oil exploration has all but dried up, threatening the entire industry. Last month, the Chancellor, George Osborne, lowered the supplementary corporation tax levied against oil companies that operate in the North Sea. BG Group warned in February that it would write down the value of its oil and gas assets by nearly £6bn ($9bn) due to the oil price slump. Similarly, Shell announced in January that it would be cutting spending by nearly £10bn over the next three years. As it announced the takeover bid, Shell said it expected to make asset sales totalling $30bn between 2016 and 2018, although it did not specify which assets it was reviewing for sale. Asked about potential job losses in the North Sea, Shell and BG Group said they expected there to be "global synergies", while adding that if the deal had not happened, they might both have had to make job cuts. Current BG Group chief executive Helge Lund, who took up the post last month, will remain with BG Group while the deal goes through, but is expected to leave once it is completed. BG Group chairman Andrew Gould said the BG board remained confident in the energy firm's long-term prospects under Mr Lund, but that Shell's offer "allows us to accelerate and de-risk the delivery of this value". Even so, the payout that Mr Lund is likely to receive, alongside the boost he will receive to his income from his BG Group shareholdings, could raise eyebrows. In December, BG's board revised Mr Lund's proposed £12m upfront shares bonus, after shareholders and the Institute of Directors complained. Analysts gave a mixed reaction to news of the deal.
Investec analyst Neil Morton said a tie-up had "been mooted for about 20 years". He added: "BG investors receive what we see as a compelling offer. For Shell shareholders, we are less convinced of the merits. "The deal is predicated on a strong recovery in oil prices ($90 per barrel from 2018), while we suspect that Shell is pouncing on BG's imminent free cash flow to protect its burdensome dividend payout." Christian Stadler associate professor of strategic management at Warwick Business School said BG would fit well with Shell's portfolio. "Shell has a very good track record in offshore oil and gas fields, and BG will help them solidify this area," he said. He added acquiring BG would help Shell's replacement ratio: the amount of oil fields Shell has lined up to replace the oil it is currently producing. But he warned cost savings would be hard to achieve and "with the current downsizing in the oil industry you would expect some job losses".
More U.S. troops are committing suicide than are being killed in active service in Afghanistan, shocking figures have revealed. Even before not-yet-released data from October, the number of suicides among active and reserve army personnel this year has surpassed the number of combined military combat deaths from January to October 22, according to CNS News. A total of 247 U.S. army personnel are believed to have taken their own lives between January and September this year, army data shows. This compares to 222 deaths from 'hostile causes' in Afghanistan. Shocking statistics: More U.S. troops are committing suicide than are being killed in active service in Afghanistan (file photo) The figures, collated by the Brookings Institution, show an extra 40 troops were killed by 'non-hostile causes' while on deployments in the country. This means their deaths were not caused by the Taliban, insurgency forces or Afghan forces. The latest army statistics on troop suicides were released last Friday and show 15 active duty soldiers are suspected of killing themselves last month alone. The same number of potential suicides was recorded in August. 'Every suicide in our ranks is a tragic loss for the Army family, adversely affecting the readiness of our Army,' Lt. Gen. Howard B. Bromberg, deputy chief of staff for manpower and personnel, said in a Department of Defense release. 'I am asking soldiers, family members, Department of the Army civilians, neighbors, and friends to look out for each other and reach out and embrace those who may be struggling,' he said. Suicides: A total of 247 U.S. soldiers are suspected to have taken their own lives between January and September this year, army data shows . Combat killings: The high number of suicides compares to 222 deaths from 'hostile causes' in Afghanistan between January and October 22 . 'Recognize the warning signs such as substance abuse, relationship problems, and withdrawal from friends and activities and use available resources to help yourself or others.
Our actions can save lives.' For the year up to September, 146 potential suicides were recorded among active-duty army personnel and an additional 101 possible suicides were recorded for troops not on active duty. Marine Corps commandment James Amos . said the problem wasn't confined to the army and that all armed services . were experiencing a 'tough year' when it came to suicides, according to . CNS.news. 'Even with the attention of the leadership, I think all the services this year are feeling it,' Amos said. 'I . guess what I would tell everybody here is there is, through no shortage . of great effort and leadership on the part of all the services to try . to abate this, but this year, I think, is going to be a tough year for . all the services.' Couple: Some women pose with the military men they have sworn to support . Tribute: Ashley Wise kicked off an online project by posting this picture of herself in honour of her husband . Around one in five veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is believed to suffer from some form of post-traumatic stress disorder. Led by Ashley Wise, whose husband Rob developed the condition after his second tour of duty in Iraq, a group of military wives has started an initiative called Battling Bare, in which they pose with a poetic pledge written on their bare bodies. The message, aimed at raising awareness of PTSD and showing support for their husbands reads: 'Broken by battle, wounded by war, my love is forever, to you this I swore. I will quiet your silent screams, help heal your shattered soul, until once again my love you are whole.'
Annaick, who lives in Lyon, told the BBC her heart was with Socialist Party candidate Benoit Hamon, but she had voted for Mr Macron in the second round of the election and was relieved he had been elected: "I'm very happy. My family and I will be staying in and having a celebratory meal," she said. Student Margot Cadic, from Paris, voted for Mr Macron in both stages of the election because she felt he represented her centrist and open values. "I was a bit nervous during the day, but I'm relieved," she said. "I wish there had been a bigger gap between him and Marine Le Pen. "The country would appear divided, but at least Macron had a large victory. "Hopefully, he'll be able to unite France. "He understands that some people in France feel left out and misunderstood. "He said he wants to represent them too. "That will be difficult. "Both left and right parties have to reconsider their position, and if they'd be willing to change their views to have a coalition with him." Thierry Guedj, a finance director in Bordeaux, voted for Francois Fillon in the first round and then Mr Macron in the second. "I am pleased with the result," he said. "Emmanuel Macron was very presidential in his message of reconciliation and unity. "I was surprised by the way he handled himself during his speech, and when confronted by Marine Le Pen in the recent TV debate. "I'm feeling much more optimistic than at the start of the campaign. "I feel Macron has improved a lot." In the company of the Duke of Edinburgh #DogsAtPollingStations: Exercising paws and voting rights North Korea crisis: Why now, what happened, what next?
Nadia Darcy, a therapist in Surrey, who has lived in the UK for 26 years, told the BBC she had voted for Jean-Luc Melenchon in the first round, then Emmanuel Macron in the second. "I'm simply relieved," she said. "I was a bit worried during the TV debate between Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen. "She was very aggressive and put his ideas down instead of providing her own. "I still felt I had to vote for Macron, even though I didn't support him. "However, he did impress me. "He's got leadership. "It's not over yet. "His popularity has gone up because of the way he handled himself, but we need to watch over the next few weeks." Pierre Gas, who has lived in the UK since 1993, and always voted for a Republican candidate was disappointed that Francois Fillon did not get through to the second round. "I reluctantly voted for Macron," he said. "I'm not very happy with the result, but it's a case of the lesser of two evils. "I'm now hoping there will be a coalition. "That could be possible. "A lot of those who voted for Macron were not his supporters but did so to keep Le Pen out. "A lot of people are fed up with the politicians of the last 40 years. "I don't want five years of socialism. "I want a coalition. "I think Macron is too young and part of the elite, but let's just wait and see." Test pilot Pierre Gatty voted for Francois Fillon in the first round, and Emmanuel Macron in the second. He told the BBC he had been confident that Marine Le Pen would not become president. "We're not exactly celebrating," he said. "I think Francois Hollande is behind Emmanuel Macron. "This has been arranged for some time between them. "I'd like to be sure Emmanuel Macron will lead with the interests of France.
"I'm not so sure now. "I've seen so many people saying he's the best. "Most of the socialists were fighting him, and now they're saying he's the best. "Let's see what happens now. "I'm staying a bit optimistic. "I'm half happy." David Edwards is a French national living in Brittany with his wife and four children. He voted for Emmanuel Macron in both stages of the election. "It has been an eventful and quite emotional campaign," he said. "Witnessing the normalisation of nationalist ideas on a grand scale is a thing I never thought I'd see. "This campaign will probably leave scars across the electorate, the country will remain deeply divided for the coming months and years. "Change must take place. "The Front National will be right at the corner if Emmanuel Macron doesn't deliver the goods. "Democracy and common sense have prevailed. "La France est en marche. "Let's celebrate, for now." Compiled by Sherie Ryder, UGC and Social News team.
Editor's note: CNN has asked its journalists across the country to offer their thoughts on how the economic crisis is affecting their cities. In this installment, All Platform Journalist Jim Spellman reports from Denver, Colorado. Hari Dallakoti says business at his UPS store in Denver, Colorado, is down 25 percent. DENVER, Colorado (CNN) -- The conventional wisdom here in the Mile High City is that Denver entered the recession early and is pulling out of it ahead of the rest of the country. Time and again I have heard politicians, journalists and business people tell me that it isn't so bad here, that Denver is poised to lead the nation in an economic recovery. Maybe, but the signs on the ground are a little harder to read. Down on Broadway I stop by a UPS store a couple of times a week. The owner's name is Hari Dallakoti. Dallakoti always has a smile on his face and seems to know all his customers by name -- he was calling out to me by the second time I entered the shop. People drop by to ship out packages, make copies and pick up deliveries. There is always a crowd when I have been in, but Dallakoti tells me business is down 25 percent this month versus the same time last year. "Finally it's hitting in this area, and I believe that people are afraid of spending money," he says. "It's like a ripple effect, and I think I am feeling it now." Dallakoti says customers who once sent birthday presents across the country are now only sending cards. Also, eBay-related shipping is down, and he has seen a falloff in people sending mortgage-related documents. He has five employees and says he hasn't had to let anyone go, but he has had to cut back their hours.
He agrees that business is better in Denver than in other parts of the country and is confident he will weather the economic storm, but it may be a while before things get better for him. "In my opinion it's going to get worse for the next couple, three months, and I'm hoping it will turn around after June," he says. Watch how the downturn is affecting Denver » . A block up Broadway is a little guitar store called Music Gear Guys. I play guitar, and this was one of the first businesses I stopped by when I moved to Denver in January. I have been in the shop four or five times and have been surprised that every time I drop by, the place is packed. "The recession affected us a little last year but overall -- knock on wood -- it hasn't really affected me too much," says owner Gregory Decker, who thinks the recession may actually be helping his business. "I have a feeling that people are looking for hobbies or different forms of entertainment that aren't too expensive," Decker explains. His store is crowded with new and used guitars, amplifiers and accessories. He says guitars based on designs from the 1960s are the hot items in the store. Like Dallakoti, the UPS store owner, Decker seems to know all of his customers by name. He says that in this economy you have to focus on customer service to stand a chance. He doesn't advertise, instead relying on word of mouth, and keeps overhead low: He is the sole employee. "Relationships are what make my business thrive. Without them I wouldn't be as successful," he says. But even here in a relatively successful small business there are signs of the hard times other people have been experiencing. Beginning last year more customers started coming in to sell Decker their guitars in hopes of making ends meet. "A lot of people are selling their gear due to job layoffs and needed the money," he says.
The recession started with free-falling housing values and, in this respect, the signs are harder to read. Over the weekend I took my dog for a walk through my neighborhood near Sloans Lake in Northwest Denver and decided to count how many houses were for sale. In a six-block walk, I counted two houses for rent and 13 for sale, including the house next door to me. These homes sit like ghosts in the neighborhood. There are open houses on Sundays, but few people come by. The houses are all well-maintained, though most of them appear to be empty. My neighbors hope these places don't fall into foreclosure; they are worried the neighborhood will fall apart if they do. I'll be keeping my eye on the house next door, and keeping my fingers crossed that my new hometown will be back on track soon.
(CNN) -- The former Miami Beach mansion of Italian fashion designer Gianni Versace sold for $41.5 million Tuesday, an auction company said. Fisher Auction Company and the Jills, a Coldwell Banker Residential Real estate team, announced the sale of the Casa Casuarina, formerly the Versace Mansion. Auctioneer Lamar Fisher said the buyer was Joe Nakash, whose family owns the Jordache denim brand. The family also owns the Victor Hotel next door and they told Fisher that they plan on turning the mansion into a boutique hotel. Donald Trump -- the real estate magnate and TV personality -- placed the second highest bid on the mansion at $41 million, according to Rhona Graff, a senior vice president at the Trump Organization. Versace was shot dead outside the mansion in 1997. He purchased the property five years earlier and invested $33 million on expansions including a 54-foot mosaic pool lined with 24-karat gold. "We are very pleased to have had the opportunity to manage the sale of this iconic property," Fisher said. "This beautifully appointed estate drew significant attention from prospective buyers from around the world." Jill Hertzberg of The Jills called the property the "crown jewel of Miami." "Jill Eber and I are delighted that we were able to be a part of this once-in-a-lifetime sale," she said.
Washington (CNN) -- South Carolina officials head to federal court on Monday to defend a controversial new voter identification law, dismissing suggestions the requirement would deny tens of thousands of people, many of them minorities, access to the ballot. A weeklong trial will kick off in Washington before a panel of three judges who will decide whether the law should take effect. It is one of several legal challenges to voter identification laws nationwide. A key enforcement provision of the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965, gives the federal government open-ended oversight of states and communities with a history of voter discrimination. Any changes in voting laws and procedures in those areas must be "pre-cleared" with Washington. South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson has defended the law, saying it will not harm any potential voter. "The changes have neither the purpose nor will they have the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race, color, or membership in a language minority," Wilson said. The Justice Department blocked the measure from taking effect last year, concluding it was discriminatory. Federal officials cited figures that registered minority voters were about 20 percent more likely than white voters to lack state-issued photo identification. The Justice Department estimated that more than 80,000 people in South Carolina could be adversely impacted by the planned requirements. Republican Gov. Nikki Haley has called the Justice Department's decision "outrageous" and ordered a lawsuit. State officials have deflected criticism the legal battle could end up costing taxpayers $1 million or more. "It wouldn't cost anything if (U.S. Attorney General) Eric Holder and the Department of Justice would get out of the way and let us protect our citizens and enforce our laws," Rob Godfrey, a spokesman for Haley, said earlier this year. A decision in the case could take weeks. In legal filings with the court, South Carolina officials said a law dating to 1988 requires a state-issued voter registration card and the voter's signature at the polls.
The amended law approved last year would permit five types of photo identification: a state-issued driver's license, a non-driver identification card issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles, military identification, a U.S. passport, or state voter registration card. Waivers are allowed, but the voter must sign an affidavit specifying why she or he has a "reasonable impediment" to getting the necessary identification or has a religious objection to being photographed. If the law takes effect, South Carolina would be among 11 states that require official photo identification at the polls, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Proponents say the drive is an effort to stop what officials contend is voter fraud and to purge voter rolls of outdated information. Supporters say having valid, government-issued photo identification is a reasonable, modern-day necessity. Opponents assert that the effort disenfranchise poor, minority and disabled voters. Obama administration officials have concluded there is little evidence of voter fraud in the state warranting the legislative changes. A coalition of civil rights groups is expected to testify at next week's hearing, offering testimony from college students and elderly residents. Those groups say claims of voter fraud are exaggerated. "South Carolina's photo ID measure is a solution in search of a problem. Credible studies show that one is more likely to be struck by lightning than to perceive an instance of in-person voter fraud," Ryan Haygood, a top lawyer at the NAACP's Legal Defense Fund, said. "The [upcoming] trial will make clear that the state's proposed photo identification measure will have a significant impact on its minority voters." The NAACP says that a quarter of African-Americans and 16 percent of Latinos nationally lack any kind of government-issued photo identification. A separate federal panel is considering similar challenge to a voter identification law in Texas. A federal trial was held last month and a ruling is expected soon.
Both South Carolina and Texas say they will put their laws in place in time for the November elections, if they are upheld. It is possible the losing sides could ask the U.S. Supreme Court to intervene, delaying any immediate implementation. Other Republican-controlled states with similar laws under legal challenge include Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Mississippi, and Tennessee. The Justice Department this week gave approval to Virginia's less restrictive voter identification measure. North Carolina Gov. Beverly Perdue vetoed a law passed by the GOP-led General Assembly. The Supreme Court in 2008 allowed Indiana's voter identification law to stand in 2008, saying the stated goal of stopping voter fraud was a legitimate exercise of legislative power.
By . Vanessa Allen . PUBLISHED: . 04:27 EST, 29 April 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 09:49 EST, 5 June 2013 . The girl at the centre of the child cruelty trial told the High Court she went along with her mother’s shocking attempts to get her pregnant because she thought: ‘If I do this . . . maybe she will love me more.’ The girl had been adopted as a baby and raised in a ‘toxic cocoon’ of her mother’s making – an atmosphere of intimidation and disapproval behind the closed curtains of their terrace house. Despite the bullying and coercion, the girl remained pathetically devoted to her adopted mother and obeyed her commands, driven by a powerful mix of fear and love. Authorities missed four significant opportunities which may have prevented a woman from forcing her adopted daughter to impregnate herself with sperm bought on the internet . In a moment of unbearable poignancy . the girl, known only as A, told how she had gone along with her mother’s . plans to win the woman’s affection. She told the High Court: ‘Mum said to me, “A, the only way I can have a fourth child is for you to get pregnant”. ‘I was shocked, pretty shocked at . first. And then I suddenly thought, “Maybe if I do this then everything . will be over. Mum will be happy like she was before”. ‘And I also thought from a selfish point of view, “If I do this . . . maybe she will love me more”.’ A was only 13 when her mother revealed her plans, and just 14 when the . humiliating and painful ordeal of the insemination ‘programme’ began. In March 2009, aged 15 and having .
already suffered a miscarriage, she sent a Mother’s Day card. The girl . wrote: ‘Happy Mother’s Day List (the things I cannot give you but would . if I could).’ She stuck photographs of her mother’s favourite singers and television programmes on the card. Below them, next to a photograph of a . positive pregnancy test, she wrote: ‘And the one thing that I can. And . will.’ Remarkably, A told the court hearing she was grateful to her . mother for adopting her and her sisters, saying: ‘My mum has done as . much as she could to give us a good and happy life.’ But Mr Justice Jackson heard the . mother had excluded her ex-husband from her daughters’ life and had . schooled them at home, leaving them isolated from the world outside. She could be ‘critical, rigid, . suspicious and obsessive’, the judge said, adding: ‘For the children, . who love her deeply, the threat of her disapproval is always in the . air.’ Eldest daughter A in particular had . coped with her domineering mother by becoming submissive to her, even . dropping her voice so she could barely be heard. Neighbours said she was so quiet and . timid that they had wondered if she had a ‘vocal disability’. Remarkably, it was only by becoming a mother herself that A found the . strength to stand up to the maternal bullying she had suffered. Midwives noticed that she refused to . hand her baby son to her mother, and she rejected the woman’s demands . that she call him Kalei, instead choosing a traditional English name. Astonished: Family judge Mr Justice Jackson expressed his 'abiding sense of disbelief' in a High Court judgement . Fears for her son’s wellbeing finally .
drove her to confide in a family friend, an act of courage and defiance . she had been unable to make on her own behalf. A, now 19 and living in a foster home . with her toddler son, told the court: ‘I was scared to go home, because I . knew I wouldn’t be able to raise him as my child and I was scared at . how my mum might raise him.’ Her mother, an educated and highly . articulate woman, also gave the teenager recordings to listen to which . contained subliminal messages, saying: ‘I am going to conceive a girl.’ The girl, who was adopted, had not wanted to become pregnant but was terrified of jeopardising hermother’s love for her. The plan fell apart after the girl . gave birth to a boy and midwives at the hospital became suspiciousof her . mother’s ‘pushy and insensitive’ behaviour towards her and the baby, . and raised the alarm. The Daily Mail can reveal that social . workers were warned three times about the mother, but decided her . children were not at risk. On one occasion a social worker closed the . case after speaking to the mother on the telephone, without even . visiting the family’s home or seeing the children. The mother, a 48-year-old former . nanny, was jailed for five years for bullying her daughter into the . surrogate pregnancy plan and for cruelty towards another of her adopted . children. The case raises worrying questions about the regulation of adoptions from abroad and the sale of donor sperm over the internet. The High Court case was heard in secret but can be reported following a legal challenge by media groups. Family Division judge Mr Justice . Jackson said he felt ‘an abiding sense of disbelief that a parent could . behave in such a wicked and selfish way towards a vulnerable child’.
The court heard the American-born . mother, who cannot be named to protect the identities of her three . adopted children and her grandson – the child born to her daughter, . chose to be sterilised in 2001 so she did not pass her diabetes on to . any children. The case was heard in the High Court but reporting restrictions prevent the naming of the family, the local authority and the area they lived in . Instead, she adopted three daughters . as babies from foreign orphanages and foster homes, two while married to . an Irish man and a third as a single parent, and raised them in . Britain. She was banned from adopting more children but longed for another child, and forced her eldest daughter to conceive. She told the girl about her plans . when her daughter was only 13, and the two-year insemination ‘programme’ began when the teenager – identified in legal documents only as A – was . 14. The judge said: ‘A did not want to . take part in the programme, but she allowed her body to be used by her . mother because she loves her. ‘A’s participation in the programme . caused her continuous anxiety. The physical steps that the mother asked . her to take were degrading, humiliating and, on occasions, painful.’ The mother bought frozen sperm over . the internet and prepared syringes full of it for her daughter to use to . inseminate herself. She was desperate that any resulting . baby should be a girl, and forced her daughter to follow a special diet . of dairy and alkaline foods in the belief this would affect the gender . of the child. In July 2010, the mother wrote an . ‘affirmation’ on her computer, setting out her wishes for the future – a . lottery win and a healthy baby girl, who she wanted to call Kelia. She wrote: ‘I desire to win the .
Thunderball jackpot of £500,000 and for A to conceive and carry Kelia to . term for birth in April.’ In October that year, A became pregnant and . she gave birth to a son in June 2011, after a difficult labour which . left her needing surgery. Nurses knew she planned to give her . baby to her mother to raise, but were worried by her mother’s aggressive . behaviour, including a refusal to let A breastfeed her baby, saying: . ‘We don’t want any of that attachment thing.’ Midwives raised the alarm when the . mother tried to take the newborn baby from the ward, and A later . confided in a family friend about her ordeal. All four children were . taken into care and the mother was charged with child cruelty. She initially denied the allegations, . accusing her daughter of being a fantasist, and told authorities the . girl was mentally ill. She later pleaded guilty to five charges of child . cruelty. The High Court heard she had raised . her three adopted daughters in a ‘toxic cocoon’, teaching them at home . so they would not go to school and isolating them from friends or . neighbours. When she was 15, A was left alone to . look after her youngest sister, then only four or five, while her mother . and the middle sister went to the US for a ten-day holiday. A told the court she had seen her . mother smack her youngest sister regularly, and said she had tied the . little girl to a chair when she would not sit still and had stuck duct . tape over her mouth for answering back. The court also heard disturbing . details about failed attempts to alert social services to the family’s . set-up. Neighbours described the mother’s terrace home as like a .
‘fortress’, with the curtains always closed and no one allowed inside. In 2006, a GP neighbour contacted . social services, saying she could hear the mother shouting and swearing . at her youngest child, who was then two, and said the toddler was left . crying for up to two hours at a time. Social workers investigated and saw . all three children and the mother, but decided there was no cause for . concern. In January 2007, an anonymous letter was sent to social . services and other authorities. A social worker’s report warned that . the mother ‘appears to be doing things secretively for her own gain’, . but concluded there was no evidence of ‘significant harm’ to the . children, and the case was closed again. In 2008, the GP made another referral . to social services. A third investigation was launched but the case was . closed after social workers spoke to the mother on the telephone, . without seeing the children or visiting the house. Mr Justice Jackson said: ‘Between . 2006 and 2008, the mother succeeded in keeping social services at arm’s . length so that their investigations were essentially superficial. ‘Concerns were seen off by a parent who was recognised to be domineering. The children were never heard.’ The local authority cannot be named . for legal reasons but its Local Safeguarding Children Board has launched . a serious case review, due to be published next month. The LSCB said: ‘Nothing can change what has happened to the children in this truly terrible case. ‘It is clear that public bodies must highlight the major public policy issues which arise from this case.’
By . Jenny Hope . PUBLISHED: . 19:06 EST, 6 February 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 03:07 EST, 7 February 2013 . Threat: Air pollution to trigger potentially fatal pre-eclampsia in expectant mothers, a study has found . Exposure to air pollution could trigger potentially fatal pre-eclampsia in pregnant women, researchers have warned. Women with asthma are particularly . vulnerable to the condition - marked by high blood pressure and fluid . retention - according to a new study. It blamed one in every 20 cases of pre-eclampsia on higher levels of ozone pollution in the air during the first three months of pregnancy, as well . as an increase in premature births. The rate would mean pollution was a factor in up to 2,000 cases of pre-eclampsia in the UK each year. As many as one in 20 first-time mothers develop pre-eclampsia, while . around 20 women die each year from conditions linked to high blood . pressure. It is thought to claim the lives of 600 babies a year. The only treatment is to deliver the baby early with an emergency Caesarean. The new study adds to evidence of a link between air pollution and . premature birth, with international research earlier this week showing . higher pollution levels raised the risk of low birth weight. The study looked at almost 121,000 births in Greater Stockholm, Sweden, between 1998 and 2006. It compared the records with national data on the prevalence of asthma . among the children’s mothers; and levels of the air pollutants ozone and . vehicle exhaust (nitrogen oxide) in the Stockholm area. In all, 4.4 per cent of the pregnancies resulted in a premature birth . and the prevalence of pre-eclampsia was 2.7 per cent, say findings . published in the online journal BMJ Open.
There was no association between exposure to levels of vehicle exhaust . and complications of pregnancy, nor were any links found for any air . pollutants and babies that were underweight at birth. But there did seem to be a link between exposure to ozone levels during . the first three months of pregnancy and the risk of premature birth . before 37 weeks and pre-eclampsia. Each rose by four per cent for every 10 microgram per cubic metre . increase in ambient ozone during this period, says the analysis. Mothers with asthma were 25 per cent more likely to have a child born . prematurely and 10 per cent more likely to have pre-eclampsia than mums . without this condition. Vulnerable: Pregnant women with asthma were 10 per cent more likely to have pre-eclampsia than those without the condition . The effect of pollution on inflammation processes in the body may be a potential mechanism, say the Swedish researchers. Asthma is an inflammatory condition and ozone may therefore have . worsened respiratory symptoms and systemic inflammation, so accounting . for the larger increase in the risk of premature birth among the mums . with asthma, suggest the researchers. After taking account of various factors, they calculated that one in . every 20 (five per cent) cases of pre-eclampsia were linked to ozone . levels during early pregnancy. Lead researcher David Olsson, of the department of public health and . clinical medicine at Umea University, said the findings should lead to . improved monitoring of women with asthma during pregnancy. He said ‘It’s difficult to put into practice measures that will . effectively reduce the risk, but it shows the importance of ensuring . women’s asthma symptoms are under control during early pregnancy. They . need to use their medication to help counteract the possible health . effects of pollution. ‘The study increases the evidence suggesting we should strive to keep .
reducing pollution levels to improve human health’ he added.
The inquests focused on the final movements of Tony Bland, who was left severely brain damaged by the 1989 crush but lived until 1993. He was left in a persistent vegetative state but his life supporting treatment was removed after a legal battle. Mr Bland was 18 at the time of the disaster but died aged 22. The court heard the teenager, from Keighley, West Yorkshire, attended the FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest on 15 April 1989 with a friend, Allan Gill. They entered the Sheffield stadium at about 14:25 BST and made their way to a central terrace enclosure known as pen three at the Leppings Lane end. Mr Gill said the crowd "seemed to really tighten up" when the players came onto the pitch. He said he heard screams and shouts from people saying they could not breathe and needed to get out of the pen. In evidence read to the court, he said he did not see Mr Bland from that point on and that he eventually fell forward and was pulled through a gate. Footage showed Mr Bland, wearing a red and white Liverpool hat, being lifted over a fence into pen two and then being carried onto the pitch by two police officers at about 15:23 - more than 15 minutes after the match was halted. PC Steven Plows and a doctor, Colin Flenley, who was at the ground as a fan, said they thought Mr Bland had no pulse and was not breathing when they first attended him. They eventually detected a heartbeat at 15:26 after several rounds of heart compressions and Mr Bland was put into the back of a St John Ambulance seven minutes later. The jury heard there were already three casualties inside, with one unconscious adult on the floor, and that Mr Bland was placed on top of him. PC Paul Jenkinson told the court that he performed mouth-to-mouth on Mr Bland en route to Sheffield's Northern General Hospital and that the casualty began breathing as they arrived.
He said: "I am fairly sure it was before he went on the trolley because I seem to have got this feeling of relief that we pulled into the hospital and he was going to get some proper medical attention." Rani Naidoo, a senior house officer at the Northern General's gynaecology department at the time, went to assist in A&E after she heard "a number of sirens and ambulances coming up the hill". She said she attended Mr Bland "because there was no other medical or nursing staff with him". Dr Naidoo said she had not been told that a crush had taken place at Hillsborough and recalled an unidentified person telling her they thought a stand had collapsed. Hospital notes recorded Mr Bland as being unconscious on arrival and "unresponsive to painful stimuli". Breathing was spontaneous but "laboured", it was added. She said she judged him "stable" following her initial assessment and thought he did not require any further intervention at that point as his observations were "reasonable and satisfactory". Christina Lambert QC, counsel for the coroner, asked her: "Did you believe that there was any need for steps to be taken to either secure Tony's airway or indeed to provide him with assisted ventilation?" She replied: "I believe at that time my assessment was that his condition was stable. He was breathing by himself spontaneously." The jury was told that Mr Bland was first transferred to a general ward for ongoing care at the Northern General, rather than the intensive care unit (ICU). Asked if she was concerned that he was not transferred to ICU, Dr Naidoo said: "Well, it was a very extraordinary day. "I was aware there were a significant number of extremely ill casualties in the A&E department, all receiving varying levels of care." Mr Bland was later intubated and ventilated on the receiving ward by other clinicians before his condition deteriorated and he was eventually taken to the cardiac ICU.
At about 18:00 it was noted that ventilation was "becoming harder" and emergency intervention was needed, the court was told. The hearing was adjourned until Monday. BBC News: Profiles of all those who died
By . Richard Spillett for MailOnline . An airline passenger is lucky to be alive after he suffered a mid-air heart attack during a long-haul flight and was saved by three fellow travellers. The man was midway through a flight from Canada to Hong Kong when he complained of chest pains and his heart suddenly stopped beating. Luckily, a doctor, a pharmacist and a policeman trained in first aid were all on board and, with the help of crew, kept him alive. A man suffered a heart attack while flying from Canada to Hong Kong last month, but his life was saved by a doctor, a pharmacist and a policeman who were on board . He has now made a full recovery in a case which is being used as an example of why portable defibrillators should be carried on all flights. The dramatic incident, which happened last month, came to light after the doctor involved reported it to the British Medical Journal, which called the episode 'a remarkable story of survival against all the odds'. Dr Dave Monks, an anaesthesiologist who has worked at the Royal Free Hospital in London, said the man was taken ill hundreds of miles from the nearest airport in some of the most remote airspace on earth. Dr Monks said the man told him of striking pains moving from his chest to his head. The passenger then lost consciousness and had no pulse, causing Dr Monks to ask other passengers for help. Luckily, a pharmacist who had worked in an intensive care unit and a trained policeman came forward and, using a portable defibrillator, they gave the man an electric shock to get his heart pumping again. The doctor involved said the incident highlighted the importance of having defibrillators on flights and in training as many people as possible in how to use them . When the man's health again deteriorated, the brave trio kept him alive using adrenaline from the plane's medical kit.
The pilot of the aircraft then landed in Beijing, China and the man was rushed to a nearby hospital. Remarkably, he was discharged 10 days later having made a complete recovery. Dr Monks told Live Science: 'This guy was extremely fortunate to have this team there. 'These guys just happened to be on the plane and even with the [basic medical skills] they had, they were able to perform a quite dramatic and sophisticated critical care resuscitation.' He said the episode shows the importance of keeping defibrillators on passenger planes and training people in first aid. He cited research that shows people are more likely to have heart attacks on flights due to stress, disturbed sleep patterns and lower levels of oxygen. One study suggests about 1,000 passengers per year experience sudden cardiac arrest while on flights.
The 21-year-old joined the Tykes last summer from QPR following the club's promotion to the Championship, but made just seven league appearances. He had a brief loan spell at Colchester from QPR in the 2014-15 season, featuring six times for the Essex side. The left-sided player signed a one-year contract, with a 12-month option, at John McGreal's team. Find all the latest football transfers on our dedicated page.
The glitch caused iPad software - used by the planes' pilots and co-pilots for viewing flight plans - to stop working. The firm's cockpits went "paperless" in 2013 to save its staff having to lug heavy paperwork on board. AA estimated the move would save it more than $1.2m (Â£793,600) in fuel every year. The company said that it was still investigating the cause of the problem. "Some American Airlines flights experienced an issue with a software application on pilot iPads yesterday evening," a spokesman told the BBC. "In some cases, the flight had to return to the gate to access a wi-fi connection to fix the issue. "We apologise for the inconvenience to our customers and we had them on the way to their destinations soon afterwards." Serge Gojkovich, chief executive of car parking app-maker Curbstand, was among the passengers affected. He tweeted that his San Francisco-to-Los Angeles flight was only able to get airborne after the crew had printed off the maps they needed. A spokesman for the airline was unable to confirm the report. American Airlines is not the only carrier whose pilots and cabin crew have switched from using physical charts and paper manuals to tablets. United Airlines was also an early adopter of iPads, while Delta has opted for Microsoft's Surface tablets instead. British Airways and Ryanair are among others still in the process of shifting to so-called Electronic Flight Bag-based systems. In addition to saving on fuel costs, it is also suggested that such kit reduces flight preparation time, reduces the likelihood of injuries and helps staff by offering real-time updates. There is competition between several firms to provide the software and support that make the technology possible. American Airlines pilots use an app called FliteDeck, which is made by the Boeing subsidiary Jeppesen. A spokeswoman for the firm was unable to provide comment when contacted by the BBC.
By . Steph Cockroft . A friend of Peaches Geldof's late mother has claimed she desperately tried to confront the young model over her drug abuse, while friends who knew about her heroin addiction 'turned blind eyes'. Gerry Agar, the former publicist of Paula Yates, said she reached out to Peaches six years ago in a bid to stop her suffering the same fate as her mother, who died of an accidental heroin overdose when Peaches was 11. But she said Peaches, a mother-of-two, suffered after those around her 'said nothing' - despite the 25-year-old relapsing. Scrool down for video . A family friend of Peaches Geldof and her late mother Paula Yates has told how she tried to confront the 25-year-old about her drug use as others turned 'blind eyes' to her heroin habit . This picture, which Peaches posted hours before her death, shows Paula Yates, who died of an accidental heroin overdose in 2000, with Peaches as a young girl. Gerry Agar said: 'I'd lost her mother and my best friend to heroin and I didn't want to lose Peaches' She told Grazia magazine: 'I knew she was in trouble with heroin years ago and I tried to confront her about it. 'So many people around her knew about it but said nothing. But I'd lost her mother and my best friend to heroin and I didn't want to lose Peaches.' The author said she had written Peaches a letter in 2008, encouraging her to wean off the drugs, but that she never heard from her again. Gerry Agar, the former publicist of Paula Yates, said she wrote Peaches a letter in 2008 but did not hear from her again .
She said she hoped Peaches would change for good after having her two sons - Astala, two, and Phaedra, one - but that she soon relapsed. She told the magazine that Peaches' death had been 'a horrible waste', just as it was with Miss Yates. Ms Agar previously told the Daily Mail how she had blown the whistle on Miss Yates' drug habit in 1996 after she found opium under her bed in a Smarties box. Detectives did not prosecute Miss Yates because of insufficient evidence. She told the paper: ‘When Paula took drugs she became another person, really a diabolical being. ‘I don’t think anyone truly understands what life was like in that family and Peaches got the worst of it. I can’t even begin to describe what that poor girl lived through.' Peaches was found dead at her £1m home in Wrotham, Kent, in April, by her husband Thomas Cohen. Just a few hours before her death, she posted a picture of herself and her mother on the social networking site Instagram, adding the caption: ‘Me and my mum.’ Miss Yates died in 2000, aged 41. At an inquest into Peaches' death, the court heard stashes of heroin, burned spoons and almost 80 syringes were scattered around the family's country home. Ms Agar said she hoped Peaches would change for good after having her . two sons Phaedra and Astala but that she soon relapsed . Peaches, pictured with her husband Thomas Cohen, had managed to wean herself off the drug but had a relapse in February . North West Kent Coroner Roger Hatch said the sometime television presenter, model and journalist had been trying to wean herself off drugs and was clean five months before her death. She had battled the addiction for three years and had been taking the heroin substitute methadone and having counselling.
'So many people around her knew about it but said nothing' Gerry Agar . In November 2013, a drugs test showed her to be clean and Mr Cohen believed she had defeated the habit. But Mr Cohen, a 24-year-old musician, told the inquest she relapsed in February and was hiding heroin in the loft. When he confronted her about it, she . retrieved a stash she had hidden in the loft and flushed it down the toilet to show . she was serious about giving up. But she failed to break the habit. Mr Hatch said Peaches' death was not quite history repeating itself, in regards to Miss Yates' death, because Miss Geldof had tried to . break her addiction and had returned to the drug for reasons no one . would ever know. She had 3mg per litre of diamorphine, the chemical name for heroin, in her blood. Her mother had 0.3mg when she died.
By . Damien Gayle . Abu Hamza saw violence as necessary to defend Muslims and saw physical training for jihad as an obligation for all Muslim men, a court heard on Wednesday. James Ujaama, a U.S.-based associate of Hamza, told jurors in the New York court that the Islamist cleric had instructed him to set up a jihadist training camp in the U.S. U.S. prosecutors hope Ujaama's testimony will convince a federal jury that the preacher is guilty of trying to set up the camp to aid al Qaeda. The charges against him carry a potential life sentence. Facing life in jail: Islamist cleric Abu Hamza pictured in a court sketch at the Federal Court in Lower Manhattan, New York, where he is on trial for allegedly setting up terrorist training camps in the U.S. One-eyed, handless Hamza, 56, is also accused of supporting al Qaeda in Afghanistan and of providing assistance to militants who kidnapped 16 Western tourists in Yemen in 1998. Four of the hostages were killed during a rescue operation. Hamza's lawyers have argued that he used inflammatory rhetoric but did not commit any crimes. The court saw a copy of a fax that Ujaama sent to Hamza, then a preacher at London's Finsbury Park mosque, telling him about a ranch in Oregon where he hoped to set up the training camp. 'The land that we spoke of is about 160 acres and looks just like Afghanistan,' Ujaama said in the fax. He added that Oregon was a 'pro-militia and firearms state' where it would be easy to stockpile weapons for combat training. Ujaama, who pleaded guilty in 2003 to conspiring to aid the Taliban, appeared as part of a cooperation deal with prosecutors and is expected to remain on the witness stand for several days. As a former associate of Hamza, Ujaama is a key government witness.
His testimony is expected to cover not only Oregon but the allegation that Abu Hamza sent a man to Afghanistan to receive military training with al Qaeda. Hamza with a masked bodyguard, outside the closed Finsbury Park Mosque: Government witness James Ujaama met with Hamza at the mosque soon after the American returned from training in Afghanistan . Ujaama said he first met the fiery preacher in London in 1998, shortly after returning from a trip to Afghanistan where he attended training camps with religious extremists. The two men discussed Islamic teachings over tea and cookies at Abu Hamza's second-floor office at the Finsbury Park mosque, Ujaama said. 'I walked away from that meeting very impressed with Sheikh Abu Hamza,' Ujaama was quoted as saying by the Associated Press. Soon after, Ujaama was working for Abu Hamza, writing and publishing articles online for an organization called Supporters of Sharia run by the preacher. One piece - titled 'A Declaration of War' - summarised Osama bin Laden's call to take up arms against the U.S., Ujaama said. 'Was Abu Hamza overseeing you when you posted this statement?' asked Assistant U.S. Attorney John Cronan. 'Yes, he was,' Ujaama replied. Police outside Finsbury Park mosque after a raid: Ujaama told the court that he and Hamza discussed Islamic teachings over tea and cookies in a second-floor office there and he then began working for the preacher . In 1999, Ujaama said, the two men arrived in Oregon from the United Kingdom and were disappointed to find that Ujaama's camp did not have many weapons or recruits. Ujaama said he was threatened by one of the men, Oussama Kassir, who claimed to be a former bodyguard for Osama bin Laden.
In the coming days, Ujaama is also expected to testify that Abu Hamza ordered him in 2000 to take another man, Feroz Abbasi, to Afghanistan to seek out training with al Qaeda. Egyptian-born Hamza lost his hands and one eye in Afghanistan in the 1980s. A British court convicted him 2006 of inciting followers to violence and he served six years in prison before his extradition to the U.S. in 2012.
By . Matt Lawton . Follow @@Matt_Lawton_DM . Gareth Bale is talking about positioning. More specifically, about getting into better positions more often to score more goals. It is a part of his game he would like to improve and what, you might ask, is so unusual about that when this is a player already reflecting on so many goals for Real Madrid? Well it’s the fact that this is the same player managers once regarded as a left back. A player, it is worth reminding ourselves, who once had to battle with Benoit Assou-Ekotto for a place in the Tottenham team. VIDEO: Scroll down to watch Gareth Bale speak ahead of the Champions League final . Dream start: Gareth Bale is hoping to win the Champions League during his first season at Real Madrid . Defining moment: Bale celebrates scoring Real's winning goal in the Copa del Rey final against Barcelona . Finding his feet: Bale has shone since his £85million move from Tottenham last summer . Harry Redknapp saw the value in pushing him further forward, eventually deploying him on the left wing and unleashing a talent that took the Champions League by storm. The 24-year-old is now ready to play in a European Cup final on Saturday, when Carlo Ancelotti’s side face Atletico Madrid in Lisbon. Since arriving in Spain he has been christened ‘The Cannon’, and it is a nickname that captures the sometimes spectacular nature of his goals. But to this observer none has been more spectacular than his 20th of the season; the goal that secured the Copa del Rey against Barcelona. We knew Bale was quick. But it is hard to recall a more impressive demonstration of pure pace on any pitch than the burst he mustered to take him past Marc Bartra after the Barca defender had knocked him into touch. That goal is seen as the defining moment of Bale’s first season abroad.
‘I scored a similar goal for Wales maybe six weeks beforehand,’ said Bale, who was speaking at an EA Sports 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil event. ‘I was just focused on the ball but if I am in a sprint with someone I fancy myself. It was great to score the goal. It was important to win the first trophy of the season. It gave us a lot of confidence.’ It is a quiet confidence that appears to be at the root of Bale’s success. A confidence that has enabled him to take the move to Madrid in his stride. On the run: Bale skips away from Bayern winger Franck Ribery at the Allianz Arena . Star man: Wales winger Bale features in EA Sports' official 2014 Brazil World Cup game . Silverware: Bale celebrates the first trophy of his career with former Spurs team-mate Luka Modric . When he arrived, much was made of how he might operate alongside Cristiano Ronaldo. Whether the finest player in English football could exist in harmony with the finest player in the world. But Bale credits Ronaldo with being a reason why his has been such a smooth transition. ‘Cristiano has been very supportive,’ said Bale. ‘From the first day I came in, he has been there for me. On day one he gave me advice on the best areas to live and stuff like that. ‘We talk a lot; have a good relationship on and off the pitch. I’ve learned a bit of everything from him. The way he plays and gets himself into certain positions; it’s a chance to learn off one of the best players in the world. Hopefully, that will improve me as a player.’ It is at this juncture that he mentions that area where he feels he needs to improve — scoring goals. ‘I don’t think there’s anything specific,’ he said.
‘It is more my all-round game, positioning-wise. I need to get myself into more goal-scoring positions. Influential: Bale admits he is learning 'a bit of everything' from Cristiano Ronaldo . Getting along: Bale says his relationship with Ronaldo is flourishing on and off the pitch . Fans' favourite: Bale has endeared himself to Madrid's fans with 15 La Liga goals in his first season . ‘Every year I try to keep improving and I tell myself that if I keep working hard I will get better.’ To be part of the team that wins La Decima — Madrid’s 10th European Cup — would be special. ‘It would be a dream to win it,’ said Bale. Nothing makes a footballer feel more settled than success on the field. As Bale said: ‘The time was right to go to Madrid. I am really glad I did it. I am trying to embrace everything, trying to enjoy the ride. It was also important to not only have some friends over but some family as well. I have got a great team around me. ‘I always had confidence in my ability and the fact we are now chasing the 10th title, against our city rivals, is very exciting. ‘Madrid has a real buzz about it. It’s football mad at the best of times but there’s a real sense of anticipation.’ EA SPORTS 2014 FIFA World Cup is OUT NOW on Xbox 360 and PS3. Watch Gareth Bale's World Cup Dream here . EA Sports' 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil .
The only free ticket promised by Bob Arum for the richest fight of all time is for female UFC star Ronda Rousey, who he heard was preparing to spend all her career fight winnings thus far on a seat as close to ringside as that amount could buy. As Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao prepare to touch gloves in the biggest fight of the century on May 2, the UFC women's bantamweight champion will be counting her lucky stars that Arum chose her to be the recipient of the golden ticket. Boxing promoter Arum expressed that he was a huge fan of Rousey's and wanted to show his support by offering her such a prized asset for the Las Vegas bout. UFC women's bantamweight champion Ronda Rousey was promised a free ticket to the fight of the century . Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao will battle it out in the most eagerly anticipated fight of a generation . Pacquiao is putting his WBO championship title on the line for his fight with Mayweather on May 2 . Rousey has continued to take the ultimate fighting world by storm and headlined UFC184 on Saturday when she took on the unbeaten Cat Zingano in Los Angeles. The 28-year-old retained her bantamweight title, beating Zingano after a record-breaking 14 seconds with an armbar submission and continuing her unbeaten record to 11-0. 'We were expecting that she might come out and do something flying at me right away,' Rousey said. 'That's not usually how you land an armbar at that angle, but it works. It was a lot like judo transitions, where you scramble the second you hit the ground.' Rousey grapples with Zingano before celebrating in the Octagon after her record-breaking win on Saturday .
By . Ryan Gorman . PUBLISHED: . 17:48 EST, 16 September 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 17:51 EST, 16 September 2013 . A 23-year-old man with Down Syndrome in mixed martial arts (MMA) training for years is now fighting to get into the ring. Garrett Holeve, of Florida, has been denied permission to fight against David Steffan, another disabled fighter. The two men were presented with a cease-and-desist order Aug 2 by the Florida State Boxing Commission just before they were scheduled to step into the ring, according to reports. The fight was organized against Mr Steffan because, having cerebral palsy, he was seen as a fair opponent. Let him fight: Garrett Holeve (pictured) has amputee fighter Nick Newell in his corner . Though state boxing commissions do not . typically regulate amateur MMA fights, they stepped in to stop the fight . between the two disabled men on grounds it was unsanctioned, according . to Headline News. Despite training non-stop for two months and having the backing of promoters, Mitch Holeve, Garrett Holeve’s father, fears the fight might never happen. ‘It's our belief, based on conversation with people within the MMA community, that getting it done in any state isn't going to be easy,’ the father told HLN. Mitch Holeve further explained that he feels his son not being allowed into the ring is a public relations move by the sport. ‘There is a core group of people involved in MMA that are trying to protect the sport from bad PR,’ Mitch Holeve told the network. "They feel having disabled people compete would give the sport a 'black eye.'
They are also afraid of the 'sideshow' effect.’ A conspiracy: Mitch Holeve, the 23-year-old aspiring fighter's father, feels his son isn't being allowed into the ring because insiders want to protect the sport's image - a sentiment with which a promoter who spoke to MailOnline agreed . A prominent New York-based promoter echoed Mitch Holeve's concerns in comments to MailOnline. ‘This . is all image, if somebody gets hurt on your show… I don’t see the . upside to doing that,’ a New York-based fight promoter said. ‘If somebody gets hurt, then you’re the guy who put [a disabled person] in the ring,’ the promoter added. There is a wide gulf between the people in favour of G-Money – as Garrett Holeve is known in the ring – fighting, and those against it. ‘One respected athletic inspector said that allowing Garrett Holeve to fight in an MMA bout was exploitative, no matter if the audience cheered and gave Holeve a standing ovation after the fight,’ Zach Arnold, editor of MMA website Fight Opinion told HLN. ‘The concept of allowing someone with… limited cognitive ability and brain issues to take punches and get slammed drew a swiftly negative reaction amongst the people I interviewed,’ Arnold added. It's his dream: All Mr Holeve wants to do is get in the ring, in a fair fight - he's not gunning for the UFC . Nick Newell, famous for going undefeated in his first 10 professional MMA fights as an amputee, has trained with Holeve – and feels he’s getting a raw deal. ‘I think we should give him a chance,’ Mr Newell told MailOnline.
‘Everyone deserves an equal chance.’ Explaining that he’s also trained with Mr Steffan, Mr Newell – who goes by ‘Notorious’ in the ring, said that both men are equal competitors. ‘I think that’s a good fair fight, the kid’s not asking to fight in the UFC,’ said Mr Newell, adding that ‘he just wants a small-time, amateur fight.’ Explaining that ‘it’s not a street fight,’ and that there are referees and medics, Mr Newell said ‘it’s safety first it's not like he's even going to be on TV.' Notorious: Mr Newell has won his first 10 pro fights and is a champion, he doesn't feel it's fair to keep Mr Holeve out of the ring . Mr Newell said that he noticed no physical limitations with Garrett Holeve when he trained and that it will not matter if he wins or loses, he just wants to get into the ring. 'People said the same things about me… and look at me, I’m 10-0 and a world champion,' the undefeated fighter said. For now, according to HLN, the two fighters are looking to fight in Nebraska – and Mr Newell is all for it. ‘If the kid’s training hard and chasing his dream, who’s anyone to say he can’t… it’s not fair.’
The world number 45 took the first set but lost 6-7 (2-7) 6-4 6-4 against the reigning US Open champion. Edmund, 21, impressed but Wawrinka broke serve at 3-2 in the second set and twice in the decider to win in two hours 36 minutes. The Swiss 31-year-old will play third seed Kei Nishikori in the semi-finals. Canadian top seed and defending champion Milos Raonic beat 14-time Grand Slam champion Rafael Nadal 4-6 6-3 6-4 to reach the last four. The world number three will play Bulgarian seventh seed Grigor Dimitrov, who beat Austrian Dominic Thiem. British number four Aljaz Bedene was also knocked at the quarter-final stage of the Chennai Open in India on Friday. The world number 101 lost 6-3 6-0 to French fifth seed Benoit Paire.
Once again, this was a Liverpool performance that lacked conviction. Once again, this was a Liverpool performance that made you wonder just what their defensive training entails at their Melwood training ground. Once again, this was a Liverpool performance that posed more questions than answers for their manager Brendan Rodgers. At half-time, Liverpool had seemed well on their way to a third win in a row and although this particular showing remained lightyears away from the dynamic and eminently watchable performances of last season, it would have taken them only five points behind Manchester United and within touching distance of the top four. Rodgers’ side, however, do not resemble a team capable of challenging for Champions League football, despite the best efforts of Arsenal and Manchester United to invite them back into the race. VIDEO Scroll down for Sportsmail's Big Match Stats . Leicester City's Jeffrey Schlupp celebrates after scoring the goal to make it 2-2 against Liverpool at Anfield . Schlupp strikes the ball past Simon Mignolet on the hour mark to equalise for Leicester . It is a measure of Liverpool’s difficulties this season that a victory here - following successes over Burnley, Swansea City - would have represented their longest winning sequence in the Barclays Premier League this season. In truth, they were lucky to escape from this game with a point. Leicester hit the post inside the opening exchanges when Simon Mignolet was caught cold and a Riyad Mahrez free-kick cannoned off the inside of the post. Liverpool failed to heed the warning. Further chances passed Leicester by before their hosts were granted the initiative by a referee decision that Gary Lineker described as the ‘worst ever’ on Twitter. Certainly, Wes Morgan did not help his cause by sliding in, arms outstretched and flailing like an octopus but it did strike his head and Leicester have justification to be aggrieved.
For a while, there were signs that Liverpool were discovering the zest and rhythm of happier days, particularly in the speed and skill of Raheem Sterling and Coutinho. They remain the two Liverpool players most eminently capable of raising this Liverpool team when they feel the need. It was this combination that combined so beautifully to slice open the first goal, as Coutinho received the ball on the half-turn, pirouetting into space and zipping a reverse ball into the run of Sterling. Brendan Rodgers watches on as his Liverpool side squander a 2-0 lead at home to basement boys Leicester . Steven Gerrard had put Liverpool 2-0 up after scoring two penalties in the first half of the match . Gerrard slots home to score the second of his first-half penalties to double Liverpool's lead at Anfield . Reds captain Gerrard (right) pumps his fists after scoring the first goal of the game on New Year's Day . Leicester City's Danny Simpson (centre) protests his innocence after the referee awards Liverpool a penalty . With the score at 0-0, Leicester captain Wes Morgan (left) concedes a penalty from Raheem Sterling's cross . The Leicester players argue with referee Mike Jones after his decision to award Liverpool their first penalty . David Nugent gives a thumbs up to the away fans after pulling one back for Leicester in the second half . After the second penalty, we wondered briefly whether Liveprool may steam into overdrive. There was one wonderful effort from Jordan Henderson who arrowed a volley inches past the juncture of post and bar, almost replicating the Paul Scholes effort at Bradford City all those years. In the second half, however, all that momentum dissipated. The vulnerabilities of the 3-5-2 system were exposed by a direct Leicester outfit. Gaps appeared between the defence and midfield, defenders backed off as Gerrard and Lucas were caught too high up the pitch.
At 2-2, Liverpool were the side that appeared edgy, short on confidence and unable to seize the initiative. There was a telling moment when Steven Gerrard had possession on the right flank and with those in front of him stood like statues, he gestured furiously for some movement. A familiar groan rang out from those fans around the Press box. They have seen this ordinary level of performance far too often this season. Nugent takes the ball back to the halfway line as Leicester looked to level things at Anfield .
By . Michael Zennie and Reuters Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 00:56 EST, 25 August 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 11:52 EST, 25 August 2013 . George Zimmerman's lawyer has chided him for visiting a firearms factory that makes the type of gun he used to kill unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin last year. Zimmerman, who was acquitted of murder in July, was this week pictured at the Kel-Tec plant in Cocoa, Florida, grinning and shaking hands with an employee. 'We understand how George visiting the factory that produces the gun used to shoot Trayvon Martin is seen as inappropriate,' Shawn Vincent, spokesman for Zimmerman's lawyer Mark O'Mara, told Reuters on Friday. Scroll down for video . Shopping around: This is the first public image of George Zimmerman to emerge since his acquittal on murder charges. He poses here with an employee at the Kel Tec gun factory . Zimmerman and his lawyer stopped at the gun maker's headquarters to check out the high-capacity Kel-Tec KSG pump-action shotgun. TMZ.com reports that Zimmerman was interested in buying the weapon, though it is unclear whether he actually left with one. Kel-Tec is the same company that made the . PF-9 9mm pistol he used to shoot 17-year-old Trayvon last year. Zimmerman contended he killed the teen in self-defense after he . sustained a beating. TMZ . reports that the son of Kel-Tec's owner personally gave Zimmerman a tour . of the company in Coca, Florida, including a view of the manufacturing . plant and showroom. Making a statement: The Kel-Tec KSG holds up to 15 shotshells - nearly twice the capacity of traditional tractical-style shotguns . In the market for a new gun: George Zimmerman was seen shopping for a high-tech shotgun at the headquarters of Kel-Tec arms .
Zimmerman and his lawyer, Mark O'Mara, were looking into the legality of buying a Kel-Tec KSG, a cutting edge weapon that has two magazines to hold shotgun shells, according to reports. He posed for at least one photograph with a worker at the plant. It is unknown whether he actually bought the weapon. The KSG can fire up to 15 12-gauge shotgun shells without re-loading, nearly twice the capacity of other tactical-style shotguns, which are usually converted hunting arms.The gun costs about $1,200. Shotguns like the KSG are primarily used for home defense. Shotshells fire multiple pellets at once that are meant to spread out. Zimmerman's 9mm pistol, also made by Kel Tec, was returned to him after he was acquitted of all charges in the death of Trayvon Martin . They can be devastating at close range - and much more effective than the 9mm bullet fired by his handgun. Shotshells lose most of their effectiveness at ranges over 25 to 35 yards. Whereas Zimmerman's Kel-Tec pistol is small and concealable, the shotgun he examined is meant to make a statement. It emits an audible sound - familiar to any hunter or fan of zombie movies - whenever the action is cycled. Zimmerman, 29, has been a free man since he was acquitted of all charges July 13 in the shooting of unarmed Trayvon. The racially-charged case brought thousands of death threats to Zimmerman and his family. A fringe black panther group reportedly put a price on his head, as well. After his acquittal, police returned the pistol that killed Trayvon to Zimmerman. He was carrying it in his truck when he was pulled over in Texas less than two weeks later. The former neighborhood watch volunteer from Sanford, Florida, was forced to flee his home and has been in hiding ever since the case began receiving international attention.
Controversy: Zimmerman says that supporters of slain teenager Trayvon Martin have sent his family thousands of death threats .
(CNN) -- Inspectors found mildew on a ceiling and other problems last year at a peanut butter producing plant in Georgia that has been linked to a salmonella outbreak, according to reports released Monday by the state Department of Agriculture. A salmonella outbreak linked to a peanut butter plant has sickened nearly 500 people, the CDC says. But the owner of the Blakely, Georgia, plant -- Virginia-based Peanut Corp. of America -- described the problems as "relatively minor and for the most part corrected on site." PCA this month stopped production at the Blakely plant and launched a nationwide recall of peanut butter and peanut paste made there after July 1, 2008. The New York Times reported Monday that Georgia agriculture inspection reports from 2006 and 2007 depicted a series of sanitation lapses in the Blakely plant. Citing an inspection report from August 23, 2007, the Times noted at least three incidences in which "food-contact surfaces" were "not properly cleaned and sanitized." In an apparent response to the Times article, PCA released a statement saying, "When the observations were noted during inspections by the Georgia Department of Agriculture, corrective action was taken immediately where possible and subsequently when immediate action was not possible." The statement, which PCA sent to CNN accompanied by a copy of a state inspection report from last October, said "the most recent inspection observations by the state [the October inspection report] were relatively minor and for the most part corrected on site." In the October 23, 2008 report, an inspector said she found "mildew and possibly some static dust on ceiling of butter storage room." The report did not specify the amount of mildew. The report continued with the notation, "Correct By: 11/05/2008," but the report did not indicate whether any action was taken or whether a follow-up inspection occurred. Moisture was blamed for an unrelated salmonella outbreak two years ago.
That outbreak was traced to a different Georgia peanut processing plant. A June 2008 inspection of PCA's Blakely plant found violations including dust buildup on a fan in the butter room, and "possible metal flakes from metal scrubber which is used to clean outside of equipment," according to an inspection report. The report did not indicate where the flakes were found. PCA has said that the peanut butter and peanut paste made at the Blakely plant were sold in bulk to manufacturers, and that the recall does not involve any peanut butter jars sold directly to consumers. However, more than 125 products that include peanut butter or peanut paste, including Trader Joe's celery with peanut butter packs and nutrition bars from Clif Bar, NutriSystem and Luna, have been recalled in connection with the PCA's recall. See a list of recalled products . The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has counted nearly 500 cases of salmonella illnesses in 43 states from the most recent outbreak, and says the bacterial infection might have contributed to seven deaths. The American Peanut Council has a list of peanut products that are not affected by the recall.
One in 20 women (5%) aged between 16 and 59 reported using an illicit substance in the past year, the Crime Survey for England and Wales found. This was the lowest level since the records started in 1996. It had peaked at 8.8% in 2000 and 2003-04. Among men, 11.8% reported using drugs over the past year - a figure which has also fallen in recent years. Susanne Hakimi, from the charity Action on Addiction's Hope House - a residential treatment centre for women - said drug use among women has been "hidden away behind closed doors". She said: "Some women tell us they are afraid to seek help for fear of losing their children. Although addiction generally is still highly stigmatised, we are seeing more women coming to us for treatment for drug use and being a little more open about their recovery. "Once this starts to happen, we believe it can be contagious and one person in recovery can, with the right support, encourage and support someone else to recover from addiction." The Home Office figures suggested drug use was higher among young people. Nearly one in five (18.0%) of young adults aged 16-24 had taken an illicit drug in the last year- around 1.1 million people, the figures show. This was similar to the 2014-15 survey (19.5%), but lower compared with a decade ago (25.2% in the 2005-06 survey). Professor Kevin Fenton, national director of health and wellbeing at Public Health England, commented: "These new figures show that drug use has been largely stable over the last five years and continues to be considerably lower than 10 to 15 years ago." However, usage of cocaine and ecstasy jumped among people from wealthier households, the figures suggested. In 2015/16, 3% of people aged 16 to 59 from households with incomes of at least Â£50,000 reported taking cocaine - up from 2.2% in 2014/15.
The proportion in the same category who had used ecstasy was 2.2% - up from 1.5%. Simon Antrobus, chief executive of the charity Addaction, said the increases reflected factors including wider availability and "a cultural shift which has increasingly normalised those substances". It comes as separate figures showed that the number of people being admitted to hospital after being poisoned by illegal drugs has soared by more than 50% in the past 10 years. There were 14,279 hospital admissions where 'poisoning by illicit drugs' was the main diagnosis in 2014-15, a rise of 57% since 2004-05, figures released by the Health and Social Care Information Centre, showed.
(CNN)A convicted rapist needs to "rethink" his strategy as he attempts to resume his professional football career, according to the chief of player welfare in the game in Britain. Ched Evans had been on the cusp of a move to Oldham Athletic, which plays in English football's third tier, but the club pulled out of the deal because of "unbearable pressure" on its staff. Linked with a return to former club Sheffield United last year, Evans remains without a club after being released from prison in October having served half of a five-year sentence for raping a 19-year-old girl. Both Oldham and Sheffield United were dissuaded from signing Evans due to pressure from sponsors as well as criticism from leading politicians and also the British public, with thousands signing petitions against his proposed moves. Asked if Evans looked likely to sign for another British side, chief executive of the Professional Footballers' Association Gordon Taylor told the BBC: "At this moment in time, you would have to say you'd be very doubtful of that. "It may well be he would have to go abroad but at the moment because he's out on license he can't go abroad so we need a serious rethink now." Previously refused leave to appeal, Evan's case is now before the Criminal Cases Review Commission, an independent body that reviews potential miscarriages of justice. Hull manager Steve Bruce admitted he had backed Oldham to sign Evans and also believes the Criminal Cases Review Commission will be key to his hopes of playing again. "I might be upsetting people but there is a question of the rape and how he's been convicted by a jury," said Bruce in his press conference prior to Saturday's English Premier League game between Hull and West Bromwich Albion. "When you do look at the case and look at the evidence then certainly Ched has got a case. "For me the appeal can't come quick enough for Ched.
It must be a frustrating and difficult time for him and I think the events of the appeal, for me, will see Ched be allowed to play football again." Sheffield United, whom Evans originally joined on leaving Manchester City in 2009, pulled out of their initial approach to sign the player on his release from prison in October following a 160,000-strong petition against the move. And more than 60,000 people signed a petition calling on Oldham not sign Evans. Hartlepool also signaled their interest only to then back away, while a potential move to Maltese club Hibernians was quashed when the Ministry of Justice clarified its zero-tolerance policy on sex offenders working abroad. Evans' case has also put PFA chief Taylor under pressure after he likened the situation with Evans to that of the families of the 96 people that lost their lives in the Hillsborough disaster in 1989. The tragedy struck following a crush of people at the FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest in Sheffield. After years of appeals by the families involved over the miscarriage of justice, an inquest is now ongoing into events and culpability surrounding the tragedy. "He wouldn't have been the first person to be found guilty, maintained their innocence and be proved right.," said Taylor in an interview with the BBC, referring to Evans. "We know that happened with Hillsborough. "It's now unraveling and very different to how it was portrayed at the time, indeed by the police at the time." Taylor's comments led to calls for him to stand down from his post while Dr Phil Scraton, the main author of the Hillsborough Independent Panel report, wrote to him concerning his "ill-judged" remarks. "Drawing Hillsborough into the maelstrom that has surrounded the Evans case while suggesting a parallel between these two entirely distinct cases demonstrates not only poor judgment but also extraordinary naivety," Scraton wrote.
Taylor has since backtracked on his previous remarks apologizing for any offense called. "I wasn't comparing the case but I was looking for a comparison of the principle really of people looking to have the right to maintaining their innocence and how it's become a national issue and campaign with regard to Ched Evans," said Taylor In an interview with BBC Radio. "In no way was it a comparison of the offenses, it was the principle of establishing the truth and his right to do that. "As it has turned out, I don't want to upset any of the Hillsborough family support groups. "We've always been supportive of them. It's far from that. I admire the way, the tenacity and determination to get to the truth and that was the point I was looking to make. "The last thing I was wanting to do was offend any of them -- quite the opposite. "And with Ched Evans of course he similarly has that right. He's done his time in prison and has done longer in prison than normal because he's determined to prove his innocence and has the right to return to work." Under current rules, Evans is permitted to return to playing football despite still serving his conviction on license. But chairman of the Football Association Greg Dyke admitted the regulations may change the over eligibility of players to return to the game under certain circumstances. In the first statement from the FA amid the Evans furore, Dyke said in a statement: "Rape and sexual violence are abhorrent and unacceptable. This cannot be overstated. "We have reviewed the Ched Evans case in some detail at the FA and we have examined both the legal requirements and our rules and regulations, and there is no basis for us to intervene directly in this particular case. "That said, it is important that we continue to look at the issue of behaviour and attitudes within football, and recognize the unique privileges and responsibilities that come with being a participating member of the national game.
"I would encourage the game to consider and discuss this matter and the prospect for future guidelines or codes of conduct. "The FA will certainly be considering it in line with our own ongoing review of what constitutes public or private communications and behavior."
Players can often be seen before a big game nowadays with earphones in as they try to drown out any distractions during their pre-match routine. Sometimes though, it is better to soak it all in. At a packed-out Celtic Park heaving with 60,000 Scotland and England fans, Gary Neville implored midfielder Jack Wilshere to take out his earphones and enjoy the building atmosphere. England midfielder Jack Wilshere listens to music on the Celtic Park pitch during his side's warm-up . England assistant coach Gary Neville pulls out the Arsenal star's earphones . Neville gives a message to the Gunners player as the atmosphere and noise builds inside the stadium . The former Manchester United defender speaks to Wilshere before the seismic clash in Glasgow . Neville was also trying to impart a message to the Arsenal star on a night when England faced the Scots north of the border for the first time in 15 years. Wilshere's attention to detail was called into question by Wayne Rooney soon after kick-off when the England captain remonstrated with the Gunner over a careless pass in the early stages. The midfielder recovered, however, and laid on a superb pass for Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain's opener. Incredibly, it was Wilshere's first assist in an England shirt. He drove on his side from his less familiar deep-lying midfield position - a role which he is growing into for his country - as the visitors won 3-1. After that display, maybe Wilshere should jettison the earphones for good. Wilshere runs to join Wayne Rooney and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain after his superb assist for the opening goal . Wilshere plays an early pass under pressure from Scotland captain Scott Brown (left) Everton striker Steven Naismith (right) gets physical with Wilshere during an explosive start at Celtic Park .
The Toffees forward collides with the Arsenal midfielder later on in the contest . Scotland winger Ikechi Anya (left) ghosts past Wilshere despite the Gunners' challenge . VIDEO Hodgson praises attack as Rooney approaches record .
The group of retired generals and admirals declared the Republican nominee "has the temperament to be commander-in-chief". Mr Trump, who has highlighted veterans' issues during his campaign, called their support "a great honour". He has meanwhile been dismissing claims of impropriety over a political donation to a Florida official. The Washington Post reported on Monday that in 2013 Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi had been considering fraud charges against Trump University. But she dropped the investigation after a $25,000 (Â£18,600) contribution to her political campaign from the Donald J Trump Foundation. Mr Trump was fined because he did not disclose the contribution to the US tax authorities. The letter released on Tuesday by his campaign was signed by four 4-star generals. The former top brass stated they believe Mr Trump is "more trusted to be commander-in-chief than (Democratic nominee) Hillary Clinton". "We believe that such a change can only be made by someone who has not been deeply involved with, and substantially responsible for, the hollowing out of our military and the burgeoning threats facing our country around the world," they added. Both Mr Trump and Mrs Clinton will take part back-to-back in a national security forum on Wednesday. The forum, to be hosted by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, will include questions from an audience of military service members. Also on Tuesday, Mrs Clinton released a campaign ad featuring veterans who are critical of Mr Trump. Her ad includes a clip of Mr Trump from July 2015 casting doubt on leading Republican John McCain's war hero credentials. Arizona Senator McCain was tortured for more than five years as a prisoner of the North Vietnamese. Despite making support for the military a signature issue in his campaign, Mr Trump has at various times drawn criticism from military members. Most notably, he was involved in a recent spat with family members of a Muslim-American soldier killed during the Iraq War.
Mr Trump, who has not served in the military, also created a stir last month when he accepted a veteran's gift of a Purple Heart. "I always wanted to get the Purple Heart," he said of the medal, which is awarded to soldiers wounded in war. "This was much easier."
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (CNN) -- On the outskirts of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in the dusty crowded neighborhood of Akaki, I've just been treated to a traditional Ethiopian coffee ceremony. The beans are roasted and the coffee boiled in front of you then served piping hot with a heaping spoonful of sugar and a side of freshly popped corn. As I step out onto the dirt road to leave, one of my hosts wants to ask a question: do I know anyone who can donate some wheelchairs, so adults don't' have to carry disabled children on their backs to school anymore? I wish I did. The woman who needs the wheelchairs is one of the 20,000 volunteers for Yekokeb Berhan, a USAID-funded program trying to help half a million highly vulnerable children. The name means "Light from the Stars" in Amharic, and is meant to reflect the resiliency of children. After spending a week working with the volunteers here, I have no doubt those wheelchairs are going to find their way, due to the resiliency of the adults. Read more: Ethiopia's rock churches 'built by angels' Yekokeb Berhan volunteers are chosen by community committees and given training in health, parenting, budgeting and life skills. Then they go out into communities, to find and identify the most vulnerable children. Each volunteer will take in 25 of those kids as her own. "I have 29 children" says Sintayehu Kenna, a mother of four (plus 25), "I can't separate them from my own. I love them. " The program's philosophy is that the way to help children is to help their families. More often than not, assistance is needed in multiple areas -- and that means these volunteers have had to become master networkers -- calling on friends, family, neighbors, local businessmen and faith leaders to get the kids what they need.
Leyela Ayele, from the Kolfe neighborhood, tells me about a family of eight in which the father was sick and the mother was the breadwinner until she had a heart attack and died. Ayele volunteered to foster the six kids. One of the boys was malnourished and Ayele went to every health center in the area, telling doctors about him, until she found one to admit and treat him. She visited the local bakery and convinced the owner to provide breakfasts for another child. And she linked up the eldest with a government association that gave a scholarship to study hairdressing. Volunteers receive a stipend of about $10 a month to cover phone and transportation costs. They are expected to give about 15-20 hours a week, but I found they all are giving much, much more. Alemitu Yemes has 31 kids, four of her own, two foster kids plus her 25 kids from the program. She's given a small room in her compound, rent free, to a family of five. Everyone except the youngest toddler is HIV positive. Yemes is working to keep the kids in school and making sure the family keeps to their anti-viral medical regime. "We don't want them to be dependent," she says, "I'm telling them to be self-reliant and we are all working towards that together." Yekokeb Berhan is also working in conjunction with local government and 40 civil society organizations to recruit, train and supervise the volunteers all over the country. In Ethiopia, formal education doesn't begin until age seven. So, the Hiwot Integrated Development Association (HIDA) struck a deal with the local government. HIDA would renovate and supply an early childhood development center if the government would pay the teachers. That partnership resulted in new brightly colored classroom expanded to serve 128 children, many of them considered highly vulnerable.
Amharic and English are taught, and on the day I visited, I was treated to a version of the nursery rhyme Mary Had a Little Lamb. But the backbone of the Yekokeb Berhan program is the individual volunteers. A majority of the women I met were single mothers with big families of their own. Some work as bread makers and vegetable sellers, but about half of those I spoke with seemed to have no other support. But yet everyone I met said it was their moral obligation to help others. "Even after they turn 18 years we will still help them, by linking them up with the woreda (local government) and getting them skill training and jobs. We will empower our graduated children," says Gete Tefera, who has two children of her own, plus her 25 fosters. Read more: War orphans turn tragedy into triumph . On my last day in Addis, I met with a group of women entrepreneurs in a half-built concrete mid-rise with broken windows, which will one day be a youth center. Through Yekokeb Berhan's "Community Self-Help Savings Group" each is getting help with a new venture and for the first time in their lives, saving money. The women enthusiastically describe their plans: one is switching from selling bananas to housewares, because the latter doesn't spoil; another is expanding her business from selling used clothes to new. But the profits will not be all theirs. As part of the program, two birr a week, about 10 cents, has got to go into a kitty to help out those in need. Before I leave, one woman says there are a lot of kids in the neighborhood unable to go to school because of poor eyesight. She wants to know if I know anyone who can get them the glasses they need. I don't. But I'm going to look into it. Find out more about Yekokeb Berhan.
Photo Advertisement Continue reading the main story NEW ORLEANS — All last week, people were calling Louis Charbonnet to find out how they might avoid lying down at their funerals. Funeral directors have called; so have people with their own requests, such as the woman who wanted to be seen for the last time standing over her cooking pot. The calls started coming in to the Charbonnet-Labat Funeral Home during its June 12 viewing for Miriam Burbank, who died at 53 and spent her service sitting at a table amid miniature New Orleans Saints helmets, with a can of Busch beer at one hand and a menthol cigarette between her fingers, just as she had spent a good number of her living days. Word of the arrangement began to spread, hundreds showed up, the news spread online, and now here was Mr. Charbonnet getting a call from a funeral director in Australia. Ms. Burbank’s service was the second of its kind that Mr. Charbonnet had arranged, and the third in New Orleans in two years. But there have been others elsewhere, most notably in San Juan, P.R. Viewings there in recent years have included a paramedic displayed behind the wheel of his ambulance and, in 2011, a man dressed for his wake like Che Guevara, cigar in hand and seated Indian style. Photo “I never said it was the first,” said Mr. Charbonnet, who mentioned the 1984 funeral of Willie Stokes Jr., a Chicago gambler known as the Wimp, who sat through his funeral services behind the wheel of a coffin made to look like a Cadillac Seville. New Orleans, which has long boasted of its ability to put the “fun” in funeral, seems like the place where this kind of thing would catch on, and Mr. Charbonnet boasts that his 132-year-old funeral home is well known for its funeral parades.
“Couple weeks ago we even had a mariachi band in here,” he said, while checking text messages from people he referred to almost gleefully as his “haters” — apparently other funeral directors. They were criticizing such viewings as improper or even sacrilegious, a concern Mr. Charbonnet admitted was shared by his wife. But he said that he had gotten the O.K. from a local priest and that, besides, he was honoring family wishes. Advertisement Continue reading the main story The phenomenon first appeared in Puerto Rico in 2008, four years before the first such funeral in New Orleans, with a 24-year-old murder victim whose viewing took place in his family’s living room, the body tethered against a wall. Angel Luis Pantojas’s funeral — called “muerto parao,” dead man standing — became an instant sensation. Another murder victim, on a motorcycle, followed, along with the paramedic and the man dressed like Guevara. This year, a boxer’s body was arranged standing in a ring, and an elderly woman was propped up in her rocking chair. The same funeral director, of the Marín Funeral Home in San Juan, arranged all of these. Photo “It’s been a real boom in Puerto Rico,” said Elsie Rodríguez, vice president of the funeral home. “People have requested every type of funeral that could possibly come to mind. We have only done six so far, because the people who have requested the funerals have not died yet.” Advertisement Continue reading the main story Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Rodríguez said the idea had come from Mr. Pantojas himself.
His family has said that ever since he attended his father’s funeral at age 6, Mr. Pantojas had told relatives that he wanted to be viewed on his feet. “This is not a fun or funny event; the family is going through a lot of pain,” Ms. Rodríguez said. With these kinds of arrangements, “the family literally suffers less, because they see their loved one in a way that would have made them happy — they see them in a way in which they still look alive.” At first, some in Puerto Rico were against the services — which start around $1,700 — an opposition that Ms. Rodríguez attributed to “professional jealousy.” The Puerto Rico Legislature held hearings in which the Department of Health and other funeral directors weighed in. “I thought it would propagate competitions for the most exotic funeral,” said Jorge Lugo, president of the Puerto Rico Funeral Home Association. “These people — not all of them, but some of these people who had these funerals — belonged to the underworld and had a life of fast money. It seemed to me that with these kinds of people doing this, there could be negative consequences.” As it happened, Mr. Lugo said, the only other time a funeral home tried something unusual — the wake of a dog — it was a fiasco, as the dog had not been embalmed. A law passed in 2012 officially made the wakes with posed cadavers legal, “as long as the position is not immoral,” Mr. Lugo said. Photo Such funerals are still quite rare in the United States, though not unheard-of: This year, a deceased biker in Mechanicsburg, Ohio, was towed to a cemetery in a homemade plexiglass coffin, his body astride his Harley-Davidson motorcycle.
There, in accordance with his longstanding request, he was buried, motorcycle and all. The services began in New Orleans in 2012 with the death of Lionel Batiste, a brass band leader and dapper man about town. Mr. Batiste had said he did not want to have people looking down at him at his funeral, so at his service, here at Mr. Charbonnet’s funeral home, Mr. Batiste stood with his hands on his walking cane, derby tipped rakishly to one side. Then in April of this year, there was the service for Mickey Easterling, a socialite and proficient party hostess. “What my mother said to me some years ago was, ‘I want to be at my own funeral having a glass of Champagne in one hand and a cigarette in the other,’ ” said Ms. Easterling’s daughter, Nanci. And so she was, greeting her funeral guests from an elegant bench in the lobby of a historic downtown theater. Then this month, Zymora Kimball came to the Charbonnet funeral home to ask about arrangements for Ms. Burbank, who had raised Ms. Kimball like a daughter. Ms. Burbank had been neither wealthy nor widely known outside the neighborhood over which she presided from a table on her front porch. Ms. Kimball wanted something “out of the box,” said Lyelle Bellard, the intern funeral director, and when he suggested his plan, she thought it brilliantly captured Ms. Burbank’s style. Mr. Bellard said it did not end up costing much more than a typical funeral. Despite the recent interest, organizations representing funeral home directors say this kind of viewing is still rare, and just about everyone, including Ms. Kimball, acknowledges that it is not for everyone.
Even Ms. Rodríguez in San Juan said she has had to refuse a few suggestions that she found distasteful or that “made no sense.” She will not, for example, do a wake with someone in a swimsuit, she said. This party's dead! Daughters throw bizarre 'party funeral' for mother including her own body propped up at a table under a disco ball with a cigarette and whiskey in hand Miriam Burbank died on June 1 at 53 years old Her daughters wanted her funeral to reflect how full of life she was The decided on propping their mother's body up at a table stocked with cigarettes and booze This is the second New Orleans funeral this year that included the body of the deceased seated with booze and cigarettes A New Orleans woman was laid to rest earlier this month - but only after one final party, during which her body was displayed sitting at a table that is fully stocked with beer, whiskey and menthol cigarettes. But no party is complete without a flashing disco ball, and 53-year-old Miriam Burbank's funeral service was complete with one of those, as well. Burbank died on June 1. When the funeral home directors at Charbonnet Funeral Home asked Burbank's two daughters what their mother liked, the two women decided they wanted her funeral to reflect that she was full of life.
Scroll down for video 'Full of life': Miriam Burbank's daughters wanted their mother's funeral be representative of how full of life she was - and this is what they came up with Party animal: Burbank's funeral was complete with her dead body propped up at a table with a case of beer and a bottle of whiskey Menthols: Burbank's daughters also included a pack of menthol cigarettes So the daughters came up with the interesting concept of having their mother's body displayed as though she were at a party - where, presumably, she sat and smoked menthol cigarettes while drinking beer and whiskey as a disco ball lit up the room. To honor Burbank's love of the New Orleans Saints football team, her fingernails were painted black and gold - the color of the team's uniforms. According to WGNO, Burbank's daughters said that other family members liked the idea, and thought it was a very fitting goodbye for their mother. This is the second time this year when New Orleans has played host to a rather taboo funeral service. In April, well-known New Orleans philanthropist Mickey Easterling was sent off in a similar fashion. Trend: In April, New Orleans socialite Mickey Easterling had a similar funeral service Smokers: Like Burbank, Easterling's funeral service included a cigarette and alcohol Planned: Unlike Burbank, Easterling planned her entire funeral service, from the champagne to the elaborate hat More than a thousand people attended the popular, 83-year-old socialite's funeral - at which her body was propped up on an iron bench with a glass of champagne in one hand and a cigarette holder in the other. 'She`s in a Leonardo outfit,' Sammy Steele, who did Mickey’s hair and make-up, told WGNO at the time. 'And I actually dressed her tonight for the occasion.'
Easterling was known for being a bit on the fabulous side, so for her funeral she also was wearing and ornate hate and a fancy outfit.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . A man allegedly tried to rape a housekeeper in a Disney World hotel room. The attempted sexual battery took place on Friday afternoon, authorities say. The victim reportedly went into a room at the Art of Animation Resort that had its door open -- only to encounter a Hispanic man who tried to rape her, WFTV reports. Authorities were called at approximately 2pm and found the woman crying in her work uniform, The Orlando Sentinel reports. The woman suffered scratches on her chest and was taken to a hospital for further examination, WFTV adds. The suspect is described as in his early 30s, 5-foot-8, 260 pounds, with dark hair, thin eyebrows, as well as a mole on the right side of his face . 'Fortunately enough for her she was able to fight off the attack,' Ginette Rodriguez, with the Orange County Sheriff's Office told the channel. The suspect is described as in his early 30s, 5-foot-8, 260 pounds, with dark hair, thin eyebrows, as well as a mole on the right side of his face, the Sentinel reports. He was also reportedly wearing a dark cap with red 'NYP' lettering as well as a white t-shirt with a red Air Jordan logo. Authorities say he fled the hotel room. The attempted sexual battery took place at the Art of Animation Resort at Walt Disney World on Friday, authorities said . It is not clear if the alleged assailant is a guest nor how he got onto hotel property, WFTV adds. Investigators have reportedly requested surveillance video along with a list of guests who recently stayed in the room where the attack occurred. Disney released a statement in the wake of the attack. 'We are very focused on the well being of our cast member and have been working closely with the OCSO to assist their investigation,' it says. 'We encourage anyone with information to contact the Sheriff's Office.'
Anyone with information is asked to call Crimeline at 1-800-423-8477.
Plans drawn up by Bradford Council include a clockwise one-way gyratory along East Parade, Hanover Street and Cavendish Street. Deputy council leader Val Salter said urgent action was needed to combat the town's growing congestion problem. Plans will be displayed in the Airedale shopping centre on 11 and 13 June.
Mr Nasheed was succeeded by then Vice-President Mohamed Waheed, who denies that a coup took place and says the transition was legal and necessary after the former leader resigned. Maldives saw its first multi-party presidential elections in 2008, before which it was ruled for 30 years by Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, who is still said to have an influence on politics. The first round of the election will be held on 7 September. If no candidate wins more than 50% of the votes, then a second round, or run-off, will be held. According to the Election Commission, 240,302 people (above 18 years of age) are registered to vote, including 31,000 newly registered voters and 65,745 who have registered to vote at a location other than their home island. In the 2008 elections there were about 209,000 registered voters, with an 85% turnout in the first round, and 86% in the second. Parliamentary polls are to be held in 2014. There are four candidates in the bid for the presidency: former President Mohamed Nasheed, incumbent President Mohamed Waheed, business tycoon Gasim Ibrahim and former President Gayoom's half-brother Abdulla Yameen. Mr Nasheed leads the Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP), which is the single largest party with the highest number of registered members. Mr Nasheed was the Maldives' first democratically elected president. His 2008 election win brought an end to Mr Gayoom's 30-year rule. His running mate Mustafa Lutfi is a veteran politician and a former education minister. Mr Nasheed is seen as a strong contender. Incumbent President Mohamed Waheed's Gaumee Itthihaad Party leads a coalition which includes the Dhivehi Rayithunge Party (DRP) and its leader Ahmed Thasmeen Ali, who is also Waheed's running mate.
Former President Gayoom's half-brother Abdulla Yameen is standing for the Progressive Party of Maldives (PPM), the second-largest party both inside and outside the parliament. His running mate Mohamed Jameel Ahmed is a former home minister and a vocal opponent of Nasheed. Gasim Ibrahim is the presidential candidate of the Jumhooree Party. The prominent businessman heads the Villa Group of companies, described as one of the largest private conglomerates in the Maldives. He is also said to be popular for his philanthropic work. Mr Ibrahim's party is contesting the election in coalition with the Dhivehi Qaumee Party (DQP) which is known for its opposition to the former Nasheed administration. Mr Ibrahim has picked the DQP's Hassan Saeed as his running mate. Candidates have been largely focusing on religion, nationalism, economy and education in their election campaigns. Mr Nasheed's party is focusing on economic development through reforms and tourism. The MDP manifesto pledges tax reform, development projects and the setting up of a national development bank. Other parties are using religion as a political tool to woo voters. President Waheed's campaign promises to promote the teaching of Islam and to encourage religious thought and teachings. Other key areas include social protection, education and the environment. Mr Gasim's manifesto also proposes to strengthen Islam in the Maldives, including the establishment of an Islamic university and making the Koran a mandatory school subject. Mr Gasim has also pledged to pursue oil exploration, increase taxes on the wealthy and provide laptops for students. Mr Gasim's coalition includes the religious conservative Adhaalath Party. The alliance means that a win for Mr Gasim could bring the country closer to the party's dream of turning the Maldives into an Islamic state. Mr Yameen has taken a strong position on law and order, campaigning in favour of implementing the death penalty and calling for harsher prison sentences.
Independent poll monitors, including teams from Transparency Maldives and the Commonwealth Secretariat, will observe the elections. India has also said that it will send a team of former chief election commissioners as observers. The controversial power transfer in 2012 has led many to question the legitimacy of the polls. Concerns also remain over whether the nascent democracy will be able to sustain itself, given a background where the judiciary and military are said to function under heavy political influence. Transparency Maldives, a non-governmental organisation, has warned that the election will take place against a backdrop of "uncertainty of democratic transition, existing polarisations and other challenges that have been aggravated by the controversial transfer of power on 7 February 2012". India and China have been trying to extend their influence in the region and the Maldives' strategic location drives their engagement with the tiny island nation. India arguably enjoyed greater influence in the Maldives under Mr Nasheed. Bilateral ties suffered a setback after President Waheed's administration evicted Indian infrastructure giant GMR which had been developing Male's airport under an agreement signed with Mr Nasheed's government. India is also mindful of China's expanding military and economic footprint in the Maldives. BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world. For more reports from BBC Monitoring, click here. You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook.
ROME—Pope Francis calls global warming a major threat to life on the planet, says it is due mainly to human activity, and describes the need to reduce the use of fossil fuels as an urgent matter, in a published draft of a much-awaited upcoming letter on the environment. The draft copy of “Laudato Si’ ” (“Be praised”), his encyclical on the environment, has been eagerly awaited by business, policy makers and environmental groups. It was published online on Monday by the Italian magazine L’Espresso, three days ahead of its scheduled An Italian text of a draft of the Pope’s Encyclical “Laudato Si’” has been published. Please note that it is not the final text, and that the rules of the Embargo remain in place. We ask journalists to respect professional standards, which call for waiting for the official publication of the final text.
England won their first World Cup warm-up with relative ease at Wembley with Daniel Sturridge, Gary Cahill and Phil Jagielka on the scoresheet. But who performed and who should be looking over their shoulder? SAMI MOKBEL gives his ratings. VIDEO Scroll down to watch post-match reaction from Roy Hodgson . Main man: Daniel Sturridge led the line brilliantly and capped his performance with an excellent goal . Joe Hart: Looks well past those early season wobbles that threatened his World Cup place - 6.5 Definite starter . Glen Johnson: Always a willing runner down the right, but must be more disciplined defensively in Brazil - 6 Definite starter . Gary Cahill: England's best central-defender. Largely untroubled and scored with an excellent header - 6.5 Definite starter . Composed: Gary Cahill was untroubled and made sure of victory by scoring the second goal . Phil Jagielka: Looks comfortable at this level now. Knows, if he's fit, he plays and benefitting as a result - 6.5 Definite starter . Leighton Baines: Safe pair of hands down the left and delivery from wide will be an asset. Two assists - 7 Definite starter . Steven Gerrard: Assumed his club 'quarterback' role and was yet again England's heartbeat. Booked - 6.5 Definite starter . Jordan Henderson: Showed great energy in midfield, but still question marks about his quality on the ball - 6.5 In contention . Willing: Jordan Henderson showed great energy but there are question marks over his ability . Adam Lallana: Showed in flashes why he's being touted as a starter for the opener against Italy - 6.5 In contention . Wayne Rooney: Being positioned just behind Sturridge suits his game, but he must maintain his goal threat - 6.5 Definite starter .
Danny Welbeck: Looked dangerous at times, but the Manchester United man doesn't do enough when in possession - 6 On the bench . Daniel Sturridge: Led the line and marked the occasion with a brilliant opener. Has the potential to be England's main man - 7.5 Definite starter . On the bench: Danny Welbeck looked dangerous at times but should not start against Italy . Jack Wilshere (for Gerrard 64): Got 25 much needed minutes under his belt and will be better for it - 6 In contention . Raheem Sterling (for Rooney 66): Tipped to be England's wild card in Brazil. Added urgency into England's attack - 6.5 In contention . James Milner (for Lallana 73): What you see is what you get. Will be important in games against top opposition - 6 In contention . Wild card: Raheem Sterling but be England's secret weapon in Brazil . Chris Smalling (for Jagielka 73): In the squad for his versatility. Slotted in comfortably at centre-back - 6 On the bench . John Stones (for Baines 76): Big night for the youngster on his England debut. One for the future - 6 On the bench . Ross Barkley (for Sturridge, 83): Has the ability to break teams down with a flash of brilliance. A weapon as a sub - 5 On the bench . Subs not used: Lampard, Foster, Lambert, Barkley, Forster, Flanagan . Bigger challenges lay ahead but he'll be happy with the result, if not completely by the performance - 7 . Steady: Roy Hodgson will be happy with the result if not entirely by the performance .
Fernandez 5; Advincula 6 (Velarde 78), Ramos 6 (Riojas 68), Rodriguez 6, Callens 6; Ballon 6, Cruzado 6, Yotun 6.5; Deza 5 (Ruidiaz 65, 5), Carrillo 6 (Flores, 87); Ramirez 6 (Hurtado, 60, 5) Subs: Gambetta, Forsyth, Trauco, Gallese . Pablo Bengoechea - His side certainly didn't come to make up the numbers. Provided England with a decent test - 6.5 . Viktor Kassai (HUN): Didn't endear himself to the home supporters by booking captain Steven Gerrard for a meaty first half tackle - 6 .
By . Mark Duell . Last updated at 8:54 PM on 10th October 2011 . Occupy Wall Street has its first corporate backing after Ben & Jerry’s today announced it is getting behind the protesters. The Vermont-based ice-cream company, known for standing up for liberal issues, slammed the ‘immoral’ inequality between classes in the U.S. It followed House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi backing the movement as the political debate around the protests intensified. Ice-cream: Ben & Jerry’s said it has the ‘deepest admiration’ for protesters because of the U.S. unemployment crisis and rising cost of higher education . Ben & Jerry’s said it has the ‘deepest admiration’ for protesters because of the U.S. unemployment crisis and rising cost of higher education. ‘We know that words are relatively easy but we wanted to act quickly to demonstrate our support,’ a statement on its website said. ‘We realise that Occupy Wall Street is calling for systemic change. ‘We support this call to action and are honoured to join you in this call to take back our nation and democracy.’ Liberal attitudes: Ben & Jerry's co-founders Ben Cohen, left, and Jerry Greenfield, right, are known for giving away free ice-cream (file picture) Ben & Jerry's, which is part of the Unilever conglomerate, is well-known as an outspoken anti-capitalist company. 'We support this call to action and are honoured to join you in this call to take back our nation and democracy' Ben & Jerry's board of directors . ‘We seek and support nonviolent ways to achieve peace and justice,’ its mission statement on the Unilever website reads.
‘We believe government resources are more productively used in meeting human needs than in building and maintaining weapons systems.’ It was founded in 1978 and two years ago launched a 'Hubby Hubby' ice-cream in support of same-sex marriage. Big protest: A large group of protesters affiliated with the Occupy Wall Street movement attempted to cross the Brooklyn Bridge on October 1 . The company also launched a 'Yes Pecan' flavour to celebrate Barack Obama's becoming U.S. president. Ben & Jerry’s often holds free ice-cream giveaways - so Occupy Wall Street protesters will be hoping that will be the case again here. It comes as concerns were raised that the protesters' New York camp in Zuccotti Park is being infiltrated by opportunists looking for sex and drugs. The National Air and Space Museum was closed in Washington D.C. on Saturday after anti-war protesters stormed it and were repelled by guards. They were the unlikely pair who used a $5 course in ice-cream making to become one of America's most iconic success stories in recent decades. Ben Greenfield and Jerry . Cohen set up a business with $12,000 in 1978, and it turned into one of the . most well-known ice-cream firms worldwide. The Vermont company tries to promote 'linked prosperity', so it is big on ethical business practices, sustainable growth and being socially responsible. It became a multimillion-dollar publicly traded company before being bought by conglomerate Unilever for a whopping $326million in 2000. Mr Cohen and Mr Greenfield kept away from the running of the company, but they often help out at openings of new stores. The duo were disillusioned that Unilever had not vigorously pursued the mission of corporate social responsibility it accepted with the purchase. But they have maintained their political affiliation despite the sell-out, and Unilever has brought out its own liberal flavours over the last two years.
The 'Hubby Hubby' ice-cream was launched in 2009 to support same-sex marriage and 'Yes Pecan' marked Barack Obama's presidential election. But it caused a stir with its latest creation, 'Schweddy Balls', which was boycotted by a leading mothers' organisation who branded it 'vulgar'.
Media playback is not supported on this device Saturday's 2-0 home loss to Hamilton left the Dens Park club in the relegation play-off position. "I'm disappointed not to have got the chance to see out the season because I firmly believe we would have retained our Premiership status," Hartley said. But Dundee managing director John Nelms said: "Unfortunately, the business we are in, sometimes change is necessary to achieve the goals we have set." With five games remaining to climb out of the bottom two, Nelms informed the players of Hartley's departure today. "I want to thank Paul for his time with the club," he added in a club statement. "I think somebody in the near future is going to get a good, hard working manager." Hartley succeeded John Brown as Dundee manager in February 2014 and guided the club to the Championship title that season. In the Dens Park club's first season back in the Premiership, Hartley achieved a top-six finish. Last season Dundee narrowly missed out on the top six again and ended the campaign in eighth place. Media playback is not supported on this device He took training this morning but was informed on his return to Dens Park that his services were no longer required. And in a statement, Hartley added: "I was confident we would have moved up the league table as there are some excellent players in the dressing-room, led by captain Darren O'Dea. "However, I respect the decision made by the Dundee FC board and would like to wish everyone success in the final five games of the campaign. "I'm very proud of what I achieved at Dundee since I was appointed manager in February, 2014. "We won promotion to the SPFL top flight and we finished in the top six. There is no doubt I'm leaving the club in a far stronger position now from when I first joined."
Dundee won their opening match of this season away to Ross County but then failed to win in their next 10 Premiership games, with seven of those ending in defeat. They were bottom of the table in October but then recovered and were sixth in February following a 5-1 victory at Motherwell. That result, however, preceded the start of their current woeful run, which has included a 7-0 home defeat to Aberdeen. Hartley is the fifth manager to leave or be sacked by a Premiership club this season. Robbie Neilson left Hearts to join MK Dons, Lee Clark departed Kilmarnock for Bury, Mark Warburton and Rangers parted company, and Motherwell sacked Mark McGhee. Due to the Scottish Cup semi-final weekend, Dundee's next match is away to Motherwell on 29 April.
Hess's bones were exhumed at the graveyard in the town of Wunsiedel, southern Germany, early on Wednesday. The remains were later cremated and are to be scattered at sea. Hess was captured after flying to Britain in 1941 and sentenced to life in prison. He killed himself in a Berlin jail in 1987 at the age of 93. As he requested in his will, he was buried in the small Bavarian town of Wunsiedel, where his family had a holiday home and where his parents were already interred. The local Lutheran church which supervises the cemetery gave its permission for the burial at the time, ruling that the wishes of the deceased could not be ignored. But they and local people have since become concerned by the number of far-right groups visiting the grave. Each year on the anniversary of his death, neo-Nazis have attempted to stage a march to the cemetery, saluting the grave with its epitaph "I dared", and laying floral wreaths. The enduring myth of Rudolf Hess A member of the church council, Hans-Juergen Buchta, told the Associated Press news agency: "The whole town was shut down and in turmoil and there was a huge police presence. We here at the graveyard were not always able to cope." A 2005 court order banning such gatherings had little effect so the church decided to terminate the family's lease on the grave as of October 2011. A granddaughter of Hess objected to the decision and filed a lawsuit in an attempt to prevent it going ahead, but was eventually persuaded by the parish council to drop the case and allow the exhumation to go ahead. Roland Schoeffel, the deputy mayor of Wunsiedel, told AFP news agency that the monument had been razed "in an operation not open to the public". Cemetery administrator Andreas Fabel told AP news agency on Thursday: "The grave is now empty. The bones are gone."
One resident, named as Mrs Koenig, said: "Perhaps we will now have some peace when he is gone. Perhaps they won't come any more, which is what Wunsiedel wants." Charlotte Knobloch, the head of the Jewish community in Munich and Upper Bavaria, welcomed the move. "For decades this town and its inhabitants were terrorised by far-right extremists from all over the world," she is quoted as saying by AFP. Hess was one of Hitler's closest aides. But in 1941 he made a solo flight to Scotland, where his plane crash-landed, in an apparently unauthorised peace mission which was denounced by the fuhrer. He was imprisoned by the British for the duration of the war. At the Nuremberg Trials in 1946, Hess was cleared of war crimes and crimes against humanity but convicted of crimes against peace and jailed for life. He spent 40 years in Spandau Prison in Berlin. He was the last remaining inmate at the prison when he was found hanged there in August 1987.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 09:57 EST, 8 September 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 10:05 EST, 8 September 2013 . An 107-year-old man in Arkansas was killed yesterday after entering into a gun fight with a SWAT team. Authorities in Pine Bluff, Arkansas have only released one statement on the incident so far. They say they were responding to a domestic disturbance call around 5pm at a residence and learned that an aggravated assault had occurred against two people in the house. Centenarian killed: An 107-year-old man was shot and killed by a SWAT team after engaging with them in a fire fight at a residence in Pine Bluff, Arkansas . The suspect, 107-year-old Monroe Isadore, had pointed a gun at the two people. Police ushered out the two victims and Isadore barricaded himself in a room. When officers tried to get into the room, Isadore shot at the door and so the officers retreated to a safer area. A SWAT team was then called in and a negotiator tried to speak with Isadore. When negotiations were unsuccessful, SWAT inserted gas into the room. Shooting: Police were responding to a domestic disturbance call at the residence, which turned out to be an aggravated assault case . Again, Isadore shot at the officers inserting the gas from outside a bedroom window. No officers were injured in the shootout. Shortly after throwing gas into the room, the SWAT team attempted to enter the room and Isadore started shooting. The entry team shot back and killed Isadore. The incident is currently under investigation.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . Last updated at 9:47 AM on 17th February 2012 . The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were left 'terrified' after a plane flying them into Britain narrowly avoided colliding with another aircraft which hadn't cleared a runway in time, it was claimed today. Passengers on Prince William and Kate Middleton's aircraft back from Copenhagen were said to have been 'very frightened' after the pilot had to ascend quickly to avoid ploughing into another plane. The royals' flight back from Denmark was about to land at Heathrow when the pilot of the Airbus A320-200 was forced to perform a steep climb at the last minute. Trip: Hours before the flight drama, The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had been pictured in Copenhagen on their first joint humanitarian mission . Passengers on the on 162-seat airliner back to Britain all escaped the episode unhurt, but The Duchess of Cambridge was said to have been 'deeply unsettled' by the incident. Prince Willam and Kate Middleton were returning from a joint trip to the Danish capital on their first humanitarian mission. A source close to the incident told The People: 'This really was a serious incident and would have been terrifying for those on board. 'The aircraft ahead of them hadn’t cleared the runway in time for the plane carrying the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to land. 'For anyone who didn’t know what was going on it would have been extremely worrying.' Staff at British Airways dismissed the emergency ascent at Heathrow as a 'standard procedure' British Airways admitted one of their pilots was forced to perform the mid-air manoeuvre during the flight on November 2, but dismissed the incident as 'standard procedure' A spokesperson said: 'Our crew were told by air traffic control to perform a go-around – a perfectly standard operation with no safety implications – because an aircraft from another airline hadn’t fully cleared the runway.
'Safety is always our priority and all our pilots are fully trained to deal with procedures of this kind. 'Our aircraft landed safely and customers left the plane as normal.' A Clarence House spokesperson would not comment on the incident, while a Heathrow Airport spokesperson did not return a request for comment.
(CNN) -- In a bookstore, I saw a woman taking photograph after photograph of newly released titles that were arranged on a shelf. She was using her phone to take the pictures. I didn't understand. Why would anyone want to take pictures of books? Then, at a restaurant, waiting for a table, I heard two men, also waiting, talking. One said he had just ended a frustrating day at the store he owned. "Do they think I'm a showroom?" he said. He mentioned people who had come into his shop that day, had looked at the merchandise, had taken notes -- and then had left. "Do they think I don't know what they're doing?" he said. It is a relatively new phenomenon. Among retail merchants -- owners of stores both small and large -- it has a name: . "Showrooming." No one showrooms by choice. And it represents a potential sea change in American life. Its implications are vast. As described in an article by reporter Amy Zimmerman in the Wall Street Journal, showrooming is "when shoppers come into a store to see a product in person, only to buy it from a rival online, frequently at a lower price." Say a merchant owns a retail store -- a brick-and-mortar store, on a city street. He or she hires staff, pays rent, writes checks for electricity and telephone service, pays for janitorial work, pays real estate and sales taxes, invests heavily in merchandise. And hopes against hope that customers will come in, look around and buy something. This is how the retail sales business has always worked. But in recent years, as online companies without a single physical store have risen to prominence, something new has occurred. People will come into stores, look around, stop at items they particularly like -- and instead of carrying them to the cash register, will take photos of them, or type a description into their smartphones.
Then, in many cases, they will go home, enter the product into a search engine and find some online-only merchant -- a merchant who has no real-life stores -- who is selling the item for less money. A tap of the "Enter" key, a few keystrokes to provide credit card information, and the item -- the item the person has examined and liked in the brick-and-mortar store -- is on its way to the buyer's home. It's all so effortless. The online merchant wins. The purchaser wins. Who loses? You know the answer. The loser is the owner of that real-life store: the person who has stocked the merchandise, hired the staff, paid to keep the store cool in summer and warm in winter, written the rent checks and the tax checks. It is no wonder merchants are feeling frustration and anger that their stores are being considered as little more than showrooms by some shoppers -- showrooms displaying merchandise that, if the people wandering the aisles go home and buy from an online vendor, will provide not a cent in revenue to the owner of the real store. Do the customers ever look into the eyes of the proprietor of the store and wonder if this new way is fair to him? As Brad Tuttle of Time magazine has written: . "Most consumers don't really care how, or even if, a retailer makes money. All they care about is which one has the best products at the cheapest prices. The ideal situation is one in which they can inspect merchandise in person, and then buy it at the cheapest price without having to schlep it to and from the car, and without having to pay extra for delivery." What's the difference, you may ask? Why does this matter? It will matter when and if critical mass is reached, and online-only merchants, who don't have to underwrite the expense of having traditional stores on city streets, reach dominance.
Then, one by one, the stores that have unwillingly become showrooms for the online merchants will fold up. And the American downtown-and-mall landscape will begin to look barren. A doomsday scenario? Perhaps. But "just browsing" has taken on a different meaning in the context of shoppers who go home and use their computers' browsers to find online retailers who will undercut the conventional stores. Last weekend I was in central Ohio for the annual charity race we hold to raise cancer-research money in memory of my late friend Jack Roth. I asked his daughter, Maren, who owns a women's boutique called Rowe, whether she was familiar with the showrooming phenomenon. She said she has seen it with her own eyes, in her own store. "If they tell you how much they like an item, and take a picture of it and then leave the store and you never hear from them again, it's a pretty good indication that they may be going home and looking for a better price online," she said. "And if they call the store later and ask you to tell them the specific style name and number of the item -- then you really know. They're putting the merchandise they saw in your store into a search engine." It's not just smaller merchants like Roth. Target, the retail-store giant, wrote a letter to its vendors this year that said, "What we aren't willing to do is let online-only retailers use our brick-and-mortar stores as a showroom for their products and undercut our prices without making investments, as we do, to proudly display your brands." What all this will eventually do to old-style stores is anyone's guess. Perhaps they will be judged to have outlived their usefulness. In the meantime, merchants will continue to open their doors each morning in the hopes that the people who come in will really intend to buy something.
There is a longstanding axiom that business owners are supposed to believe in: "The customer is always right." But in this emerging era in which people come into stores taking photos and making lists, with no intention to give the store owner their business, worried merchants can't be blamed if they look around their shops and ask themselves: . Who, and what, is a customer? The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Bob Greene.
Children are being banned from seeing Keira Knightley in the role of sultry temptress in a TV perfume commercial. The British actress has ridiculed her lack of curves, however it seems her bare shoulders are enough to confuse and upset some youngsters. As a result, advertising watchdogs have banned showings of the commercial for Chanel’s Coco Mademoiselle around children’s programmes and films. Scroll down for video . Too sexy for her shirt: a Chanel advert starring actress Keira Knightley has been branded too seductive . 'Overtly sexual': parents complained when Keira Knightley's raunchy advert was aired during an ad break for the PG cartoon movie Ice Age: The Meltdown . The idea that children’s eyes need to be shielded from the British actress’s performance will surprise viewers. Chanel defended the commercial, insisting it was playful and sensual rather than overtly sexual. However, the Advertising Standards Authority ASA) disagreed at a time when many parents, including the Prime Minister, are becoming increasingly concerned about the sexualisation of children. The commercial opened with Keira in tight leathers astride a motorbike racing through city streets, before cutting to a modelling scene where she is being photographed on a bed. The relationship with the photographer becomes increasingly flirtatious and sexual as the man is seen unzipping her leather boots and attempting a kiss. At one stage the actress’s bare shoulders are seen, while she is assumed to be naked beneath some sheets. Just as the relationship seems certain to become even more intimate, she disappears out of the window and rides off leaving her would-be lover disappointed. The commercial was aired during a screening of the cartoon Ice Age 2, which has been a hit with families. Unconcerned: Actress Keira Knightley out with her mother in Rome on Tuesday night .
A woman viewer complained that it was not suitable to be shown during a children’s film because it was overtly sexual. Chanel rejected the claim and said its founder, Coco Chanel, was known for being a strong, independent woman and the character in the ad was intended to reflect her spirit. The perfume giant pointed out that there was no nudity in the ad and that the character only briefly revealed her shoulders as part of a photo shoot. They said the photographer helped the actress remove her boots, rather than her clothes, as part of a wardrobe change during the photo shoot. Keira's signature look: her famous backless dress in Atonement, left, and at a premiere with her elegant shoulders as a focal point of her outfit . Chanel said while a degree of sexual tension was common in perfume ads, this particular commercial was ‘playful and sensual’. However, the ASA sided with the complainant arguing the scenes involved ‘sexually suggestive content’. The watchdog said: ‘We noted that the photographer was directly involved in unzipping the actress’s garments and that there was a suggestion that she was naked aside from a bed sheet. ‘We also noted that there was clear sexual tension between the pair and that they appeared about to kiss on the bed. ‘We considered the ad was suitable for older children, but that the sexually suggestive material was unsuitable for young children.’ Seductive motorbike ride: Keira Knightley shooting the beginning of the Chanel advert at Concorde Place in Paris . VIDEO Sexually suggestive. The Wake Up from Chanel Mademoiselle Campaign .
Media playback is not supported on this device The four-time champion in Melbourne is making his competitive return after last playing at Wimbledon in July. Federer beat Mischa Zverev 6-1 7-5 6-2 to set up Thursday's last-four match against fellow Swiss Stan Wawrinka. "Feeling as good as I am, playing as good as I am, that's a huge surprise to me," said the 35-year-old. "If someone would have told me I'd play in the semis against Stan, never would I have called that one. "For Stan, yes, but not for me. I honestly didn't even know a few days ago that he was in my section of the draw or I'm in his section." Federer, who has not won a Grand Slam title since triumphing at Wimbledon in 2012, had been sidelined by a knee injury throughout the second half of last year and has slipped from third in the world to 17th. He played in the non-ranking Hopman Cup in Perth earlier in January, but has come through 18 sets in Melbourne. "I think winning back-to-back matches in best-of-five sets against quality, great players has surprised me most," he said. "Really that's been for me the big question mark, if I could do that so early in my comeback. "I felt I was always going to be dangerous on any given day in a match situation. But obviously as the tournament would progress, maybe I would fade away with energy, you know, that kind of stuff." Federer holds an 18-3 winning record against Wawrinka, but the 31-year-old will go into the semi-final as the world number four and looking for a second consecutive Grand Slam title after last year's US Open success.
Federer has won their past two meetings, at the ATP World Tour Finals and in the US Open in 2015, but Wawrinka holds a Grand Slam win against his Davis Cup team-mate, coming in the quarter-finals of the French Open in the same year. "Against Roger, it's always special because he's so good. He's the best player of all time," said the three-time Grand Slam winner. "He has an answer for everything. But I managed to beat him in a Grand Slam, so we'll see. "It's great to see him back at that level. Hopefully I can manage to play a great match." All of Wawrinka's three Grand Slam titles have come since Federer won his last five years ago. And Wawrinka's rise to becoming a consistent top-10 player did not come until he was aged 28, and after plenty of help from his fellow Swiss. "I remember giving Stan a lot of advice on how he should play certain guys," said Federer. "Then the day came where he didn't call me so much any more. He called me less and less. "I also felt like I didn't tell him any more, because he created his knowledge, his base, had his team. Only from time to time would I give him advice if he asked me. "Otherwise I was happy that he was able to let go and go on his own path." British Davis Cup captain Leon Smith on BBC Radio 5 live It's a great match because Wawrinka wants to stay back and bludgeon the ball with huge swings and power. Federer's job, in the lively conditions, is to take time away from Wawrinka and not allow him to get into that rhythm. Federer has to come forward and test Wawrinka's passing shots a lot. That's important because I don't think Stan's the best passer in the world.
Roger will be able to come in a lot because Wawrinka does chip and block a lot of first-serve returns. The way Federer is playing, even though he has missed six months of tennis, I think he's maybe the slight favourite from what I've seen.
Hundreds of farmers supplying chickens to the poultry processing company are recipients of the heating subsidy. Earlier Finance Minister Máirtín Ó Muilleoir said the meeting had raised "fresh concerns" over the operation of the scheme. Poultry farmers use the wood chip boilers to heat the buildings where chicks are housed. Many took advantage of the scheme to replace LPG heating systems. In his statement, Mr Ó Muilleoir said the Moy Park briefing with his officials had raised "further issues". But in a statement the company made no reference to any concerns about the operation of the scheme. It said it had met officials from the departments of economy and finance in order to help find a solution "to secure the Northern Ireland RHI scheme within budget". It said it had extensive experience of "benchmarked energy use" in the poultry industry. That appears to be a reference to attempts to establish what would be considered acceptable levels of heat use by poultry farms. Moy Park said it advocated "responsible use of heat". The finance minister also said cost control proposals had been submitted to his department by Department of Economy officials on Monday evening only to be withdrawn 10 minutes later. Mr Ó Muilleoir has already described the proposed cost control measures as a "sticking plaster". He said he wasn't interested in a "botched solution to the RHI scandal".
Reid gave Argyle the lead when he turned in Bobby Reid's scuffed shot, before Arron Davies headed the Grecians level on the stroke of half-time. Reuben Reid's penalty put his side back in front, after Matt Oakley fouled Lewis Alessandra in the box. Despite Argyle having Olly Lee sent off for a bad tackle on Tom Nichols, Reuben Reid bundled home his side's third. John Sheridan's side have now won their last four games, while Exeter are winless in six. Match ends, Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 3. Second Half ends, Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 3. Hand ball by Ryan Brunt (Plymouth Argyle). Attempt saved. Alex Nicholls (Exeter City) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Foul by Ryan Brunt (Plymouth Argyle). Matt Oakley (Exeter City) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Corner, Exeter City. Conceded by Tareiq Holmes-Dennis. Foul by Ryan Brunt (Plymouth Argyle). Matt Oakley (Exeter City) wins a free kick on the right wing. Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Dominic Blizzard replaces Bobby Reid. Attempt missed. Alex Nicholls (Exeter City) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. Substitution, Exeter City. Alex Nicholls replaces Scott Bennett. Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Ryan Brunt replaces Reuben Reid. Goal! Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 3. Reuben Reid (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal. Substitution, Exeter City. David Wheeler replaces Clinton Morrison.
Tareiq Holmes-Dennis (Plymouth Argyle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Foul by Liam Sercombe (Exeter City). Attempt missed. Tom Nichols (Exeter City) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Lee Cox replaces Lewis Alessandra. Anthony O'Connor (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card. Peter Hartley (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card. Jamie McAllister (Exeter City) is shown the yellow card. Jordan Moore-Taylor (Exeter City) is shown the yellow card. Olly Lee (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the red card for fighting. Goal! Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 2. Reuben Reid (Plymouth Argyle) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the top left corner. Penalty conceded by Matt Oakley (Exeter City) after a foul in the penalty area. Penalty Plymouth Argyle. Lewis Alessandra draws a foul in the penalty area. Corner, Plymouth Argyle. Conceded by Jordan Moore-Taylor. Christian Ribeiro (Exeter City) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Foul by Tareiq Holmes-Dennis (Plymouth Argyle). Second Half begins Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 1. Substitution, Exeter City. Jamie McAllister replaces Craig Woodman because of an injury. First Half ends, Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 1. Attempt blocked. Liam Sercombe (Exeter City) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Clinton Morrison (Exeter City) is shown the yellow card. Goal! Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 1.
Arron Davies (Exeter City) right footed shot from very close range to the high centre of the goal. Attempt missed. Reuben Reid (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. Attempt missed. Peter Hartley (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. Corner, Plymouth Argyle. Conceded by Christy Pym. Attempt saved. Lewis Alessandra (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner.
By . Associated Press . and Daily Mail Reporter . A sailor has been shot dead on a guided-missile destroyer while docked at a Virginia naval base and security forces killed the suspect in the aftermath. The names of the sailor and the suspect have not been released while the Navy contacts their families. The suspect was a civilian who had access to be at Naval Station Norfolk, spokeswoman Terri Davis said early Tuesday. Scroll down for video . Security threat on board: A male sailor was shot by another man, a civilian, who was able to gain access to the USS Mahan on Monday night and the suspect was shot dead by security forces later (pictured in 2004) Base: A number of destroyers are regularly docked at the Norfolk Navy Base, including air craft carriers like the USS Eisenhower, USS George H.W. Bush, USS Truman and USS Lincoln, all pictured there in 2012 . She said she couldn't say whether he had permission to be on the USS Mahan, where the male sailor was shot about 11.20pm Monday. No other injuries were reported, and the base was briefly on lockdown, according to the Navy. Davis would not describe any other circumstances of the shooting but said the scene was secure. Operations have returned to normal at the base, with counselors available, the Navy said in a news release. Regardless . of the shooting, most enlisted sailors on the Mahan — docked at the . first of 13 main piers — were not to report to duty Tuesday. Base . traffic was typical Tuesday morning. The . shooting on the Mahan comes about a month after the Navy held . anti-terrorism and force protection exercises on bases around the U.S., . including an active-shooter drill at the Norfolk station. Drill: Just last month, the Norfolk Naval Base held anti-terror drills (pictured) as did Navy bases across the country . To . get on the base, civilians must be escorted or have a pass.
Each base . entrance is guarded, and all 13 piers have additional security forces. As part of ongoing security efforts, handheld ID scanners were . implemented this year at Navy bases in the region, including the Norfolk . station. The shooting comes . six months after a September incident at the Washington Navy Yard, in . which a gunman — identified as a contractor and former Navy reservist — . killed 12 civilian workers before being shot to death. The . Norfolk base covers more than 6,000 acres and is the home port for 64 . ships, according to information the Navy provided in February. About . 46,000 military members and 21,000 civilian government employees and . contractors are assigned to the base and its ships, according to the . Navy figures. Earlier drills: The Norfolk Naval Base just ran anti-terrorism drills last month that included an active-shooter drill (guards pictured at the base entrance in 2004) The base also is the home port for a Navy hospital ship, docked at Pier 1 with the Mahan. In . February, the Norfolk base got a new commanding officer, Capt. Robert . E. Clark Jr. He took over for Capt. David A. Culler Jr., who was set to . retire in May. Clark had served as the installation's executive officer . since 2012. The Mahan, . commissioned in 1998, has a crew of nearly 300. In September, it . returned to Norfolk after a deployment of more than eight months that . included being positioned in the eastern Mediterranean Sea for a . potential strike against Syria.
The 50-year-old musician was treated at a specialist neurosurgery clinic in Munich and is expected to stay there for a number of days. He will then return to his home in Ireland to recuperate further, a spokesman said. The band's next tour date in the US on 3 June has been postponed, while their Glastonbury appearance may be in doubt. Further information about the possible impact on other tour dates would be announced in due course, a statement on the band's website added. The Irish rock band was due to perform a string of gigs across North America, returning to Europe in August. They were due to begin rehearsals on Tuesday for the opening date in Salt Lake City, and are scheduled to headline the Glastonbury Festival on 25 June. U2 manager Paul McGuinness said of the tour: "We will make plans to reinstate the dates as soon as possible." He added it was "unfortunate that we're inconveniencing fans" and that it was causing disruption to the band's 400-strong crew. He advised fans to continue monitoring the U2 website for further news. The 360 Degree tour earned the band around $109m (Â£75.3m) in 2009, making it the world's most profitable of the year, according to figures from Billboard magazine.
(CNN) -- Before he was Pope Benedict XVI, before he earned the nickname "Cardinal No" as the enforcer of church doctrine, he was Joseph Ratzinger -- the son of Maria and police officer Joseph Ratzinger, learning about life and God in Germany between two world wars. According to Roman Catholic doctrine, Benedict is not only the church's leader but God's representative on earth and infallible. He is also a man -- one who savors his meat and potatoes, an accomplished pianist who loves Mozart, and a teacher who for years commanded university classes. His humanity became apparent Monday, when the Vatican announced he'd resign at month's end "because of advanced age," becoming the first pope in nearly 600 years to do so. After his birth on April 16, 1927, in Marktl am Inn, in southeastern Germany near the Austrian border, Ratzinger's early years were defined by his country and the turbulent times, as well as his faith. Adolf Hitler rose to power during Ratzinger's adolescent years in Traunstein, in the heavily Catholic region of Bavaria. When he was 14, school officials followed Nazi officials' orders and enrolled him and the rest of his class in the Hitler Youth movement -- against his will, Ratzinger wrote in his memoir. He left the organization shortly thereafter, because he was studying for the priesthood. But in 1943, Ratzinger was brought back into the Nazi fold upon being drafted into the German army. For the next two years, Ratzinger served his country as part of an anti-aircraft unit. But in the waning days of World War II, he deserted -- and was taken prisoner by the U.S. Army. According to CNN Senior Vatican Analyst John Allen, Ratzinger's family was strongly, if quietly, anti-Nazi and his father took a series of less significant jobs to steer clear from what was happening under Hitler.
In June 1945, Ratzinger was released from a POW camp. Hitching a ride on a milk truck, he headed home. And life began anew. Opinion: Why pope will be remembered for generations . The soldier became a scholar, studying philosophy and theology at the University of Munich and another school in Freising between 1946 and 1951. Two years later, he earned a doctorate in theology, after submitting a thesis titled, "The People and House of God in St. Augustine's Doctrine of the Church." Eventually, he became a professor -- teaching dogma and fundamental theology at four German universities. In 1969, for instance, he was appointed vice president and professor of theology at the University of Regensburg in Germany. "Books are his best friends," Allen said. All the while, he grew more ingrained in the Roman Catholic Church and its hierarchy. In 1962, 11 years after his ordination as a priest, the then-35-year-old was a consultant during Vatican II to Cardinal Josef Frings, a reformer who was archbishop of Cologne, Germany. As a young priest, Ratzinger was on the progressive side of theological debates. But he began to shift right after student revolutions of 1968, according to Allen, also a correspondent with the National Catholic Reporter. In fact, it was Ratzinger's conservative defense of strict doctrines that defined him in many people's eyes -- until he became pope. A defender of church doctrine and a 'simple, humble worker' In the late 1970s and 1980s, Ratzinger shot up the church's ranks. In spring 1977, he was named archbishop of Munich and Freising. A few months later, Pope Paul VI appointed him cardinal. One of his most significant steps up came in 1981 when he took over as head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith, the Vatican office that oversees "the doctrine on the faith and morals throughout the Catholic world," according to the Vatican.
Ratzinger became known as "Cardinal No" stemming from his efforts to crack down on the liberation theology movement, religious pluralism, challenges to traditional teachings on issues such as homosexuality, and calls to ordain women as priests. Liberation theology combined Christian theology with political activism on issues like human rights and social justice. While partially compatible with Catholic social teachings, it was rejected by the Vatican, which objected to the mixing of church theology with Marxist ideas such as class struggle. "It (was) his job to police the doctrinal boundaries of the Roman Catholic Church, and inevitably when you do that, there are going to be hurt feelings by people who find themselves on the wrong side of those lines," said Allen, the author of "Cardinal Ratzinger: The Vatican's Enforcer of the Faith." Over subsequent years, he made news when, for instance, he labeled homosexuality "an intrinsic moral evil" and called the Soviet Union and its communist satellite nations "a shame of our time." In the 1990s, Ratzinger openly challenged a fellow German cardinal who had encouraged divorced and civilly remarried Catholics to return to the sacraments. Ratzinger also argued Muslim Turkey did not belong in Christian Europe and issued a document saying that Catholicism was the only true religion -- questioning the validity of other religions, even Christian ones, even as his Pope John Paul II was trying to reach out to other faiths. Although objections came from some of his fellow cardinals, the pope did not restrain Ratzinger, in part because their friendship went back four decades, to the time when the two were young priests at the Vatican II meetings in Rome. The Pope's resignation explained . That bond persevered until John Paul's death in 2005, by which time Ratzinger was dean of the College of Cardinals -- the high-level group that advises the pope and, when called upon, picks a new pontiff.
In April 2005, they picked him, then 78 years old. Now called Benedict, his reputation was seen as more subdued than his predecessor. He traveled extensively, if not at John Paul's pace. His words carried special weight, as in 2006, when he quoted from 14th-century Byzantine emperor Manuel II Paleologus saying the Muslim Prophet Mohammed had only brought into the world "things only evil and inhuman." The remarks set off protests by Muslims worldwide, and Benedict apologized for any offense taken by Muslims. For some, the defining element of his papacy was the sex abuse scandal, with the church being accused of not doing enough to deal with reports of abuse by priests over decades, and on multiple continents. Two years after acknowledging "shame" over the "evils" of abuse, Benedict issued a statement in 2010 saying the church had not been vigilant or fast enough in responding to the problem -- one of the most forthright admissions to date, though it still did not placate some who criticized then-Cardinal Ratzinger for not cracking down sufficiently. Such missives demonstrated his power, in the church and on the world stage. But for all the headlines he generated, Benedict -- as he did in his first blessing after being elected pope -- insisted he was merely "a simple, humble worker in God's vineyard." "I am consoled by the fact that the Lord knows how to work and how to act, even with insufficient tools," he said then, "and I especially trust in your prayers."
Economic inactivity refers to people of working age who are not seeking work. Its rate in Northern Ireland is just under 27% and can cover students, people with health conditions, or those with caring or parenting responsibilities. The UK average is 22%. The strategy, called 'Enabling Success', has been jointly launched by Employment Minister Stephen Farry and Enterprise Minister Arlene Foster. The strategy involves 11 projects, based on the voluntary participation of individuals. Three groups will be targeted - those with work-limiting health conditions or disabilities, lone parents and people with caring commitments. "I recognise that there are some who will never be able to work due to the severity of their health conditions," Mr Farry said. "However, there are many people with work-limiting conditions who, with the right support, may be able to participate." Mrs Foster added that the problem could hold back the economy unless addressed. "The strategy will seek to contribute to an increase in the employment rate in Northern Ireland and to increase our economic competitiveness and productivity in the global market," she said. By 2030, the strategy hopes to have raised employment levels to above the UK average. "The current employment rate here is 68.6% compared with a United Kingdom average of 73.4% and achieving this goal will be challenging," Mrs Foster said.
The grieving family of missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have criticised the timing of a new book that claims the plane may have been accidentally shot down and the search for survivors covered up. The family of missing Brisbane man Rod Burrows say they are at pains to understand how still, after 71 days of ongoing global search efforts, no one knows what happened to the missing plane which vanished on March 8 and how a book could be released so soon after. Flight MH370: The Mystery makes the incredible claim that the airline was shot down by US-Thai joint strike fighters accidentally as part of a training drill gone horribly wrong. The book goes on to claim the search party was purposely sent in the wrong direction as part of a cover up. Scroll down for video . Flight MH370 has been missing since March 8 - but could have transmitted a GPS fix on its location if its tracking software had received a £6 upgrade, it's been claimed . Huge task: The search for MH370 is the most expensive and extensive ever undertaken . Investigation: The book weighs all the theories about what happened to MH370 . Irene Burrows, Rod's mother, told the Sun Herald that the book had been released too soon, and that despite the speculation, it offers no concrete answers. 'There's absolutely no answers,' she said. 'It's devastating for the families, it's been 10 weeks tomorrow and there's nothing.' She said both her and husband George are still trying to comprehend what happened, and that a book full of conspiracies released just 71 days after its disappearance, does nothing to alleviate the pain of losing their son. But according to the book's author, Nigel Cawthorne, there may never be a clear answer. He writes in the book how the Burrows, and hundreds more in their situation, will 'almost certainly' never know the real story behind how the ill-fated plane vanished on March 8.
He writes: 'Did they die painlessly, unaware of their fate? Or did they die in terror in a flaming wreck, crashing from the sky in the hands of a madman?' It is then that Cawthorne makes the incredible assertion that the plane was shot down accidentally over the South China Sea by a joint US-Thai joint strike fighter team, and the searchers sent in the wrong direction as part of a cover up. He describes how a man, while working on an oil rig in the ocean at about the same time the plane's transponder went off, saw a burning plane and how this was right near the military exercise being conducted with personel from various other countries. He claims that these countries may have then sent searchers in the wrong direction in order to cover their tracks. 'After all, no wreckage has been found in the South Indian Ocean, which in itself is suspicious.' He said with the amount of disinformation regarding MH370, it is best to be skeptical. Cawthorne also raises more doubt into toe plane's disappearance, claiming it could have been located if its tracking software had been upgraded - something that costs just £6 ($10) per flight. According to Cawthorne the Boeing 777-200ER had a ‘data package’ that only transmitted the most basic flight information, so authorities weren’t able to get a GPS fix on it. For just $10, however, this package could have been improved, the book says, resulting in far more detailed information about the 777's movements being pinged. ‘For US$10, you could have told within half an hour’s flying time where the plane would have gone,’ a source told the paper. Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, meanwhile, has called for real-time tracking of planes and improvements to their communication systems to prevent a repeat of the 370 tragedy.
In an opinion piece published on Wednesday in the Wall Street Journal, Najib called for changes that would ‘make it harder for an aircraft to simply disappear, and easier to find any aircraft that did.’ ‘One of the most astonishing things about this tragedy is the revelation that an airliner the size of a Boeing 777 can vanish, almost without a trace. In an age of smartphones and mobile Internet, real-time tracking of commercial airplanes is long overdue,’ he said. Inmarsat Plc, a British provider of global mobile satellite communications services, said Monday it will offer free basic tracking services for planes flying over oceans. The service will be available to most of the world's long-haul commercial fleet. The Malaysian plane sent a signal to an Inmarsat satellite, but not location data. Engineers conducted a novel analysis of those signals to determine the plane's flight path, but the effort took time. Australia's Ocean Shield is carrying a robot submarine, the Bluefin 21, to survey the ocean floor for MH370's black box . Najib also urged the aviation industry to consider changing planes' communications systems so that they can't be disabled midair. The government has said someone severed the plane's communication systems with the ground and deliberately diverted Flight 370. He said the capacity of the cockpit data recorder, one of a plane's two black boxes, should be extended from two hours currently to recording the entire flight, while its location beacons should be made to last at least 90 days, instead of 30 days now. ‘The global aviation industry must not only learn the lessons of MH370 but implement them,’ he added. Najib reiterated that Flight 370 was one of world's greatest aviation mysteries. ‘Nobody saw this coming, nobody knows why it happened, and nobody knows precisely where it is,’ he said.
He said the government has done its best but admitted there were mistakes in the early days of the crisis, with a disorderly public communication and a slow start to search efforts. He said an independent investigation is ongoing so the government can learn from mistakes. A Malaysia Airlines employee writes a message expressing prayers and well-wishes for passengers of MH370 at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport mosque . Najib assured families of passengers that Malaysia will ‘keep searching for the plane for as long as it takes.’ Australia is leading the search, which is moving into a second phase in which commercial underwater operators will be contracted to scour a vast expanse of seabed with sonar equipment looking for wreckage for the next one year. An Australian ship on Tuesday returned to the area where underwater sounds consistent with black boxes were heard in April, the search coordination center said. The ship had returned to port briefly to be resupplied. The Ocean Shield is carrying a robot submarine, the Bluefin 21, to survey the ocean floor. A spokeswoman for John Blake, the publishers of the book, said: . “The tragic disappearance of Flight MH370 is an extraordinary and terrible . mystery. Inevitably hundreds of wild theories are circulating about what has . really happened. 'Nigel Cawthorne is a serious and highly respected author and . journalist. He has spent weeks scientifically analysing all the available data . to produce the book, which is a serious and measured . study of this tragedy.”
(CNN) -- Chelsea became the first defending champion to crash out at the Group Stage of the Champions League -- despite thrashing Danish side Nordsjaelland 6-1 at Stamford Bridge. The win was Chelsea's largest in the competition, but it still wasn't enough to prevent them slipping into the Europa League. Rafa Benitez's side needed Shakhtar Donetsk to do them a favor and defeat Juventus, but the Italian team triumphed 1-0 in Ukraine. That meant that Chelsea's victory was meaningless, despite the margin of victory. It looked as if the Blues would endure a difficult evening when Nordsjaelland was awarded a penalty on 32 minutes. But Chelsea keeper Petr Cech saved well from Nicolai Stokholm to keep the game goalless. Just minutes later, it was Chelsea's turn to miss from the spot when Eden Hazard's effort was saved. Chelsea collapse heaps pressure on Benitez . Any frustration around Stamford Bridge was finally extinguished when the home side was awarded another penalty following a handball and David Luiz swept home. Fernando Torres netted a second on the stroke of halftime before Nordsjaelland halved the deficit through Joshua John. But the Blues steamrolled the Danes in the second period with Torres grabbing his second, before Hazard, Juan Mata and Oscar completed the rout. In the end, it was Olexander Kucher's 56th minute own goal in Ukraine which sealed Chelsea's demise and Juventus' place in the knockout phase. Both Shakhtar and Juve only needed a draw to progress with the Ukrainian side already guaranteed of a place in the last-16. But the Italians secured victory and top spot with a hard-fought win. Barca's unbeaten run ended by Celtic .
In Glasgow, Celtic secured a dramatic 2-1 win over Spartak Moscow to secure second place in Group G. Kris Commons netted an 81st minute penalty to seal the three points and ensure the Scottish champion leapfrogged Benfica. Gary Hooper's strike had given Celtic the lead before Spartak struck back through Ari six minutes before the break. But when Marek Suchý was adjuged to have brought down Giorgos Samaras, Commons blasted the ball home from 12-yards to spark wild celebrations. Spartak's misery was compounded when Kim Kallstrom was sent off for a wild tackle on Commons. Benfica and 'the curse of Bela Guttmann' Meanwhile, Benfica was left to think of what might have been after finishing goalless at Barcelona. The Catalan side left out a whole host of star names including Xavi and Andres Iniesta, while Leo Messi started on the bench. Messi map: How Argentine maestro conquered the world . Messi, who still needs two goals to beat Gerd Muller's record of 85 goals in a calendar year, did come onto the field after 58 minutes, but was forced off on a stretcher after suffering an injury late on. But despite Barca fielding a relatively inexperienced side, Benfica was unable to find a way through and must now settle for the Europa League. Bayern Munich share points with Dortmund . In Group F, Bayern Munich secured top spot with a comfortable 4-1 win over 10-man BATE Borisov. Mario Gomez gave last season's finalist a 22nd minute lead with Thomas Muller adding a second. Xherdan Shaqiri grabbed Bayern's third before BATE was reduced to 10-men when Denis Polyakov was shown a second yellow card. David Alaba hammered home a fourth with seven minutes remaining, before Yegor Filipenko hit an 89th minute consolation.
Valencia was forced to settle for second place following its 1-0 win at Lille courtesy of Jonas' 36th minute penalty. In Group H, Galatasaray pulled off a crucial 2-1 win at Braga to book its place in the next round. Mossoró had given the Portuguese side a 32nd minute lead as Galatasaray's hope began to fade. But top scorer Burak Yılmaz equalized with his sixth goal of the competition, before substitute Aydın Yılmaz hit the winner. It was hard to swallow for Romanian side Cluj, which recorded one of the most famous results in its history to win 1-0 at Manchester United. Luis Alberto's stunning strike ensured Cluj became the first Romanian team to triumph at Old Trafford. But with Galatasaray also winning, Cluj will now have to fight it out in Europa League.
Work to bring down the building on Kingsway started in October 2015 and was due to take six months. But the outer structure of the building is still standing as there was more asbestos than first thought. The council bought the site as part of plans to transform Kingsway into a business district. All internal works at the building have now been completed, with scaffolding in place to support the exterior's demolition. The work is scheduled to finish by the spring.
The "respectful relationship" curriculum will be mandatory in all schools in Victoria from next year. Students will explore issues around social inequality, gender-based violence and male privilege. However, a report on a 2015 pilot trial accused it of presenting all men as "bad" and all women as "victims". Pay inequality, anger management, sexual orientation and the dangers of pornography will be among the topics explored by students in the programme, costing A$21.8m (£13.5m; $16.5m). Primary school students will be exposed to images of both boys and girls doing household chores, playing sport and working as firefighters and receptionists. The material includes statements including "girls can play football, can be doctors and can be strong" and "boys can cry when they are hurt, can be gentle, can be nurses and can mind babies". In high school, students will be taught the meaning of terms including pansexual, cisgender and transsexual and the concept of male privilege. A guide for the Year 7 and 8 curriculum states: "Being born a male, you have advantages - such as being overly represented in the public sphere - and this will be true whether you personally approve or think you are entitled to this privilege." It describes privilege as "automatic, unearned benefits bestowed upon dominant groups" based on "gender, sexuality, race or socio-economic class". Year 11 and 12 students are introduced to the concept of "hegemonic masculinity" which "requires boys and men to be heterosexual, tough, athletic and emotionless, and encourages the control and dominance of men over women". Some critics have suggested that although more needs to be done to protect the female victims of domestic violence, the programme lacks objectivity and nuance. Jeremy Sammut, a senior research fellow at the Centre for Independent Studies, a libertarian think tank, told The Australian newspaper that it amounted to "taxpayer-funded indoctrination" of children.
"The idea behind this programme - that all men are latent abusers by nature of the 'discourse' - is an idea that only cloistered feminist academics could love," Dr Sammut said. "A lot of evidence suggests that like child abuse, domestic violence is a by-product of social dysfunction: welfare, drugs, family breakdown." The royal commission that recommended education as the key measure for preventing future family violence found that 25% of victims of family violence are men. Critics argue that point is often overlooked. Education Minister James Merlino has said education is the key to ending the "vicious cycle" of family violence. "This is about teaching our kids to treat everyone with respect and dignity so we can start the cultural change we need in our society to end the scourge of family violence," he said.
At least 13 samples, taken from post-mortem examinations following unexplained deaths, were found stored at South Tyneside District Hospital. Northumbria Police said 26 families were being contacted, with Cleveland Police dealing with 13 families. Both forces admitted samples were kept "longer than necessary". In a statement, Northumbria Police Temporary Assistant Chief Constable Vanessa Jardine, said: "We understand the gravity of this situation and the devastating affect it has had on the families involved. "The human tissue samples of cases that happened many years ago have been identified and we have specially trained officers contacting relatives of 26 people to inform them of this. "It is our priority to make sure this is done as quickly and sympathetically as possible." The remains were found during an audit at the hospital in March 2015. South Shields MP Emma Lewell-Buck said: "I think in terms of overall transparency, it's important that the public know the level of numbers involved. "I'm very disappointed that it's happened in a hospital in my constituency and I think it's such a shame for those families. "Something like this can just open it up [the grieving process] and it can feel like it just happened the day before all over again." Sarah Simpson, whose father Terence died in a fall from a roof 22 years ago, said she was "appalled" to be told his tissue samples had been stored. She said she was now considering legal action. The Human Tissue Authority (HTA) said that significant improvements had been made to the systems governing the retention of human tissue samples.
By . Anna Edwards . PUBLISHED: . 11:42 EST, 29 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 15:17 EST, 29 November 2013 . He's often lauded as one of the world's most sexiest men - but David Beckham has revealed a distinctly un-sexy memory. The retired footballer has confessed to performing a sex act on himself while looking at calendar of Welsh footballer Clayton Blackmore as part of his initiation into Manchester United's youth team. The 38-year-old recalled how his Class of '92 teammates forced him to perform an embarrassing sex act whilst staring at eighties Reds legend Clayton Blackmore. Scroll down for video . Beckham's teammates required him to perform an embarrassing sex act whilst staring at a Clayton Blackmore calendar . Beckham revealed he had to look at Clayton Blackmore's calendar and do certain things to himself . The midfielder said he got the short-straw with his humiliation, revealing to the Metro: ‘One of mine was surprising! The Clayton Blackmore!’ Recalling his teen horror, he said: ‘Everyone had an initiation that you had to go through on the youth team, that was one of the most uncomfortable ones!’ 'The fact that I had to look at Clayton Blackmore’s calendar and do certain things, while looking at Clayton Blackmore…’ Forced to recall the humiliating ceremony on camera for a documentary on his former team, called 'The Class of '92', he said: ‘I was embarrassed when I was saying it on camera let alone talking about it more. But it’s something that we all had to go through. It was definitely something I wouldn’t like to go through again!' High jinks: Beckham joined the Manchester United Youth Team in 1992 and became firm friends with the other players .
The retired footballer is promoting a Manchester United documentary covering the period from 1992, where he, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt, Ryan Giggs and Phil and Gary Neville were team-mates . Suppressing the memories: Becks said he got the short-straw with his humiliation . David Beckham, who has four children with wife Victoria, says he would rather forget the ritual . The retired footballer is promoting a Manchester United documentary covering the period from 1992, where he, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt, Ryan Giggs and Phil and Gary Neville were team-mates. His confession follows a series of revelations,including that Sir Alex Ferguson was . like 'the godfather' of Manchester United because of his totalitarian . approach to managing the club. He described the Reds' most-decorated manager as the 'godfather - and not in a good way,' to BBC Breakfast. 'Not in a bad way [either] but we were all very scared of him.' The former United midfielder admitted that players were 'scared' of the patriarch, renowned for his sharp Scottish tongue. The 38-year-old, who retired at the end of last season, also said he blew his first big pay packet on a flashy BMW. 'My first thing that I spent money on was a BMW. That was my first cheque from Adidas, and I just blew the whole thing in one go,' Beckham told the Christian O'Connell Breakfast Show on Absolute Radio. 'We started getting a little bit more money than we were in the youth team, you know, I went and blew it. I was still living in digs at the time, and I literally blew all my money on a BMW.'
(CNN) -- It's time to end the posturing and give the world's boxing fans the bout they desperately want: Manny Pacquiao versus Floyd Mayweather. That's Bob Arum's message to everyone involved in trying to navigate a way through the quagmire that is negotiations for a contest that has long been top of fight fans' wish list. Pacquiao's promoter has been in touch with Mayweather's camp to kick-start talks and finally attempt to get two of boxing's best ever fighters in the ring. Though both boxers are arguably past their prime any match up between Mayweather -- unbeaten in 45 fights across five different weights -- and Pacquiao -- an eight-division world champion with 55 wins from 62 fights -- is likely to ignite huge interest. "We've put out the olive branch saying we would welcome the start of discussions for such a fight," Top Rank chief executive officer Arum told CNN World Sport. "While Manny fights on HBO and HBO pay-per-view and Floyd fights on Showtime and Showtime pay-per-view, there is a precedent for both networks to come together and put on big event. "They did it when heavyweight Mike Tyson, who was a Showtime fighter, fought Lennox Lewis, who was an HBO fighter, a number of years ago. That was a hugely successful event and set a record for pay-per-view sales in the US. "We can't keep posturing,. If people want to make a deal and put aside egos and making statements to the press -- who was right, who was wrong -- and really sincerely want something to happen it generally gets done. "And it is my hope that's what will happen; when and if both sides sit down to discuss seriously an event the sports world is crying out for."
With Mayweather approaching 37 and Pacquiao, 34, suffering two successive defeats before his most recent victory -- over Brandon Rios in Macau -- Arum acknowledges time is running out to make a deal. While the pair may not be as the pinnacle of their careers as they were when the fight was mooted three years ago, Arum still believes it would generate worldwide interest and reportedly might bring in $100 million. "I think if an event like that was made people would really flock to watch it," he added. "I think it's very fair to say the clamor is not as fervent as it was a few years ago when they were both at the height of their careers but it's still an event the public are clamoring for, perhaps not as much as three years ago but we can't roll back the clock." Pacquiao's most immediate focus in the aftermath of his victory over Rios earlier this month has been to defend himself amid accusations that he owes $50 million in unpaid taxes in his home country the Philippines. The 34-year-old's assets have been frozen, meaning he had to borrow money to help victims of Super Typhoon Haiyan that tore through the country. But Arum says the allegations amount to a "political vendetta" against Pacquiao, who is a member of congress in the Philippines, and will be ironed out shortly. "The assessment is based on fights he had in the United States and in every one of those fights -- four fights in the two years in question -- we withheld 30% of the amounts we paid him and paid those amounts to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)," Arum explained. "We supplied the Philippine tax authorities with the schedule of our payments and receipts from the IRS. For some unknown reason they are insisting the IRS send certification of the payments.
"Manny applied for those certifications a while ago and of course the IRS was bogged down partly because when the government was shut down they weren't working. There's been a hold up but I'm sure once those certifications arrive, it will all go away. "He doesn't owe anything. Under the Philippine-U.S. tax treaty, he was taxed in the U.S. for income earned in the U.S., and he gets a dollar per dollar credit against his Philippine taxes. "Once that credit it given to him they'll find there is no further tax liability in the Philippines. "I think it's great for his image because it shows the nature of politics in the Philippines. Manny Pacquiao is a member of a coalition in the Philippines that is in political opposition to the president and it seems to me as a foreigner, that this is nothing more than a political vendetta." Arum hailed Pacquiao's showdown with Rios in Macau, a province of China, as a triumph and said he is planning another event with three former Olympic gold medalists in February. Along with the emergence of fighters from Latin America and Eastern Europe, as well as the traditional boxing heartlands of the U.S. and the United Kingdom, Arum pointed to Asia as having huge potential. "Is Asia an up and coming market for everything? Of course it is," he said. "There's 1.3 billion people in China, there's fans all over Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia. There's tremendous interest in boxing and we expect to do many events in the years to come in Asia. "There will be a lot of talent in Asian fighters just as there are so many great fighters now coming out of Eastern Europe, from Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. "Boxing is a world wide sport and our best fighters and champions are coming from all over. I'm very, very excited as far as the future of boxing is concerned."
Cape Town, South Africa (CNN) -- It was supposed to be an ordinary night out with friends for 20-year-old Zukiswa Gaca but it ended with her lying on a railway track attempting to take her own life. Gaca was at a bar, drinking with friends in Khayelitsha township, less than 40 kilometers outside Cape Town, South Africa, when a man tried to ask her out. "I told the guy that no I'm a lesbian so I don't date guys and then he said to me, 'no I understand. I've got friends that are lesbians, that's cool, I don't have a problem with that.'" Gaca says he was nice and she trusted him, and they left the bar to go to the home of one of his friends, and that is where his friendly exterior turned nasty. "He said to me, 'you know what? I hate lesbians and I'm about to show you that you are not a man, as you are treating yourself like a man,'" she told CNN. "I tried to explain 'I'm not a man. I never said I'm a man, I'm just a lesbian'. And he said, 'I will show you that I am a man and I have more power than you.'" Then he raped her, she says, as his friend watched. Gaca said: "[Afterwards] I went to the railway train road, because I was suicidal at the time. I was lying on the tracks. I think the train was 100 meters away from where I was. Then some other guy came and grabbed me. The train passed. He called the police." It is called "corrective rape" - where men force themselves on lesbians, believing it will change their sexual orientation. The extent of the problem is hard to know as South African police do not compile corrective rape statistics separately from other rape cases.
But human rights groups in the country -- where gay rights are constitutionally protected -- are outraged. Cherith Sanger, of the Women's Legal Centre in Cape Town, which provides legal support for rape victims who cannot afford good lawyers, said: "We believe that corrective rape warrants greater recognition on the basis that there are multiple grounds of discrimination. "It's not just about a woman being raped in terms of violence against women, which is bad enough, but it's also got to do with sexual orientation so it's another ground or level of unfair discrimination leveled against lesbians." It was not the first time Gaca had been raped. She says she ran away from her home village, in the rural Eastern Cape, after the first rape when she was 15 years old and too afraid to press charges. She says running was easier than dealing with a community that didn't accept lesbians. She moved to Khayelitsha Township, a sprawling shanty town near Cape Town, Africa's "gay capital" where she hoped to find tolerance. Instead, she was confronted by more hate. "Being a lesbian in Khayelitsha is like you are being treated like an animal, like some kind of an alien or something," she said. While there are no official statistics on corrective rape, there have been enough publicly reported incidents to spark widespread alarm. This time Gaca is fighting back. New York-based Human Rights Watch recently conducted interviews in six of South Africa's nine provinces and concluded: "Social attitudes towards homosexual, bisexual, and transgender people in South Africa have possibly hardened over the last two decades. The abuse they face on an everyday basis may be verbal, physical, or sexual -- and may even result in murder." The group added: "This is a far cry from the promise of equality and non-discrimination on the basis of 'sexual orientation' contained in the country's constitution."
Most known victims, like Gaca, are poor and black and so are the perpetrators, prompting many to ask how a people who fought against discrimination during apartheid can today treat some of its most vulnerable in such a violent manner. Siphokazi Mthathi, South African director at Human Rights Watch, said: "We've failed to make it understood that there is a price for rape. Sexism is still deeply embedded here. There is still a strong sense among men that they have power over women, women's bodies and there's also a strong sense that there's not going to be consequences because most often there are no consequences." Interpol estimates that half of South African women will be raped in their lifetime. But corrective rape is not even recognized as a hate crime and rights groups say few victims report their cases to the police. But Gaca did. In many African countries being gay is illegal. In South Africa, those entrusted with enforcing the country's "tolerant laws" now stand accused of re-traumatizing victims. "When a woman is raped she is re-raped by the system and for me this is a big thing because it's a serious violation of our constitution and the duties that are placed on the state in terms of what the state needs to do for survivors," Sanger said. CNN saw the treatment meted out to survivors firsthand with Gaca as she trekked from police station to police station trying to first find, and then get answers from, her investigating officer. He was the third assigned to her case since she reported the attack in December 2009 and she eventually found him at the sexual offences unit in Bellville, a 30-minute drive from her home. Despite the sensitive nature of her case, he met her in the wide, open office.
When Gaca asked why the police had failed to interview her alleged attacker's friend, who witnessed the rape, another officer in the room told her: "I never take a statement from a suspect's friend." He added: "The suspect's friend is obviously going to say you are in a relationship with the suspect or that he didn't see anything. The only statements that are important here are the ones from your friend, a neutral person or a neighbor. Not someone who was there watching while you were being damaged and he wasn't helping." CNN requested an interview with the investigator and was referred to his superiors, before being granted an interview with South Africa's Minister of Police, Nathi Mthethwa, who promised an investigation. "I feel bad," the minister said. "I feel bad about all these things. That is why I'm saying people who are responsible have a case to answer." No action has so far been taken against the police officers who not only treated Gaca with disdain but who she also had to push every step of the way to do their job. When they let her alleged attacker go without taking DNA evidence, potentially crucial in proving his guilt, it was Gaca who insisted they re-arrest him. After neglecting to question the eyewitness who was allegedly there throughout the incident, it was Gaca who forced the police to talk with him. She says she sat in a car while they questioned him, as he leaned in through an open window to tell the police officer what he saw of the assault, forcing Gaca to once again relive the experience. South Africa's Victims' Charter was drafted in 2004, granting seven fundamental rights to every victim of crime. Among them is the right to be treated with fairness and with respect to your dignity and privacy. Gaca says these rights are ideals she has never experienced. Yet she's determined to press on. She said: "They always get away with it.
I'm just pushing so that there will be a different story on my case. Maybe if this guy could be sentenced or something happens to him I think a lot of my friends will report their cases because some of the lesbians, they don't report their cases, they don't go to the police station because they know that it will just be a waste of time." Nearly two years after reporting her case, Gaca is still awaiting her day in court, still hoping for justice, and still fighting.
Bolton manager Neil Lennon has given up on signing Celtic forward Kris Commons this month. The former Parkhead boss had hoped to use the uncertainty over the former Scotland international's future to his gain and lure Commons south. But he has now ruled out a late January move after Celtic made it clear the out-of-contract attacker will not be sold in this transfer window. Bolton boss Neil Lennon used to be manager of Celtic before taking over the Championship club . Lennon wanted Kris Commons (right) to join him at Bolton but accepts it will not happen in January . Lennon told STV: 'Celtic have come out publicly and said he's not for sale, he won't be leaving and we haven't pursued that any further. 'I've got a great relationship with Celtic, a great relationship with Peter [Lawwell] and I don't want to damage that. 'People keep asking me about Kris and I feel uncomfortable talking about him because he is Celtic's player at the end of the day.' Commons, was a central figure under Lennon, netting 31 goals in the Northern Irishman's final season in charge. But under Ronnie Deila, he has been in and out of the side as he was forced to accept his position was not guaranteed. However, Lennon believes Celtic should look to tap into more than just his playing abilities as he recommended the 31-year-old for a future coaching role with the Hoops. Commons has not been a regular in the Celtic team under manager Ronny Deila . Lennon said: 'It was something that myself and Peter talked about. Kris gets the club, he gets Celtic. 'He was having a great season last year and we talked about it in terms of working again together when his career finished. He's an intelligent boy, I think he'd have plenty to offer on the coaching side of things.
'I think he would be an asset for Celtic in a coaching capacity.'
By . Chris Parsons . PUBLISHED: . 04:59 EST, 19 May 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 05:31 EST, 19 May 2012 . A divorcee who convinced her lover, a former NFL player, to shoot dead her millionaire boyfriend to access his life insurance has been jailed for life. Nanette Ann Packard, 46, was convicted of murder earlier this year after her live-in boyfriend William McLaughlin was shot dead in his kitchen in December 1994. Packard was living with McLaughlin, 21 years her senior, while also dating former New England Patriots linebacker Eric Naposki, who worked as a bouncer at a local nightclub. Jailed: Nanette Ann Packard is led from court in handcuffs after being handed a life prison term yesterday . Theft: Packard's murder trial heard she also stole $500,000 from McLaughlin's estate both before and after his death . She convinced the former NFL star to murder McLaughlin, having stood to collect $1million on the medical technology boss's life insurance, along with a further $150,000 and free rent for a year in one of his properties. Naposki entered McLaughlin's lavish house in Newport Beach using a key given to him by Packard, and shot the millionaire in the chest six times. Killer: Eric Naposki, a former NFL linebacker, was the man who killed millionaire William McLaughlin by shooting him six times in the chest . Packard's murder trial earlier this year also heard she went on to steal at least $500,000 from McLaughlin's estate both before and after his death. She admitted grand theft in 1996 and was sentenced to a year in jail, but the murder case went cold for 13 years before new evidence in 2009 connected Packard and Naposki to the shooting. Authorities subsequently arrested Johnston, living in Ladera Ranch with her third husband, and Naposki, living in Greenwich, Connecticut.
Investigators had long suspected Packard and Naposki, but it was only when new technology was used to identify the murder weapon, along with a new witness, that charges were filed. McLaughlin's family today branded Packard 'vile' as the mother-of-two was handed a life jail term without parole for the millionaire's murder, having been convicted of first degree murder in January. Naposki, 45, who played for the New England Patriots between 1988 and 1989, was convicted of first degree murder last July, and will be sentenced on August 10. The court heard during Packard's trial she met McLaughlin after he responded to an advert she had placed in a dating magazine for wealthy men. She had described herself as 'a well-educated woman who knows how to take care of her man'. Sugar daddy: William McLaughlin made a fortune in medical technologies, while Packard was set to gain £1m in his life insurance . McLaughlin was shot dead in the kitchen of his waterfront California home by Naposki, who had been given a key to the property by Packard . They began dating and she later moved in with McLaughlin, who made a fortune in medical technologies after developing a blood-filtering prototype. Speaking outside Orange County Superior COurt yesterday after Packard's sentencing, Kim McLaughlin Bayless said: 'The fact that you, Nanette, destroyed so many lives, including my Dad's, is vile. You had absolutely no right to take him from us for your own selfish reasons. 'He was incredibly good to you for four whole years. Killed: This photo from the trial shows slain millionaire William McLaughlin with his family . Provocateur: Packard, pictured in the 1990s (right) and more recently, met the millionaire after he responded to an ad she had placed in a magazine for wealthy men.
'This is in honor of my dad and all of the many people this woman has used and abused . 'It's a lot of closure for us.' In 1996, Packard pleaded guilty to writing checks from McLaughlin's account without his knowledge. During Naposki's trial, his defense attorney argued that Packard was the only one who had a motive to kill McLaughlin, who had a successful medical technology business. Hill argued during Packard's trial that the football player acted alone out of fear she would leave him.
By . Nick Enoch . Fans of legendary Up Pompeii! star Frankie Howerd can snap up personal items from the comedian's huge collection of memorabilia including his passport - complete with his awful toupee photo. Among the other lots set for auction next week are some of his school reports, which reveal 'a marked talent in dramatics' - and his first contract of employment as a filing clerk, for which he received £1 a week. Camp comic Frankie became a national treasure in the early 1970s when millions tuned in to watch him play lecherous slave Lurcio, in the hit BBC sitcom set in ancient Rome. Frankie's catchphrases 'Oooh Er, Missus; Titter Ye Not; and Nay, Nay and Thrice Nay,' won him millions of fans. Comedy fans will smirk at Frankie Howerd's hairpiece in the passport photo taken in 1967 - two years before he made his big TV breakthrough . Fans of the legendary Up Pompeii! star can snap up personal items from the comedian's huge collection of memorabilia including his passport . A photo strip up for auction showing Frankie during the time he served as a gunner in the Royal Artillery in World War Two . Born Francis Alick Howard in York in 1917, the Carry On star later decided to adopt the more distinctive Frankie Howerd as his stage name . Another item going under the hammer is Frankie's first ever contract of employment - as a junior filing clerk with Henry A Lane & Co in Tooley Street, London, in 1935 on the princely wage of £1 a week . He was a regular at the Royal Variety Performance and was awarded an OBE in 1977. Now Frankie's well-thumbed passport, photos of him with Elizabeth Taylor and Elton John, old school reports and his first contract of employment are to go under the hammer. Titter ye not!
Comedy fans will smirk at Frankie's hairpiece in the passport photo taken in 1967 - two years before he made his big TV breakthrough. The dog-eared passport reveals Frankie was an impressive globe-trotter with stamps ranging from his favourite holiday villa in Malta, to New York, Boston, Toronto, Australia, Brazil, Kenya, Fiji, Hong Kong, Singapore, Bangkok, Antigua and Budapest. Collectors can bid for an original script signed by Frankie for the second episode of Up Pompeii! which he rehearsed at the Sulgrave Boys' Club, near the BBC's Shepherd's Bush studios. An early photo of Frankie. His family moved to Eltham in south-east London when he was three . In a school report from 1930, his form master comments that he was a 'capable boy who will doubtless get higher in his form. Has shown a promising interest in dramatic work' Headmaster Mr R Affleck said: 'His school career was free of any blemish whatever and towards the end distinguished by success in his examinations and by the revelation of a marked talent in dramatics' His acting prowess did not go unnoticed by staff at Woolwich County School . Frankie, whose career took off with the West End musical A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum in 1963, died from heart failure aged 75 in 1992. The collection - being auctioned following the sale of Wavering Down, his Somerset country home - is to be sold by Dreweatts in Bristol on February 26. Dreweatts' auctioneer Peter Rixon said: 'Frankie Howerd was a true national treasure who was acknowledged as the master of the double entendre and risque gags. The camp comic became a national treasure in the early 1970s when millions tuned in to watch him play lecherous slave Lurcio in the hit BBC sitcom Up Pompeii! (above) set in ancient Rome .
Collectors can bid for an original script signed by Frankie for the second episode of Up Pompeii! which he rehearsed at the Sulgrave Boys' Club, near the BBC's Shepherd's Bush studios . Among the lots is this pencil drawing of Frankie Howerd by an unknown artist . 'This sale will probably be the last chance for collectors to bid for some of Frankie's remaining personal belongings which give a fascinating insight into his life from his school days right to the height of his success. 'We've got some wonderful photographs of Frankie with Elizabeth Taylor and Elton John, pictures of him at the Theatre of Dionysus ruins in Athens and others with members of the Royal Family including The Queen, Prince Philip, Princess Margaret and the Queen Mother. 'Frankie served as a gunner in the . Royal Artillery in the Second World War and we've got a passport-style . strip of three photographs of him wearing Army uniform. 'We've . already had a lot of interest and we are planning to sell the items in . three combined lots with a conservative estimate of £700 to £800.' The actor with Liz Taylor (and his famous hairpiece) in 1976 . The dog-eared passport reveals Frankie's travel destinations included Malta, New York, Boston, Toronto, Australia, Brazil, Kenya, Fiji, Hong Kong, Singapore, Bangkok, Antigua and Budapest . The collection - being auctioned following the sale of Wavering Down, his Somerset country home - is to be sold by Dreweatts in Bristol on February 26 . Passport belonging to the comedian - Mr F. A. Howerd . Born Francis Alick Howard in York in 1917, the Carry On star later decided to adopt the more distinctive Frankie Howerd as his stage name. His family moved to Eltham in south-east London when he was three and the school reports included in the sale reveal 17-year-old Frankie showed an early talent for the stage.
At Woolwich County School in 1934, his form master Mr S Platt reported: 'He has a natural gift for amateur theatrical work and has given great delight to those who have had the pleasure to see and hear him.' Another master, WH Brodie, recorded . Frankie was a 'school prefect', adding he was 'a clever actor. who pays . attention to his elocution'. And . headmaster Mr R Affleck said: 'His school career was free of any . blemish whatever and towards the end distinguished by success in his . examinations and by the revelation of a marked talent in dramatics.' Another . item going under the hammer is Frankie's first ever contract of . employment - as a junior filing clerk with Henry A Lane & Co in . Tooley Street, London, in 1935 on the princely wage of £1 a week. Other . lots in the sale include showbiz awards and a rare 1952 Columbia 78rpm . recording of Frankie singing I'm The Man Who's Deputising For The Bull, . written by Eric Sykes and accompanied by Billy Ternent and his . Orchestra. Frankie (centre) as he appears in Carry On Doctor in 1967 . Frankie, whose career took off with the West End musical A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum in 1963, died from heart failure aged 75 in 1992. He is pictured in 1990 .
The Burrell Collection will shut on Sunday evening and will reopen in 2020 after the multi-million pound redevelopment is complete. This weekend the museum is hosting a range of free activities including live music, a family ceilidh, and guided tours. The building is said to be no longer fit for purpose and needs a new roof. The Burrell Collection, in the heart of Pollok Country Park, opened to the public in 1983. Only a fifth of the collection, donated to the city by collector Sir William Burrell in 1944, is currently on display as many items have had to be removed to protect them from damage. It is estimated that the total cost of the project will be between £60m and £66m. Under the modernisation plans, a new roof and high performance glazing will make the museum more energy-efficient. Two new floors of exhibition space will be created so that 90% of the 8,000 objects can be viewed by the public. Throughout the Burrell's refurbishment, some of the works from its collection will be on display at Kelvingrove Museum and Art Gallery in Glasgow. Burrell at Kelvingrove will showcase a series of changing displays, providing visitors continued access to treasures from the collection. The first exhibition 'Burrell at Kelvingrove: Joseph Crawhall', will offer visitors a rare opportunity to see 23 of the finest works by one of the radical group of young Scottish painters, the Glasgow Boys. It will run from 24 October, 2016 until July next year.
Venice, Louisiana (CNN) -- President Obama on Wednesday proposed a package of measures that would provide at least $58 million in additional funding for oil spill relief efforts and raise the tax that oil companies pay to maintain an emergency fund. In a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi requesting congressional approval of the package, Obama said oil giant BP -- which owns the leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico -- was responsible for all cleanup costs. In addition, Obama said, the government would seek full compensation for all damages from BP. "We cannot allow the potentially protracted pursuit of claims to prevent us from swift action to help those harmed by this spill," Obama said in the letter. The proposals would increase by 1 cent the current tax of 8 cents a barrel that oil companies pay into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, and also increase the amounts that could be spent from that fund on single incidents. Efforts to staunch the gusher continued Wednesday. The "top-hat" oil containment device has reached the sea floor and should be in position over the wellhead and operational by the end of the week, BP said. A larger containment vessel was unsuccessful in stopping the flow of oil from the gusher about 5,000 feet underwater. The spill is sending 210,000 gallons of crude into the Gulf of Mexico each day. The "top-hat" cofferdam, a 5-foot-tall, 4-foot-diameter structure, weighs less than 2 tons. The structure was deployed by the drill ship Enterprise. BP built the smaller dome after a much larger, four-story containment vessel, designed to cap the larger of two leaks in the well, developed glitches Saturday. Ice-like hydrate crystals formed when gas combined with water and blocked the top of the dome, making it buoyant.
The new device would keep most of the water out at the beginning of the capping process and would allow engineers to pump in methanol to keep the hydrates from forming, said Doug Suttles, BP's chief operating officer for exploration and production. Methanol is a simple alcohol that can be used as an antifreeze. Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar said the success of this latest attempt to cap the well could be known in the next few days. "On this Thursday, we should know whether or not this alternative top-hat cofferdam is going to work," Salazar said on CNN's "The Situation Room." "And then the next key date is Saturday, because by Saturday they will have the diagnostics completed through X-rays and gamma rays and pressure ratings to be able to make decisions about what the next steps are." If attempts to cap the well fail, BP may try to plug the leak by shooting debris -- shredded tires, golf balls and similar objects -- under extremely high pressure into the well's blowout preventer in an attempt to clog it and stop the leak. The blowout preventer has been partially successful in sealing the well, but did not fully close when the rig exploded and sank. Suttles said BP also is drilling a relief well to try to divert the flow to another pipe. "That started about a week ago," Suttles said. "That work continues. The well is at about 9,000 feet." It may take up to three months to reach the target area, and progress will slow the deeper the drill bit goes, said David Nagel, executive vice president of BP America. Federal investigators are still trying to determine what caused the explosion that sank the Deepwater Horizon, which was owned by BP contractor Transocean Ltd. The oil rig exploded April 20 and sank two days later, about 50 miles off the southeast coast of Louisiana.
BP is legally required to cover economic damages from the spill up to $75 million. But Florida Sen. Bill Nelson has introduced legislation that would raise the liability cap to $10 billion. iReport: Share images from the Gulf . "If this gusher continues for several months, it's going to cover up the Gulf Coast and it's going to get down into the loop current, and that's going to take it down the Florida Keys and up the east coast of Florida," Nelson said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union. "And you are talking about massive economic loss to our tourism, our beaches, to our fisheries, very possibly disruption of our military testing and training," he said. CNN's David Mattingly contributed to this report.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 17:25 EST, 24 October 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 08:18 EST, 25 October 2013 . A 9-year-old boy is fighting for his life after suffering critical injuries in a horrific car crash that killed both his parents and four siblings, including an unborn baby. Eden Miranda was listed in critical condition at University of California Davis Medical Center Thursday in the aftermath of the deadly six-car collision in Lodi. The multicar smash-up that happened just after 5.20pm Tuesday at a busy intersection took the lives of Irving Miranda, 11; his 5-year-old brother Jose; their 4-year-old sister Stephanie, and the siblings' father, 30-year-old Luis Miranda. Also killed in the crash was the children's mother, 31-year-old Vivian Rodriguez and her unborn baby. Scroll down for video . Family tor apart: Eden Miranda (second left), 9, is the sole survivor of the crash that killed his 11-year-old brother Irving (far left), 5-year-old brother Jose (third left) and 4-year-old sister Stephanie (far right) Crash scene: Police inspect a bent pickup truck at the scene of a five-car accident in Lodi, California on Tuesday night. Five people died in the crash, including a child, a pregnant woman and her unborn child . Lodi Unified Assistant Superintendent of Elementary Education Catherine Pennington told Lodi News said that Irving Miranda attended Lodi Middle School, where he distinguished himself as a good student and an all-around well-liked boy. Stephanie was enrolled in a kindergarten program in Heritage Primary Elementary School, where her brother Jose was a first-grader. Police say an SUV driver reportedly . drove through the intersection of Ham and Vine streets while on his cell . phone and caused a six-car collision, leaving up to a dozen people .
injured. On Thursday, eyewitness Erin Andrews told the Sacramento Bee that the brown SUV that allegedly caused the fatal accident appeared to be doing about 100mph when it blew through a busy intersection, with the driver clutching a cell phone to his ear. ‘He looked angry, like he was on a mission,’ Andrews said. The carnage that decimated the Miranda family left the local community reeling. About 250 people gathered Wednesday night at the debris-strewn site of the crash for an emotional vigil to remember the young victims and their parents. Sabien Tafoya, 13, lit a candle for his friend Irving Miranda, describing him as a smart and funny boy who enjoyed making his friends laugh. This morning, Lodi Middle School held a moment of silence for the 11-year-old and his two younger siblings. ‘We’re trying not to forget a loving friend,’ 12-year-old Jason Ordinola, who was on the soccer team with Irving, told Lodi News. A makeshift memorial had sprung up on the site of the crash, with sobbing relatives, friends and strangers leaving flowers, notes and stuffed animals in honor of the victims, News 10 reported. Neighbors reported running from their . homes after hearing the collision and seeing bodies - including those . of children - in the road as emergency personnel arrived. Outpouring of grief: People have been flocking to a makeshift memorial in Lodi to leave flowers and notes . Touching mementos: Mourners have been bringing stuffed animals in honor of the three children and an unborn baby who perished in the crash . Carla Sanchez, 12, Irving Miranda's schoolmate, at right, is overcome with emotion near a makeshift memorial . Five . vehicles were involved in the crash, which eye-witnesses said was . caused when a driver in an SUV raced through the intersection at speeds . as high as 90mph while on his phone.
But authorities said they are still investigating whether cellphone use, alcohol or drugs were involved. Several people were . transported by air or ambulance to area hospitals, including St. Joseph’s Hospital in Stockton and UC Davis Medical Center. Horrific aftermath: Police and fire officials work at the scene of the multicar crash in Lodi that killed six and injured 12 . Deadly impact: Witnesses described seeing children lying on the ground after being ejected from their vehicle on impact . Lodi Police Detective Eric Bradley told the Sentinel that three of the injured were in surgery late on Tuesday night but that their conditions were unknown. Bradley added that the ages of those injured and the extent of their wounds was not yet known. David Durand with the American . Medical Response confirmed to the paper that . there were children involved in the crash and that they had been ejected . from a vehicle during impact. Three vehicles were crushed together in the crash, and a pickup truck was bent so that it formed a 'V' around the hood of another truck, the Lodi News Sentinel reported. Devastating: Authorities are investigating whether cell phone use, alcohol or drugs were involved . Shattered glass and metal shards ripped from the vehicles had been strewn across the road and emergency responders put powder on the street to absorb oil, gasoline . and blood. Josh Ramos told News10 that he lives . just doors from the crash site and said that when he walked to the street, he saw bodies everywhere and people in shock. 'People running around children outside crying people caring for them,' Ramos said. Another eyewitness said she saw a little red shoe on the ground - which 'just broke my heart'. A major accident investigation team is now analyzing the scene to determine where and how the crash occurred. Lodi, a city of more than 60,000 people, is about 35 miles south of Sacramento.
New York (CNN) -- When do boxes of baby wipes, laundry tablets and kitty litter get you in trouble? When they're stuffed with marijuana, ammunition and .40 caliber handguns. A woman was arrested at John F. Kennedy International in New York on Monday for trying to smuggle two disassembled .40 caliber handguns, 350 rounds of ammunition, four magazines for the guns and 33 pounds of marijuana, according to the federal Transportation Security Administration. TSA officers discovered the contraband after opening two pieces of checked luggage for inspection. "The officers saw the suitcases were jam-packed with cans and boxes for baby wipes, coffee, floor dusting sheets, lemonade mix, iced tea mix, a box of cat litter and a box of laundry tablets," the TSA statement read. Crazy things Americans tried to take on planes in 2013 . Upon further investigation, the TSA said they discovered the luggage belonged, not in fact to a thirsty homemaker, but a traveler trying to smuggle weapons and drugs. The traveler, who was not identified in the statement, was carrying a Canadian passport and headed to Barbados. She was arrested on state charges, said TSA. TSA finds 81 pounds of pot in checked luggage .
(CNN) -- A woman who said she had a mother-daughter relationship with slain model Jasmine Fiore told CNN's Larry King on Thursday night that Fiore never informed her that she had been married. An arrest warrant has been issued for Ryan Alexander Jenkins, wanted in the death of ex-wife Jasmine Fiore. Gwendolyn Beauregard said Fiore was a close friend of her two sons, and she met the future model when Fiore was just 11. Despite the close ties -- "she called me mommy and she was my daughter" -- Beauregard was in the dark about Fiore's marriage to Ryan Jenkins. The marriage reportedly was annulled a few weeks after their Las Vegas, Nevada, wedding. An arrest warrant for murder has been issued for Jenkins, a reality TV contestant. Authorities believe he's fled to Canada. Fiore's body was found Saturday, stuffed into a suitcase and left in a Dumpster in Buena Park, just outside Anaheim in Orange County, California. Interviewed from San Francisco, California, Beauregard told King all she knew about Jenkins was his initial meeting with Fiore. "She didn't tell me that she married him. She told me [about] the day that they met, which was St. Patrick's Day," Beauregard said. "She called me the day after and she said: 'Mommy, I met the most perfect guy in the world and -- and his name is Ryan.' And she just went on and on and on about Ryan and how perfect he was. And that was all I knew." Beauregard told King she's never met Ryan Jenkins. Mike Fleeman, the West Coast editor of People.com, described more details of Fiore's whirlwind courtship with Jenkins to King. "They met in Las Vegas. Two days later [in March], they got married at the Little White Wedding Chapel.
That's, of course, where Britney Spears got married," Fleeman told King. "It was a quickie wedding. We today talked to somebody who was at the wedding. One of the witnesses was an employee of the chapel. A lot of people were shocked that both of them were married. They kept it under wraps. And the marriage had a lot of problems almost from the very beginning," Fleeman said. Fleeman told King that Jenkins was arrested and charged with domestic assault against Fiore in Nevada in June and that Jenkins was supposed to go to trial in December. Beauregard told King that Fiore, who was 28 when she died, started modeling in her early 20s. Despite their deep bond, Beauregard said Fiore had ties with her biological mother, Lisa Lepore. "She was close to her mother, as well, but it was a different type of closeness." Adding to the horror of the slaying was that Fiore's teeth had been extracted and her fingers removed. Criminal profiler Pat Brown told Larry King that act provided key crucial evidence early in the investigation. "It was very clear from the very beginning, when they found her body in a piece of luggage, that we weren't dealing with a serial killer. I knew it was somebody who knew her and [that her killer] wanted to make sure that she was not identified," Brown said. "This is why he [the suspect[ ended up cutting off her fingers taking out her teeth. He even got smart. He watched too many crime shows and thought he would get rid of all ID, took away her clothes, put her in the luggage, probably because it's one way to get her of an apartment. And throw it a Dumpster and hope that time will take care of it, she'll decompose, they'll never be able to identify her," Brown said.
Jenkins has appeared on VH1 shows "Megan Wants a Millionaire" and "I Love Money 3." "This is a very arrogant man," Brown said. "Megan said it right on the show. She said he's a manipulator. He is. He has evidence of psychopathy there." The brutality of the crime has hit Fiore's circle of friends hard. "Ryan Jenkins is an animal," said Robert Hasman, a family friend who said Fiore had been his girlfriend for 2 1/2 years. Watch Hasman speak out » . "What he has done to Jasmine is unspeakable. It's just not right." He described her as "a beautiful person who was a very caring individual." Orange County District Attorney Tony Rackauckas said on "Larry King Live" that Jenkins is the only suspect. "There is no indication that anybody else might be involved," he said. "We believe he's armed because there's a handgun missing from his apartment, which is the last place he was before he fled. So it appears that he's armed. And he's certainly dangerous because he's desperate," Rackauckas said.
Some of New York’s most talented subway musicians have made history with the world’s first performance by a ‘wifi orchestra’. The eclectic musicians united for a live experiment that saw them simultaneously connect to a conductor while performing separately in nine different subway stations on a Sunday morning in September. Using the underground system’s wifi connection, composer Ljova Zhurbin led the orchestra through a performance of Signal Strength, an original piece he wrote for the landmark concert. The musicians simultaneously connected to a conductor while performing in different subway stations . Composer Ljova Zhurbin led the orchestra through a performance of an original piece he wrote for the concert . The performance included a variety of instruments, including a saw (left) and theremin . With nearly a dozen laptop computers in front of him, Mr Zhurbin drew curious stares from locals and tourists as he conducted the 11-piece performance from sunny Bryant Park in Manhattan. The performers – equipped with a variety of instruments, including an accordion, bass guitar, saw and theremin – followed along on smartphones that were linked to a Skype connection. Commuters dropped change into their cases, seemingly unaware that they were witnessing music history. A three-minute video, directed by Chris Shimojima, has been viewed nearly 100,000 times since it was uploaded two weeks ago. Ljova Zhurbin (left) conducted the 11-piece orchestra, including beatboxer Adam Matta, from Bryant Park . Violinist Allyson Clare (left) and other musicians used mobile phones to connect with Mr Zhurbin . Performers connected to their conductor using the underground wifi connection in New York's subway system . Mr Shimojima and his team recruited musicians from all types of backgrounds for the experiment, which was carried out on a Sunday morning as the wifi connection would be stronger.
On his website he wrote: ‘The signal did drop or become uneven at points … but enough takes (about eight) were filmed to work around this. Wifi latency was about a half-second but was removed in editing. A portable audio recorder was placed close to each musician for better quality sound.’ He added: ‘If you happened to walk by one of our musicians, you would not have noticed anything unusual, hearing only that instrument. It was, in fact, only one part out of nine. The musicians, luckily, were not stopped by the NYPD.’
GENEVA, Switzerland (Reuters) -- Extreme sexual violence against women is pervasive in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and local authorities do little to stop it or prosecute those responsible, a U.N. investigator said on Monday. A woman struggles to describe her rape by military members. Health workers call rape an epidemic. Rape and brutality against women and girls are "rampant and committed by non-state armed groups, the Armed Forces of the DRC, the National Congolese Police, and increasingly also by civilians", said Turkish lawyer Yakin Erturk. "Violence against women seems to be perceived by large sectors of society to be normal," she added in a report after an 11-day trip to the strife-torn country. Erturk, special rapporteur for the United Nations Human Rights Council on violence against women, said the situation in South Kivu province, where rebels from neighboring Rwanda operate, was the worst she had ever encountered. The atrocities perpetrated there by armed groups, some of whom seemed to have been involved in the 1994 Rwandan massacres in which 800,000 people were killed, "are of an unimaginable brutality that goes far beyond rape," she said. "Women are gang-raped, often in front of their families and communities. In numerous cases, male relatives are forced at gun point to rape their own daughters, mothers or sisters," she said. After rape, many women were shot or stabbed in the genital area, and survivors told Erturk that while held as slaves by the gangs they had been forced to eat excrement or the flesh of their murdered relatives. Women who have been raped are systematically rejected by their families and society. Widespread sexual abuse in the various conflicts racking the republic -- which last year held elections hailed as marking a new era -- "seems to have become a generalized aspect of the overall oppression of women," Erturk said.
Her report followed charges from U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Louise Arbour last week that soldiers and police used excessive force, including summary executions, in quelling opposition protesters in the west of the DRC earlier this year. In the central Equateur province, the police and army often responded to civil unrest "with organized armed reprisals that target the civilian population and involve indiscriminate pillage, torture and mass rape", the report found. Although the DRC parliament outlawed sexual violence in July 2006, "little action is taken by the authorities to implement the law and perpetrators continue to enjoy immunity, especially if they wear the state's uniform," Erturk said. Erturk said Congo's justice system was corrupt and in "a deplorable state," while conditions in prisons were "scandalous". Senior army and police officers shielded their men from prosecution, and when some were arrested they escaped easily, probably "with the complicity of those in charge." In a few cases courts had ordered the state and individuals to compensate victims. But "to this day the government has not paid reparations to a single victim who has suffered sexual violence at the hand of state agents," said E-mail to a friend . Copyright 2007 Reuters. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Media playback is not supported on this device World champion Hamilton started from the back, suffered a broken front wing on lap one and did five pit stops. The Briton faces the prospect of trying to overhaul a 36-point deficit in the remaining 18 races of the season. Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel came second despite colliding with team-mate Kimi Raikkonen on the first lap. The incident damaged both cars, with Raikkonen fighting back to fifth behind the Red Bulls of Daniil Kvyat and Daniel Ricciardo. Raikkonen's rise through the field included passing Hamilton in the closing stages, Ferrari's decision to use soft tyres for the final stint as opposed to the mediums chosen by Mercedes giving the Finn an advantage as the Briton fought in vain to try to pass the Williams of Felipe Massa. Hamilton will express his confidence at being able to erode Rosberg's points lead and will expect his awful luck of the first three races to turnaround - but the fact remains that no driver who has won the first three races of a season has failed to go on to claim the World Championship. The race was shaped by an incident-packed opening, with a number of collisions on the first lap leading to the introduction of the safety car on lap four. By that stage, Hamilton and Raikkonen had already pitted once to replace front wings damaged in first-corner collisions. Raikkonen moved right into Vettel's path as the German moved left to ensure he was not tagged by an aggressive dive down the inside by Kvyat. Hamilton was then turned into by Sauber's Felipe Nasr as he avoided Raikkonen's damaged car swerving back on to the circuit. Vettel confronted Kvyat about the incident in the pre-podium room after the race, saying: "If I don't go left, you crash into us and we all three go out - you are like a torpedo."
Kvyat replied: "We didn't crash." Vettel responded: "You didn't. You were lucky this time." Kvyat shrugged: "I'm on the podium; you're on the podium." In the post-race interviews, Kvyat added: "You see the gap, you go for it on the inside. You see one car it is hard to see both. It was a risky move, I agree with Seb but you have to take risks and I am on the podium." Listen to Vettel's post-race rant At the front, Ricciardo had made a stunning start to take the lead from pole-sitter Rosberg at the first corner. In the process his left-rear wheel had been tagged by Rosberg's front wing. Whether it was that or the debris on the track, Ricciardo suffered a left-rear puncture on lap three, allowing the Mercedes to pass. Ricciardo would almost certainly not have been able to hold off Rosberg in any case, but his removal from the lead left the German serene out front. Mercedes decided not to stop him under the safety car and when the race re-started on lap nine, Rosberg simply drove off into the distance. Listen to the first-lap madness Hamilton, meanwhile, was in the wars. Mercedes stopped him twice under the safety car, doing only one lap on the super-soft tyres in an attempt to ensure he could use only the softs for the rest of the race. So Hamilton had done three stops within the first six laps and he was lying third from last at the restart. He began his fightback from there, with the Ferraris doing the same - Vettel starting from 11th and Raikkonen not far behind Hamilton, who said his progress had been affected by damage to the car in the incident with Nasr. "The car was pretty damaged," said the 31-year-old afterwards.
"I'm sure it was some aero components but I think it was the suspension as well because it was flexing all over the place." Mercedes F1 boss Toto Wolff said the front wing had damaged the leading edge of the floor and the barge boards when it came off and that the car had lost a "lot of aerodynamic performance". After a further switch to the medium compound tyres to last the race, Hamilton was not able to recover as much ground as the Ferraris and faces an uphill battle if he is to stop Rosberg winning his first world title this year. Chinese Grand Prix race results Chinese Grand Prix coverage details
(CNN) -- Three former Penn State University officials -- including ex-President Graham Spanier -- have been charged with conspiring to cover up years of sexual abuse against children by former football coach Jerry Sandusky. Spanier, along with former Athletic Director Tim Curley and ex-Vice President Gary Schultz, each face the same eight counts related to the Sandusky scandal, including perjury, conspiracy and endangering the welfare of children, Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly announced Thursday. Curley and Schultz are scheduled for a preliminary arraignment at Magisterial District Judge William C. Wenner's office at 2 p.m. on Friday, and Spanier's preliminary arraignment is slated for next Wednesday at 9:30 a.m. at the same judge's office, according to a Pennsylvania courts spokesman Jim Koval. Each of the three men is expected to attend his arraignment, said Koval. This is the first time Spanier has been charged in the wake of the scandal, which started unfolding publicly a year ago. Curley and Schultz previously had been charged with perjury and failing to report suspected child abuse. The three men "essentially turned a blind eye to serial predatory acts" by Sandusky, Kelly told a news conference in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Jerry Sandusky proclaims his innocence in jailhouse audio recording . "This was not a mistake by these men. It was not an oversight. It was not misjudgment on their part. This was a conspiracy of silence by top officials working to actively conceal the truth, with total disregard for the children who were Sandusky's victims in this case," she said. Spanier's attorneys said "there is no factual basis to support these charges" and accused Kelly of acting as a pawn for Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Corbett, who they said "has made no secret of his personal hostility toward Dr. Spanier."
"These charges are the work of a vindictive and politically motivated governor working through an unelected attorney general, Linda Kelly, whom he appointed to do his bidding and who will be a lame duck five days from now," according to a statement from the attorneys. They also accused Kelly and her staff of "steadfastly" refusing to meet with Spanier or his legal representatives "despite repeated attempts to do so." Gov. Corbett's spokesman Kevin Harley responded, "Graham Spanier's statement is the ranting of a man who has just been indicted for covering up for a convicted pedophile. His arrogance reveals a man who has just found out that he is not above the law after all." As a result of the charges, Penn State said Spanier -- who was removed as president in November 2011 -- will be placed on immediate leave. He had continued to serve as a tenured professor, although he was on a sabbatical. Attorneys blast Freeh report as Spanier speaks out . Penn State said it recently informed Curley that his fixed-term contract will not be renewed when it expires in June. Schultz had retired after he was initially charged last year. The university refused to comment on the charges "out of respect for the legal process." Curley's attorney Caroline Roberto said prosecutors didn't give her team any advance notice of the new charges. "To be clear, Tim Curley is innocent of all charges," Roberto said in a statement. "We are carefully reviewing the presentment and will reserve a more comprehensive comment for a later time." Roberto filed a pre-trial motion Wednesday, asking to dismiss or suppress Curley's grand jury testimony. The motion alleges a conflict of interest because the woman Curley believed was representing him at the time, was actually representing Penn State University. CNN has reached out to Schultz's attorney Thomas Farrell, who previously said Schultz is innocent of the initial charges and he would fight to clear Schultz's name.
Sandusky, 68, was convicted in June on 45 counts of child sex abuse, ranging from corruption of minors to involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, which were laid out in graphic testimony by his accusers over the course of the less-than-two-week trial. Last month, he was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison, meaning he'll likely die behind bars. Speaking Thursday, Kelly cited as evidence a series of e-mails among Spanier, Schultz, and Curley from February 2001, referring, somewhat in code, to the infamous incident in which assistant coach Mike McQueary walked in on Sandusky sexually assaulting a young boy in a university shower room. CNN first reported in June about the allegedly incriminating e-mails. Ousted Penn State president says he was abused as a child . In July, in a 267-page report commissioned by the university, former FBI Director Louis Freeh blamed the three men and legendary former head football coach Joe Paterno for having "never demonstrated any concern for the safety and well-being of Sandusky's victims until after Sandusky's arrest," while the board of trustees failed to perform its oversight duties. Paterno died on January 22. "I'm not going to speculate or comment on Mr. Paterno's relationship to this investigation," Kelly said Thursday. "He's deceased, and that's the end of it." In an August interview published in the New Yorker magazine, Spanier ripped the Freeh report. "It's unfair, it's deeply flawed, it has many errors and omissions," the former university president told Jeffrey Toobin, a staff writer for The New Yorker and CNN senior legal analyst. "They interviewed, they say, over 430 people; many of those folks have spoken to me about their interviews. Many of them describe those interviews to me as a witch hunt." Curley and Schultz are scheduled for a January trial on the initial two charges.
Kelly said she thinks now that Spanier has been charged, the three men should face a joint trial, because of the intertwined nature of the charges. In July, the National Collegiate Athletic Association vacated Penn State's football wins dating back to 1998, the year when allegations that Sandusky was abusing children were first made. That penalty removed Paterno from the top of the list of Division I college football's winningest coaches. Sandusky, Paterno's top defensive assistant for more than two decades, has been placed in protective custody at the State Correctional Institution at Greene in Waynesburg, where he'll serve out his sentence for sexually abusing boys. Penn State review recasts story of football hero Paterno . "Given the high-profile nature of this individual, coupled with the nature of his crimes, this makes him very vulnerable in a prison setting," Corrections Secretary John Wetzel said. He was transferred to the state prison Wednesday from the State Correctional Institution at Camp Hill, where he was physically and mentally evaluated. In the 1,800-inmate prison in Waynesburg, the former coach is being held in a single cell and has additional supervision and an escort when he's out of his cell for the three showers and five hours of exercise he is allotted weekly. All meals and any counseling or medical visits will take place in Sandusky's cell, according to a statement from the state's Department of Corrections. All visits will be "noncontact," the statement said. Sandusky will be allowed to have a television, radio and other personal property as authorized by prison officials. Jurors determined that Sandusky, who retired from Penn State in 1999, used his access to university facilities and his foundation for underprivileged youths to abuse the boys sexually. During the trial, a 23-year-old man identified as Victim No. 4 testified that he was 13 when Sandusky sexually abused him in a university shower. Sandusky is appealing his conviction.
CNN's Deborah Doft, Ross Levitt, Sara Ganim and Mark Morgenstein contributed to this report .
This is a symbol to remember those who have given their lives in war. This year, over 45 million poppies will be given out by 150,000 volunteers. But why do we wear these red flowers to remember people in this way? The reason poppies are used to remember those who have given their lives in battle is because they are the flowers which grew on the battlefields after World War One ended. This is described in the famous World War One poem In Flanders Fields, which you can read below. Ever since then, they have come to be a symbol of remembering not just those who gave their lives in World War One, but all those who have died on behalf of their country. Every year, volunteers make poppies available throughout the country and people make a donation in order to get their poppy. The money raised from these donations is used to help servicemen and women who are still alive, whose lives have been changed by wars that they fought in. It might help them to get jobs and somewhere to live, and will also help older war veterans with any support they may need. It is also used to help those who have lost loved ones because of wars. The charity that runs this Poppy Appeal is called The Royal British Legion. Wearing poppies like this to raise money to help people who had fought in wars started in 1921. This was year that the Royal British Legion was founded on 15 May. However, back then the poppies weren't made out of paper like they are today. They were made out of silk. They sold out straight away and raised more than Â£106,000 for those whose lives had been affected by the war, by helping to find them jobs and somewhere to live once they were no longer serving in the army. In 1922, a factory was set up where disabled former soldiers were employed to make the poppies.
This factory is still running - and producing many millions of poppies each year - to this very day. While the majority of people wear their poppy on their chest, there is in fact no right or wrong way to wear a poppy. As the Royal British Legion says: "We only ask you to wear it with pride." In Flanders fields the poppies blow Between the crosses, row on row, That mark our place; and in the sky The larks, still bravely singing, fly Scarce heard amid the guns below. - We are the Dead. Short days ago We lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow, Loved and were loved, and now we lie In Flanders fields. - Take up our quarrel with the foe: To you from failing hands we throw The torch; be yours to hold it high. If ye break faith with us who die We shall not sleep, though poppies grow In Flanders fields.
Rogers, 38, will play in next season's County Championship and Maynard is delighted with the signing. "He has agreed to come in and bat at three for the summer and that's a real top signing for us, a marquee player," Maynard told BBC Radio Somerset. "He is a great acquisition, I'm really looking forward to working with him." Maynard says the Sydney-born left-hander will be a huge asset to the side and will help support the opening duo of Marcus Trescothick and 21-year-old Tom Abell. "I think it was quite evident that apart from Marcus and Tom at the top of the order, we needed a bit more stability at three. "He's got a world of experience, he is still very athletic, he is a very fit lad, he has got that Aussie determination, that steely quality and we saw during the summer he is a high-class player on tough wickets." Rogers announced his retirement from Test cricket prior to this summer's Ashes series and Maynard hopes his experience can help the younger members of Somerset's squad. "We can't stifle our young talent and ask Tom Abell to bat out of position. He has established himself as an opener, he still has a long way to go but has the potential to go all the way and bat for England for a number of years. "Obviously Marcus is still at the top of his game. Chris has batted at three a number of times in his career and is happy there. Also it will give him time to bed in, he is a quality performer and we're hoping for an excellent season from him."
(CNN) -- In keeping with President Obama's pledge of an administration that is "transparent and accountable," the White House has launched a site that promises to show taxpayers where their stimulus-package dollars are being spent. Visitors to Recovery.gov are greeted with a video message from President Obama. The site, Recovery.gov, allows visitors to track efforts to jump-start a teetering economy in the midst of a slumping housing market and massive job losses. It breaks down the $787 billion package by category: $288 billion for tax relief, $59 billion for health care, and so on. The site promises that more detailed spending information will be posted once federal agencies decide how they are going to allocate the money. Learn more about where the money is going » . Using graphs, charts and layman's terminology, the online portal is an example of how the tech-savvy Obama administration is taking its message to the American people. While running for president, Obama harnessed the Web's fundraising and social-networking capabilities to energize his grass-roots campaign. And the moment he was sworn in as the 44th president of the United States, administration officials unveiled a sleek interactive version of Whitehouse.gov, the official White House Web site. Recovery.gov, launched within hours of Obama's signing of the stimulus bill Tuesday, continues the theme of offering information in a user-friendly format. Visitors are greeted by a brief video address from Obama. "The American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan represents a strategic and significant investment in our country's future," the president explains. "The size and scale of this plan demand unprecedented efforts to root out waste, inefficiency and unnecessary spending. Recovery.gov will be the online portal for these efforts." The site will publish information on how the stimulus funds will be spent in a "timely, targeted and transparent manner," Obama said.
Edward Glaeser, a professor of economics at Harvard University, said transparency has "been a watch word for good government types for years." "There is sense that taxpayers will feel a lot better about this if they actually know where their money is going," Glaeser said. "Better transparency makes evaluation much easier." Glaeser pointed out that the idea behind Recovery.gov is not entirely new. He noted that the Office of Management and Budget has for years had a site where citizens can learn the available cost-benefit information of several government programs. Clicking on "Where is Your Money Going" on the new site brings up a chart displaying key areas where the $787 billion will be distributed, including tax relief, energy, health care and infrastructure and science. Under "Accountability and Transparency," there is a statement that reads, "This is your money. You have a right to know where it's going and how it's being spent. Learn what steps we're taking to ensure you can track our progress every step of the way." Like other Obama online portals, the site encourages user interaction. The public is invited to share stories on how the Recovery Act is affecting them. Scrolling over a map of the United States reveals data on the number of jobs created and saved in each state. Those with some time on their hands can also read, in its entirety, the full text of the legislation.
There is no doubt the perfect baby name is hard to pick, but a unique one is even harder to come by. Reddit user thebdizzle spawned a viral thread by asking: 'What are people naming their children that they really shouldn't be? ', after a Facebook friend announced that they had named their child 'Dude Lorenzo'. And it seems thebdizzle was not alone in his shock over the newborn's name - which could be a tip of the hat to actor Jeff Bridges' character named 'The Dude' in cult hit, The Big Lebowski or a reference to the Ashton Kutcher movie, Dude Where's My Car?. Scroll down for video . Some parents have drawn inspiration from popular book and TV series Game of Thrones, by naming their child Khaleesi (played by Emilia Clarke, pictured) 'Well, its only 6am and I found my story of the day that makes me question my faith in humanity, thanks,' Slikrick98 wrote. While theschizophreniac agreed: 'Poor kid. I can only imagine the hilarity of his teachers referring to him as dude.' While it seems some parents took inspiration from literature - including Game of Thrones and The Hunger Games - others left Redditors scratching their heads. User technicolours also came across parents who gave the royal monikers Your Highness and Your Majesty, a new twist. Redditors have also heard of parents calling their children, Katniss, from The Hunger Games book and TV series . thebdizzle posted a screen shot of the announcement for those who did not believe him at first . A Reddit thread was started after it emerged a baby was named Dude, which could be a nod to Jeff Bridges' (pictured) character The Dude in The Big Lebowski . 'I did a clinical rotation at a pediatric facility, and I had two patients named YrHyness & YrMagesty.
It's really hard not to laugh when you're asking a 3 year old, "Does your tummy hurt YrHyness?"' they said. While Exodia101 claimed to know someone named 'iMajesty' to which Animalgeologist replied: 'Is he a new Apple product?' Other baby names included Susej (pronounced 'Suzy'), Starblanket, Cviiitlyn (a version of Caitlin), Jew'lrii ('jewellery'), Yoonik ('eunuch'), Sharkeisha, Iysabeyl (a take on Isabel), Cevyn ('seven'), Ziggy, Sincerely Yours, Macaroni and Spaghetti. Meanwhile others took inspiration from fiction and made it there own form of reality with names like Katniss from The Hunger Games, Aragorn and Elrond from The Lord of the Rings, Khaleesi from Game of Thrones and Holden from The Catcher in the Rye. Of The Hunger Games reference, bastocrat said: 'You just know that all the other kids will call her "catp***".' And nfriel had a bone to pick with the nod to Game of Thrones: '"Khaleesi" is the worst. It's not even the character's name! It's a title in a made-up fantasy language.' The latest celebrity to jump on board with the unique baby names trend is former British glamour model, Katie Price. She hit back at critics last week after she was mocked for naming her newborn daughter, Bunny. The new mum wrote in her column for Now magazine: 'Bunny is an old-fashioned name and I love it. Some may ridicule our choice and some will love it - I really don't care to be honest.' Price said the name suits the tiny tot because she embodies all things a bunny rabbit represents - 'soft, cute, cuddly, unique fun'.
Other names mentioned in the thread included Starblanket, Jew'lrii, Yoonik, Sharkeisha and Iysabeyl .
Crowds paid their respects to Alessandro Giancaterino, 42, and Gabriele D'Angelo, 31, waiters at the Hotel Rigopiano. Another body, of a woman, was found on Tuesday, bringing the death toll to 16. But rescuers continue to search for 13 people still missing, and say there is a chance survivors could be trapped in the hotel bar. They are trying to punch their way in through the 80cm (2ft 7in) concrete wall, in the hope that some could still be alive in air pockets there. "We are working on the theory that the avalanche did not necessarily hit or destroy every room and that we haven't yet reached the heart of the structure," said a spokesman for the fire service, Luca Cari. He said rescuers were working around the clock at the remains of the hotel - which in 2009 hosted Hollywood star George Clooney. So far, 11 people have been found alive following the 120,000-ton avalanche - which police have calculated had the equivalent impact of the hotel being hit by 4,000 fully loaded trucks travelling at over 100 km/h (60 mph). On Tuesday, first victims were laid to rest - chief waiter Giancaterino in the next village of Farindola, while fellow waiter D'Angelo was being buried a few kilometres away. Giancaterino was in the hotel at the time as he had offered to stay for a double shift on 18 January to cover a fellow worker who was struggling to get in through the snow drifts, said AP news agency. "He was a great hard worker. He was very professional," said his brother, Massimiliano Giancaterino. "This is the memory that I want to keep of my brother, beyond obviously the private ones that I keep in my heart."
At the hotel, rescuers have been able to excavate a path into the hotel which allows access for heavy machinery, said firefighters' spokesman Mr Cari. They will now try to create a shaft through the thick concrete wall dividing the bar from the kitchen, in the hope that there could be an air pocket - and possible survivors - in the space behind. As the search continued, a rescue team was sent from the base co-ordinating the avalanche operation to help in an unrelated helicopter crash nearby, public broadcaster Rai reported. Italian President Sergio Mattarella has called for a "united effort and common front in the face of disaster". But further concerns have been raised about the emergency services' handling of the disaster and authorities have opened an official inquiry into the circumstances of the tragedy. Details have emerged of an emergency phone call between a restaurant owner and a senior official at the local authority co-ordinating rescues in Pescara. A transcript has been published by Italian daily La Repubblica. At 18:20 local time (19:20 GMT), after the hotel's collapse, Quintino Marcello tells the official that his chef, Giampiero Parete, who was staying at the Rigopiano, contacted him on Whatsapp five minutes before. "The Rigopiano hotel has collapsed, there's nothing left. He's there with his wife and little children. Act immediately. Go up there!" But La Repubblica says the official insists the hotel is fine and that the fire brigade checked it out during the morning. It was a barn containing sheep at a farm that had collapsed, the official says. Mr Parete had already contacted emergency services some time before, La Repubblica says, but they checked with the hotel owner, Bruno di Tommaso, who told them he was unaware of an avalanche - though crucially he was not at the scene.
Earlier, relatives of the missing complained that the snow-bound hotel should have been evacuated before the avalanche hit late on Wednesday afternoon. One relative, Alessio Feniello, accused authorities of wrongly telling him that his son, Stefano, had been rescued. It has also emerged that the hotel owner sent the authorities an email asking for help a few hours before the avalanche, saying that guests were "terrorised by the earthquakes and have decided to stay out in the open". Prosecutor are also examining whether environmental risks were properly assessed during the construction and subsequent renovation of the hotel.
By . Anthony Bond . PUBLISHED: . 10:00 EST, 23 July 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 11:48 EST, 23 July 2012 . It is a car which is synonymous with British culture and was even adored by James Bond. But despite its unique and glowing reputation, the price-tag of this rare Aston Martin still comes as something of a shock. This bright orange version of the luxury car has been described by experts as a 'masterpiece' and is expected to fetch a staggering £2.5 million when it goes under the hammer next month. Pricey: This very rare Aston Martin is expected to set a staggering £2.5 million when it goes under the hammer next month . Rare: The stunning 1955 Aston Martin DB3S is one of just 21 built by the iconic British sports car maker . The stunning 1955 Aston Martin DB3S is one of just 21 built by the iconic British sports car maker. It was bought new by a Dutch motorsport ace Hans Davids who raced it in England before the car was later shipped across the Atlantic to the USA. Classic car enthusiasts regard the orange Aston Martin as 'one of the most attractive and elegantly designed sports racing cars of the post war period'. It will go under the hammer at RM Auctions’ Monterey sale on August 17 with experts estimating it could fetch £2.5million. This will make it one of the most expensive British cars ever sold publicly - putting it on a par with James Bond’s Aston Martin DB5 which fetched £2.6 million in 2010. The elegantly designed sports car, which goes under the chassis number 118, is fitted with a 3-litre engine which develops around 210bhp.
Adored: Classic car enthusiasts regard the orange Aston Martin as 'one of the most attractive and elegantly designed sports racing cars of the post war period' Attractive: The elegantly designed sports car is fitted with a 3-litre engine which develops around 210bhp . RM Auctions has billed it as one of the most attractive post-war racing cars, calling it a 'masterpiece' of the then Aston Martin owner Sir David Brown’s vision. Don Rose, RM Car Specialist, said: 'Aston made very few sports racers in their storied history, with a mere 21 DB3S models available to privateers. 'DB3S/118 is among the best of the examples extant, with a fully documented race and ownership history and a factory engine upgrade to the "Works competition" twin-plug head specification in its first year and which is still retains today. 'An important and fascinating car, you will not see another one in its brilliant orange Dutch national racing livery, as it was when it took first place at its native Zandvoort circuit two years running.' Rob Myers, Chairman & Founder, RM Auctions, called the Aston a 'fantastic car with great history'.
The jet engine maker reported a loss before tax of £4.6bn for 2016. However, once one-off costs have been stripped out, the company's underlying profit was better than many experts had predicted. Rolls-Royce agreed to pay £671m to settle corruption cases with UK and US authorities and it has written off £4.4bn from currency related contracts. Like many international businesses, Rolls-Royce usually "hedges" its bets to protect itself from fluctuating currency markets. Most international aerospace contracts are priced in dollars, but, as a UK company, much of Rolls-Royce's costs are in pounds. Simon Jack: Rolls Royce – The good, the bad and the ugly It takes out long-term currency trades. These were designed to protect the firm against what seemed the most likely risk- the fall in the dollar - and many of them were put in place before the EU referendum was even announced. Since the Brexit vote, the pound has fallen sharply against the US dollar, which has led to the accounting loss. Underlying profits, which ignore these factors, fell to £813m, down from £1.4bn the previous year, although the fall was much less than many analysts had forecast. Rolls-Royce, which has been a completely separate company to the car-maker since 1971, said the outlook for this year was for a "modest performance improvement", while chief executive Warren East said more needed to be done to improve profit margins. Mr East took over as chief executive in 2015 with the task of turning round the struggling company. It is in the process of carrying out a major cost-cutting drive. "We must ensure our wide ranging business transformation programme delivers the full benefits expected, not only in terms of cost savings but also the cultural and behavioural changes necessary to ensure the transformation is sustained and high standards of business conduct are maintained," said Mr East.
"These are essential if we are to become a more trusted, resilient company." Rolls-Royce has apologised "unreservedly" for the corruption cases, which spanned 25 years, and involved illegally using local middlemen and paying bribes to win deals in Indonesia, Thailand, China and Russia. In the whacky world of the City, bad headlines can sometimes be ignored. That has been the case with Rolls-Royce; when it said last month it would pay £671m to settle a long-running bribery investigation its shares went up 6%. Investors were relieved the worst was behind it, and the same may apply to today's whacking loss. While it underlines the complicated nature of Rolls-Royce's business - it has a £30bn currency hedging book, designed, ironically, to flatten out volatility, and has unkindly been described as a hedge fund with an engine maker attached - shareholders will focus on underlying trading. There, the news is a bit better than expected, with cashflow and profit both slightly ahead of market expectations. After an annus horribilis (or two) Rolls-Royce still has some big strategic questions. It is still expanding production at a breakneck pace, which drains its reserves, and must still decide whether to take the drastic medicine advocated by some and shed some of its operations, such as the marine engine operation. Warren East, the chief executive, gave a hint that he is coming to some conclusions on the future of the company - he said he expected to set out a "vision" in the next few months.
By . Rebecca Evans . and Vanessa Allen . Hacked to death: Lt Col David Parkinson (right) was attacked by five intruders as he was sleeping beside his wife of 35 years, Sonja (left), in Kenya . A gang that hacked to death a former Parachute Regiment officer in Kenya may be linked to a previous attack on a British couple, police revealed yesterday. Nature reserve manager Lt Col David Parkinson, 58, was killed by five robbers at his remote home. They took the equivalent of £1.90 in cash plus a laptop and bottles of wine after Sonja Parkinson, 52, managed to escape and barricade herself in the house’s panic room. A local man has been detained and questioned over the attack on the Parkinsons but has not been formally arrested in connection with Sunday’s break-in at their home in Lolldaiga Hills, near Mount Kenya National Park. The couple were asleep when the robbers used smashed their way into their bedroom and demanded money and guns. Mrs Parkinson was tied up and threatened and her husband attacked as he fought to defend her. Police believe he may have been knocked unconscious before being struck with broad-bladed machetes, known locally as pangas. Lt Co Parkinson, from Brighton. East Sussex, was formerly a director of Lewa Wildlife Conservancy in Kenya, where Prince William spent part of his gap year. He was awarded an OBE in 1998 for his military service. Police said there were parallels with the robbery and a raid on the home of another former British army officer and his wife in the region in June. Two men are expected to face trial for that attack, but two other raiders had not been traced. It is likely that Lt Col Parkinson bled to death during a raid in which by an armed gang stole a laptop, $3 and bottles of wine.
A former grammar school pupil from Brighton, he was awarded an OBE at St James’ Palace by Prince Charles in 1998 for his military service. Last night, Kenyan police said the retired soldier’s hand was cut off as he struggled with the intruders in order to give his wife enough time to reach safety. Local police chief Maurice Tum said the robbers gained entry by smashing the windows and ordered Lt Col Parkinson to hand over money and guns. Crime scene: David Parkinson's house in Nanyuki, Laikipia where robbers raided his home and killed him . Grief: Friends of Lt Col Parkinson at his farm are coming to terms with his brutal murder . Tragedy: Lt Col David Parkinson was killed in the farmhouse of the Lolldaiga Hills ranch in Kenya (pictured) He added: ‘A fight ensured between the men and the soldier and they cut off his left hand and left him bleeding profusely. 'The . wife hid in the strong room. It was this decision which saved her. She . came out and found her bleeding husband and contacted the police.’ Lt Col Parkinson, who served in the Army for 30 years, became manager of the ranch after leaving Lewa in 2008. Before taking up his place at St Andrews University, Prince William spent his gap year at Lewa, helping with various conservation projects. In 2010, he and Kate holidayed there, staying in a secluded rustic log cabin where William proposed. The Duchess said: ‘He’s a true romantic and we had a wonderful holiday in Africa. It was very romantic and it was a very personal time for both of us.’ Last night the Duke of Cambridge, who is a patron of Lewa, said he was ‘saddened’ to hear about Lt Col Parkinson’s death.
Mrs Parkinson, who owns a local arts and crafts company called Mitumba Art, was taken to hospital and treated for shock. 'Saddened': The soldier was formerly a director of Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, where Prince William (right) spent his gap year as a 19-year-old and where he proposed to Kate Middleton (left, with Prince George) A friend and neighbour said: ‘He was very . dynamic, doing an amazing job in Lolldaiga for both conservation and . the community. He was a very well-liked man.’ Lt Col Parkinson joined the Army in 1973 after graduating from the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst. 'A fight ensured between the men and the soldier and they cut off his left hand and left him bleeding profusely' Maurice Tum, local Kenyan police chief . Known to his fellow soldiers as Parky, he joined the Parachute Regiment and Airborne Forces, before becoming chief instructor at Sandhurst. On his last tour before retiring, he commanded the British Army training organisation in Nairobi. In 2003, he and his wife permanently relocated to Kenya where he took up his post with Lewa, a growing conservation and community development project. The couple sold their home in Hassocks, West Sussex, for £500,000 three years later. They have two daughters, Anna, 33 and Renate, 29. Lt Col Parkinson took up the post with Lolldaiga Hills at the start of this year. A spokesman for the Foreign Office said: ‘We are aware of the death of a British national in Kenya and our team at the High Commission in Nairobi are providing consular assistance.’
The fight started slowly but came to life and ended in brutal fashion as both slugged it out until the end. Groves, 23, was wobbled in the third and was cut badly in the 11th but boxed stylishly throughout to earn victory. Unbeaten Groves earned a majority decision, one judge scoring it 115-115 while the other two had it at 115-114. In contrast to the explosive build-up to the fight, the first round at the O2 Arena was cagey and tense with DeGale, who was booed on his way into the ring, shading it by landing the only scoring shots and ending with a sharp left jab. Whether it was respect or more likely nerves, neither boxer seemed to settle in the opening minute of the second round with both throwing just single shots. But Groves improved as the round wore on and landed a decent right on the bell. The fencing and feinting continued into the third before DeGale landed a right hook to the top of the head of Groves, who responded with one of his own while also later throwing two jabs that found the target. It was a fascinating start to the contest which Groves had just about shaded but he appeared marked below the right eye. Groves continued to impress with two-punch combinations and seemed to be in control of the fourth round but a solid left hook in the final minute wobbled him and DeGale unleashed a cluster of punches to finish on top. DeGale took a strong right hand at the start of the fifth and Groves' footwork was proving frustrating for his opponent who chased but could not catch his rival. Groves then landed a further right that appeared to hurt the tense-looking Olympic gold medallist. It was another quiet start to the sixth that drew boos from the 19,000 crowd, and that seemed to spur on DeGale who landed a big left that hurt Groves.
DeGale followed that up with another left as he tried to assert himself and he continued on the front foot, landing a quality straight left on the bell. DeGale began the seventh round confidently as Groves' defence continued to drop lower but he still managed to land a clubbing left. DeGale responded with a left of his own with his punches seeming to hold more power and the round ended with a left uppercut from the British champion. A straight left from DeGale rocked Groves and sparked the Commonwealth champion into life but despite boxing much of the eighth round on the front foot he failed to land a meaningful punch. Groves boxed behind his jab in the ninth, inviting DeGale to box on the front foot. There was a flurry of punches and after a clash of head a cut opened up above the left eye of Groves. The final minute of the ninth round was the most entertaining of the fight with both boxers opening up as DeGale rocked his opponent with 30 seconds to go and then, just before the bell, had him wobbling with a huge left, which had Groves desperately holding on. Groves still appeared dazed at the start of the 10th but found success with his jab, although his punches appeared to lack spite with DeGale looking the more dangerous fighter. In the final minute of the round they again trade punches, with Groves taking a big right hook to the side of the head, and both boxers went to their stools with bloodied faces following a brutal exchange. With two rounds to go the fight was in the balance, and another clash of heads resulted in a huge cut opening up on the forehead of Groves which attracted a lot of attention from the referee. Perhaps sensing the fight could be stopped, Groves opened up and DeGale showed great skill in picking off his opponent who looked desperate and battered.
But Groves battled on despite cuts on his forehead, left eye and right cheekbone and DeGale hurt his opponent again with a left but they again traded and landed in a contest that was turning into a classic. Going into the final round DeGale looked the fresher, but Groves landed more scoring punches, with both boxers knowing they needed a big performance to secure victory. DeGale landed a right but his momentum was checked by a big right uppercut from Groves. However, it was the British champion who ended the fight on top, opening up against a tiring Groves and they slugged it out right until the final bell. The decision was contentious with Groves earning his 13th straight victory while DeGale, who disputed the decision, suffered his first defeat in 11 professional fights. Groves, who also beat his opponent as an amateur, was content to prove the doubters wrong and claimed he would be willing to fight DeGale again. "Everyone was raving about him. Only two favoured me in a boxing news poll, but I have self belief," he told BBC 5 Live. "It feels good. I knew I'd won. I knew I'd done enough." He added: "I will fight him again yeah if everything is all right and it's the right way. But now I have beaten him twice." Earlier, middleweight Billy Joe Saunders inflicted the first stoppage of veteran Kevin Hammond's career to win in two rounds. While Frankie Gavin won the vacant WBO Inter-Continental welterweight title on points after a relatively uninspiring performance against the negative Young Mutley.
Controlled Substances Act TITLE 21 - FOOD AND DRUGS CHAPTER 13 - DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION AND CONTROL SUBCHAPTER I - CONTROL AND ENFORCEMENT Part A - Introductory Provisions Part B - Authority to Control; Standards and Schedules Part C - Registration of Manufacturers, Distributors, and Dispensers of Controled Substances; Piperidine Reporting Part D - Offenses and Penalties Part E - Administrative and Enforcement Provisions Part F - Advisory Commission Part G - Conforming, Transitional and Effective Date, and General Provisions PART A - INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS § 801 Note Short Title This title may be cited as the 'Controlled Substances Act'. § 801. Congressional findings and declarations: controlled substances. The Congress makes the following findings and declarations: (1) Many of the drugs included within this subchapter have a useful and legitimate medical purpose and are necessary to maintain the health and general welfare of the American people. (2) The illegal importation, manufacture, distribution, and possession and improper use of controlled substances have a substantial and detrimental effect on the health and general welfare of the American people. (3) A major portion of the traffic in controlled substances flows through interstate and foreign commerce. Incidents of the traffic which are not an integral part of the interstate or foreign flow, such as manufacture, local distribution, and possession, nonetheless have a substantial and direct effect upon interstate commerce because - (A) after manufacture, many controlled substances are transported in interstate commerce, (B) controlled substances distributed locally usually have been transported in interstate commerce immediately before their distribution, and (C) controlled substances possessed commonly flow through interstate commerce immediately prior to such possession. (4) Local distribution and possession of controlled substances contribute to swelling the interstate traffic in such substances. (5) Controlled substances manufactured and distributed intrastate cannot be differentiated from controlled substances manufactured and distributed interstate.
Thus, it is not feasible to distinguish, in terms of controls, between controlled substances manufactured and distributed interstate and controlled substances manufactured and distributed intrastate. (6) Federal control of the intrastate incidents of the traffic in controlled substances is essential to the effective control of the interstate incidents of such traffic. (7) The United States is a party to the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, and other international conventions designed to establish effective control over international and domestic traffic in controlled substances. § 801a. Congressional findings and declarations: psychotropic substances. The Congress makes the following findings and declarations: (1) The Congress has long recognized the danger involved in the manufacture, distribution, and use of certain psychotropic substances for nonscientific and nonmedical purposes, and has provided strong and effective legislation to control illicit trafficking and to regulate legitimate uses of psychotropic substances in this country. Abuse of psychotropic substances has become a phenomenon common to many countries, however, and is not confined to national borders. It is, therefore, essential that the United States cooperate with other nations in establishing effective controls over international traffic in such substances. (2) The United States has joined with other countries in executing an international treaty, entitled the Convention on Psychotropic Substances and signed at Vienna, Austria, on February 21, 1971, which is designed to establish suitable controls over the manufacture, distribution, transfer, and use of certain psychotropic substances. The Convention is not self-executing, and the obligations of the United States thereunder may only be performed pursuant to appropriate legislation. It is the intent of the Congress that the amendments made by this Act, together with existing law, will enable the United States to meet all of its obligations under the Convention and that no further legislation will be necessary for that purpose.
(3) In implementing the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, the Congress intends that, consistent with the obligations of the United States under the Convention, control of psychotropic substances in the United States should be accomplished within the framework of the procedures and criteria for classification of substances provided in the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.). This will insure that (A) the availability of psychotropic substances to manufacturers, distributors, dispensers, and researchers for useful and legitimate medical and scientific purposes will not be unduly restricted; (B) nothing in the Convention will interfere with bona fide research activities; and (C) nothing in the Convention will interfere with ethical medical practice in this country as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services on the basis of a consensus of the views of the American medical and scientific community. § 802. Definitions. As used in this subchapter: (1) The term ''addict'' means any individual who habitually uses any narcotic drug so as to endanger the public morals, health, safety, or welfare, or who is so far addicted to the use of narcotic drugs as to have lost the power of self-control with reference to his addiction. (2) The term ''administer'' refers to the direct application of a controlled substance to the body of a patient or research subject by - (A) a practitioner (or, in his presence, by his authorized agent), or (B) the patient or research subject at the direction and in the presence of the practitioner, whether such application be by injection, inhalation, ingestion, or any other means.
(3) The term ''agent'' means an authorized person who acts on behalf of or at the direction of a manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser; except that such term does not include a common or contract carrier, public warehouseman, or employee of the carrier or warehouseman, when acting in the usual and lawful course of the carrier's or warehouseman's business. (4) The term ''Drug Enforcement Administration'' means the Drug Enforcement Administration in the Department of Justice. (5) The term ''control'' means to add a drug or other substance, or immediate precursor, to a schedule under part B of this subchapter, whether by transfer from another schedule or otherwise. (6) The term ''controlled substance'' means a drug or other substance, or immediate precursor, included in schedule I, II, III, IV, or V of part B of this subchapter. The term does not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, or tobacco, as those terms are defined or used in subtitle E of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (7) The term ''counterfeit substance'' means a controlled substance which, or the container or labeling of which, without authorization, bears the trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark, imprint, number, or device, or any likeness thereof, of a manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser other than the person or persons who in fact manufactured, distributed, or dispensed such substance and which thereby falsely purports or is represented to be the product of, or to have been distributed by, such other manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser. (8) The terms ''deliver'' or ''delivery'' mean the actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of a controlled substance or a listed chemical, whether or not there exists an agency relationship.
(9) The term ''depressant or stimulant substance'' means - (A) a drug which contains any quantity of (i) barbituric acid or any of the salts of barbituric acid; or (ii) any derivative of barbituric acid which has been designated by the Secretary as habit forming under section 352(d) of this title; or (B) a drug which contains any quantity of (i) amphetamine or any of its optical isomers; (ii) any salt of amphetamine or any salt of an optical isomer of amphetamine; or (iii) any substance which the Attorney General, after investigation, has found to be, and by regulation designated as, habit forming because of its stimulant effect on the central nervous systems; or (C) lysergic acid diethylamide; or (D) any drug which contains any quantity of a substance which the Attorney General, after investigation, has found to have, and by regulation designated as having, a potential for abuse because of its depressant or stimulant effect on the central nervous system or its hallucinogenic effect. (10) The term ''dispense'' means to deliver a controlled substance to an ultimate user or research subject by, or pursuant to the lawful order of, a practitioner, including the prescribing and administering of a controlled substance and the packaging, labeling or compounding necessary to prepare the substance for such delivery. The term ''dispenser'' means a practitioner who so delivers a controlled substance to an ultimate user or research subject. (11) The term ''distribute'' means to deliver (other than by administering or dispensing) a controlled substance or a listed chemical. The term ''distributor'' means a person who so delivers a controlled substance or a listed chemical. (12) The term ''drug'' has the meaning given that term by section 321(g)(1) of this title.
(13) The term ''felony'' means any Federal or State offense classified by applicable Federal or State law as a felony. (14) The term ''isomer'' means the optical isomer, except as used in schedule I(c) and schedule II(a)(4). As used in schedule I(c), the term ''isomer'' means any optical, positional, or geometric isomer. As used in schedule II(a)(4), the term ''isomer'' means any optical or geometric isomer. (15) The term ''manufacture'' means the production, preparation, propagation, compounding, or processing of a drug or other substance, either directly or indirectly or by extraction from substances of natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, and includes any packaging or repackaging of such substance or labeling or relabeling of its container; except that such term does not include the preparation, compounding, packaging, or labeling of a drug or other substance in conformity with applicable State or local law by a practitioner as an incident to his administration or dispensing of such drug or substance in the course of his professional practice. The term ''manufacturer'' means a person who manufactures a drug or other substance. (16) The term ''marihuana'' means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin.
Such term does not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. (17) The term ''narcotic drug'' means any of the following whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis: (A) Opium, opiates, derivatives of opium and opiates, including their isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, esters, and ethers, whenever the existence of such isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation. Such term does not include the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium. (B) Poppy straw and concentrate of poppy straw. (C) Coca leaves, except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivatives of ecgonine or their salts have been removed. (D) Cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers. (E) Ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers. (F) Any compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of any of the substances referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (E). (18) The term ''opiate'' means any drug or other substance having an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having such addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability.
(19) The term ''opium poppy'' means the plant of the species Papaver somniferum L., except the seed thereof. (20) The term ''poppy straw'' means all parts, except the seeds, of the opium poppy, after mowing. (21) The term ''practitioner'' means a physician, dentist, veterinarian, scientific investigator, pharmacy, hospital, or other person licensed, registered, or otherwise permitted, by the United States or the jurisdiction in which he practices or does research, to distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to, administer, or use in teaching or chemical analysis, a controlled substance in the course of professional practice or research. (22) The term ''production'' includes the manufacture, planting, cultivation, growing, or harvesting of a controlled substance. (23) The term ''immediate precursor'' means a substance - (A) which the Attorney General has found to be and by regulation designated as being the principal compound used, or produced primarily for use, in the manufacture of a controlled substance; (B) which is an immediate chemical intermediary used or likely to be used in the manufacture of such controlled substance; and (C) the control of which is necessary to prevent, curtail, or limit the manufacture of such controlled substance. (24) The term ''Secretary'', unless the context otherwise indicates, means the Secretary of Health and Human Services. (25) The term ''serious bodily injury'' means bodily injury which involves - (A) a substantial risk of death; (B) protracted and obvious disfigurement; or (C) protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty. (26) The term ''State'' means any State, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Canal Zone.
(27) The term ''ultimate user'' means a person who has lawfully obtained, and who possesses, a controlled substance for his own use or for the use of a member of his household or for an animal owned by him or by a member of his household. (28) The term ''United States'', when used in a geographic sense, means all places and waters, continental or insular, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. (29) The term ''maintenance treatment'' means the dispensing, for a period in excess of twenty-one days, of a narcotic drug in the treatment of an individual for dependence upon heroin or other morphine-like drugs. (30) The term ''detoxification treatment'' means the dispensing, for a period not in excess of one hundred and eighty days, of a narcotic drug in decreasing doses to an individual in order to alleviate adverse physiological or psychological effects incident to withdrawal from the continuous or sustained use of a narcotic drug and as a method of bringing the individual to a narcotic drug-free state within such period. (31) The term ''Convention on Psychotropic Substances'' means the Convention on Psychotropic Substances signed at Vienna, Austria, on February 21, 1971; and the term ''Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs'' means the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs signed at New York, New York, on March 30, 1961.
(32) (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term ''controlled substance analogue'' means a substance - (i) the chemical structure of which is substantially similar to the chemical structure of a controlled substance in schedule I or II; (ii) which has a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or greater than the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system of a controlled substance in schedule I or II; or (iii) with respect to a particular person, which such person represents or intends to have a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or greater than the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system of a controlled substance in schedule I or II. (B) Such term does not include - (i) a controlled substance; (ii) any substance for which there is an approved new drug application; (iii) with respect to a particular person any substance, if an exemption is in effect for investigational use, for that person, under section 355 of this title to the extent conduct with respect to such substance is pursuant to such exemption; or (iv) any substance to the extent not intended for human consumption before such an exemption takes effect with respect to that substance. (33) The term ''listed chemical'' means any list I chemical or any list II chemical.
(34) The term ''list I chemical'' means a chemical specified by regulation of the Attorney General as a chemical that is used in manufacturing a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter and is important to the manufacture of the controlled substances, and such term includes (until otherwise specified by regulation of the Attorney General, as considered appropriate by the Attorney General or upon petition to the Attorney General by any person) the following: (A) Anthranilic acid, its esters, and its salts. (B) Benzyl cyanide. (C) Ephedrine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of optical isomers. (D) Ergonovine and its salts. (E) Ergotamine and its salts. (F) N-Acetylanthranilic acid, its esters, and its salts. (G) Norpseudoephedrine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of optical isomers. (H) Phenylacetic acid, its esters, and its salts. (I) Phenylpropanolamine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of optical isomers. (J) Piperidine and its salts. (K) Pseudoephedrine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of optical isomers. (L) 3,4-Methylenedioxyphenyl-2-propanone. (M) Methylamine. (N) Ethylamine. (O) Propionic anhydride. (P) Insosafrole. (Q) Safrole. (R) Piperonal. (S) N-Methylepherdrine. (FOOTNOTE 1) (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should be ''N-Methylephedrine.'' (T) N-methylpseudoephedrine.
(U) Hydriotic (FOOTNOTE 2) acid. (FOOTNOTE 2) So in original. Probably should be ''Hydriodic''. (V) Benzaldehyde. (W) Nitroethane. (X) Any salt, optical isomer, or salt of an optical isomer of the chemicals listed in subparagraphs (M) through (U) of this paragraph. (35) The term ''list II chemical'' means a chemical (other than a list I chemical) specified by regulation of the Attorney General as a chemical that is used in manufacturing a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter, and such term includes (until otherwise specified by regulation of the Attorney General, as considered appropriate by the Attorney General or upon petition to the Attorney General by any person) the following chemicals: (A) Acetic anhydride. (B) Acetone. (C) Benzyl chloride. (D) Ethyl ether. (E) Repealed. Pub. L. 101-647, title XXIII, Sec. 2301(b), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4858. (F) Potassium permanganate. (G) 2-Butanone. (H) Toluene. (36) The term ''regular customer'' means, with respect to a regulated person, a customer with whom the regulated person has an established business relationship that is reported to the Attorney General. (37) The term ''regular importer'' means, with respect to a listed chemical, a person that has an established record as an importer of that listed chemical that is reported to the Attorney General. (38) The term ''regulated person'' means a person who manufactures, distributes, imports, or exports a listed chemical, a tableting machine, or an encapsulating machine or who acts as a broker or trader for an international transaction involving a listed chemical, a tableting machine, or an encapsulating machine.
(39) The term ''regulated transaction'' means - (A) a distribution, receipt, sale, importation, or exportation of, or an international transaction involving shipment of, a listed chemical, or if the Attorney General establishes a threshold amount for a specific listed chemical, a threshold amount, including a cumulative threshold amount for multiple transactions (as determined by the Attorney General, in consultation with the chemical industry and taking into consideration the quantities normally used for lawful purposes), of a listed chemical, except that such term does not include - (i) a domestic lawful distribution in the usual course of business between agents or employees of a single regulated person; (ii) a delivery of a listed chemical to or by a common or contract carrier for carriage in the lawful and usual course of the business of the common or contract carrier, or to or by a warehouseman for storage in the lawful and usual course of the business of the warehouseman, except that if the carriage or storage is in connection with the distribution, importation, or exportation of a listed chemical to a third person, this clause does not relieve a distributor, importer, or exporter from compliance with section 830 of this title; (iii) any category of transaction or any category of transaction for a specific listed chemical or chemicals specified by regulation of the Attorney General as excluded from this definition as unnecessary for enforcement of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter; (iv) any transaction in a listed chemical that is contained in a drug that may be marketed or distributed lawfully in the United States under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.)
unless - (I) (aa) the drug contains ephedrine or its salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers as the only active medicinal ingredient or contains ephedrine or its salts, optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers and therapeutically insignificant quantities of another active medicinal ingredient; or (bb) the Attorney General has determined under section 814 of this title that the drug or group of drugs is being diverted to obtain the listed chemical for use in the illicit production of a controlled substance; and (II) the quantity of ephedrine or other listed chemical contained in the drug included in the transaction or multiple transactions equals or exceeds the threshold established for that chemical by the Attorney General; or (v) any transaction in a chemical mixture which the Attorney General has by regulation designated as exempt from the application of this subchapter and subchapter II of this chapter based on a finding that the mixture is formulated in such a way that it cannot be easily used in the illicit production of a controlled substance and that the listed chemical or chemicals contained in the mixture cannot be readily recovered; and (B) a distribution, importation, or exportation of a tableting machine or encapsulating machine. (40) The term ''chemical mixture'' means a combination of two or more chemical substances, at least one of which is not a list I chemical or a list II chemical, except that such term does not include any combination of a list I chemical or a list II chemical with another chemical that is present solely as an impurity.
(41) (A) The term ''anabolic steroid'' means any drug or hormonal substance, chemically and pharmacologically related to testosterone (other than estrogens, progestins, and corticosteroids) that promotes muscle growth, and includes - (i) boldenone, (ii) chlorotestosterone, (iii) clostebol, (iv) dehydrochlormethyltestosterone, (v) dihydrotestosterone, (vi) drostanolone, (vii) ethylestrenol, (viii) fluoxymesterone, (ix) formebulone, (x) mesterolone, (xi) methandienone, (xii) methandranone, (xiii) methandriol, (xiv) methandrostenolone, (xv) methenolone, (xvi) methyltestosterone, (xvii) mibolerone, (xviii) nandrolone, (xix) norethandrolone, (xx) oxandrolone, (xxi) oxymesterone, (xxii) oxymetholone, (xxiii) stanolone, (xxiv) stanozolol, (xxv) testolactone, (xxvi) testosterone, (xxvii) trenbolone, and (xxviii) any salt, ester, or isomer of a drug or substance described or listed in this paragraph, if that salt, ester, or isomer promotes muscle growth. (B) (i) Except as provided in clause (ii), such term does not include an anabolic steroid which is expressly intended for administration through implants to cattle or other nonhuman species and which has been approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for such administration.
(ii) If any person prescribes, dispenses, or distributes such steroid for human use, such person shall be considered to have prescribed, dispensed, or distributed an anabolic steroid within the meaning of subparagraph (A). (42) The term ''international transaction'' means a transaction involving the shipment of a listed chemical across an international border (other than a United States border) in which a broker or trader located in the United States participates. (43) The terms ''broker'' and ''trader'' mean a person that assists in arranging an international transaction in a listed chemical by - (A) negotiating contracts; (B) serving as an agent or intermediary; or (C) bringing together a buyer and seller, a buyer and transporter, or a seller and transporter. (43) (FOOTNOTE 3) The term ''felony drug offense'' means an offense that is punishable by imprisonment for more than one year under any law of the United States or of a State or foreign country that prohibits or restricts conduct relating to narcotic drugs, marihuana, or depressant or stimulant substances. (FOOTNOTE 3) So in original. Probably should be ''(44)''. § 803. Repealed. Return to top PART B - AUTHORITY TO CONTROL; STANDARDS AND SCHEDULES § 811. Authority and criteria for classification of substances. (a) Rules and regulations of Attorney General; hearing The Attorney General shall apply the provisions of this subchapter to the controlled substances listed in the schedules established by section 812 of this title and to any other drug or other substance added to such schedules under this subchapter.
Except as provided in subsections (d) and (e) of this section, the Attorney General may by rule - (1) add to such a schedule or transfer between such schedules any drug or other substance if he - (A) finds that such drug or other substance has a potential for abuse, and (B) makes with respect to such drug or other substance the findings prescribed by subsection (b) of section 812 of this title for the schedule in which such drug is to be placed; or (2) remove any drug or other substance from the schedules if he finds that the drug or other substance does not meet the requirements for inclusion in any schedule. Rules of the Attorney General under this subsection shall be made on the record after opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the rulemaking procedures prescribed by subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5. Proceedings for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of such rules may be initiated by the Attorney General (1) on his own motion, (2) at the request of the Secretary, or (3) on the petition of any interested party. (b) Evaluation of drugs and other substances The Attorney General shall, before initiating proceedings under subsection (a) of this section to control a drug or other substance or to remove a drug or other substance entirely from the schedules, and after gathering the necessary data, request from the Secretary a scientific and medical evaluation, and his recommendations, as to whether such drug or other substance should be so controlled or removed as a controlled substance. In making such evaluation and recommendations, the Secretary shall consider the factors listed in paragraphs (2), (3), (6), (7), and (8) of subsection (c) of this section and any scientific or medical considerations involved in paragraphs (1), (4), and (5) of such subsection. The recommendations of the Secretary shall include recommendations with respect to the appropriate schedule, if any, under which such drug or other substance should be listed.
The evaluation and the recommendations of the Secretary shall be made in writing and submitted to the Attorney General within a reasonable time. The recommendations of the Secretary to the Attorney General shall be binding on the Attorney General as to such scientific and medical matters, and if the Secretary recommends that a drug or other substance not be controlled, the Attorney General shall not control the drug or other substance. If the Attorney General determines that these facts and all other relevant data constitute substantial evidence of potential for abuse such as to warrant control or substantial evidence that the drug or other substance should be removed entirely from the schedules, he shall initiate proceedings for control or removal, as the case may be, under subsection (a) of this section. (c) Factors determinative of control or removal from schedules In making any finding under subsection (a) of this section or under subsection (b) of section 812 of this title, the Attorney General shall consider the following factors with respect to each drug or other substance proposed to be controlled or removed from the schedules: (1) Its actual or relative potential for abuse. (2) Scientific evidence of its pharmacological effect, if known. (3) The state of current scientific knowledge regarding the drug or other substance. (4) Its history and current pattern of abuse. (5) The scope, duration, and significance of abuse. (6) What, if any, risk there is to the public health. (7) Its psychic or physiological dependence liability. (8) Whether the substance is an immediate precursor of a substance already controlled under this subchapter.
(d) International treaties, conventions, and protocols requiring control; procedures respecting changes in drug schedules of Convention on Psychotropic Substances (1) If control is required by United States obligations under international treaties, conventions, or protocols in effect on October 27, 1970, the Attorney General shall issue an order controlling such drug under the schedule he deems most appropriate to carry out such obligations, without regard to the findings required by subsection (a) of this section or section 812(b) of this title and without regard to the procedures prescribed by subsections (a) and (b) of this section. (2) (A) Whenever the Secretary of State receives notification from the Secretary-General of the United Nations that information has been transmitted by or to the World Health Organization, pursuant to article 2 of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which may justify adding a drug or other substance to one of the schedules of the Convention, transferring a drug or substance from one schedule to another, or deleting it from the schedules, the Secretary of State shall immediately transmit the notice to the Secretary of Health and Human Services who shall publish it in the Federal Register and provide opportunity to interested persons to submit to him comments respecting the scientific and medical evaluations which he is to prepare respecting such drug or substance. The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall prepare for transmission through the Secretary of State to the World Health Organization such medical and scientific evaluations as may be appropriate regarding the possible action that could be proposed by the World Health Organization respecting the drug or substance with respect to which a notice was transmitted under this subparagraph.
(B) Whenever the Secretary of State receives information that the Commission on Narcotic Drugs of the United Nations proposes to decide whether to add a drug or other substance to one of the schedules of the Convention, transfer a drug or substance from one schedule to another, or delete it from the schedules, the Secretary of State shall transmit timely notice to the Secretary of Health and Human Services of such information who shall publish a summary of such information in the Federal Register and provide opportunity to interested persons to submit to him comments respecting the recommendation which he is to furnish, pursuant to this subparagraph, respecting such proposal. The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall evaluate the proposal and furnish a recommendation to the Secretary of State which shall be binding on the representative of the United States in discussions and negotiations relating to the proposal. (3) When the United States receives notification of a scheduling decision pursuant to article 2 of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances that a drug or other substance has been added or transferred to a schedule specified in the notification or receives notification (referred to in this subsection as a ''schedule notice'') that existing legal controls applicable under this subchapter to a drug or substance and the controls required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.)
do not meet the requirements of the schedule of the Convention in which such drug or substance has been placed, the Secretary of Health and Human Services after consultation with the Attorney General, shall first determine whether existing legal controls under this subchapter applicable to the drug or substance and the controls required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, meet the requirements of the schedule specified in the notification or schedule notice and shall take the following action: (A) If such requirements are met by such existing controls but the Secretary of Health and Human Services nonetheless believes that more stringent controls should be applied to the drug or substance, the Secretary shall recommend to the Attorney General that he initiate proceedings for scheduling the drug or substance, pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, to apply to such controls. (B) If such requirements are not met by such existing controls and the Secretary of Health and Human Services concurs in the scheduling decision or schedule notice transmitted by the notification, the Secretary shall recommend to the Attorney General that he initiate proceedings for scheduling the drug or substance under the appropriate schedule pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
(C) If such requirements are not met by such existing controls and the Secretary of Health and Human Services does not concur in the scheduling decision or schedule notice transmitted by the notification, the Secretary shall - (i) if he deems that additional controls are necessary to protect the public health and safety, recommend to the Attorney General that he initiate proceedings for scheduling the drug or substance pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, to apply such additional controls; (ii) request the Secretary of State to transmit a notice of qualified acceptance, within the period specified in the Convention, pursuant to paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention, to the Secretary-General of the United Nations; (iii) request the Secretary of State to transmit a notice of qualified acceptance as prescribed in clause (ii) and request the Secretary of State to ask for a review by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, in accordance with paragraph 8 of article 2 of the Convention, of the scheduling decision; or (iv) in the case of a schedule notice, request the Secretary of State to take appropriate action under the Convention to initiate proceedings to remove the drug or substance from the schedules under the Convention or to transfer the drug or substance to a schedule under the Convention different from the one specified in the schedule notice.
(4) (A) If the Attorney General determines, after consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that proceedings initiated under recommendations made under paragraph (FOOTNOTE 1) (B) or (C)(i) of paragraph (3) will not be completed within the time period required by paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention, the Attorney General, after consultation with the Secretary and after providing interested persons opportunity to submit comments respecting the requirements of the temporary order to be issued under this sentence, shall issue a temporary order controlling the drug or substance under schedule IV or V, whichever is most appropriate to carry out the minimum United States obligations under paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention. As a part of such order, the Attorney General shall, after consultation with the Secretary, except such drug or substance from the application of any provision of part C of this subchapter which he finds is not required to carry out the United States obligations under paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention. In the case of proceedings initiated under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3), the Attorney General, concurrently with the issuance of such order, shall request the Secretary of State to transmit a notice of qualified acceptance to the Secretary-General of the United Nations pursuant to paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention. A temporary order issued under this subparagraph controlling a drug or other substance subject to proceedings initiated under subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall expire upon the effective date of the application to the drug or substance of the controls resulting from such proceedings. (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should be ''subparagraph''.
(B) After a notice of qualified acceptance of a scheduling decision with respect to a drug or other substance is transmitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations in accordance with clause (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (3)(C) or after a request has been made under clause (iv) of such paragraph with respect to a drug or substance described in a schedule notice, the Attorney General, after consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and after providing interested persons opportunity to submit comments respecting the requirements of the order to be issued under this sentence, shall issue an order controlling the drug or substance under schedule IV or V, whichever is most appropriate to carry out the minimum United States obligations under paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention in the case of a drug or substance for which a notice of qualified acceptance was transmitted or whichever the Attorney General determines is appropriate in the case of a drug or substance described in a schedule notice. As a part of such order, the Attorney General shall, after consultation with the Secretary, except such drug or substance from the application of any provision of part C of this subchapter which he finds is not required to carry out the United States obligations under paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention. If, as a result of a review under paragraph 8 of article 2 of the Convention of the scheduling decision with respect to which a notice of qualified acceptance was transmitted in accordance with clause (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (3)(C) - (i) the decision is reversed, and (ii) the drug or substance subject to such decision is not required to be controlled under schedule IV or V to carry out the minimum United States obligations under paragraph 7 of article 2 of the Convention, the order issued under this subparagraph with respect to such drug or substance shall expire upon receipt by the United States of the review decision.
If, as a result of action taken pursuant to action initiated under a request transmitted under clause (iv) of paragraph (3)(C), the drug or substance with respect to which such action was taken is not required to be controlled under schedule IV or V, the order issued under this paragraph with respect to such drug or substance shall expire upon receipt by the United States of a notice of the action taken with respect to such drug or substance under the Convention. (C) An order issued under subparagraph (A) or (B) may be issued without regard to the findings required by subsection (a) of this section or by section 812(b) of this title and without regard to the procedures prescribed by subsection (a) or (b) of this section. (5) Nothing in the amendments made by the Psychotropic Substances Act of 1978 or the regulations or orders promulgated thereunder shall be construed to preclude requests by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Attorney General through the Secretary of State, pursuant to article 2 or other applicable provisions of the Convention, for review of scheduling decisions under such Convention, based on new or additional information. (e) Immediate precursors The Attorney General may, without regard to the findings required by subsection (a) of this section or section 812(b) of this title and without regard to the procedures prescribed by subsections (a) and (b) of this section, place an immediate precursor in the same schedule in which the controlled substance of which it is an immediate precursor is placed or in any other schedule with a higher numerical designation. If the Attorney General designates a substance as an immediate precursor and places it in a schedule, other substances shall not be placed in a schedule solely because they are its precursors.
(f) Abuse potential If, at the time a new-drug application is submitted to the Secretary for any drug having a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system, it appears that such drug has an abuse potential, such information shall be forwarded by the Secretary to the Attorney General. (g) Exclusion of non-narcotic substances sold over the counter without a prescription; dextromethorphan; exemption of substances lacking abuse potential (1) The Attorney General shall by regulation exclude any non-narcotic substance from a schedule if such substance may, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq. ), be lawfully sold over the counter without a prescription. (2) Dextromethorphan shall not be deemed to be included in any schedule by reason of enactment of this subchapter unless controlled after October 27, 1970 pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this section. (3) The Attorney General may, by regulation, exempt any compound, mixture, or preparation containing a controlled substance from the application of all or any part of this subchapter if he finds such compound, mixture, or preparation meets the requirements of one of the following categories: (A) A mixture, or preparation containing a nonnarcotic controlled substance, which mixture or preparation is approved for prescription use, and which contains one or more other active ingredients which are not listed in any schedule and which are included therein in such combinations, quantity, proportion, or concentration as to vitiate the potential for abuse. (B) A compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any controlled substance, which is not for administration to a human being or animal, and which is packaged in such form or concentration, or with adulterants or denaturants, so that as packaged it does not present any significant potential for abuse.
(h) Temporary scheduling to avoid imminent hazards to public safety (1) If the Attorney General finds that the scheduling of a substance in schedule I on a temporary basis is necessary to avoid an imminent hazard to the public safety, he may, by order and without regard to the requirements of subsection (b) of this section relating to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, schedule such substance in schedule I if the substance is not listed in any other schedule in section 812 of this title or if no exemption or approval is in effect for the substance under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355). Such an order may not be issued before the expiration of thirty days from - (A) the date of the publication by the Attorney General of a notice in the Federal Register of the intention to issue such order and the grounds upon which such order is to be issued, and (B) the date the Attorney General has transmitted the notice required by paragraph (4). (2) The scheduling of a substance under this subsection shall expire at the end of one year from the date of the issuance of the order scheduling such substance, except that the Attorney General may, during the pendency of proceedings under subsection (a)(1) of this section with respect to the substance, extend the temporary scheduling for up to six months. (3) When issuing an order under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall be required to consider, with respect to the finding of an imminent hazard to the public safety, only those factors set forth in paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) of subsection (c) of this section, including actual abuse, diversion from legitimate channels, and clandestine importation, manufacture, or distribution. (4) The Attorney General shall transmit notice of an order proposed to be issued under paragraph (1) to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
In issuing an order under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall take into consideration any comments submitted by the Secretary in response to a notice transmitted pursuant to this paragraph. (5) An order issued under paragraph (1) with respect to a substance shall be vacated upon the conclusion of a subsequent rulemaking proceeding initiated under subsection (a) of this section with respect to such substance. (6) An order issued under paragraph (1) is not subject to judicial review. § 812. Schedules of controlled substances. (a) Establishment There are established five schedules of controlled substances, to be known as schedules I, II, III, IV, and V. Such schedules shall initially consist of the substances listed in this section. The schedules established by this section shall be updated and republished on a semiannual basis during the two-year period beginning one year after October 27, 1970, and shall be updated and republished on an annual basis thereafter. (b) Placement on schedules; findings required Except where control is required by United States obligations under an international treaty, convention, or protocol, in effect on October 27, 1970, and except in the case of an immediate precursor, a drug or other substance may not be placed in any schedule unless the findings required for such schedule are made with respect to such drug or other substance. The findings required for each of the schedules are as follows: (1) Schedule I. - (A) The drug or other substance has a high potential for abuse. (B) The drug or other substance has no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States. (C) There is a lack of accepted safety for use of the drug or other substance under medical supervision. (2) Schedule II. - (A) The drug or other substance has a high potential for abuse. (B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States or a currently accepted medical use with severe restrictions.
(C) Abuse of the drug or other substances may lead to severe psychological or physical dependence. (3) Schedule III. - (A) The drug or other substance has a potential for abuse less than the drugs or other substances in schedules I and II. (B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States. (C) Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to moderate or low physical dependence or high psychological dependence. (4) Schedule IV. - (A) The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III. (B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States. (C) Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III. (5) Schedule V. - (A) The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule IV. (B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States. (C) Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule IV. (c) Initial schedules of controlled substances Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V shall, unless and until amended (FOOTNOTE 1) pursuant to section 811 of this title, consist of the following drugs or other substances, by whatever official name, common or usual name, chemical name, or brand name designated: (FOOTNOTE 1) Revised schedules are published in the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1308 of Title 21, Food and Drugs.
SCHEDULE I (a) Opiates Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, esters, and ethers, whenever the existence of such isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation: (1) Acetylmethadol. (2) Allylprodine. (3) Alphacetylmathadol. (FOOTNOTE 2) (FOOTNOTE 2) So in original. Probably should be ''Alphacetylmethadol.'' (4) Alphameprodine. (5) Alphamethadol. (6) Benzethidine. (7) Betacetylmethadol. (8) Betameprodine. (9) Betamethadol. (10) Betaprodine. (11) Clonitazene. (12) Dextromoramide. (13) Dextrorphan. (14) Diampromide. (15) Diethylthiambutene. (16) Dimenoxadol. (17) Dimepheptanol. (18) Dimethylthiambutene. (19) Dioxaphetyl butyrate. (20) Dipipanone. (21) Ethylmethylthiambutene. (22) Etonitazene. (23) Etoxeridine. (24) Furethidine. (25) Hydroxypethidine. (26) Ketobemidone. (27) Levomoramide. (28) Levophenacylmorphan. (29) Morpheridine. (30) Noracymethadol. (31) Norlevorphanol. (32) Normethadone.
(33) Norpipanone. (34) Phenadoxone. (35) Phenampromide. (36) Phenomorphan. (37) Phenoperidine. (38) Piritramide. (39) Propheptazine. (40) Properidine. (41) Racemoramide. (42) Trimeperidine. (b) Opium Derivatives Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opium derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salt of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation: (1) Acetorphine. (2) Acetyldihydrocodeine. (3) Benzylmorphine. (4) Codeine methylbromide. (5) Codeine-N-Oxide. (6) Cyprenorphine. (7) Desomorphine. (8) Dihydromorphine. (9) Etorphine. (10) Heroin. (11) Hydromorphinol. (12) Methyldesorphine. (13) Methylhydromorphine. (14) Morphine methylbromide. (15) Morphine methylsulfonate. (16) Morphine-N-Oxide. (17) Myrophine. (18) Nicocodeine. (19) Nicomorphine. (20) Normorphine. (21) Pholcodine. (22) Thebacon.
(c) Hallucinogenic Substances Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation, which contains any quantity of the following hallucinogenic substances, or which contains any of their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation: (1) 3,4-methylenedioxy amphetamine. (2) 5-methoxy-3,4-methylenedioxy amphetamine. (3) 3,4,5-trimethoxy amphetamine. (4) Bufotenine. (5) Diethyltryptamine. (6) Dimethyltryptamine. (7) 4-methyl-2,5-diamethoxyamphetamine. (8) Ibogaine. (9) Lysergic acid diethylamide. (10) Marihuana. (11) Mescaline. (12) Peyote. (13) N-ethyl-3-piperidyl benzilate. (14) N-methyl-3-piperidyl benzilate. (15) Psilocybin. (16) Psilocyn. (17) Tetrahydrocannabinols. SCHEDULE II (a) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following substances whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis: (1) Opium and opiate, and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of opium or opiate.
(2) Any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of the substances referred to in clause (1), except that these substances shall not include the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium. (3) Opium poppy and poppy straw. (4) coca (FOOTNOTE 3) leaves, except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivatives of ecgonine or their salts have been removed; cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers; ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers; or any compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of any of the substances referred to in this paragraph. (FOOTNOTE 3) So in original. Probably should be capitalized. (b) Opiates Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, esters and ethers, whenever the existence of such isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation: (1) Alphaprodine. (2) Anileridine. (3) Bezitramide. (4) Dihydrocodeine. (5) Diphenoxylate. (6) Fentanyl. (7) Isomethadone. (8) Levomethorphan. (9) Levorphanol. (10) Metazocine. (11) Methadone. (12) Methadone-Intermediate, 4-cyano-2-dimethylamino-4,4-diphenyl butane.
(13) Moramide-Intermediate, 2-methyl-3-morpholino-1, 1-diphenylpropane-carboxylic acid. (14) Pethidine. (15) Pethidine-Intermediate-A, 4-cyano-1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine. (16) Pethidine-Intermediate-B, ethyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylate. (17) Pethidine-Intermediate-C, 1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid. (18) Phenazocine. (19) Piminodine. (20) Racemethorphan. (21) Racemorphan. (c) Methamphetamine Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any injectable liquid which contains any quantity of methamphetamine, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers. SCHEDULE III (a) Stimulants Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the central nervous system: (1) Amphetamine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of its optical isomers. (2) Phenmetrazine and its salts. (3) Any substance (except an injectable liquid) which contains any quantity of methamphetamine, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers. (4) Methylphenidate.
(b) Depressants Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a depressant effect on the central nervous system: (1) Any substance which contains any quantity of a derivative of barbituric acid, or any salt of a derivative of barbituric acid. (2) Chorhexadol. (3) Glutehimide. (4) Lysergic acid. (5) Lysergic acid amide. (6) Methyprylon. (7) Phencyclidine. (8) Sulfondiethylmethane. (9) Sulfonethylmethane. (10) Sulfonmethane. (c) Nalorphine. (d) Narcotic Drug Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation containing limited quantities of any of the following narcotic drugs, or any salts thereof: (1) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with an equal or greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium. (2) Not more than 1.8 grams of codeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. (3) Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydrocodeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with a fourfold or greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium.
(4) Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydrocodeinone per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. (5) Not more than 1.8 grams of dihydrocodeine per 100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. (6) Not more than 300 milligrams of ethylmorphine per 100 milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. (7) Not more than 500 milligrams of opium per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams, or not more than 25 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. (8) Not more than 50 milligrams of morphine per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams with one or more active, nonnarcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts. (e) Anabolic steroids. SCHEDULE IV (1) Barbital. (2) Chloral betaine. (3) Chloral hydrate. (4) Ethchlorvynol. (5) Ethinamate. (6) Methohexital. (7) Meprobamate. (8) Methylphenobarbital. (9) Paraldehyde. (10) Petrichloral. (11) Phenobarbital.
SCHEDULE V Any compound, mixture, or preparation containing any of the following limited quantities of narcotic drugs, which shall include one or more nonnarcotic active medicinal ingredients in sufficient proportion to confer upon the compound, mixture, or preparation valuable medicinal qualities other than those possessed by the narcotic drug alone: (1) Not more than 200 milligrams of codeine per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams. (2) Not more than 100 milligrams of dihydrocodeine per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams. (3) Not more than 100 milligrams of ethylmorphine per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams. (4) Not more than 2.5 milligrams of diphenoxylate and not less than 25 micrograms of atropine sulfate per dosage unit. (5) Not more than 100 milligrams of opium per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams. § 813. Treatment of controlled substance analogues. A controlled substance analogue shall, to the extent intended for human consumption, be treated, for the purposes of any Federal law as a controlled substance in schedule I. § 814. Removal of exemption of certain drugs. (a) Removal of exemption The Attorney General shall by regulation remove from exemption under section 802(39)(A)(iv) of this title a drug or group of drugs that the Attorney General finds is being diverted to obtain a listed chemical for use in the illicit production of a controlled substance.
(b) Factors to be considered In removing a drug or group of drugs from exemption under subsection (a) of this section, the Attorney General shall consider, with respect to a drug or group of drugs that is proposed to be removed from exemption - (1) the scope, duration, and significance of the diversion; (2) whether the drug or group of drugs is formulated in such a way that it cannot be easily used in the illicit production of a controlled substance; and (3) whether the listed chemical can be readily recovered from the drug or group of drugs. (c) Specificity of designation The Attorney General shall limit the designation of a drug or a group of drugs removed from exemption under subsection (a) of this section to the most particularly identifiable type of drug or group of drugs for which evidence of diversion exists unless there is evidence, based on the pattern of diversion and other relevant factors, that the diversion will not be limited to that particular drug or group of drugs. (d) Reinstatement of exemption with respect to particular drug products (1) Reinstatement On application by a manufacturer of a particular drug product that has been removed from exemption under subsection (a) of this section, the Attorney General shall by regulation reinstate the exemption with respect to that particular drug product if the Attorney General determines that the particular drug product is manufactured and distributed in a manner that prevents diversion.
(2) Factors to be considered In deciding whether to reinstate the exemption with respect to a particular drug product under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall consider - (A) the package sizes and manner of packaging of the drug product; (B) the manner of distribution and advertising of the drug product; (C) evidence of diversion of the drug product; (D) any actions taken by the manufacturer to prevent diversion of the drug product; and (E) such other factors as are relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety, including the factors described in subsection (b) of this section as applied to the drug product. (3) Status pending application for reinstatement A transaction involving a particular drug product that is the subject of a bona fide pending application for reinstatement of exemption filed with the Attorney General not later than 60 days after a regulation removing the exemption is issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall not be considered to be a regulated transaction if the transaction occurs during the pendency of the application and, if the Attorney General denies the application, during the period of 60 days following the date on which the Attorney General denies the application, unless - (A) the Attorney General has evidence that, applying the factors described in subsection (b) of this section to the drug product, the drug product is being diverted; and (B) the Attorney General so notifies the applicant. (4) Amendment and modification A regulation reinstating an exemption under paragraph (1) may be modified or revoked with respect to a particular drug product upon a finding that - (A) applying the factors described in subsection (b) of this section to the drug product, the drug product is being diverted; or (B) there is a significant change in the data that led to the issuance of the regulation.
Return to top PART C - REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES § 821. Rules and regulations. The Attorney General is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations and to charge reasonable fees relating to the registration and control of the manufacture, distribution, and dispensing of controlled substances and to the registration and control of regulated persons and of regulated transactions. § 822. Persons required to register. (a) Period of registration (1) Every person who manufactures or distributes any controlled substance or list I chemical, or who proposes to engage in the manufacture or distribution of any controlled substance or list I chemical, shall obtain annually a registration issued by the Attorney General in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by him. (2) Every person who dispenses, or who proposes to dispense, any controlled substance, shall obtain from the Attorney General a registration issued in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by him. The Attorney General shall, by regulation, determine the period of such registrations. In no event, however, shall such registrations be issued for less than one year nor for more than three years. (b) Authorized activities Persons registered by the Attorney General under this subchapter to manufacture, distribute, or dispense controlled substances or list I chemicals are authorized to possess, manufacture, distribute, or dispense such substances or chemicals (including any such activity in the conduct of research) to the extent authorized by their registration and in conformity with the other provisions of this subchapter. (c) Exceptions The following persons shall not be required to register and may lawfully possess any controlled substance or list I chemical under this subchapter: (1) An agent or employee of any registered manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser of any controlled substance or list I chemical if such agent or employee is acting in the usual course of his business or employment.
(2) A common or contract carrier or warehouseman, or an employee thereof, whose possession of the controlled substance or list I chemical is in the usual course of his business or employment. (3) An ultimate user who possesses such substance for a purpose specified in section 802(25) (FOOTNOTE 1) of this title. (FOOTNOTE 1) Section 802(25) of this title, referred to in subsec. (c)(3), was redesignated section 802(26) of this title by Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 507(a), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2071, and was further redesignated section 802(27) of this title by Pub. L. 99-570, title I, Sec. 1003(b)(2), Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-6. (d) Waiver The Attorney General may, by regulation, waive the requirement for registration of certain manufacturers, distributors, or dispensers if he finds it consistent with the public health and safety. (e) Separate registration A separate registration shall be required at each principal place of business or professional practice where the applicant manufactures, distributes, or dispenses controlled substances or list I chemicals. (f) Inspection The Attorney General is authorized to inspect the establishment of a registrant or applicant for registration in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by him. § 823. Registration requirements. (a) Manufacturers of controlled substances in schedule I or II The Attorney General shall register an applicant to manufacture controlled substances in schedule I or II if he determines that such registration is consistent with the public interest and with United States obligations under international treaties, conventions, or protocols in effect on May 1, 1971.
In determining the public interest, the following factors shall be considered: (1) maintenance of effective controls against diversion of particular controlled substances and any controlled substance in schedule I or II compounded therefrom into other than legitimate medical, scientific, research, or industrial channels, by limiting the importation and bulk manufacture of such controlled substances to a number of establishments which can produce an adequate and uninterrupted supply of these substances under adequately competitive conditions for legitimate medical, scientific, research, and industrial purposes; (2) compliance with applicable State and local law; (3) promotion of technical advances in the art of manufacturing these substances and the development of new substances; (4) prior conviction record of applicant under Federal and State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of such substances; (5) past experience in the manufacture of controlled substances, and the existence in the establishment of effective control against diversion; and (6) such other factors as may be relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety. (b) Distributors of controlled substances in schedule I or II The Attorney General shall register an applicant to distribute a controlled substance in schedule I or II unless he determines that the issuance of such registration is inconsistent with the public interest. In determining the public interest, the following factors shall be considered: (1) maintenance of effective control against diversion of particular controlled substances into other than legitimate medical, scientific, and industrial channels; (2) compliance with applicable State and local law; (3) prior conviction record of applicant under Federal or State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of such substances; (4) past experience in the distribution of controlled substances; and (5) such other factors as may be relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety.
(c) Limits of authorized activities Registration granted under subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall not entitle a registrant to (1) manufacture or distribute controlled substances in schedule I or II other than those specified in the registration, or (2) manufacture any quantity of those controlled substances in excess of the quota assigned pursuant to section 826 of this title. (d) Manufacturers of controlled substances in schedule III, IV, or V The Attorney General shall register an applicant to manufacture controlled substances in schedule III, IV, or V, unless he determines that the issuance of such registration is inconsistent with the public interest. In determining the public interest, the following factors shall be considered: (1) maintenance of effective controls against diversion of particular controlled substances and any controlled substance in schedule III, IV, or V compounded therefrom into other than legitimate medical, scientific, or industrial channels; (2) compliance with applicable State and local law; (3) promotion of technical advances in the art of manufacturing these substances and the development of new substances; (4) prior conviction record of applicant under Federal or State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of such substances; (5) past experience in the manufacture, distribution, and dispensing of controlled substances, and the existence in the establishment of effective controls against diversion; and (6) such other factors as may be relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety. (e) Distributors of controlled substances in schedule III, IV, or V The Attorney General shall register an applicant to distribute controlled substances in schedule III, IV, or V, unless he determines that the issuance of such registration is inconsistent with the public interest.
In determining the public interest, the following factors shall be considered: (1) maintenance of effective controls against diversion of particular controlled substances into other than legitimate medical, scientific, and industrial channels; (2) compliance with applicable State and local law; (3) prior conviction record of applicant under Federal or State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of such substances; (4) past experience in the distribution of controlled substances; and (5) such other factors as may be relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety. (f) Research by practitioners; pharmacies; research applications; construction of Article 7 of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances The Attorney General shall register practitioners (including pharmacies, as distinguished from pharmacists) to dispense, or conduct research with, controlled substances in schedule II, III, IV, or V, if the applicant is authorized to dispense, or conduct research with respect to, controlled substances under the laws of the State in which he practices. The Attorney General may deny an application for such registration if he determines that the issuance of such registration would be inconsistent with the public interest. In determining the public interest, the following factors shall be considered: (1) The recommendation of the appropriate State licensing board or professional disciplinary authority. (2) The applicant's experience in dispensing, or conducting research with respect to controlled substances. (3) The applicant's conviction record under Federal or State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances. (4) Compliance with applicable State, Federal, or local laws relating to controlled substances. (5) Such other conduct which may threaten the public health and safety. Separate registration under this part for practitioners engaging in research with controlled substances in schedule II, III, IV, or V, who are already registered under this part in another capacity, shall not be required.
Registration applications by practitioners wishing to conduct research with controlled substances in schedule I shall be referred to the Secretary, who shall determine the qualifications and competency of each practitioner requesting registration, as well as the merits of the research protocol. The Secretary, in determining the merits of each research protocol, shall consult with the Attorney General as to effective procedures to adequately safeguard against diversion of such controlled substances from legitimate medical or scientific use. Registration for the purpose of bona fide research with controlled substances in schedule I by a practitioner deemed qualified by the Secretary may be denied by the Attorney General only on a ground specified in section 824(a) of this title. Article 7 of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances shall not be construed to prohibit, or impose additional restrictions upon, research involving drugs or other substances scheduled under the convention which is conducted in conformity with this subsection and other applicable provisions of this subchapter. (g) Practitioners dispensing narcotic drugs for narcotic treatment; annual registration; separate registration; qualifications Practitioners who dispense narcotic drugs to individuals for maintenance treatment or detoxification treatment shall obtain annually a separate registration for that purpose.
The Attorney General shall register an applicant to dispense narcotic drugs to individuals for maintenance treatment or detoxification treatment (or both) (1) if the applicant is a practitioner who is determined by the Secretary to be qualified (under standards established by the Secretary) to engage in the treatment with respect to which registration is sought; (2) if the Attorney General determines that the applicant will comply with standards established by the Attorney General respecting (A) security of stocks of narcotic drugs for such treatment, and (B) the maintenance of records (in accordance with section 827 of this title) on such drugs; and (3) if the Secretary determines that the applicant will comply with standards established by the Secretary (after consultation with the Attorney General) respecting the quantities of narcotic drugs which may be provided for unsupervised use by individuals in such treatment. (h) Applicants for distribution of list I chemicals The Attorney General shall register an applicant to distribute a list I chemical unless the Attorney General determines that registration of the applicant is inconsistent with the public interest. Registration under this subsection shall not be required for the distribution of a drug product that is exempted under section 802(39)(A)(iv) of this title. In determining the public interest for the purposes of this subsection, the Attorney General shall consider - (1) maintenance by the applicant of effective controls against diversion of listed chemicals into other than legitimate channels; (2) compliance by the applicant with applicable Federal, State, and local law; (3) any prior conviction record of the applicant under Federal or State laws relating to controlled substances or to chemicals controlled under Federal or State law; (4) any past experience of the applicant in the manufacture and distribution of chemicals; and (5) such other factors as are relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety. § 824. Denial, revocation, or suspension of registration.
(a) Grounds A registration pursuant to section 823 of this title to manufacture, distribute, or dispense a controlled substance or a list I chemical may be suspended or revoked by the Attorney General upon a finding that the registrant - (1) has materially falsified any application filed pursuant to or required by this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter; (2) has been convicted of a felony under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or any other law of the United States, or of any State, relating to any substance defined in this subchapter as a controlled substance or a list I chemical; (3) has had his State license or registration suspended, revoked, or denied by competent State authority and is no longer authorized by State law to engage in the manufacturing, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances or list I chemicals or has had the suspension, revocation, or denial of his registration recommended by competent State authority; (4) has committed such acts as would render his registration under section 823 of this title inconsistent with the public interest as determined under such section; or (5) has been excluded (or directed to be excluded) from participation in a program pursuant to section 1320a-7(a) of title 42. A registration pursuant to section 823(g) of this title to dispense a narcotic drug for maintenance treatment or detoxification treatment may be suspended or revoked by the Attorney General upon a finding that the registrant has failed to comply with any standard referred to in section 823(g) of this title. (b) Limits of revocation or suspension The Attorney General may limit revocation or suspension of a registration to the particular controlled substance or list I chemical with respect to which grounds for revocation or suspension exist.
(c) Service of show cause order; proceedings Before taking action pursuant to this section, or pursuant to a denial of registration under section 823 of this title, the Attorney General shall serve upon the applicant or registrant an order to show cause why registration should not be denied, revoked, or suspended. The order to show cause shall contain a statement of the basis thereof and shall call upon the applicant or registrant to appear before the Attorney General at a time and place stated in the order, but in no event less than thirty days after the date of receipt of the order. Proceedings to deny, revoke, or suspend shall be conducted pursuant to this section in accordance with subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5. Such proceedings shall be independent of, and not in lieu of, criminal prosecutions or other proceedings under this subchapter or any other law of the United States. (d) Suspension of registration in cases of imminent danger The Attorney General may, in his discretion, suspend any registration simultaneously with the institution of proceedings under this section, in cases where he finds that there is an imminent danger to the public health or safety. A failure to comply with a standard referred to in section 823(g) of this title may be treated under this subsection as grounds for immediate suspension of a registration granted under such section. A suspension under this subsection shall continue in effect until the conclusion of such proceedings, including judicial review thereof, unless sooner withdrawn by the Attorney General or dissolved by a court of competent jurisdiction. (e) Suspension and revocation of quotas The suspension or revocation of a registration under this section shall operate to suspend or revoke any quota applicable under section 826 of this title.
(f) Disposition of controlled substances or list I chemicals In the event the Attorney General suspends or revokes a registration granted under section 823 of this title, all controlled substances or list I chemicals owned or possessed by the registrant pursuant to such registration at the time of suspension or the effective date of the revocation order, as the case may be, may, in the discretion of the Attorney General, be placed under seal. No disposition may be made of any controlled substances or list I chemicals under seal until the time for taking an appeal has elapsed or until all appeals have been concluded except that a court, upon application therefor, may at any time order the sale of perishable controlled substances or list I chemicals. Any such order shall require the deposit of the proceeds of the sale with the court. Upon a revocation order becoming final, all such controlled substances or list I chemicals (or proceeds of sale deposited in court) shall be forfeited to the United States; and the Attorney General shall dispose of such controlled substances or list I chemicals in accordance with section 881(e) of this title. All right, title, and interest in such controlled substances or list I chemicals shall vest in the United States upon a revocation order becoming final. (g) Seizure or placement under seal of controlled substances or list I chemicals The Attorney General may, in his discretion, seize or place under seal any controlled substances or list I chemicals owned or possessed by a registrant whose registration has expired or who has ceased to practice or do business in the manner contemplated by his registration. Such controlled substances or list I chemicals shall be held for the benefit of the registrant, or his successor in interest. The Attorney General shall notify a registrant, or his successor in interest, who has any controlled substance or list I chemical seized or placed under seal of the procedures to be followed to secure the return of the controlled substance or list I chemical and the conditions under which it will be returned.
The Attorney General may not dispose of any controlled substance or list I chemical seized or placed under seal under this subsection until the expiration of one hundred and eighty days from the date such substance or chemical was seized or placed under seal. § 825. Labeling and packaging. (a) Symbol It shall be unlawful to distribute a controlled substance in a commercial container unless such container, when and as required by regulations of the Attorney General, bears a label (as defined in section 321(k) of this title) containing an identifying symbol for such substance in accordance with such regulations. A different symbol shall be required for each schedule of controlled substances. (b) Unlawful distribution without identifying symbol It shall be unlawful for the manufacturer of any controlled substance to distribute such substance unless the labeling (as defined in section 321(m) of this title) of such substance contains, when and as required by regulations of the Attorney General, the identifying symbol required under subsection (a) of this section. (c) Warning on label The Secretary shall prescribe regulations under section 353(b) of this title which shall provide that the label of a drug listed in schedule II, III, or IV shall, when dispensed to or for a patient, contain a clear, concise warning that it is a crime to transfer the drug to any person other than the patient. (d) Containers to be securely sealed It shall be unlawful to distribute controlled substances in schedule I or II, and narcotic drugs in schedule III or IV, unless the bottle or other container, stopper, covering, or wrapper thereof is securely sealed as required by regulations of the Attorney General. § 826. Production quotas for controlled substances.
(a) Establishment of total annual needs The Attorney General shall determine the total quantity and establish production quotas for each basic class of controlled substance in schedules I and II to be manufactured each calendar year to provide for the estimated medical, scientific, research, and industrial needs of the United States, for lawful export requirements, and for the establishment and maintenance of reserve stocks. Production quotas shall be established in terms of quantities of each basic class of controlled substance and not in terms of individual pharmaceutical dosage forms prepared from or containing such a controlled substance. (b) Individual production quotas; revised quotas The Attorney General shall limit or reduce individual production quotas to the extent necessary to prevent the aggregate of individual quotas from exceeding the amount determined necessary each year by the Attorney General under subsection (a) of this section. The quota of each registered manufacturer for each basic class of controlled substance in schedule I or II shall be revised in the same proportion as the limitation or reduction of the aggregate of the quotas. However, if any registrant, before the issuance of a limitation or reduction in quota, has manufactured in excess of his revised quota, the amount of the excess shall be subtracted from his quota for the following year. (c) Manufacturing quotas for registered manufacturers On or before October 1 of each year, upon application therefor by a registered manufacturer, the Attorney General shall fix a manufacturing quota for the basic classes of controlled substances in schedules I and II that the manufacturer seeks to produce. The quota shall be subject to the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
In fixing such quotas, the Attorney General shall determine the manufacturer's estimated disposal, inventory, and other requirements for the calendar year; and, in making his determination, the Attorney General shall consider the manufacturer's current rate of disposal, the trend of the national disposal rate during the preceding calendar year, the manufacturer's production cycle and inventory position, the economic availability of raw materials, yield and stability problems, emergencies such as strikes and fires, and other factors. (d) Quotas for registrants who have not manufactured controlled substance during one or more preceding years The Attorney General shall, upon application and subject to the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, fix a quota for a basic class of controlled substance in schedule I or II for any registrant who has not manufactured that basic class of controlled substance during one or more preceding calendar years. In fixing such quota, the Attorney General shall take into account the registrant's reasonably anticipated requirements for the current year; and, in making his determination of such requirements, he shall consider such factors specified in subsection (c) of this section as may be relevant. (e) Quota increases At any time during the year any registrant who has applied for or received a manufacturing quota for a basic class of controlled substance in schedule I or II may apply for an increase in that quota to meet his estimated disposal, inventory, and other requirements during the remainder of that year. In passing upon the application the Attorney General shall take into consideration any occurrences since the filing of the registrant's initial quota application that may require an increased manufacturing rate by the registrant during the balance of the year. In passing upon the application the Attorney General may also take into account the amount, if any, by which the determination of the Attorney General under subsection (a) of this section exceeds the aggregate of the quotas of all registrants under this section.
(f) Incidental production exception Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no registration or quota may be required for the manufacture of such quantities of controlled substances in schedules I and II as incidentally and necessarily result from the manufacturing process used for the manufacture of a controlled substance with respect to which its manufacturer is duly registered under this subchapter. The Attorney General may, by regulation, prescribe restrictions on the retention and disposal of such incidentally produced substances. § 827. Records and reports of registrants. (a) Inventory Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section - (1) every registrant under this subchapter shall, on May 1, 1971, or as soon thereafter as such registrant first engages in the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances, and every second year thereafter, make a complete and accurate record of all stocks thereof on hand, except that the regulations prescribed under this section shall permit each such biennial inventory (following the initial inventory required by this paragraph) to be prepared on such registrant's regular general physical inventory date (if any) which is nearest to and does not vary by more than six months from the biennial date that would otherwise apply; (2) on the effective date of each regulation of the Attorney General controlling a substance that immediately prior to such date was not a controlled substance, each registrant under this subchapter manufacturing, distributing, or dispensing such substance shall make a complete and accurate record of all stocks thereof on hand; and (3) on and after May 1, 1971, every registrant under this subchapter manufacturing, distributing, or dispensing a controlled substance or substances shall maintain, on a current basis, a complete and accurate record of each such substance manufactured, received, sold, delivered, or otherwise disposed of by him, except that this paragraph shall not require the maintenance of a perpetual inventory.
(b) Availability of records Every inventory or other record required under this section (1) shall be in accordance with, and contain such relevant information as may be required by, regulations of the Attorney General, (2) shall (A) be maintained separately from all other records of the registrant, or (B) alternatively, in the case of nonnarcotic controlled substances, be in such form that information required by the Attorney General is readily retrievable from the ordinary business records of the registrant, and (3) shall be kept and be available, for at least two years, for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the United States authorized by the Attorney General.
(c) Nonapplicability The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply - (1) (A) to the prescribing of controlled substances in schedule II, III, IV, or V by practitioners acting in the lawful course of their professional practice unless such substance is prescribed in the course of maintenance or detoxification treatment of an individual; or (B) to the administering of a controlled substance in schedule II, III, IV, or V unless the practitioner regularly engages in the dispensing or administering of controlled substances and charges his patients, either separately or together with charges for other professional services, for substances so dispensed or administered or unless such substance is administered in the course of maintenance treatment or detoxification treatment of an individual; (2) (A) to the use of controlled substances, at establishments registered under this subchapter which keep records with respect to such substances, in research conducted in conformity with an exemption granted under section 355(i) or 360b(j) of this title; (B) to the use of controlled substances, at establishments registered under this subchapter which keep records with respect to such substances, in preclinical research or in teaching; or (3) to the extent of any exemption granted to any person, with respect to all or part of such provisions, by the Attorney General by or pursuant to regulation on the basis of a finding that the application of such provisions (or part thereof) to such person is not necessary for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter. Nothing in the Convention on Psychotropic Substances shall be construed as superseding or otherwise affecting the provisions of paragraph (1)(B), (2), or (3) of this subsection.
(d) Periodic reports to Attorney General Every manufacturer registered under section 823 of this title shall, at such time or times and in such form as the Attorney General may require, make periodic reports to the Attorney General of every sale, delivery or other disposal by him of any controlled substance, and each distributor shall make such reports with respect to narcotic controlled substances, identifying by the registration number assigned under this subchapter the person or establishment (unless exempt from registration under section 822(d) of this title) to whom such sale, delivery, or other disposal was made. (e) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements of drug conventions In addition to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements under any other provision of this subchapter, each manufacturer registered under section 823 of this title shall, with respect to narcotic and nonnarcotic controlled substances manufactured by it, make such reports to the Attorney General, and maintain such records, as the Attorney General may require to enable the United States to meet its obligations under articles 19 and 20 of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and article 16 of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. The Attorney General shall administer the requirements of this subsection in such a manner as to avoid the unnecessary imposition of duplicative requirements under this subchapter on manufacturers subject to the requirements of this subsection. (f) Investigational uses of drugs; procedures Regulations under sections 355(i) and 360(j) of this title, relating to investigational use of drugs, shall include such procedures as the Secretary, after consultation with the Attorney General, determines are necessary to insure the security and accountability of controlled substances used in research to which such regulations apply. (g) Change of address Every registrant under this subchapter shall be required to report any change of professional or business address in such manner as the Attorney General shall by regulation require. § 828. Order forms.
(a) Unlawful distribution of controlled substances It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute a controlled substance in schedule I or II to another except in pursuance of a written order of the person to whom such substance is distributed, made on a form to be issued by the Attorney General in blank in accordance with subsection (d) of this section and regulations prescribed by him pursuant to this section. (b) Nonapplicability of provisions Nothing in subsection (a) of this section shall apply to - (1) the exportation of such substances from the United States in conformity with subchapter II of this chapter; (2) the delivery of such a substance to or by a common or contract carrier for carriage in the lawful and usual course of its business, or to or by a warehouseman for storage in the lawful and usual course of its business; but where such carriage or storage is in connection with the distribution by the owner of the substance to a third person, this paragraph shall not relieve the distributor from compliance with subsection (a) of this section. (c) Preservation and availability (1) Every person who in pursuance of an order required under subsection (a) of this section distributes a controlled substance shall preserve such order for a period of two years, and shall make such order available for inspection and copying by officers and employees of the United States duly authorized for that purpose by the Attorney General, and by officers or employees of States or their political subdivisions who are charged with the enforcement of State or local laws regulating the production, or regulating the distribution or dispensing, of controlled substances and who are authorized under such laws to inspect such orders.
(2) Every person who gives an order required under subsection (a) of this section shall, at or before the time of giving such order, make or cause to be made a duplicate thereof on a form to be issued by the Attorney General in blank in accordance with subsection (d) of this section and regulations prescribed by him pursuant to this section, and shall, if such order is accepted, preserve such duplicate for a period of two years and make it available for inspection and copying by the officers and employees mentioned in paragraph (1) of this subsection. (d) Issuance (1) The Attorney General shall issue forms pursuant to subsections (a) and (c)(2) of this section only to persons validly registered under section 823 of this title (or exempted from registration under section 822(d) of this title). Whenever any such form is issued to a person, the Attorney General shall, before delivery thereof, insert therein the name of such person, and it shall be unlawful for any other person (A) to use such form for the purpose of obtaining controlled substances or (B) to furnish such form to any person with intent thereby to procure the distribution of such substances. (2) The Attorney General may charge reasonable fees for the issuance of such forms in such amounts as he may prescribe for the purpose of covering the cost to the United States of issuing such forms, and other necessary activities in connection therewith. (e) Unlawful acts It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain by means of order forms issued under this section controlled substances for any purpose other than their use, distribution, dispensing, or administration in the conduct of a lawful business in such substances or in the course of his professional practice or research. § 829. Prescriptions.
(a) Schedule II substances Except when dispensed directly by a practitioner, other than a pharmacist, to an ultimate user, no controlled substance in schedule II, which is a prescription drug as determined under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq. ), may be dispensed without the written prescription of a practitioner, except that in emergency situations, as prescribed by the Secretary by regulation after consultation with the Attorney General, such drug may be dispensed upon oral prescription in accordance with section 503(b) of that Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)). Prescriptions shall be retained in conformity with the requirements of section 827 of this title. No prescription for a controlled substance in schedule II may be refilled. (b) Schedule III and IV substances Except when dispensed directly by a practitioner, other than a pharmacist, to an ultimate user, no controlled substance in schedule III or IV, which is a prescription drug as determined under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq. ), may be dispensed without a written or oral prescription in conformity with section 503(b) of that Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)). Such prescriptions may not be filled or refilled more than six months after the date thereof or be refilled more than five times after the date of the prescription unless renewed by the practitioner. (c) Schedule V substances No controlled substance in schedule V which is a drug may be distributed or dispensed other than for a medical purpose. (d) Non-prescription drugs with abuse potential Whenever it appears to the Attorney General that a drug not considered to be a prescription drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.)
should be so considered because of its abuse potential, he shall so advise the Secretary and furnish to him all available data relevant thereto. § 830. Regulation of listed chemicals and certain machines. (a) Record of regulated transactions (1) Each regulated person who engages in a regulated transaction involving a listed chemical, a tableting machine, or an encapsulating machine shall keep a record of the transaction - (A) for 4 years after the date of the transaction, if the listed chemical is a list I chemical or if the transaction involves a tableting machine or an encapsulating machine; and (B) for 2 years after the date of the transaction, if the listed chemical is a list II chemical. (2) A record under this subsection shall be retrievable and shall include the date of the regulated transaction, the identity of each party to the regulated transaction, a statement of the quantity and form of the listed chemical, a description of the tableting machine or encapsulating machine, and a description of the method of transfer. Such record shall be available for inspection and copying by the Attorney General. (3) It is the duty of each regulated person who engages in a regulated transaction to identify each other party to the transaction. It is the duty of such other party to present proof of identity to the regulated person. The Attorney General shall specify by regulation the types of documents and other evidence that constitute proof of identity for purposes of this paragraph.
(b) Reports to Attorney General (1) Each regulated person shall report to the Attorney General, in such form and manner as the Attorney General shall prescribe by regulation - (A) any regulated transaction involving an extraordinary quantity of a listed chemical, an uncommon method of payment or delivery, or any other circumstance that the regulated person believes may indicate that the listed chemical will be used in violation of this subchapter; (B) any proposed regulated transaction with a person whose description or other identifying characteristic the Attorney General furnishes in advance to the regulated person; (C) any unusual or excessive loss or disappearance of a listed chemical under the control of the regulated person; and (D) any regulated transaction in a tableting machine or an encapsulating machine. Each report under subparagraph (A) shall be made at the earliest practicable opportunity after the regulated person becomes aware of the circumstance involved. A regulated person may not complete a transaction with a person whose description or identifying characteristic is furnished to the regulated person under subparagraph (B) unless the transaction is approved by the Attorney General. The Attorney General shall make available to regulated persons guidance documents describing transactions and circumstances for which reports are required under subparagraph (A) and subparagraph (C). (2) A regulated person that manufactures a listed chemical shall report annually to the Attorney General, in such form and manner and containing such specific data as the Attorney General shall prescribe by regulation, information concerning listed chemicals manufactured by the person. The requirement of the preceding sentence shall not apply to the manufacture of a drug product that is exempted under section 802(39)(A)(iv) of this title.
(c) Confidentiality of information obtained by Attorney General; non-disclosure; exceptions (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any information obtained by the Attorney General under this section which is exempt from disclosure under section 552(a) of title 5, by reason of section 552(b)(4) of such title, is confidential and may not be disclosed to any person. (2) Information referred to in paragraph (1) may be disclosed only - (A) to an officer or employee of the United States engaged in carrying out this subchapter, subchapter II of this chapter, or the customs laws; (B) when relevant in any investigation or proceeding for the enforcement of this subchapter, subchapter II of this chapter, or the customs laws; (C) when necessary to comply with an obligation of the United States under a treaty or other international agreement; or (D) to a State or local official or employee in conjunction with the enforcement of controlled substances laws or chemical control laws. (3) The Attorney General shall - (A) take such action as may be necessary to prevent unauthorized disclosure of information by any person to whom such information is disclosed under paragraph (2); and (B) issue guidelines that limit, to the maximum extent feasible, the disclosure of proprietary business information, including the names or identities of United States exporters of listed chemicals, to any person to whom such information is disclosed under paragraph (2). (4) Any person who is aggrieved by a disclosure of information in violation of this section may bring a civil action against the violator for appropriate relief. (5) Notwithstanding paragraph (4), a civil action may not be brought under such paragraph against investigative or law enforcement personnel of the Drug Enforcement Administration. Return to top PART D - OFFENSES AND PENALTIES § 841. Prohibited acts A.
(a) Unlawful acts Except as authorized by this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally - (1) to manufacture, distribute, or dispense, or possess with intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense, a controlled substance; or (2) to create, distribute, or dispense, or possess with intent to distribute or dispense, a counterfeit substance.
(b) Penalties Except as otherwise provided in section 849, 859, 860, or 861 of this title, any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be sentenced as follows: (1) (A) In the case of a violation of subsection (a) of this section involving - (i) 1 kilogram or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of heroin; (ii) 5 kilograms or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of - (I) coca leaves, except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivatives of ecgonine or their salts have been removed; (II) cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers; (III) ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers; or (IV) any compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of any of the substances referred to in subclauses (I) through (III); (iii) 50 grams or more of a mixture or substance described in clause (ii) which contains cocaine base; (iv) 100 grams or more of phencyclidine (PCP) or 1 kilogram or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of phencyclidine (PCP); (v) 10 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD); (vi) 400 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of N-phenyl-N- ( 1- ( 2-phenylethyl ) -4-piperidinyl ) propanamide or 100 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of any analogue of N-pheny propanamide; (vii) 1000 kilograms or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of marihuana, or 1,000 or more marihuana plants regardless of weight; or (viii) 100 grams or more of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, and salts of its isomers or 1 kilogram or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, or salts of its isomers; such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which may not be less than 10 years or more than life and if death or serious bodily injury results from the use of such substance shall be not less than 20 years or more than life, a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $4,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $10,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both.
If any person commits such a violation after a prior conviction for a felony drug offense has become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which may not be less than 20 years and not more than life imprisonment and if death or serious bodily injury results from the use of such substance shall be sentenced to life imprisonment, a fine not to exceed the greater of twice that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $8,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $20,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. If any person commits a violation of this subparagraph or of section 849, 859, 860, or 861 of this title after two or more prior convictions for a felony drug offense have become final, such person shall be sentenced to a mandatory term of life imprisonment without release and fined in accordance with the preceding sentence. Any sentence under this subparagraph shall, in the absence of such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least 5 years in addition to such term of imprisonment and shall, if there was such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least 10 years in addition to such term of imprisonment. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court shall not place on probation or suspend the sentence of any person sentenced under this subparagraph. No person sentenced under this subparagraph shall be eligible for parole during the term of imprisonment imposed therein.
(B) In the case of a violation of subsection (a) of this section involving - (i) 100 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of heroin; (ii) 500 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of - (I) coca leaves, except coca leaves and extracts of coca leaves from which cocaine, ecgonine, and derivatives of ecgonine or their salts have been removed; (II) cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of isomers; (III) ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers; or (IV) any compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of any of the substances referred to in subclauses (I) through (III); (iii) 5 grams or more of a mixture or substance described in clause (ii) which contains cocaine base; (iv) 10 grams or more of phencyclidine (PCP) or 100 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of phencyclidine (PCP); (v) 1 gram or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD); (vi) 40 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of N-phenyl-N- ( 1- ( 2-phenylethyl ) -4-piperidinyl ) propanamide or 10 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of any analogue of N-pheny propanamide; (vii) 100 kilograms or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of marihuana, or 100 or more marihuana plants regardless of weight; or (viii) 10 grams or more of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, and salts of its isomers or 100 grams or more of a mixture or substance containing a detectable amount of methamphetamine, its salts, isomers, or salts of its isomers; such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which may not be less than 5 years and not more than 40 years and if death or serious bodily injury results from the use of such substance shall be not less than 20 years or more than life, a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $2,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $5,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both.
If any person commits such a violation after a prior conviction for a felony drug offense has become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which may not be less than 10 years and not more than life imprisonment and if death or serious bodily injury results from the use of such substance shall be sentenced to life imprisonment, a fine not to exceed the greater of twice that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $4,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $10,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. Any sentence imposed under this subparagraph shall, in the absence of such a prior conviction, include a term of supervised release of at least 4 years in addition to such term of imprisonment and shall, if there was such a prior conviction, include a term of supervised release of at least 8 years in addition to such term of imprisonment. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court shall not place on probation or suspend the sentence of any person sentenced under this subparagraph. No person sentenced under this subparagraph shall be eligible for parole during the term of imprisonment imposed therein. (C) In the case of a controlled substance in schedule I or II except as provided in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (D), such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 20 years and if death or serious bodily injury results from the use of such substance shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not less than twenty years or more than life, a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $1,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $5,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both.
If any person commits such a violation after a prior conviction for a felony drug offense has become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 30 years and if death or serious bodily injury results from the use of such substance shall be sentenced to life imprisonment, a fine not to exceed the greater of twice that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $2,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $10,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. Any sentence imposing a term of imprisonment under this paragraph shall, in the absence of such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least 3 years in addition to such term of imprisonment and shall, if there was such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least 6 years in addition to such term of imprisonment. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court shall not place on probation or suspend the sentence of any person sentenced under the provisions of this subparagraph which provide for a mandatory term of imprisonment if death or serious bodily injury results, nor shall a person so sentenced be eligible for parole during the term of such a sentence. (D) In the case of less than 50 kilograms of marihuana, except in the case of 50 or more marihuana plants regardless of weight, 10 kilograms of hashish, or one kilogram of hashish oil or in the case of any controlled substance in schedule III, such person shall, except as provided in paragraphs (4) and (5) of this subsection, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 5 years, a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $250,000 if the defendant is an individual or $1,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both.
If any person commits such a violation after a prior conviction for a felony drug offense has become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 10 years, a fine not to exceed the greater of twice that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $500,000 if the defendant is an individual or $2,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. Any sentence imposing a term of imprisonment under this paragraph shall, in the absence of such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least 2 years in addition to such term of imprisonment and shall, if there was such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least 4 years in addition to such term of imprisonment. (2) In the case of a controlled substance in schedule IV, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 3 years, a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $250,000 if the defendant is an individual or $1,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. If any person commits such a violation after one or more prior convictions of him for an offense punishable under this paragraph, or for a felony under any other provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or other law of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to narcotic drugs, marihuana, or depressant or stimulant substances, have become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 6 years, a fine not to exceed the greater of twice that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $500,000 if the defendant is an individual or $2,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both.
Any sentence imposing a term of imprisonment under this paragraph shall, in the absence of such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least one year in addition to such term of imprisonment and shall, if there was such a prior conviction, impose a term of supervised release of at least 2 years in addition to such term of imprisonment. (3) In the case of a controlled substance in schedule V, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than one year, a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $100,000 if the defendant is an individual or $250,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. If any person commits such a violation after one or more convictions of him for an offense punishable under this paragraph, or for a crime under any other provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or other law of a State, the United States, or a foreign country relating to narcotic drugs, marihuana, or depressant or stimulant substances, have become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 2 years, a fine not to exceed the greater of twice that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $200,000 if the defendant is an individual or $500,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, or both. (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(D) of this subsection, any person who violates subsection (a) of this section by distributing a small amount of marihuana for no remuneration shall be treated as provided in section 844 of this title and section 3607 of title 18.
(5) Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section by cultivating a controlled substance on Federal property shall be imprisoned as provided in this subsection and shall be fined any amount not to exceed - (A) the amount authorized in accordance with this section; (B) the amount authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18; (C) $500,000 if the defendant is an individual; or (D) $1,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual; or both. (6) Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section, or attempts to do so, and knowingly or intentionally uses a poison, chemical, or other hazardous substance on Federal land, and, by such use - (A) creates a serious hazard to humans, wildlife, or domestic animals, (B) degrades or harms the environment or natural resources, or (C) pollutes an aquifer, spring, stream, river, or body of water, shall be fined in accordance with title 18 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both. (c) Repealed. Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 224(a)(2), formerly Sec. 224(a)(6), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2030, as renumbered by Pub. L. 99-570, title I, Sec. 1005(a)(2), Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat.
3207-6 (d) Offenses involving listed chemicals Any person who knowingly or intentionally - (1) possesses a listed chemical with intent to manufacture a controlled substance except as authorized by this subchapter; (2) possesses or distributes a listed chemical knowing, or having reasonable cause to believe, that the listed chemical will be used to manufacture a controlled substance except as authorized by this subchapter; or (3) with the intent of causing the evasion of the recordkeeping or reporting requirements of section 830 of this title, or the regulations issued under that section, receives or distributes a reportable amount of any listed chemical in units small enough so that the making of records or filing of reports under that section is not required; shall be fined in accordance with title 18 or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both. (e) Boobytraps on Federal property; penalties; ''boobytrap'' defined (1) Any person who assembles, maintains, places, or causes to be placed a boobytrap on Federal property where a controlled substance is being manufactured, distributed, or dispensed shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment for not more than 10 years and shall be fined not more than $10,000. (2) If any person commits such a violation after 1 or more prior convictions for an offense punishable under this subsection, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 20 years and shall be fined not more than $20,000. (3) For the purposes of this subsection, the term ''boobytrap'' means any concealed or camouflaged device designed to cause bodily injury when triggered by any action of any unsuspecting person making contact with the device. Such term includes guns, ammunition, or explosive devices attached to trip wires or other triggering mechanisms, sharpened stakes, and lines or wires with hooks attached.
(f) Ten-year injunction as additional penalty In addition to any other applicable penalty, any person convicted of a felony violation of this section relating to the receipt, distribution, or importation of a listed chemical may be enjoined from engaging in any regulated transaction involving a listed chemical for not more than ten years. (g) Wrongful distribution or possession of listed chemicals (1) Whoever knowingly distributes a listed chemical in violation of this subchapter (other than in violation of a recordkeeping or reporting requirement of section 830 of this title) shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both. (2) Whoever possesses any listed chemical, with knowledge that the recordkeeping or reporting requirements of section 830 of this title have not been adhered to, if, after such knowledge is acquired, such person does not take immediate steps to remedy the violation shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. § 842. Prohibited acts B.
(a) Unlawful acts It shall be unlawful for any person - (1) who is subject to the requirements of part C to distribute or dispense a controlled substance in violation of section 829 of this title; (2) who is a registrant to distribute or dispense a controlled substance not authorized by his registration to another registrant or other authorized person or to manufacture a controlled substance not authorized by his registration; (3) who is a registrant to distribute a controlled substance in violation of section 825 of this title; (4) to remove, alter, or obliterate a symbol or label required by section 825 of this title; (5) to refuse or fail to make, keep, or furnish any record, report, notification, declaration, order or order form, statement, invoice, or information required under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter; (6) to refuse any entry into any premises or inspection authorized by this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter; (7) to remove, break, injure, or deface a seal placed upon controlled substances pursuant to section 824(f) or 881 of this title or to remove or dispose of substances so placed under seal; (8) to use, to his own advantage, or to reveal, other than to duly authorized officers or employees of the United States, or to the courts when relevant in any judicial proceeding under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter, any information acquired in the course of an inspection authorized by this subchapter concerning any method or process which as a trade secret is entitled to protection, or to use to his own advantage or reveal (other than as authorized by section 830 of this title) any information that is confidential under such section; (9) who is a regulated person to engage in a regulated transaction without obtaining the identification required by 830(a)(3) of this title; or (10) to fail to keep a record or make a report under section 830 of this title.
(b) Manufacture It shall be unlawful for any person who is a registrant to manufacture a controlled substance in schedule I or II which is - (1) not expressly authorized by his registration and by a quota assigned to him pursuant to section 826 of this title; or (2) in excess of a quota assigned to him pursuant to section 826 of this title. (c) Penalties (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any person who violates this section shall, with respect to any such violation, be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $25,000. The district courts of the United States (or, where there is no such court in the case of any territory or possession of the United States, then the court in such territory or possession having the jurisdiction of a district court of the United States in cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States) shall have jurisdiction in accordance with section 1355 of title 28 to enforce this paragraph. (2) (A) If a violation of this section is prosecuted by an information or indictment which alleges that the violation was committed knowingly and the trier of fact specifically finds that the violation was so committed, such person shall, except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, be sentenced to imprisonment of not more than one year or a fine of not more than $25,000, or both. (B) If a violation referred to in subparagraph (A) was committed after one or more prior convictions of the offender for an offense punishable under this paragraph (2), or for a crime under any other provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or other law of the United States relating to narcotic drugs, marihuana, or depressant or stimulant substances, have become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 2 years, a fine of $50,000, or both.
(3) Except under the conditions specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a violation of this section does not constitute a crime, and a judgment for the United States and imposition of a civil penalty pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not give rise to any disability or legal disadvantage based on conviction for a criminal offense. § 843.
Prohibited acts C. (a) Unlawful acts It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally - (1) who is a registrant to distribute a controlled substance classified in schedule I or II, in the course of his legitimate business, except pursuant to an order or an order form as required by section 828 of this title; (2) to use in the course of the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance, or to use for the purpose of acquiring or obtaining a controlled substance, a registration number which is fictitious, revoked, suspended, expired, or issued to another person; (3) to acquire or obtain possession of a controlled substance by misrepresentation, fraud, forgery, deception, or subterfuge; (4) (A) to furnish false or fraudulent material information in, or omit any material information from, any application, report, record, or other document required to be made, kept, or filed under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter, or (B) to present false or fraudulent identification where the person is receiving or purchasing a listed chemical and the person is required to present identification under section 830(a) of this title; (5) to make, distribute, or possess any punch, die, plate, stone, or other thing designed to print, imprint, or reproduce the trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark, imprint, or device of another or any likeness of any of the foregoing upon any drug or container or labeling thereof so as to render such drug a counterfeit substance; (6) to possess any three-neck round-bottom flask, tableting machine, encapsulating machine, or gelatin capsule, or any equipment, chemical, product, or material which may be used to manufacture a controlled substance or listed chemical, knowing, intending, or having reasonable cause to believe, that it will be used to manufacture a controlled substance or listed chemical in violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter; (7) to manufacture, distribute, export, or import any three-neck round-bottom flask, tableting machine, encapsulating machine, or gelatin capsule, or any equipment, chemical, product, or material which may be used to manufacture a controlled substance or listed chemical, knowing, intending, or having reasonable cause to believe, that it will be used to manufacture a controlled substance or listed chemical in violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or, in the case of an exportation, in violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or of the laws of the country to which it is exported; (8) to create a chemical mixture for the purpose of evading a requirement of section 830 of this title or to receive a chemical mixture created for that purpose; or (9) to distribute, import, or export a list I chemical without the registration required by this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter.
(b) Communication facility It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to use any communication facility in committing or in causing or facilitating the commission of any act or acts constituting a felony under any provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter. Each separate use of a communication facility shall be a separate offense under this subsection. For purposes of this subsection, the term ''communication facility'' means any and all public and private instrumentalities used or useful in the transmission of writing, signs, signals, pictures, or sounds of all kinds and includes mail, telephone, wire, radio, and all other means of communication. (c) Advertisement It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publications, any written advertisement knowing that it has the purpose of seeking or offering illegally to receive, buy, or distribute a Schedule (FOOTNOTE 1) I controlled substance. As used in this section the term ''advertisement'' includes, in addition to its ordinary meaning, such advertisements as those for a catalog of Schedule (FOOTNOTE 1) I controlled substances and any similar written advertisement that has the purpose of seeking or offering illegally to receive, buy, or distribute a Schedule (FOOTNOTE 1) I controlled substance. The term ''advertisement'' does not include material which merely advocates the use of a similar material, which advocates a position or practice, and does not attempt to propose or facilitate an actual transaction in a Schedule (FOOTNOTE 1) I controlled substance. (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should not be capitalized.
(d) Penalties Any person who violates this section shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 4 years, a fine of not more than $30,000, or both; except that if any person commits such a violation after one or more prior convictions of him for violation of this section, or for a felony under any other provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or other law of the United States relating to narcotic drugs, marihuana, or depressant or stimulant substances, have become final, such person shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 8 years, a fine of not more than $60,000, or both. (e) Additional penalties In addition to any other applicable penalty, any person convicted of a felony violation of this section relating to the receipt, distribution, or importation of a listed chemical may be enjoined from engaging in any regulated transaction involving a listed chemical for not more than ten years. § 844. Penalties for simple possession. (a) Unlawful acts; penalties It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess a controlled substance unless such substance was obtained directly, or pursuant to a valid prescription or order, from a practitioner, while acting in the course of his professional practice, or except as otherwise authorized by this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter.
Any person who violates this subsection may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 1 year, and shall be fined a minimum of $1,000, or both, except that if he commits such offense after a prior conviction under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter, or a prior conviction for any drug or narcotic offense chargeable under the law of any State, has become final, he shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment for not less than 15 days but not more than 2 years, and shall be fined a minimum of $2,500, except, further, that if he commits such offense after two or more prior convictions under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter, or two or more prior convictions for any drug or narcotic offense chargeable under the law of any State, or a combination of two or more such offenses have become final, he shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment for not less than 90 days but not more than 3 years, and shall be fined a minimum of $5,000. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a person convicted under this subsection for the possession of a mixture or substance which contains cocaine base shall be imprisoned not less than 5 years and not more than 20 years, and fined a minimum of $1,000, if the conviction is a first conviction under this subsection and the amount of the mixture or substance exceeds 5 grams, if the conviction is after a prior conviction for the possession of such a mixture or substance under this subsection becomes final and the amount of the mixture or substance exceeds 3 grams, or if the conviction is after 2 or more prior convictions for the possession of such a mixture or substance under this subsection become final and the amount of the mixture or substance exceeds 1 gram. The imposition or execution of a minimum sentence required to be imposed under this subsection shall not be suspended or deferred.
Further, upon conviction, a person who violates this subsection shall be fined the reasonable costs of the investigation and prosecution of the offense, including the costs of prosecution of an offense as defined in sections 1918 and 1920 of title 28, except that this sentence shall not apply and a fine under this section need not be imposed if the court determines under the provision of title 18 that the defendant lacks the ability to pay. (b) Repealed. Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 219(a), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2027 (c) ''Drug or narcotic offense'' defined As used in this section, the term ''drug or narcotic offense'' means any offense which proscribes the possession, distribution, manufacture, cultivation, sale, transfer, or the attempt or conspiracy to possess, distribute, manufacture, cultivate, sell or transfer any substance the possession of which is prohibited under this subchapter. § 844a. Civil penalty for possession of small amounts of certain controlled substances. (a) In general Any individual who knowingly possesses a controlled substance that is listed in section 841(b)(1)(A) of this title in violation of section 844 of this title in an amount that, as specified by regulation of the Attorney General, is a personal use amount shall be liable to the United States for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $10,000 for each such violation. (b) Income and net assets The income and net assets of an individual shall not be relevant to the determination whether to assess a civil penalty under this section or to prosecute the individual criminally. However, in determining the amount of a penalty under this section, the income and net assets of an individual shall be considered. (c) Prior conviction A civil penalty may not be assessed under this section if the individual previously was convicted of a Federal or State offense relating to a controlled substance.
(d) Limitation on number of assessments A civil penalty may not be assessed on an individual under this section on more than two separate occasions. (e) Assessment A civil penalty under this section may be assessed by the Attorney General only by an order made on the record after opportunity for a hearing in accordance with section 554 of title 5. The Attorney General shall provide written notice to the individual who is the subject of the proposed order informing the individual of the opportunity to receive such a hearing with respect to the proposed order. The hearing may be held only if the individual makes a request for the hearing before the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date such notice is issued. (f) Compromise The Attorney General may compromise, modify, or remit, with or without conditions, any civil penalty imposed under this section. (g) Judicial review If the Attorney General issues an order pursuant to subsection (e) of this section after a hearing described in such subsection, the individual who is the subject of the order may, before the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date the order is issued, bring a civil action in the appropriate district court of the United States. In such action, the law and the facts of the violation and the assessment of the civil penalty shall be determined de novo, and shall include the right of a trial by jury, the right to counsel, and the right to confront witnesses. The facts of the violation shall be proved beyond a reasonable doubt.
(h) Civil action If an individual does not request a hearing pursuant to subsection (e) of this section and the Attorney General issues an order pursuant to such subsection, or if an individual does not under subsection (g) of this section seek judicial review of such an order, the Attorney General may commence a civil action in any appropriate district court of the United States for the purpose of recovering the amount assessed and an amount representing interest at a rate computed in accordance with section 1961 of title 28. Such interest shall accrue from the expiration of the 30-day period described in subsection (g) of this section. In such an action, the decision of the Attorney General to issue the order, and the amount of the penalty assessed by the Attorney General, shall not be subject to review. (i) Limitation The Attorney General may not under this subsection (FOOTNOTE 1) commence proceeding against an individual after the expiration of the 5-year period beginning on the date on which the individual allegedly violated subsection (a) of this section. (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should be ''section''. (j) Expungement procedures The Attorney General shall dismiss the proceedings under this section against an individual upon application of such individual at any time after the expiration of 3 years if - (1) the individual has not previously been assessed a civil penalty under this section; (2) the individual has paid the assessment; (3) the individual has complied with any conditions imposed by the Attorney General; (4) the individual has not been convicted of a Federal or State offense relating to a controlled substance; and (5) the individual agrees to submit to a drug test, and such test shows the individual to be drug free. A nonpublic record of a disposition under this subsection shall be retained by the Department of Justice solely for the purpose of determining in any subsequent proceeding whether the person qualified for a civil penalty or expungement under this section.
If a record is expunged under this subsection, an individual concerning whom such an expungement has been made shall not be held thereafter under any provision of law to be guilty of perjury, false swearing, or making a false statement by reason of his failure to recite or acknowledge a proceeding under this section or the results thereof in response to an inquiry made of him for any purpose. § 845 to 845b. Transferred. § 846. Attempt and conspiracy. Any person who attempts or conspires to commit any offense defined in this subchapter shall be subject to the same penalties as those prescribed for the offense, the commission of which was the object of the attempt or conspiracy. § 847. Additional penalties. Any penalty imposed for violation of this subchapter shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any civil or administrative penalty or sanction authorized by law. § 848. Continuing criminal enterprise.
(a) Penalties; forfeitures Any person who engages in a continuing criminal enterprise shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which may not be less than 20 years and which may be up to life imprisonment, to a fine not to exceed the greater of that authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $2,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $5,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, and to the forfeiture prescribed in section 853 of this title; except that if any person engages in such activity after one or more prior convictions of him under this section have become final, he shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which may not be less than 30 years and which may be up to life imprisonment, to a fine not to exceed the greater of twice the amount authorized in accordance with the provisions of title 18 or $4,000,000 if the defendant is an individual or $10,000,000 if the defendant is other than an individual, and to the forfeiture prescribed in section 853 of this title.
(b) Life imprisonment for engaging in continuing criminal enterprise Any person who engages in a continuing criminal enterprise shall be imprisoned for life and fined in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, if - (1) such person is the principal administrator, organizer, or leader of the enterprise or is one of several such principal administrators, organizers, or leaders; and (2) (A) the violation referred to in subsection (c)(1) of this section involved at least 300 times the quantity of a substance described in subsection 841(b)(1)(B) of this title, or (B) the enterprise, or any other enterprise in which the defendant was the principal or one of several principal administrators, organizers, or leaders, received $10 million dollars in gross receipts during any twelve-month period of its existence for the manufacture, importation, or distribution of a substance described in section 841(b)(1)(B) of this title. (c) ''Continuing criminal enterprise'' defined For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, a person is engaged in a continuing criminal enterprise if - (1) he violates any provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter the punishment for which is a felony, and (2) such violation is a part of a continuing series of violations of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter - (A) which are undertaken by such person in concert with five or more other persons with respect to whom such person occupies a position of organizer, a supervisory position, or any other position of management, and (B) from which such person obtains substantial income or resources. (d) Suspension of sentence and probation prohibited In the case of any sentence imposed under this section, imposition or execution of such sentence shall not be suspended, probation shall not be granted, and the Act of July 15, 1932 (D.C. Code, secs.
24-203 - 24-207), shall not apply. (e) Death penalty (1) In addition to the other penalties set forth in this section - (A) any person engaging in or working in furtherance of a continuing criminal enterprise, or any person engaging in an offense punishable under section 841(b)(1)(A) of this title or section 960(b)(1) of this title who intentionally kills or counsels, commands, induces, procures, or causes the intentional killing of an individual and such killing results, shall be sentenced to any term of imprisonment, which shall not be less than 20 years, and which may be up to life imprisonment, or may be sentenced to death; and (B) any person, during the commission of, in furtherance of, or while attempting to avoid apprehension, prosecution or service of a prison sentence for, a felony violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter who intentionally kills or counsels, commands, induces, procures, or causes the intentional killing of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer engaged in, or on account of, the performance of such officer's official duties and such killing results, shall be sentenced to any term of imprisonment, which shall not be less than 20 years, and which may be up to life imprisonment, or may be sentenced to death. (2) As used in paragraph (1)(b), (FOOTNOTE 1) the term ''law enforcement officer'' means a public servant authorized by law or by a Government agency or Congress to conduct or engage in the prevention, investigation, prosecution or adjudication of an offense, and includes those engaged in corrections, probation, or parole functions. (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should be paragraph ''(1)(B),''. (g) (FOOTNOTE 2) Hearing required with respect to death penalty (FOOTNOTE 2) So in original.
Section does not contain a subsec. (f), see 1988 Amendment note below. (g) Hearing required with respect to the death penalty. A person shall be subjected to the penalty of death for any offense under this section only if a hearing is held in accordance with this section. (h) Notice by Government in death penalty cases (1) Whenever the Government intends to seek the death penalty for an offense under this section for which one of the sentences provided is death, the attorney for the Government, a reasonable time before trial or acceptance by the court of a plea of guilty, shall sign and file with the court, and serve upon the defendant, a notice - (A) that the Government in the event of conviction will seek the sentence of death; and (B) setting forth the aggravating factors enumerated in subsection (n) of this section and any other aggravating factors which the Government will seek to prove as the basis for the death penalty. (2) The court may permit the attorney for the Government to amend this notice for good cause shown. (i) Hearing before court or jury (1) When the attorney for the Government has filed a notice as required under subsection (h) of this section and the defendant is found guilty of or pleads guilty to an offense under subsection (e) of this section, the judge who presided at the trial or before whom the guilty plea was entered, or any other judge if the judge who presided at the trial or before whom the guilty plea was entered is unavailable, shall conduct a separate sentencing hearing to determine the punishment to be imposed.
The hearing shall be conducted - (A) before the jury which determined the defendant's guilt; (B) before a jury impaneled for the purpose of the hearing if - (i) the defendant was convicted upon a plea of guilty; (ii) the defendant was convicted after a trial before the court sitting without a jury; (iii) the jury which determined the defendant's guilt has been discharged for good cause; or (iv) after initial imposition of a sentence under this section, redetermination of the sentence under this section is necessary; or (C) before the court alone, upon the motion of the defendant and with the approval of the Government. (2) A jury impaneled under paragraph (1)(B) shall consist of 12 members, unless, at any time before the conclusion of the hearing, the parties stipulate with the approval of the court that it shall consist of any number less than 12. (j) Proof of aggravating and mitigating factors Notwithstanding rule 32(c) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, when a defendant is found guilty of or pleads guilty to an offense under subsection (e) of this section, no presentence report shall be prepared. In the sentencing hearing, information may be presented as to matters relating to any of the aggravating or mitigating factors set forth in subsections (m) and (n) of this section, or any other mitigating factor or any other aggravating factor for which notice has been provided under subsection (h)(1)(B) of this section. Where information is presented relating to any of the aggravating factors set forth in subsection (n) of this section, information may be presented relating to any other aggravating factor for which notice has been provided under subsection (h)(1)(B) of this section. Information presented may include the trial transcript and exhibits if the hearing is held before a jury or judge not present during the trial, or at the trial judge's discretion.
Any other information relevant to such mitigating or aggravating factors may be presented by either the Government or the defendant, regardless of its admissibility under the rules governing admission of evidence at criminal trials, except that information may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or misleading the jury. The Government and the defendant shall be permitted to rebut any information received at the hearing and shall be given fair opportunity to present argument as to the adequacy of the information to establish the existence of any of the aggravating or mitigating factors and as to appropriateness in that case of imposing a sentence of death. The Government shall open the argument. The defendant shall be permitted to reply. The Government shall then be permitted to reply in rebuttal. The burden of establishing the existence of any aggravating factor is on the Government, and is not satisfied unless established beyond a reasonable doubt. The burden of establishing the existence of any mitigating factor is on the defendant, and is not satisfied unless established by a preponderance of the evidence. (k) Return of findings The jury, or if there is no jury, the court, shall consider all the information received during the hearing. It shall return special findings identifying any aggravating factors set forth in subsection (n) of this section, found to exist. If one of the aggravating factors set forth in subsection (n)(1) of this section and another of the aggravating factors set forth in paragraphs (2) through (12) of subsection (n) of this section is found to exist, a special finding identifying any other aggravating factor for which notice has been provided under subsection (h)(1)(B) of this section, may be returned.
A finding with respect to a mitigating factor may be made by one or more of the members of the jury, and any member of the jury who finds the existence of a mitigating factor may consider such a factor established for purposes of this subsection, regardless of the number of jurors who concur that the factor has been established. A finding with respect to any aggravating factor must be unanimous. If an aggravating factor set forth in subsection (n)(1) of this section is not found to exist or an aggravating factor set forth in subsection (n)(1) of this section is found to exist but no other aggravating factor set forth in subsection (n) of this section is found to exist, the court shall impose a sentence, other than death, authorized by law. If an aggravating factor set forth in subsection (n)(1) of this section and one or more of the other aggravating factors set forth in subsection (n) of this section are found to exist, the jury, or if there is no jury, the court, shall then consider whether the aggravating factors found to exist sufficiently outweigh any mitigating factor or factors found to exist, or in the absence of mitigating factors, whether the aggravating factors are themselves sufficient to justify a sentence of death. Based upon this consideration, the jury by unanimous vote, or if there is no jury, the court, shall recommend that a sentence of death shall be imposed rather than a sentence of life imprisonment without possibility of release or some other lesser sentence. The jury or the court, regardless of its findings with respect to aggravating and mitigating factors, is never required to impose a death sentence and the jury shall be so instructed. (l) Imposition of sentence Upon the recommendation that the sentence of death be imposed, the court shall sentence the defendant to death. Otherwise the court shall impose a sentence, other than death, authorized by law.
A sentence of death shall not be carried out upon a person who is under 18 years of age at the time the crime was committed. A sentence of death shall not be carried out upon a person who is mentally retarded. A sentence of death shall not be carried out upon a person who, as a result of mental disability - (1) cannot understand the nature of the pending proceedings, what such person was tried for, the reason for the punishment, or the nature of the punishment; or (2) lacks the capacity to recognize or understand facts which would make the punishment unjust or unlawful, or lacks the ability to convey such information to counsel or to the court. (m) Mitigating factors In determining whether a sentence of death is to be imposed on a defendant, the finder of fact shall consider mitigating factors, including the following: (1) The defendant's capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness of the defendant's conduct or to conform conduct to the requirements of law was significantly impaired, regardless of whether the capacity was so impaired as to constitute a defense to the charge. (2) The defendant was under unusual and substantial duress, regardless of whether the duress was of such a degree as to constitute a defense to the charge. (3) The defendant is punishable as a principal (as defined in section 2 of title 18) in the offense, which was committed by another, but the defendant's participation was relatively minor, regardless of whether the participation was so minor as to constitute a defense to the charge. (4) The defendant could not reasonably have foreseen that the defendant's conduct in the course of the commission of murder, or other offense resulting in death for which the defendant was convicted, would cause, or would create a grave risk of causing, death to any person. (5) The defendant was youthful, although not under the age of 18. (6) The defendant did not have a significant prior criminal record.
(7) The defendant committed the offense under severe mental or emotional disturbance. (8) Another defendant or defendants, equally culpable in the crime, will not be punished by death. (9) The victim consented to the criminal conduct that resulted in the victim's death. (10) That other factors in the defendant's background or character mitigate against imposition of the death sentence. (n) Aggravating factors for homicide If the defendant is found guilty of or pleads guilty to an offense under subsection (e) of this section, the following aggravating factors are the only aggravating factors that shall be considered, unless notice of additional aggravating factors is provided under subsection (h)(1)(B) of this section: (1) The defendant - (A) intentionally killed the victim; (B) intentionally inflicted serious bodily injury which resulted in the death of the victim; (C) intentionally engaged in conduct intending that the victim be killed or that lethal force be employed against the victim, which resulted in the death of the victim; (D) intentionally engaged in conduct which - (i) the defendant knew would create a grave risk of death to a person, other than one of the participants in the offense; and (ii) resulted in the death of the victim. (2) The defendant has been convicted of another Federal offense, or a State offense resulting in the death of a person, for which a sentence of life imprisonment or a sentence of death was authorized by statute. (3) The defendant has previously been convicted of two or more State or Federal offenses punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than one year, committed on different occasions, involving the infliction of, or attempted infliction of, serious bodily injury upon another person. (4) The defendant has previously been convicted of two or more State or Federal offenses punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than one year, committed on different occasions, involving the distribution of a controlled substance.
(5) In the commission of the offense or in escaping apprehension for a violation of subsection (e) of this section, the defendant knowingly created a grave risk of death to one or more persons in addition to the victims of the offense. (6) The defendant procured the commission of the offense by payment, or promise of payment, of anything of pecuniary value. (7) The defendant committed the offense as consideration for the receipt, or in the expectation of the receipt, of anything of pecuniary value. (8) The defendant committed the offense after substantial planning and premeditation. (9) The victim was particularly vulnerable due to old age, youth, or infirmity. (10) The defendant had previously been convicted of violating this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter for which a sentence of five or more years may be imposed or had previously been convicted of engaging in a continuing criminal enterprise. (11) The violation of this subchapter in relation to which the conduct described in subsection (e) of this section occurred was a violation of section 859 of this title. (12) The defendant committed the offense in an especially heinous, cruel, or depraved manner in that it involved torture or serious physical abuse to the victim. (o) Right of defendant to justice without discrimination (1) In any hearing held before a jury under this section, the court shall instruct the jury that in its consideration of whether the sentence of death is justified it shall not consider the race, color, religious beliefs, national origin, or sex of the defendant or the victim, and that the jury is not to recommend a sentence of death unless it has concluded that it would recommend a sentence of death for the crime in question no matter what the race, color, religious beliefs, national origin, or sex of the defendant, or the victim, may be.
The jury shall return to the court a certificate signed by each juror that consideration of the race, color, religious beliefs, national origin, or sex of the defendant or the victim was not involved in reaching his or her individual decision, and that the individual juror would have made the same recommendation regarding a sentence for the crime in question no matter what the race, color, religious beliefs, national origin, or sex of the defendant, or the victim, may be. (2) Not later than one year from November 18, 1988, the Comptroller General shall conduct a study of the various procedures used by the several States for determining whether or not to impose the death penalty in particular cases, and shall report to the Congress on whether or not any or all of the various procedures create a significant risk that the race of a defendant, or the race of a victim against whom a crime was committed, influence the likelihood that defendants in those States will be sentenced to death. In conducting the study required by this paragraph, the General Accounting Office shall - (A) use ordinary methods of statistical analysis, including methods comparable to those ruled admissible by the courts in race discrimination cases under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq. ); (B) study only crimes occurring after January 1, 1976; and (C) determine what, if any, other factors, including any relation between any aggravating or mitigating factors and the race of the victim or the defendant, may account for any evidence that the race of the defendant, or the race of the victim, influences the likelihood that defendants will be sentenced to death. In addition, the General Accounting Office shall examine separately and include in the report, death penalty cases involving crimes similar to those covered under this section.
(p) Sentencing in capital cases in which death penalty is not sought or imposed If a person is convicted for an offense under subsection (e) of this section and the court does not impose the penalty of death, the court may impose a sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. (q) Appeal in capital cases; counsel for financially unable defendants (1) In any case in which the sentence of death is imposed under this section, the sentence of death shall be subject to review by the court of appeals upon appeal by the defendant. Notice of appeal must be filed within the time prescribed for appeal of judgment in section 2107 of title 28. An appeal under this section may be consolidated with an appeal of the judgment of conviction. Such review shall have priority over all other cases. (2) On review of the sentence, the court of appeals shall consider the record, the evidence submitted during the trial, the information submitted during the sentencing hearing, the procedures employed in the sentencing hearing, and the special findings returned under this section. (3) The court shall affirm the sentence if it determines that - (A) the sentence of death was not imposed under the influence of passion, prejudice, or any other arbitrary factor; and (B) the information supports the special finding of the existence of every aggravating factor upon which the sentence was based, together with, or the failure to find, any mitigating factors as set forth or allowed in this section. In all other cases the court shall remand the case for reconsideration under this section. The court of appeals shall state in writing the reasons for its disposition of the review of the sentence.
(4) (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, in every criminal action in which a defendant is charged with a crime which may be punishable by death, a defendant who is or becomes financially unable to obtain adequate representation or investigative, expert, or other reasonably necessary services at any time either - (i) before judgment; or (ii) after the entry of a judgment imposing a sentence of death but before the execution of that judgment; shall be entitled to the appointment of one or more attorneys and the furnishing of such other services in accordance with paragraphs (5), (6), (7), (8), and (9). (B) In any post conviction proceeding under section 2254 or 2255 of title 28 seeking to vacate or set aside a death sentence, any defendant who is or becomes financially unable to obtain adequate representation or investigative, expert, or other reasonably necessary services shall be entitled to the appointment of one or more attorneys and the furnishing of such other services in accordance with paragraphs (5), (6), (7), (8), and (9). (5) If the appointment is made before judgment, at least one attorney so appointed must have been admitted to practice in the court in which the prosecution is to be tried for not less than five years, and must have had not less than three years experience in the actual trial of felony prosecutions in that court. (6) If the appointment is made after judgment, at least one attorney so appointed must have been admitted to practice in the court of appeals for not less than five years, and must have had not less than three years experience in the handling of appeals in that court in felony cases.
(7) With respect to paragraphs (5) and (6), the court, for good cause, may appoint another attorney whose background, knowledge, or experience would otherwise enable him or her to properly represent the defendant, with due consideration to the seriousness of the possible penalty and to the unique and complex nature of the litigation. (8) Unless replaced by similarly qualified counsel upon the attorney's own motion or upon motion of the defendant, each attorney so appointed shall represent the defendant throughout every subsequent stage of available judicial proceedings, including pretrial proceedings, trial, sentencing, motions for new trial, appeals, applications for writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court of the United States, and all available post-conviction process, together with applications for stays of execution and other appropriate motions and procedures, and shall also represent the defendant in such competency proceedings and proceedings for executive or other clemency as may be available to the defendant. (9) Upon a finding in ex parte proceedings that investigative, expert or other services are reasonably necessary for the representation of the defendant, whether in connection with issues relating to guilt or sentence, the court shall authorize the defendant's attorneys to obtain such services on behalf of the defendant and shall order the payment of fees and expenses therefore, under paragraph (10). Upon a finding that timely procurement of such services could not practicably await prior authorization, the court may authorize the provision of and payment for such services nunc pro tunc. (10) Notwithstanding the rates and maximum limits generally applicable to criminal cases and any other provision of law to the contrary, the court shall fix the compensation to be paid to attorneys appointed under this subsection and the fees and expenses to be paid for investigative, expert, and other reasonably necessary services authorized under paragraph (9), at such rates or amounts as the court determines to be reasonably necessary to carry out the requirements of paragraphs (4) through (9).
(r) Refusal to participate by State and Federal correctional employees No employee of any State department of corrections or the Federal Bureau of Prisons and no employee providing services to that department or bureau under contract shall be required, as a condition of that employment, or contractual obligation to be in attendance at or to participate in any execution carried out under this section if such participation is contrary to the moral or religious convictions of the employee. For purposes of this subsection, the term ''participation in executions'' includes personal preparation of the condemned individual and the apparatus used for execution and supervision of the activities of other personnel in carrying out such activities. § 849. Transportation safety offenses. (a) Definitions In this section - ''safety rest area'' means a roadside facility with parking facilities for the rest or other needs of motorists. ''truck stop'' means a facility (including any parking lot appurtenant thereto) that - (A) has the capacity to provide fuel or service, or both, to any commercial motor vehicle (as defined in section 31301 of title 49), operating in commerce (as defined in that section); and (B) is located within 2,500 feet of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways or the Federal-Aid Primary System. (b) First offense A person who violates section 841(a)(1) of this title or section 856 of this title by distributing or possessing with intent to distribute a controlled substance in or on, or within 1,000 feet of, a truck stop or safety rest area is (except as provided in subsection (b) (FOOTNOTE 1) of this section) subject to - (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should be subsection ''(c)''. (1) twice the maximum punishment authorized by section 841(b) of this title; and (2) twice any term of supervised release authorized by section 841(b) of this title for a first offense.
(c) Subsequent offense A person who violates section 841(a)(1) of this title or section 856 of this title by distributing or possessing with intent to distribute a controlled substance in or on, or within 1,000 feet of, a truck stop or a safety rest area after a prior conviction or convictions under subsection (a) (FOOTNOTE 2) of this section have become final is subject to - (FOOTNOTE 2) So in original. Probably should be subsection ''(b)''. (1) 3 times the maximum punishment authorized by section 841(b) of this title; and (2) 3 times any term of supervised release authorized by section 841(b) of this title for a first offense. § 850. Information for sentencing. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter or section 242a(a) of title 42, no limitation shall be placed on the information concerning the background, character, and conduct of a person convicted of an offense which a court of the United States may receive and consider for the purpose of imposing an appropriate sentence under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter. § 851. Proceedings to establish prior convictions. (a) Information filed by United States Attorney (1) No person who stands convicted of an offense under this part shall be sentenced to increased punishment by reason of one or more prior convictions, unless before trial, or before entry of a plea of guilty, the United States attorney files an information with the court (and serves a copy of such information on the person or counsel for the person) stating in writing the previous convictions to be relied upon. Upon a showing by the United States attorney that facts regarding prior convictions could not with due diligence be obtained prior to trial or before entry of a plea of guilty, the court may postpone the trial or the taking of the plea of guilty for a reasonable period for the purpose of obtaining such facts.
Clerical mistakes in the information may be amended at any time prior to the pronouncement of sentence. (2) An information may not be filed under this section if the increased punishment which may be imposed is imprisonment for a term in excess of three years unless the person either waived or was afforded prosecution by indictment for the offense for which such increased punishment may be imposed. (b) Affirmation or denial of previous conviction If the United States attorney files an information under this section, the court shall after conviction but before pronouncement of sentence inquire of the person with respect to whom the information was filed whether he affirms or denies that he has been previously convicted as alleged in the information, and shall inform him that any challenge to a prior conviction which is not made before sentence is imposed may not thereafter be raised to attack the sentence. (c) Denial; written response; hearing (1) If the person denies any allegation of the information of prior conviction, or claims that any conviction alleged is invalid, he shall file a written response to the information. A copy of the response shall be served upon the United States attorney. The court shall hold a hearing to determine any issues raised by the response which would except the person from increased punishment. The failure of the United States attorney to include in the information the complete criminal record of the person or any facts in addition to the convictions to be relied upon shall not constitute grounds for invalidating the notice given in the information required by subsection (a)(1) of this section. The hearing shall be before the court without a jury and either party may introduce evidence. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the United States attorney shall have the burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt on any issue of fact. At the request of either party, the court shall enter findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(2) A person claiming that a conviction alleged in the information was obtained in violation of the Constitution of the United States shall set forth his claim, and the factual basis therefor, with particularity in his response to the information. The person shall have the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence on any issue of fact raised by the response. Any challenge to a prior conviction, not raised by response to the information before an increased sentence is imposed in reliance thereon, shall be waived unless good cause be shown for failure to make a timely challenge. (d) Imposition of sentence (1) If the person files no response to the information, or if the court determines, after hearing, that the person is subject to increased punishment by reason of prior convictions, the court shall proceed to impose sentence upon him as provided by this part. (2) If the court determines that the person has not been convicted as alleged in the information, that a conviction alleged in the information is invalid, or that the person is otherwise not subject to an increased sentence as a matter of law, the court shall, at the request of the United States attorney, postpone sentence to allow an appeal from that determination. If no such request is made, the court shall impose sentence as provided by this part. The person may appeal from an order postponing sentence as if sentence had been pronounced and a final judgment of conviction entered. (e) Statute of limitations No person who stands convicted of an offense under this part may challenge the validity of any prior conviction alleged under this section which occurred more than five years before the date of the information alleging such prior conviction. § 852. Application of treaties and other international agreements.
Nothing in the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, or other treaties or international agreements shall be construed to limit the provision of treatment, education, or rehabilitation as alternatives to conviction or criminal penalty for offenses involving any drug or other substance subject to control under any such treaty or agreement. § 853. Criminal forfeitures. (a) Property subject to criminal forfeiture Any person convicted of a violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter punishable by imprisonment for more than one year shall forfeit to the United States, irrespective of any provision of State law - (1) any property constituting, or derived from, any proceeds the person obtained, directly or indirectly, as the result of such violation; (2) any of the person's property used, or intended to be used, in any manner or part, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, such violation; and (3) in the case of a person convicted of engaging in a continuing criminal enterprise in violation of section 848 of this title, the person shall forfeit, in addition to any property described in paragraph (1) or (2), any of his interest in, claims against, and property or contractual rights affording a source of control over, the continuing criminal enterprise. The court, in imposing sentence on such person, shall order, in addition to any other sentence imposed pursuant to this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter, that the person forfeit to the United States all property described in this subsection. In lieu of a fine otherwise authorized by this part, a defendant who derives profits or other proceeds from an offense may be fined not more than twice the gross profits or other proceeds.
(b) Meaning of term ''property'' Property subject to criminal forfeiture under this section includes - (1) real property, including things growing on, affixed to, and found in land; and (2) tangible and intangible personal property, including rights, privileges, interests, claims, and securities. (c) Third party transfers All right, title, and interest in property described in subsection (a) of this section vests in the United States upon the commission of the act giving rise to forfeiture under this section. Any such property that is subsequently transferred to a person other than the defendant may be the subject of a special verdict of forfeiture and thereafter shall be ordered forfeited to the United States, unless the transferee establishes in a hearing pursuant to subsection (n) of this section that he is a bona fide purchaser for value of such property who at the time of purchase was reasonably without cause to believe that the property was subject to forfeiture under this section. (d) Rebuttable presumption There is a rebuttable presumption at trial that any property of a person convicted of a felony under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter is subject to forfeiture under this section if the United States establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that - (1) such property was acquired by such person during the period of the violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter or within a reasonable time after such period; and (2) there was no likely source for such property other than the violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter.
(e) Protective orders (1) Upon application of the United States, the court may enter a restraining order or injunction, require the execution of a satisfactory performance bond, or take any other action to preserve the availability of property described in subsection (a) of this section for forfeiture under this section - (A) upon the filing of an indictment or information charging a violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter for which criminal forfeiture may be ordered under this section and alleging that the property with respect to which the order is sought would, in the event of conviction, be subject to forfeiture under this section; or (B) prior to the filing of such an indictment or information, if, after notice to persons appearing to have an interest in the property and opportunity for a hearing, the court determines that - (i) there is a substantial probability that the United States will prevail on the issue of forfeiture and that failure to enter the order will result in the property being destroyed, removed from the jurisdiction of the court, or otherwise made unavailable for forfeiture; and (ii) the need to preserve the availability of the property through the entry of the requested order outweighs the hardship on any party against whom the order is to be entered: Provided, however, That an order entered pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be effective for not more than ninety days, unless extended by the court for good cause shown or unless an indictment or information described in subparagraph (A) has been filed. (2) A temporary restraining order under this subsection may be entered upon application of the United States without notice or opportunity for a hearing when an information or indictment has not yet been filed with respect to the property, if the United States demonstrates that there is probable cause to believe that the property with respect to which the order is sought would, in the event of conviction, be subject to forfeiture under this section and that provision of notice will jeopardize the availability of the property for forfeiture.
Such a temporary order shall expire not more than ten days after the date on which it is entered, unless extended for good cause shown or unless the party against whom it is entered consents to an extension for a longer period. A hearing requested concerning an order entered under this paragraph shall be held at the earliest possible time and prior to the expiration of the temporary order. (3) The court may receive and consider, at a hearing held pursuant to this subsection, evidence and information that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence. (f) Warrant of seizure The Government may request the issuance of a warrant authorizing the seizure of property subject to forfeiture under this section in the same manner as provided for a search warrant. If the court determines that there is probable cause to believe that the property to be seized would, in the event of conviction, be subject to forfeiture and that an order under subsection (e) of this section may not be sufficient to assure the availability of the property for forfeiture, the court shall issue a warrant authorizing the seizure of such property. (g) Execution Upon entry of an order of forfeiture under this section, the court shall authorize the Attorney General to seize all property ordered forfeited upon such terms and conditions as the court shall deem proper. Following entry of an order declaring the property forfeited, the court may, upon application of the United States, enter such appropriate restraining orders or injunctions, require the execution of satisfactory performance bonds, appoint receivers, conservators, appraisers, accountants, or trustees, or take any other action to protect the interest of the United States in the property ordered forfeited. Any income accruing to or derived from property ordered forfeited under this section may be used to offset ordinary and necessary expenses to the property which are required by law, or which are necessary to protect the interests of the United States or third parties.
(h) Disposition of property Following the seizure of property ordered forfeited under this section, the Attorney General shall direct the disposition of the property by sale or any other commercially feasible means, making due provision for the rights of any innocent persons. Any property right or interest not exercisable by, or transferable for value to, the United States shall expire and shall not revert to the defendant, nor shall the defendant or any person acting in concert with him or on his behalf be eligible to purchase forfeited property at any sale held by the United States. Upon application of a person, other than the defendant or a person acting in concert with him or on his behalf, the court may restrain or stay the sale or disposition of the property pending the conclusion of any appeal of the criminal case giving rise to the forfeiture, if the applicant demonstrates that proceeding with the sale or disposition of the property will result in irreparable injury, harm, or loss to him. (i) Authority of the Attorney General With respect to property ordered forfeited under this section, the Attorney General is authorized to - (1) grant petitions for mitigation or remission of forfeiture, restore forfeited property to victims of a violation of this subchapter, or take any other action to protect the rights of innocent persons which is in the interest of justice and which is not inconsistent with the provisions of this section; (2) compromise claims arising under this section; (3) award compensation to persons providing information resulting in a forfeiture under this section; (4) direct the disposition by the United States, in accordance with the provisions of section 881(e) of this title, of all property ordered forfeited under this section by public sale or any other commercially feasible means, making due provision for the rights of innocent persons; and (5) take appropriate measures necessary to safeguard and maintain property ordered forfeited under this section pending its disposition.
(j) Applicability of civil forfeiture provisions Except to the extent that they are inconsistent with the provisions of this section, the provisions of section 881(d) of this title shall apply to a criminal forfeiture under this section. (k) Bar on intervention Except as provided in subsection (n) of this section, no party claiming an interest in property subject to forfeiture under this section may - (1) intervene in a trial or appeal of a criminal case involving the forfeiture of such property under this section; or (2) commence an action at law or equity against the United States concerning the validity of his alleged interest in the property subsequent to the filing of an indictment or information alleging that the property is subject to forfeiture under this section. (l) Jurisdiction to enter orders The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction to enter orders as provided in this section without regard to the location of any property which may be subject to forfeiture under this section or which has been ordered forfeited under this section. (m) Depositions In order to facilitate the identification and location of property declared forfeited and to facilitate the disposition of petitions for remission or mitigation of forfeiture, after the entry of an order declaring property forfeited to the United States, the court may, upon application of the United States, order that the testimony of any witness relating to the property forfeited be taken by deposition and that any designated book, paper, document, record, recording, or other material not privileged be produced at the same time and place, in the same manner as provided for the taking of depositions under Rule 15 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. (n) Third party interests (1) Following the entry of an order of forfeiture under this section, the United States shall publish notice of the order and of its intent to dispose of the property in such manner as the Attorney General may direct.
The Government may also, to the extent practicable, provide direct written notice to any person known to have alleged an interest in the property that is the subject of the order of forfeiture as a substitute for published notice as to those persons so notified. (2) Any person, other than the defendant, asserting a legal interest in property which has been ordered forfeited to the United States pursuant to this section may, within thirty days of the final publication of notice or his receipt of notice under paragraph (1), whichever is earlier, petition the court for a hearing to adjudicate the validity of his alleged interest in the property. The hearing shall be held before the court alone, without a jury. (3) The petition shall be signed by the petitioner under penalty of perjury and shall set forth the nature and extent of the petitioner's right, title, or interest in the property, the time and circumstances of the petitioner's acquisition of the right, title, or interest in the property, any additional facts supporting the petitioner's claim, and the relief sought. (4) The hearing on the petition shall, to the extent practicable and consistent with the interests of justice, be held within thirty days of the filing of the petition. The court may consolidate the hearing on the petition with a hearing on any other petition filed by a person other than the defendant under this subsection. (5) At the hearing, the petitioner may testify and present evidence and witnesses on his own behalf, and cross-examine witnesses who appear at the hearing. The United States may present evidence and witnesses in rebuttal and in defense of its claim to the property and cross-examine witnesses who appear at the hearing. In addition to testimony and evidence presented at the hearing, the court shall consider the relevant portions of the record of the criminal case which resulted in the order of forfeiture.
(6) If, after the hearing, the court determines that the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence that - (A) the petitioner has a legal right, title, or interest in the property, and such right, title, or interest renders the order of forfeiture invalid in whole or in part because the right, title, or interest was vested in the petitioner rather than the defendant or was superior to any right, title, or interest of the defendant at the time of the commission of the acts which gave rise to the forfeiture of the property under this section; or (B) the petitioner is a bona fide purchaser for value of the right, title, or interest in the property and was at the time of purchase reasonably without cause to believe that the property was subject to forfeiture under this section; the court shall amend the order of forfeiture in accordance with its determination. (7) Following the court's disposition of all petitions filed under this subsection, or if no such petitions are filed following the expiration of the period provided in paragraph (2) for the filing of such petitions, the United States shall have clear title to property that is the subject of the order of forfeiture and may warrant good title to any subsequent purchaser or transferee. (o) Construction The provisions of this section shall be liberally construed to effectuate its remedial purposes.
(p) Forfeiture of substitute property If any of the property described in subsection (a) of this section, as a result of any act or omission of the defendant - (1) cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence; (2) has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party; (3) has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court; (4) has been substantially diminished in value; or (5) has been commingled with other property which cannot be divided without difficulty; the court shall order the forfeiture of any other property of the defendant up to the value of any property described in paragraphs (1) through (5). § 853a. Transferred. § 854. Investment of illicit drug profits. (a) Prohibition It shall be unlawful for any person who has received any income derived, directly or indirectly, from a violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter punishable by imprisonment for more than one year in which such person has participated as a principal within the meaning of section 2 of title 18, to use or invest, directly or indirectly, any part of such income, or the proceeds of such income, in acquisition of any interest in, or the establishment or operation of, any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect interstate or foreign commerce.
A purchase of securities on the open market for purposes of investment, and without the intention of controlling or participating in the control of the issuer, or of assisting another to do so, shall not be unlawful under this section if the securities of the issuer held by the purchaser, the members of his immediate family, and his or their accomplices in any violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter after such purchase do not amount in the aggregate to 1 per centum of the outstanding securities of any one class, and do not confer, either in law or in fact, the power to elect one or more directors of the issuer. (b) Penalty Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $50,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both. (c) ''Enterprise'' defined As used in this section, the term ''enterprise'' includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity. (d) Construction The provisions of this section shall be liberally construed to effectuate its remedial purposes. § 855. Alternative fine. In lieu of a fine otherwise authorized by this part, a defendant who derives profits or other proceeds from an offense may be fined not more than twice the gross profits or other proceeds. § 856. Establishment of manufacturing operations. (a) Except as authorized by this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to - (1) knowingly open or maintain any place for the purpose of manufacturing, distributing, or using any controlled substance; (2) manage or control any building, room, or enclosure, either as an owner, lessee, agent, employee, or mortgagee, and knowingly and intentionally rent, lease, or make available for use, with or without compensation, the building, room, or enclosure for the purpose of unlawfully manufacturing, storing, distributing, or using a controlled substance.
(b) Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than 20 years or a fine of not more than $500,000, or both, or a fine of $2,000,000 for a person other than an individual. § 857. Repealed. Repealed. Pub. L. 101-647, title XXIV, Sec. 2401(d), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4859 § 858. Endangering human life while illegally manufacturing controlled substance. Whoever, while manufacturing a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter, or attempting to do so, or transporting or causing to be transported materials, including chemicals, to do so, creates a substantial risk of harm to human life shall be fined in accordance with title 18 or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both. § 859. Distribution to persons under age twenty-one. (a) First offense Except as provided in section 860 of this title, any person at least eighteen years of age who violates section 841(a)(1) of this title by distributing a controlled substance to a person under twenty-one years of age is (except as provided in subsection (b) of this section) subject to (1) twice the maximum punishment authorized by section 841(b) of this title, and (2) at least twice any term of supervised release authorized by section 841(b) of this title, for a first offense involving the same controlled substance and schedule. Except to the extent a greater minimum sentence is otherwise provided by section 841(b) of this title, a term of imprisonment under this subsection shall be not less than one year. The mandatory minimum sentencing provisions of this subsection shall not apply to offenses involving 5 grams or less of marihuana.
(b) Second offense Except as provided in section 860 of this title, any person at least eighteen years of age who violates section 841(a)(1) of this title by distributing a controlled substance to a person under twenty-one years of age after a prior conviction under subsection (a) of this section (or under section 333(b) of this title as in effect prior to May 1, 1971) has become final, is subject to (1) three times the maximum punishment authorized by section 841(b) of this title, and (2) at least three times any term of supervised release authorized by section 841(b) of this title, for a second or subsequent offense involving the same controlled substance and schedule. Except to the extent a greater minimum sentence is otherwise provided by section 841(b) of this title, a term of imprisonment under this subsection shall be not less than one year. Penalties for third and subsequent convictions shall be governed by section 841(b)(1)(A) of this title. § 860. Distribution or manufacturing in or near schools and colleges.
(a) Penalty Any person who violates section 841(a)(1) of this title or section 856 of this title by distributing, possessing with intent to distribute, or manufacturing a controlled substance in or on, or within one thousand feet of, the real property comprising a public or private elementary, vocational, or secondary school or a public or private college, junior college, or university, or a playground, or housing facility owned by a public housing authority, or within 100 feet of a public or private youth center, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility, is (except as provided in subsection (b) of this section) subject to (1) twice the maximum punishment authorized by section 841(b) of this title; and (2) at least twice any term of supervised release authorized by section 841(b) of this title for a first offense. A fine up to twice that authorized by section 841(b) of this title may be imposed in addition to any term of imprisonment authorized by this subsection. Except to the extent a greater minimum sentence is otherwise provided by section 841(b) of this title, a person shall be sentenced under this subsection to a term of imprisonment of not less than one year. The mandatory minimum sentencing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to offenses involving 5 grams or less of marihuana.
(b) Second offenders Any person who violates section 841(a)(1) of this title or section 856 of this title by distributing, possessing with intent to distribute, or manufacturing a controlled substance in or on, or within one thousand feet of, the real property comprising a public or private elementary, vocational, or secondary school or a public or private college, junior college, or university, or a playground, or housing facility owned by a public housing authority, or within 100 feet of a public or private youth center, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility, after a prior conviction under subsection (a) of this section has become final is punishable (1) by the greater of (A) a term of imprisonment of not less than three years and not more than life imprisonment or (B) three times the maximum punishment authorized by section 841(b) of this title for a first offense, and (2) at least three times any term of supervised release authorized by section 841(b) of this title for a first offense. A fine up to three times that authorized by section 841(b) of this title may be imposed in addition to any term of imprisonment authorized by this subsection. Except to the extent a greater minimum sentence is otherwise provided by section 841(b) of this title, a person shall be sentenced under this subsection to a term of imprisonment of not less than three years. Penalties for third and subsequent convictions shall be governed by section 841(b)(1)(A) of this title.
(c) Employing children to distribute drugs near schools or playgrounds Notwithstanding any other law, any person at least 21 years of age who knowingly and intentionally - (1) employs, hires, uses, persuades, induces, entices, or coerces a person under 18 years of age to violate this section; or (2) employs, hires, uses, persuades, induces, entices, or coerces a person under 18 years of age to assist in avoiding detection or apprehension for any offense under this section by any Federal, State, or local law enforcement official, is punishable by a term of imprisonment, a fine, or both, up to triple those authorized by section 841 of this title. (d) Suspension of sentence; probation; parole In the case of any mandatory minimum sentence imposed under this section, imposition or execution of such sentence shall not be suspended and probation shall not be granted. An individual convicted under this section shall not be eligible for parole until the individual has served the mandatory minimum term of imprisonment as provided by this section. (e) Definitions For the purposes of this section - (1) The term ''playground'' means any outdoor facility (including any parking lot appurtenant thereto) intended for recreation, open to the public, and with any portion thereof containing three or more separate apparatus intended for the recreation of children including, but not limited to, sliding boards, swingsets, and teeterboards. (2) The term ''youth center'' means any recreational facility and/or gymnasium (including any parking lot appurtenant thereto), intended primarily for use by persons under 18 years of age, which regularly provides athletic, civic, or cultural activities. (3) The term ''video arcade facility'' means any facility, legally accessible to persons under 18 years of age, intended primarily for the use of pinball and video machines for amusement containing a minimum of ten pinball and/or video machines.
(4) The term ''swimming pool'' includes any parking lot appurtenant thereto. § 861. Employment or use of persons under 18 years of age in drug operations. (a) Unlawful acts It shall be unlawful for any person at least eighteen years of age to knowingly and intentionally - (1) employ, hire, use, persuade, induce, entice, or coerce, a person under eighteen years of age to violate any provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter; (2) employ, hire, use, persuade, induce, entice, or coerce, a person under eighteen years of age to assist in avoiding detection or apprehension for any offense of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter by any Federal, State, or local law enforcement official; or (3) receive a controlled substance from a person under 18 years of age, other than an immediate family member, in violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter. (b) Penalty for first offense Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section is subject to twice the maximum punishment otherwise authorized and at least twice any term of supervised release otherwise authorized for a first offense. Except to the extent a greater minimum sentence is otherwise provided, a term of imprisonment under this subsection shall not be less than one year. (c) Penalty for subsequent offenses Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section after a prior conviction under subsection (a) of this section has become final, is subject to three times the maximum punishment otherwise authorized and at least three times any term of supervised release otherwise authorized for a first offense. Except to the extent a greater minimum sentence is otherwise provided, a term of imprisonment under this subsection shall not be less than one year. Penalties for third and subsequent convictions shall be governed by section 841(b)(1)(A) of this title.
(d) Penalty for providing or distributing controlled substance to underage person Any person who violates subsection (a)(1) or (2) of this section (FOOTNOTE 1) (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should be followed by a dash. (1) by knowingly providing or distributing a controlled substance or a controlled substance analogue to any person under eighteen years of age; or (2) if the person employed, hired, or used is fourteen years of age or younger, shall be subject to a term of imprisonment for not more than five years or a fine of not more than $50,000, or both, in addition to any other punishment authorized by this section. (e) Suspension of sentence; probation; parole In any case of any sentence imposed under this section, imposition or execution of such sentence shall not be suspended and probation shall not be granted. An individual convicted under this section of an offense for which a mandatory minimum term of imprisonment is applicable shall not be eligible for parole under section 4202 of title 18 (FOOTNOTE 2) until the individual has served the mandatory term of imprisonment as enhanced by this section. (FOOTNOTE 2) Section 4202 of title 18, referred to in subsec. (e), which, as originally enacted in Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, related to eligibility of prisoners for parole, was repealed and a new section 4202 enacted as part of the repeal and enactment of a new chapter 311 (Sec. 4201 et seq.) of Title 18, by Pub. L. 94-233, Sec. 2, Mar. 15, 1976, 90 Stat. 219. For provisions relating to the eligibility of prisoners for parole, see section 4205 of Title 18. Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 218(a)(5), 235(a)(1), (b)(1), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat.
2027, 2031, 2032, as amended, provided that, effective on the first day of the first calendar month beginning 36 months after Oct. 12, 1984 (Nov. 1, 1987), chapter 311 of Title 18 is repealed, subject to remaining effective for five years after Nov. 1, 1987, in certain circumstances. (f) Distribution of controlled substance to pregnant individual Except as authorized by this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally provide or distribute any controlled substance to a pregnant individual in violation of any provision of this subchapter. Any person who violates this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of subsections (b), (c), and (e) of this section. § 862. Denial of Federal benefits to drug traffickers and possessors. (a) Drug traffickers (1) Any individual who is convicted of any Federal or State offense consisting of the distribution of controlled substances shall - (A) at the discretion of the court, upon the first conviction for such an offense be ineligible for any or all Federal benefits for up to 5 years after such conviction; (B) at the discretion of the court, upon a second conviction for such an offense be ineligible for any or all Federal benefits for up to 10 years after such conviction; and (C) upon a third or subsequent conviction for such an offense be permanently ineligible for all Federal benefits. (2) The benefits which are denied under this subsection shall not include benefits relating to long-term drug treatment programs for addiction for any person who, if there is a reasonable body of evidence to substantiate such declaration, declares himself to be an addict and submits himself to a long-term treatment program for addiction, or is deemed to be rehabilitated pursuant to rules established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b) Drug possessors (1) Any individual who is convicted of any Federal or State offense involving the possession of a controlled substance (as such term is defined for purposes of this subchapter) shall - (A) upon the first conviction for such an offense and at the discretion of the court - (i) be ineligible for any or all Federal benefits for up to one year; (ii) be required to successfully complete an approved drug treatment program which includes periodic testing to insure that the individual remains drug free; (iii) be required to perform appropriate community service; or (iv) any combination of clause (i), (ii), or (iii); and (B) upon a second or subsequent conviction for such an offense be ineligible for all Federal benefits for up to 5 years after such conviction as determined by the court. The court shall continue to have the discretion in subparagraph (A) above. In imposing penalties and conditions under subparagraph (A), the court may require that the completion of the conditions imposed by clause (ii) or (iii) be a requirement for the reinstatement of benefits under clause (i). (2) The penalties and conditions which may be imposed under this subsection shall be waived in the case of a person who, if there is a reasonable body of evidence to substantiate such declaration, declares himself to be an addict and submits himself to a long-term treatment program for addiction, or is deemed to be rehabilitated pursuant to rules established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(c) Suspension of period of ineligibility The period of ineligibility referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be suspended if the individual - (A) completes a supervised drug rehabilitation program after becoming ineligible under this section; (B) has otherwise been rehabilitated; or (C) has made a good faith effort to gain admission to a supervised drug rehabilitation program, but is unable to do so because of inaccessibility or unavailability of such a program, or the inability of the individual to pay for such a program. (d) Definitions As used in this section - (1) the term ''Federal benefit'' - (A) means the issuance of any grant, contract, loan, professional license, or commercial license provided by an agency of the United States or by appropriated funds of the United States; and (B) does not include any retirement, welfare, Social Security, health, disability, veterans benefit, public housing, or other similar benefit, or any other benefit for which payments or services are required for eligibility; and (2) the term ''veterans benefit'' means all benefits provided to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States. (e) Inapplicability of this section to Government witnesses The penalties provided by this section shall not apply to any individual who cooperates or testifies with the Government in the prosecution of a Federal or State offense or who is in a Government witness protection program. (f) Indian provision Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the obligation of the United States to any Indian or Indian tribe arising out of any treaty, statute, Executive order, or the trust responsibility of the United States owing to such Indian or Indian tribe.
Nothing in this subsection shall exempt any individual Indian from the sanctions provided for in this section, provided that no individual Indian shall be denied any benefit under Federal Indian programs comparable to those described in subsection (d)(1)(B) or (d)(2) of this section. (g) Presidential report (1) On or before May 1, 1989, the President shall transmit to the Congress a report - (A) delineating the role of State courts in implementing this section; (B) describing the manner in which Federal agencies will implement and enforce the requirements of this section; (C) detailing the means by which Federal and State agencies, courts, and law enforcement agencies will exchange and share the data and information necessary to implement and enforce the withholding of Federal benefits; and (D) recommending any modifications to improve the administration of this section or otherwise achieve the goal of discouraging the trafficking and possession of controlled substances. (2) No later than September 1, 1989, the Congress shall consider the report of the President and enact such changes as it deems appropriate to further the goals of this section. (h) Effective date The denial of Federal benefits set forth in this section shall take effect for convictions occurring after September 1, 1989. § 863. Drug paraphernalia. (a) In general It is unlawful for any person - (1) to sell or offer for sale drug paraphernalia; (2) to use the mails or any other facility of interstate commerce to transport drug paraphernalia; or (3) to import or export drug paraphernalia. (b) Penalties Anyone convicted of an offense under subsection (a) of this section shall be imprisoned for not more than three years and fined under title 18. (c) Seizure and forfeiture Any drug paraphernalia involved in any violation of subsection (a) of this section shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture upon the conviction of a person for such violation.
Any such paraphernalia shall be delivered to the Administrator of General Services, General Services Administration, who may order such paraphernalia destroyed or may authorize its use for law enforcement or educational purposes by Federal, State, or local authorities. (d) ''Drug paraphernalia'' defined The term ''drug paraphernalia'' means any equipment, product, or material of any kind which is primarily intended or designed for use in manufacturing, compounding, converting, concealing, producing, processing, preparing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance, possession of which is unlawful under this subchapter. It includes items primarily intended or designed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, (FOOTNOTE 1) cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, PCP, or amphetamines into the human body, such as - (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Probably should be ''marihuana,''. (1) metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls; (2) water pipes; (3) carburetion tubes and devices; (4) smoking and carburetion masks; (5) roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand; (6) miniature spoons with level capacities of one-tenth cubic centimeter or less; (7) chamber pipes; (8) carburetor pipes; (9) electric pipes; (10) air-driven pipes; (11) chillums; (12) bongs; (13) ice pipes or chillers; (14) wired cigarette papers; or (15) cocaine freebase kits.
(e) Matters considered in determination of what constitutes drug paraphernalia In determining whether an item constitutes drug paraphernalia, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the following may be considered: (1) instructions, oral or written, provided with the item concerning its use; (2) descriptive materials accompanying the item which explain or depict its use; (3) national and local advertising concerning its use; (4) the manner in which the item is displayed for sale; (5) whether the owner, or anyone in control of the item, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products; (6) direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the item(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise; (7) the existence and scope of legitimate uses of the item in the community; and (8) expert testimony concerning its use. (f) Exemptions This section shall not apply to - (1) any person authorized by local, State, or Federal law to manufacture, possess, or distribute such items; or (2) any item that, in the normal lawful course of business, is imported, exported, transported, or sold through the mail or by any other means, and traditionally intended for use with tobacco products, including any pipe, paper, or accessory. Return to top PART E - ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS § 871. Attorney General. (a) Delegation of functions The Attorney General may delegate any of his functions under this subchapter to any officer or employee of the Department of Justice. (b) Rules and regulations The Attorney General may promulgate and enforce any rules, regulations, and procedures which he may deem necessary and appropriate for the efficient execution of his functions under this subchapter.
(c) Acceptance of devices, bequests, gifts, and donations The Attorney General may accept in the name of the Department of Justice any form of device, bequest, gift, or donation where the donor intends to donate property for the purpose of preventing or controlling the abuse of controlled substances. He may take all appropriate steps to secure possession of such property and may sell, assign, transfer, or convey any such property other than moneys. § 872. Education and research programs of Attorney General. (a) Authorization The Attorney General is authorized to carry out educational and research programs directly related to enforcement of the laws under his jurisdiction concerning drugs or other substances which are or may be subject to control under this subchapter. Such programs may include - (1) educational and training programs on drug abuse and controlled substances law enforcement for local, State, and Federal personnel; (2) studies or special projects designed to compare the deterrent effects of various enforcement strategies on drug use and abuse; (3) studies or special projects designed to assess and detect accurately the presence in the human body of drugs or other substances which are or may be subject to control under this subchapter, including the development of rapid field identification methods which would enable agents to detect microquantities of such drugs or other substances; (4) studies or special projects designed to evaluate the nature and sources of the supply of illegal drugs throughout the country; (5) studies or special projects to develop more effective methods to prevent diversion of controlled substances into illegal channels; and (6) studies or special projects to develop information necessary to carry out his functions under section 811 of this title. (b) Contracts The Attorney General may enter into contracts for such educational and research activities without performance bonds and without regard to section 5 of title 41. (c) Identification of research populations; authorization to withhold The Attorney General may authorize persons engaged in research to withhold the names and other identifying characteristics of persons who are the subjects of such research.
Persons who obtain this authorization may not be compelled in any Federal, State, or local civil, criminal, administrative, legislative, or other proceeding to identify the subjects of research for which such authorization was obtained. (d) Affect of treaties and other international agreements on confidentiality Nothing in the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, or other treaties or international agreements shall be construed to limit, modify, or prevent the protection of the confidentiality of patient records or of the names and other identifying characteristics of research subjects as provided by any Federal, State, or local law or regulation. (e) Use of controlled substances in research The Attorney General, on his own motion or at the request of the Secretary, may authorize the possession, distribution, and dispensing of controlled substances by persons engaged in research. Persons who obtain this authorization shall be exempt from State or Federal prosecution for possession, distribution, and dispensing of controlled substances to the extent authorized by the Attorney General. (f) Program to curtail diversion of precursor and essential chemicals The Attorney General shall maintain an active program, both domestic and international, to curtail the diversion of precursor chemicals and essential chemicals used in the illicit manufacture of controlled substances. § 873. Cooperative arrangements. (a) Cooperation of Attorney General with local, State, and Federal agencies The Attorney General shall cooperate with local, State, and Federal agencies concerning traffic in controlled substances and in suppressing the abuse of controlled substances.
To this end, he is authorized to - (1) arrange for the exchange of information between governmental officials concerning the use and abuse of controlled substances; (2) cooperate in the institution and prosecution of cases in the courts of the United States and before the licensing boards and courts of the several States; (3) conduct training programs on controlled substance law enforcement for local, State, and Federal personnel; (4) maintain in the Department of Justice a unit which will accept, catalog, file, and otherwise utilize all information and statistics, including records of controlled substance abusers and other controlled substance law offenders, which may be received from Federal, State, and local agencies, and make such information available for Federal, State, and local law enforcement purposes; (5) conduct programs of eradication aimed at destroying wild or illicit growth of plant species from which controlled substances may be extracted; (6) assist State and local governments in suppressing the diversion of controlled substances from legitimate medical, scientific, and commercial channels by - (A) making periodic assessments of the capabilities of State and local governments to adequately control the diversion of controlled substances; (B) providing advice and counsel to State and local governments on the methods by which such governments may strengthen their controls against diversion; and (C) establishing cooperative investigative efforts to control diversion; and (7) notwithstanding any other provision of law, enter into contractual agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies to provide for cooperative enforcement and regulatory activities under this chapter. (FOOTNOTE 1) (FOOTNOTE 1) This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(7), was in the original as added by Pub. L. 99-646 ''this Act'', meaning Pub. L. 91-513, Oct. 27, 1970, 84 Stat. 1236, as amended. In the subsec. (a)(7) added by Pub. L. 99-570, the reference was ''this title'', meaning title II of Pub.
L. 91-513 which is popularly known as the ''Controlled Substances Act'' and is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act and title II to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 801 of this title and Tables. Schedule II, referred to in subsec. (c), is set out in section 812(c) of this title. (b) Requests by Attorney General for assistance from Federal agencies or instrumentalities When requested by the Attorney General, it shall be the duty of any agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government to furnish assistance, including technical advice, to him for carrying out his functions under this subchapter; except that no such agency or instrumentality shall be required to furnish the name of, or other identifying information about, a patient or research subject whose identity it has undertaken to keep confidential. (c) Descriptive and analytic reports by Attorney General to State agencies of distribution patterns of schedule II substances having highest rates of abuse The Attorney General shall annually (1) select the controlled substances (or controlled substances) contained in schedule II which, in the Attorney General's discretion, is determined to have the highest rate of abuse, and (2) prepare and make available to regulatory, licensing, and law enforcement agencies of States descriptive and analytic reports on the actual distribution patterns in such States of each such controlled substance. (d) Grants by Attorney General (1) The Attorney General may make grants, in accordance with paragraph (2), to State and local governments to assist in meeting the costs of - (A) collecting and analyzing data on the diversion of controlled substances, (B) conducting investigations and prosecutions of such diversions, (C) improving regulatory controls and other authorities to control such diversions, (D) programs to prevent such diversions, (E) preventing and detecting forged prescriptions, and (F) training law enforcement and regulatory personnel to improve the control of such diversions.
(2) No grant may be made under paragraph (1) unless an application therefor is submitted to the Attorney General in such form and manner as the Attorney General may prescribe. No grant may exceed 80 per centum of the costs for which the grant is made, and no grant may be made unless the recipient of the grant provides assurances satisfactory to the Attorney General that it will obligate funds to meet the remaining 20 per centum of such costs. The Attorney General shall review the activities carried out with grants under paragraph (1) and shall report annually to Congress on such activities. (3) To carry out this subsection there is authorized to be appropriated $6,000,000 for fiscal year 1985 and $6,000,000 for fiscal year 1986. § 874. Advisory committees. The Attorney General may from time to time appoint committees to advise him with respect to preventing and controlling the abuse of controlled substances. Members of the committees may be entitled to receive compensation at the rate of $100 for each day (including traveltime) during which they are engaged in the actual performance of duties. While traveling on official business in the performance of duties for the committees, members of the committees shall be allowed expenses of travel, including per diem instead of subsistence, in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5. § 875. Administrative hearings. (a) Power of Attorney General In carrying out his functions under this subchapter, the Attorney General may hold hearings, sign and issue subpenas, administer oaths, examine witnesses, and receive evidence at any place in the United States. (b) Procedures applicable Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, notice shall be given and hearings shall be conducted under appropriate procedures of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5. § 876. Subpenas.
(a) Authorization of use by Attorney General In any investigation relating to his functions under this subchapter with respect to controlled substances, listed chemicals, tableting machines, or encapsulating machines, the Attorney General may subpena witnesses, compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses, and require the production of any records (including books, papers, documents, and other tangible things which constitute or contain evidence) which the Attorney General finds relevant or material to the investigation. The attendance of witnesses and the production of records may be required from any place in any State or in any territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any designated place of hearing; except that a witness shall not be required to appear at any hearing more than 500 miles distant from the place where he was served with a subpena. Witnesses summoned under this section shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States. (b) Service A subpena issued under this section may be served by any person designated in the subpena to serve it. Service upon a natural person may be made by personal delivery of the subpena to him. Service may be made upon a domestic or foreign corporation or upon a partnership or other unincorporated association which is subject to suit under a common name, by delivering the subpena to an officer, to a managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of process. The affidavit of the person serving the subpena entered a true copy thereof by the person serving it shall be proof of service.
(c) Enforcement In the case of contumacy by or refusal to obey a subpena issued to any person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which the investigation is carried on or of which the subpenaed person is an inhabitant, or in which he carries on business or may be found, to compel compliance with the subpena. The court may issue an order requiring the subpenaed person to appear before the Attorney General to produce records, if so ordered, or to give testimony touching the matter under investigation. Any failure to obey the order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt thereof. All process in any such case may be served in any judicial district in which such person may be found. § 877. Judicial review. All final determinations, findings, and conclusions of the Attorney General under this subchapter shall be final and conclusive decisions of the matters involved, except that any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Attorney General may obtain review of the decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia or for the circuit in which his principal place of business is located upon petition filed with the court and delivered to the Attorney General within thirty days after notice of the decision. Findings of fact by the Attorney General, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive. § 878. Powers of enforcement personnel.
(a) Any officer or employee of the Drug Enforcement Administration or any State or local law enforcement officer designated by the Attorney General may - (1) carry firearms; (2) execute and serve search warrants, arrest warrants, administrative inspection warrants, subpenas, and summonses issued under the authority of the United States; (3) make arrests without warrant (A) for any offense against the United States committed in his presence, or (B) for any felony, cognizable under the laws of the United States, if he has probable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed or is committing a felony; (4) make seizures of property pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; and (5) perform such other law enforcement duties as the Attorney General may designate. (b) State and local law enforcement officers performing functions under this section shall not be deemed Federal employees and shall not be subject to provisions of law relating to Federal employees, except that such officers shall be subject to section 3374(c) of title 5. § 879. Search warrants. A search warrant relating to offenses involving controlled substances may be served at any time of the day or night if the judge or United States magistrate judge issuing the warrant is satisfied that there is probable cause to believe that grounds exist for the warrant and for its service at such time. § 880. Administrative inspections and warrants.
(a) ''Controlled premises'' defined As used in this section, the term ''controlled premises'' means - (1) places where original or other records or documents required under this subchapter are kept or required to be kept, and (2) places, including factories, warehouses, and other establishments, and conveyances, where persons registered under section 823 of this title (or exempt from registration under section 822(d) of this title or by regulation of the Attorney General) or regulated persons may lawfully hold, manufacture, distribute, dispense, administer, or otherwise dispose of controlled substances or listed chemicals or where records relating to those activities are maintained. (b) Grant of authority; scope of inspections (1) For the purpose of inspecting, copying, and verifying the correctness of records, reports, or other documents required to be kept or made under this subchapter and otherwise facilitating the carrying out of his functions under this subchapter, the Attorney General is authorized, in accordance with this section, to enter controlled premises and to conduct administrative inspections thereof, and of the things specified in this section, relevant to those functions. (2) Such entries and inspections shall be carried out through officers or employees (hereinafter referred to as ''inspectors'') designated by the Attorney General. Any such inspector, upon stating his purpose and presenting to the owner, operator, or agent in charge of such premises (A) appropriate credentials and (B) a written notice of his inspection authority (which notice in the case of an inspection requiring, or in fact supported by, an administrative inspection warrant shall consist of such warrant), shall have the right to enter such premises and conduct such inspection at reasonable times.
(3) Except as may otherwise be indicated in an applicable inspection warrant, the inspector shall have the right - (A) to inspect and copy records, reports, and other documents required to be kept or made under this subchapter; (B) to inspect, within reasonable limits and in a reasonable manner, controlled premises and all pertinent equipment, finished and unfinished drugs, listed chemicals, and other substances or materials, containers, and labeling found therein, and, except as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, all other things therein (including records, files, papers, processes, controls, and facilities) appropriate for verification of the records, reports, and documents referred to in clause (A) or otherwise bearing on the provisions of this subchapter; and (C) to inventory any stock of any controlled substance or listed chemical therein and obtain samples of any such substance or chemical. (4) Except when the owner, operator, or agent in charge of the controlled premises so consents in writing, no inspection authorized by this section shall extend to - (A) financial data; (B) sales data other than shipment data; or (C) pricing data. (c) Situations not requiring warrants A warrant under this section shall not be required for the inspection of books and records pursuant to an administrative subpena issued in accordance with section 876 of this title, nor for entries and administrative inspections (including seizures of property) - (1) with the consent of the owner, operator, or agent in charge of the controlled premises; (2) in situations presenting imminent danger to health or safety; (3) in situations involving inspection of conveyances where there is reasonable cause to believe that the mobility of the conveyance makes it impracticable to obtain a warrant; (4) in any other exceptional or emergency circumstance where time or opportunity to apply for a warrant is lacking; or (5) in any other situations where a warrant is not constitutionally required.
(d) Administrative inspection warrants; issuance; execution; probable cause Issuance and execution of administrative inspection warrants shall be as follows: (1) Any judge of the United States or of a State court of record, or any United States magistrate judge, may, within his territorial jurisdiction, and upon proper oath or affirmation showing probable cause, issue warrants for the purpose of conducting administrative inspections authorized by this subchapter or regulations thereunder, and seizures of property appropriate to such inspections. For the purposes of this section, the term ''probable cause'' means a valid public interest in the effective enforcement of this subchapter or regulations thereunder sufficient to justify administrative inspections of the area, premises, building, or conveyance, or contents thereof, in the circumstances specified in the application for the warrant. (2) A warrant shall issue only upon an affidavit of an officer or employee having knowledge of the facts alleged, sworn to before the judge or magistrate judge and establishing the grounds for issuing the warrant. If the judge or magistrate judge is satisfied that grounds for the application exist or that there is probable cause to believe they exist, he shall issue a warrant identifying the area, premises, building, or conveyance to be inspected, the purpose of such inspection, and, where appropriate, the type of property to be inspected, if any. The warrant shall identify the items or types of property to be seized, if any. The warrant shall be directed to a person authorized under subsection (b)(2) of this section to execute it. The warrant shall state the grounds for its issuance and the name of the person or persons whose affidavit has been taken in support thereof. It shall command the person to whom it is directed to inspect the area, premises, building, or conveyance identified for the purpose specified, and, where appropriate, shall direct the seizure of the property specified. The warrant shall direct that it be served during normal business hours.
It shall designate the judge or magistrate judge to whom it shall be returned. (3) A warrant issued pursuant to this section must be executed and returned within ten days of its date unless, upon a showing by the United States of a need therefor, the judge or magistrate judge allows additional time in the warrant. If property is seized pursuant to a warrant, the person executing the warrant shall give to the person from whom or from whose premises the property was taken a copy of the warrant and a receipt for the property taken or shall leave the copy and receipt at the place from which the property was taken. The return of the warrant shall be made promptly and shall be accompanied by a written inventory of any property taken. The inventory shall be made in the presence of the person executing the warrant and of the person from whose possession or premises the property was taken, if they are present, or in the presence of at least one credible person other than the person making such inventory, and shall be verified by the person executing the warrant. The judge or magistrate judge, upon request, shall deliver a copy of the inventory to the person from whom or from whose premises the property was taken and the applicant for the warrant. (4) The judge or magistrate judge who has issued a warrant under this section shall attach to the warrant a copy of the return and all papers filed in connection therewith and shall file them with the clerk of the district court of the United States for the judicial district in which the inspection was made. § 881. Forfeitures. (a) Subject property The following shall be subject to forfeiture to the United States and no property right shall exist in them: (1) All controlled substances which have been manufactured, distributed, dispensed, or acquired in violation of this subchapter.
(2) All raw materials, products, and equipment of any kind which are used, or intended for use, in manufacturing, compounding, processing, delivering, importing, or exporting any controlled substance in violation of this subchapter. (3) All property which is used, or intended for use, as a container for property described in paragraph (1), (2), or (9). (4) All conveyances, including aircraft, vehicles, or vessels, which are used, or are intended for use, to transport, or in any manner to facilitate the transportation, sale, receipt, possession, or concealment of property described in paragraph (1), (2), or (9), except that - (A) no conveyance used by any person as a common carrier in the transaction of business as a common carrier shall be forfeited under the provisions of this section unless it shall appear that the owner or other person in charge of such conveyance was a consenting party or privy to a violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter; (B) no conveyance shall be forfeited under the provisions of this section by reason of any act or omission established by the owner thereof to have been committed or omitted by any person other than such owner while such conveyance was unlawfully in the possession of a person other than the owner in violation of the criminal laws of the United States, or of any State; and (C) no conveyance shall be forfeited under this paragraph to the extent of an interest of an owner, by reason of any act or omission established by that owner to have been committed or omitted without the knowledge, consent, or willful blindness of the owner. (5) All books, records, and research, including formulas, microfilm, tapes, and data which are used, or intended for use, in violation of this subchapter.
(6) All moneys, negotiable instruments, securities, or other things of value furnished or intended to be furnished by any person in exchange for a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter, all proceeds traceable to such an exchange, and all moneys, negotiable instruments, and securities used or intended to be used to facilitate any violation of this subchapter, except that no property shall be forfeited under this paragraph, to the extent of the interest of an owner, by reason of any act or omission established by that owner to have been committed or omitted without the knowledge or consent of that owner. (7) All real property, including any right, title, and interest (including any leasehold interest) in the whole of any lot or tract of land and any appurtenances or improvements, which is used, or intended to be used, in any manner or part, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, a violation of this subchapter punishable by more than one year's imprisonment, except that no property shall be forfeited under this paragraph, to the extent of an interest of an owner, by reason of any act or omission established by that owner to have been committed or omitted without the knowledge or consent of that owner. (8) All controlled substances which have been possessed in violation of this subchapter. (9) All listed chemicals, all drug manufacturing equipment, all tableting machines, all encapsulating machines, and all gelatin capsules, which have been imported, exported, manufactured, possessed, distributed, or intended to be distributed, imported, or exported, in violation of a felony provision of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter. (10) Any drug paraphernalia (as defined in section 1822 of the Mail Order Drug Paraphernalia Control Act).
(FOOTNOTE 1) (FOOTNOTE 1) Section 1822 of the Mail Order Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(10), is section 1822 of Pub. L. 99-570, title I, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-51, which was repealed by Pub. L. 101-647, title XXIV, Sec. 2401(d), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4859. Prior to repeal, subsec. (d) of section 1822 of Pub. L. 99-570, which defined ''drug paraphernalia'', was transferred to subsec. (d) of section 422 of title II of Pub. L. 91-513, the Controlled Substances Act. Section 422 of Pub. L. 91-513 is classified to section 863 of this title. (11) Any firearm (as defined in section 921 of title 18) used or intended to be used to facilitate the transportation, sale, receipt, possession, or concealment of property described in paragraph (1) or (2) and any proceeds traceable to such property.
(b) Seizure pursuant to Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims; issuance of warrant authorizing seizure Any property subject to civil forfeiture to the United States under this subchapter may be seized by the Attorney General upon process issued pursuant to the Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims by any district court of the United States having jurisdiction over the property, except that seizure without such process may be made when - (1) the seizure is incident to an arrest or a search under a search warrant or an inspection under an administrative inspection warrant; (2) the property subject to seizure has been the subject of a prior judgment in favor of the United States in a criminal injunction or forfeiture proceeding under this subchapter; (3) the Attorney General has probable cause to believe that the property is directly or indirectly dangerous to health or safety; or (4) the Attorney General has probable cause to believe that the property is subject to civil forfeiture under this subchapter. In the event of seizure pursuant to paragraph (3) or (4) of this subsection, proceedings under subsection (d) of this section shall be instituted promptly. The Government may request the issuance of a warrant authorizing the seizure of property subject to forfeiture under this section in the same manner as provided for a search warrant under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. (c) Custody of Attorney General Property taken or detained under this section shall not be repleviable, but shall be deemed to be in the custody of the Attorney General, subject only to the orders and decrees of the court or the official having jurisdiction thereof. Whenever property is seized under any of the provisions of this subchapter, the Attorney General may - (1) place the property under seal; (2) remove the property to a place designated by him; or (3) require that the General Services Administration take custody of the property and remove it, if practicable, to an appropriate location for disposition in accordance with law.
(d) Other laws and proceedings applicable The provisions of law relating to the seizure, summary and judicial forfeiture, and condemnation of property for violation of the customs laws; the disposition of such property or the proceeds from the sale thereof; the remission or mitigation of such forfeitures; and the compromise of claims shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to have been incurred, under any of the provisions of this subchapter, insofar as applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions hereof; except that such duties as are imposed upon the customs officer or any other person with respect to the seizure and forfeiture of property under the customs laws shall be performed with respect to seizures and forfeitures of property under this subchapter by such officers, agents, or other persons as may be authorized or designated for that purpose by the Attorney General, except to the extent that such duties arise from seizures and forfeitures effected by any customs officer.
(e) Disposition of forfeited property (1) Whenever property is civilly or criminally forfeited under this subchapter the Attorney General may - (A) retain the property for official use or, in the manner provided with respect to transfers under section 1616a of title 19, transfer the property to any Federal agency or to any State or local law enforcement agency which participated directly in the seizure or forfeiture of the property; (B) except as provided in paragraph (4), sell, by public sale or any other commercially feasible means, any forfeited property which is not required to be destroyed by law and which is not harmful to the public; (C) require that the General Services Administration take custody of the property and dispose of it in accordance with law; (D) forward it to the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs for disposition (including delivery for medical or scientific use to any Federal or State agency under regulations of the Attorney General); or (E) transfer the forfeited personal property or the proceeds of the sale of any forfeited personal or real property to any foreign country which participated directly or indirectly in the seizure or forfeiture of the property, if such a transfer - (i) has been agreed to by the Secretary of State; (ii) is authorized in an international agreement between the United States and the foreign country; and (iii) is made to a country which, if applicable, has been certified under section 2291j(b) of title 22.
(2) (A) The proceeds from any sale under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) and any moneys forfeited under this subchapter shall be used to pay - (i) all property expenses of the proceedings for forfeiture and sale including expenses of seizure, maintenance of custody, advertising, and court costs; and (ii) awards of up to $100,000 to any individual who provides original information which leads to the arrest and conviction of a person who kills or kidnaps a Federal drug law enforcement agent. Any award paid for information concerning the killing or kidnapping of a Federal drug law enforcement agent, as provided in clause (ii), shall be paid at the discretion of the Attorney General. (B) The Attorney General shall forward to the Treasurer of the United States for deposit in accordance with section 524(c) of title 28, any amounts of such moneys and proceeds remaining after payment of the expenses provided in subparagraph (A), except that, with respect to forfeitures conducted by the Postal Service, the Postal Service shall deposit in the Postal Service Fund, under section 2003(b)(7) of title 39, such moneys and proceeds. (3) The Attorney General shall assure that any property transferred to a State or local law enforcement agency under paragraph (1)(A) - (A) has a value that bears a reasonable relationship to the degree of direct participation of the State or local agency in the law enforcement effort resulting in the forfeiture, taking into account the total value of all property forfeited and the total law enforcement effort with respect to the violation of law on which the forfeiture is based; and (B) will serve to encourage further cooperation between the recipient State or local agency and Federal law enforcement agencies.
(4) (A) With respect to real property described in subparagraph (B), if the chief executive officer of the State involved submits to the Attorney General a request for purposes of such subparagraph, the authority established in such subparagraph is in lieu of the authority established in paragraph (1)(B). (B) In the case of property described in paragraph (1)(B) that is civilly or criminally forfeited under this subchapter, if the property is real property that is appropriate for use as a public area reserved for recreational or historic purposes or for the preservation of natural conditions, the Attorney General, upon the request of the chief executive officer of the State in which the property is located, may transfer title to the property to the State, either without charge or for a nominal charge, through a legal instrument providing that - (i) such use will be the principal use of the property; and (ii) title to the property reverts to the United States in the event that the property is used otherwise. (f) Forfeiture and destruction of schedule I and II substances (1) All controlled substances in schedule I or II that are possessed, transferred, sold, or offered for sale in violation of the provisions of this subchapter; all dangerous, toxic, or hazardous raw materials or products subject to forfeiture under subsection (a)(2) of this section; and any equipment or container subject to forfeiture under subsection (a)(2) or (3) of this section which cannot be separated safely from such raw materials or products shall be deemed contraband and seized and summarily forfeited to the United States. Similarly, all substances in schedule I or II, which are seized or come into the possession of the United States, the owners of which are unknown, shall be deemed contraband and summarily forfeited to the United States.
(2) The Attorney General may direct the destruction of all controlled substances in schedule I or II seized for violation of this subchapter; all dangerous, toxic, or hazardous raw materials or products subject to forfeiture under subsection (a)(2) of this section; and any equipment or container subject to forfeiture under subsection (a)(2) or (3) of this section which cannot be separated safely from such raw materials or products under such circumstances as the Attorney General may deem necessary. (g) Plants (1) All species of plants from which controlled substances in schedules I and II may be derived which have been planted or cultivated in violation of this subchapter, or of which the owners or cultivators are unknown, or which are wild growths, may be seized and summarily forfeited to the United States. (2) The failure, upon demand by the Attorney General or his duly authorized agent, of the person in occupancy or in control of land or premises upon which such species of plants are growing or being stored, to produce an appropriate registration, or proof that he is the holder thereof, shall constitute authority for the seizure and forfeiture. (3) The Attorney General, or his duly authorized agent, shall have authority to enter upon any lands, or into any dwelling pursuant to a search warrant, to cut, harvest, carry off, or destroy such plants. (h) Vesting of title in United States All right, title, and interest in property described in subsection (a) of this section shall vest in the United States upon commission of the act giving rise to forfeiture under this section.
(i) Stay of civil forfeiture proceedings The filing of an indictment or information alleging a violation of this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter, or a violation of State or local law that could have been charged under this subchapter or subchapter II of this chapter, which is also related to a civil forfeiture proceeding under this section shall, upon motion of the United States and for good cause shown, stay the civil forfeiture proceeding. (j) Venue In addition to the venue provided for in section 1395 of title 28 or any other provision of law, in the case of property of a defendant charged with a violation that is the basis for forfeiture of the property under this section, a proceeding for forfeiture under this section may be brought in the judicial district in which the defendant owning such property is found or in the judicial district in which the criminal prosecution is brought. (l) (FOOTNOTE 2) Agreement between Attorney General and Postal Service for performance of functions (FOOTNOTE 2) So in original. No subsec. (k) has been enacted. The functions of the Attorney General under this section shall be carried out by the Postal Service pursuant to such agreement as may be entered into between the Attorney General and the Postal Service. § 881-1, 881a. Transferred. § 882. Injunctions. (a) Jurisdiction The district courts of the United States and all courts exercising general jurisdiction in the territories and possessions of the United States shall have jurisdiction in proceedings in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to enjoin violations of this subchapter. (b) Jury trial In case of an alleged violation of an injunction or restraining order issued under this section, trial shall, upon demand of the accused, be by a jury in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. § 883. Enforcement proceedings.
Before any violation of this subchapter is reported by the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration to any United States attorney for institution of a criminal proceeding, the Administrator may require that the person against whom such proceeding is contemplated is given appropriate notice and an opportunity to present his views, either orally or in writing, with regard to such contemplated proceeding. § 884. Immunity and privilege. (a) Refusal to testify Whenever a witness refuses, on the basis of his privilege against self-incrimination, to testify or provide other information in a proceeding before a court or grand jury of the United States, involving a violation of this subchapter, and the person presiding over the proceeding communicates to the witness an order issued under this section, the witness may not refuse to comply with the order on the basis of his privilege against self-incrimination. But no testimony or other information compelled under the order issued under subsection (b) of this section or any information obtained by the exploitation of such testimony or other information, may be used against the witness in any criminal case, including any criminal case brought in a court of a State, except a prosecution for perjury, giving a false statement, or otherwise failing to comply with the order. (b) Order of United States district court In the case of any individual who has been or may be called to testify or provide other information at any proceeding before a court or grand jury of the United States, the United States district court for the judicial district in which the proceeding is or may be held shall issue, upon the request of the United States attorney for such district, an order requiring such individual to give any testimony or provide any other information which he refuses to give or provide on the basis of his privilege against self-incrimination.
(c) Request by United States attorney A United States attorney may, with the approval of the Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General, or any Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General, request an order under subsection (b) of this section when in his judgment - (1) the testimony or other information from such individual may be necessary to the public interest; and (2) such individual has refused or is likely to refuse to testify or provide other information on the basis of his privilege against self-incrimination. § 885. Burden of proof; liabilities. (a) Exemptions and exceptions; presumption in simple possession offenses (1) It shall not be necessary for the United States to negative any exemption or exception set forth in this subchapter in any complaint, information, indictment, or other pleading or in any trial, hearing, or other proceeding under this subchapter, and the burden of going forward with the evidence with respect to any such exemption or exception shall be upon the person claiming its benefit. (2) In the case of a person charged under section 844(a) of this title with the possession of a controlled substance, any label identifying such substance for purposes of section 353(b)(2) of this title shall be admissible in evidence and shall be prima facie evidence that such substance was obtained pursuant to a valid prescription from a practitioner while acting in the course of his professional practice. (b) Registration and order forms In the absence of proof that a person is the duly authorized holder of an appropriate registration or order form issued under this subchapter, he shall be presumed not to be the holder of such registration or form, and the burden of going forward with the evidence with respect to such registration or form shall be upon him.
(c) Use of vehicles, vessels, and aircraft The burden of going forward with the evidence to establish that a vehicle, vessel, or aircraft used in connection with controlled substances in schedule I was used in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter shall be on the persons engaged in such use. (d) Immunity of Federal, State, local and other officials Except as provided in section 2234 and 2235 of title 18, no civil or criminal liability shall be imposed by virtue of this subchapter upon any duly authorized Federal officer lawfully engaged in the enforcement of this subchapter, or upon any duly authorized officer of any State, territory, political subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, or any possession of the United States, who shall be lawfully engaged in the enforcement of any law or municipal ordinance relating to controlled substances. § 886. Payments and advances. (a) Payment to informers The Attorney General is authorized to pay any person, from funds appropriated for the Drug Enforcement Administration, for information concerning a violation of this subchapter, such sum or sums of money as he may deem appropriate, without reference to any moieties or rewards to which such person may otherwise be entitled by law. (b) Reimbursement for purchase of controlled substances Moneys expended from appropriations of the Drug Enforcement Administration for purchase of controlled substances and subsequently recovered shall be reimbursed to the current appropriation for the Administration. (FOOTNOTE 1) (FOOTNOTE 1) In subsec. (b), ''Administration'' substituted for ''Bureau'' as the probable intent of Congress in view of amendment by Pub. L. 96-132, which substituted references to the Drug Enforcement Administration for references to the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs wherever appearing in text. (c) Advance of funds for enforcement purposes The Attorney General is authorized to direct the advance of funds by the Treasury Department in connection with the enforcement of this subchapter.
(d) Drug Pollution Fund (1) There is established in the Treasury a trust fund to be known as the ''Drug Pollution Fund'' (hereinafter referred to in this subsection as the ''Fund''), consisting of amounts appropriated or credited to such Fund under section 841(b)(6) of this title. (2) There are hereby appropriated to the Fund amounts equivalent to the fines imposed under section 841(b)(6) of this title. (3) Amounts in the Fund shall be available, as provided in appropriations Acts, for the purpose of making payments in accordance with paragraph (4) for the clean up of certain pollution resulting from the actions referred to in section 841(b)(6) of this title. (4) (A) The Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Attorney General, shall make payments under paragraph (3), in such amounts as the Secretary determines appropriate, to the heads of executive agencies or departments that meet the requirements of subparagraph (B). (B) In order to receive a payment under paragraph (3), the head of an executive agency or department shall submit an application in such form and containing such information as the Secretary of the Treasury shall by regulation require. Such application shall contain a description of the fine imposed under section 841(b)(6) of this title, the circumstances surrounding the imposition of such fine, and the type and severity of pollution that resulted from the actions to which such fine applies. (5) For purposes of subchapter B of chapter 98 of title 26, the Fund established under this paragraph shall be treated in the same manner as a trust fund established under subchapter A of such chapter. § 886a. Diversion Control Fee Account. There is established in the general fund of the Treasury a separate account which shall be known as the Diversion Control Fee Account.
For fiscal year 1993 and thereafter: (1) There shall be deposited as offsetting receipts into that account all fees collected by the Drug Enforcement Administration, in excess of $15,000,000, for the operation of its diversion control program. (2) Such amounts as are deposited into the Diversion Control Fee Account shall remain available until expended and shall be refunded out of that account by the Secretary of the Treasury, at least on a quarterly basis, to reimburse the Drug Enforcement Administration for expenses incurred in the operation of the diversion control program. (3) Fees charged by the Drug Enforcement Administration under its diversion control program shall be set at a level that ensures the recovery of the full costs of operating the various aspects of that program. (4) The amount required to be refunded from the Diversion Control Fee Account for fiscal year 1994 and thereafter shall be refunded in accordance with estimates made in the budget request of the Attorney General for those fiscal years. Any proposed changes in the amounts designated in said budget requests shall only be made after notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate fifteen days in advance. (5) The Attorney General shall prepare and submit annually to the Congress, statements of financial condition of the account, including the beginning balance, receipts, refunds to appropriations, transfers to the general fund, and the ending balance. § 887. Coordination and consolidation of post-seizure administration. The Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury shall take such action as may be necessary to develop and maintain a joint plan to coordinate and consolidate post-seizure administration of property seized under this subchapter, subchapter II of this chapter, or provisions of the customs laws relating to controlled substances. § 888. Expedited procedures for seized conveyances.
(a) Petition for expedited decision; determination (1) The owner of a conveyance may petition the Attorney General for an expedited decision with respect to the conveyance, if the conveyance is seized for a drug-related offense and the owner has filed the requisite claim and cost bond in the manner provided in section 1608 of title 19. The Attorney General shall make a determination on a petition under this section expeditiously, including a determination of any rights or defenses available to the petitioner. If the Attorney General does not grant or deny a petition under this section within 20 days after the date on which the petition is filed, the conveyance shall be returned to the owner pending further forfeiture proceedings. (2) With respect to a petition under this section, the Attorney General may - (A) deny the petition and retain possession of the conveyance; (B) grant the petition, move to dismiss the forfeiture action, if filed, and promptly release the conveyance to the owner; or (C) advise the petitioner that there is not adequate information available to determine the petition and promptly release the conveyance to the owner. (3) Release of a conveyance under subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)(C) of this section does not affect any forfeiture action with respect to the conveyance. (4) The Attorney General shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section. (b) Written notice of procedures At the time of seizure, the officer making the seizure shall furnish to any person in possession of the conveyance a written notice specifying the procedures under this section. At the earliest practicable opportunity after determining ownership of the seized conveyance, the head of the department or agency that seizes the conveyance shall furnish a written notice to the owner and other interested parties (including lienholders) of the legal and factual basis of the seizure.
(c) Complaint for forfeiture Not later than 60 days after a claim and cost bond have been filed under section 1608 of title 19 regarding a conveyance seized for a drug-related offense, the Attorney General shall file a complaint for forfeiture in the appropriate district court, except that the court may extend the period for filing for good cause shown or on agreement of the parties. If the Attorney General does not file a complaint as specified in the preceding sentence, the court shall order the return of the conveyance to the owner and the forfeiture may not take place. (d) Bond for release of conveyance Any owner of a conveyance seized for a drug-related offense may obtain release of the conveyance by providing security in the form of a bond to the Attorney General in an amount equal to the value of the conveyance unless the Attorney General determines the conveyance should be retained (1) as contraband, (2) as evidence of a violation of law, or (3) because, by reason of design or other characteristic, the conveyance is particularly suited for use in illegal activities. § 889. Production control of controlled substances. (a) Definitions As used in this section: (1) The term ''controlled substance'' has the same meaning given such term in section 802(6) of this title. (2) The term ''Secretary'' means the Secretary of Agriculture. (3) The term ''State'' means each of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
(b) Persons ineligible for Federal agricultural program benefits Notwithstanding any other provision of law, following December 23, 1985, any person who is convicted under Federal or State law of planting, cultivation, growing, producing, harvesting, or storing a controlled substance in any crop year shall be ineligible for - (1) as to any commodity produced during that crop year, and the four succeeding crop years, by such person - (A) any price support or payment made available under the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq. ), the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq. ), or any other Act; (B) a farm storage facility loan made under section 4(h) of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714b(h)); (C) crop insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq. ); (D) a disaster payment made under the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq. ); or (E) a loan made, insured or guaranteed under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) or any other provision of law administered by the Farmers Home Administration; or (2) a payment made under section 4 or 5 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714b or 714c) for the storage of an agricultural commodity that is - (A) produced during that crop year, or any of the four succeeding crop years, by such person; and (B) acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation.
(c) Regulations Not later than 180 days after December 23, 1985, the Secretary shall issue such regulations as the Secretary determines are necessary to carry out this section, including regulations that - (1) define the term ''person''; (2) govern the determination of persons who shall be ineligible for program benefits under this section; and (3) protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers. Return to top PART F Advisory Commission (a) There is established a commission to be known as the Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse (hereafter in this section referred to as the 'Commission'). The Commission shall be composed of - (1) two Members of the Senate appointed by the President of the Senate; (2) two Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and (3) nine members appointed by the President of the United States. At no time shall more than one of the members appointed under paragraph (1), or more than one of the members appointed under paragraph (2), or more than five of the members appointed under paragraph (3) be members of the same political party. There is established a commission to be known as the Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse (hereafter in this section referred to as the 'Commission'). The Commission shall be composed of - (b) (Chairman; Vice Chairman; compensation of members; meetings) (1) The President shall designate one of the members of the Commission as Chairman and one as Vice Chairman. Seven members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may conduct hearings. (2) Members of the Commission who are Members of Congress or full-time officers or employees of the United States shall serve without additional compensation but shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance of the duties vested in the Commission.
Members of the Commission from private life shall receive $100 per diem while engaged in the actual performance of the duties vested in the Commission, plus reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance of such duties. (3) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman or at the call of a majority of the members thereof. (c) (Personnel; experts; information from departments and agencies ) (1) The Commission shall have the power to appoint and fix the compensation of such personnel as it deems advisable, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title, relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates. (2) The Commission may procure, in accordance with the provisions of section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, the temporary or intermittent services of experts or consultants. Persons so employed shall receive compensation at a rate to be fixed by the Commission, but not in excess of $75 per diem, including traveltime. While away from his home or regular place of business in the performance of services for the Commission, any such person may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703(b) of title 5, United States Code, for persons in the Government service employed intermittently. (3) The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States information necessary to enable it to carry out its duties under this section. Upon request of the Chairman of the Commission, such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission. )
(d) (Marihuana study; report to the President and the Congress) (1) The Commission shall conduct a study of marihuana including, but not limited to, the following areas: (A) the extent of use of marihuana in the United States to include its various sources of users, number of arrests, number of convictions, amount of marihuana seized, type of user, nature of use; (B) an evaluation of the efficacy of existing marihuana laws; (C) a study of the pharmacology of marihuana and its immediate and long-term effects, both physiological and psychological; (D) the relationship of marihuana use to aggressive behavior and crime; (E) the relationship between marihuana and the use of other drugs; and (F) the international control of marihuana. (2) Within one year after the date on which funds first become available to carry out this section, the Commission shall submit to the President and the Congress a comprehensive report on its study and investigation under this subsection which shall include its recommendations and such proposals for legislation and administrative action as may be necessary to carry out its recommendations. (e) (Study and investigation of causes of drug abuse; report to the President and the Congress; termination of Commission) The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive study and investigation of the causes of drug abuse and their relative significance. The Commission shall submit to the President and the Congress such interim reports as it deems advisable and shall within two years after the date on which funds first become available to carry out this section submit to the President and the Congress a final report which shall contain a detailed statement of its findings and conclusions and also such recommendations for legislation and administrative actions as it deems appropriate. The Commission shall cease to exist sixty days after the final report is submitted under this subsection. (f) (Limitation on expenditures) Total expenditures of the Commission shall not exceed $4,000,000.''
Return to top Part G - Conforming, Transitional and Effective Date, and General Provisions § 701 Repeals and Conforming Amendments (a) Sections 201(v), 301(q), and 511 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 321(v), 331(q), 360(a)) are repealed. (b) Subsections (a) and (b) of section 303 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 333) are amended to read as follows: Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 333) (a) Violation of section 331 of this title; second violation; intent to defraud or mislead (1) Any person who violates a provision of section 331 of this title shall be imprisoned for not more than one year or fined not more than $1,000, or both. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this section, (FOOTNOTE 1) if any person commits such a violation after a conviction of him under this section has become final, or commits such a violation with the intent to defraud or mislead, such person shall be imprisoned for not more than three years or fined not more than $10,000, or both. (FOOTNOTE 1) So in original. Words ''of this section'' probably should not appear. (c) Section 304(a)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 334) amended in 1970 - Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 91-513, Sec. 701(c), struck out cls. (A) and (D) which dealt with depressant or stimulant drugs, struck out reference to depressant or stimulant drugs in cl. (C), and redesignated cls. (B), (C), and (E) as cls. (A), (B), and (C), respectively.
(d) Section 304(d)(3)(iii). of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 334(d)(3)(iii)) Pub. L. 91-513, Sec. 701(d), struck out reference to depressant or stimulant drugs. (e) Section 510 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 360) is amended (1) in Subsec. (a) by striking out paragraph (2), and by inserting "and" at the end of paragraph (1), and by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); (2) Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 91-513 struck out provisions covering establishments engaged in the wholesaling, jobbing, or distributing of depressant or stimulant drugs and the inclusion of the fact of such activity in the annual registration; (3) by striking out the last sentence of subsection (b); (4) Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 91-513 struck out provisions covering new registrations of persons first engaging in the wholesaling, jobbing, or distributing of depressant or stimulant drugs and the inclusion of the fact of such activity in the registration; (5) by striking out the last sentence of subsection (c); (6) by striking out "1)" in subsection (d) and by inserting a period after "drug or drugs" in that subsection and deleting the remainder of that subsection; and (7) by striking out "and certain wholesalers" in the section heading. (f) Sec 702 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 372) is amended 1970 - Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 91-513 struck out reference to depressant or stimulant drugs.
(g) Section 201(a)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 321(a)(2)) is amended by inserting a period after "Canal Zone" the first time these words appear and deleting all thereafter in such section 201(a)(2). (h) The last sentence of Section 801(a) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 381(a) is amended (1) by striking out "This paragraph" and inserting in lieu thereof "Clause (2) of the third sentence of this paragraph," and (2) by striking out "section 2 of the Act of May 26, 1922, as amended (USC 1934, edition, title 21, sec 173)" and inserting in lieu thereof "the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act." (i) (1) Section 1114 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking out "the Bureau of Narcotics" and inserting in lieu thereof "the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs". (2) Section 1952 of such title is amended- (A) by inserting in subsection (b)(1) "or controlled substances (as defined in section 102(6) of the Controlled Substances Act)" immediately following "narcotics"; and (B) by striking out "or narcotics" in subsection (c). (j) Subsection (a) of section 302 of the Public Health Service Act (42 USC 242(a)) is amended to read as follows: (a) In carrying out the purposes of section 241 of this title with respect to drugs the use or misuse of which might result in drug abuse or dependency, the studies and investigations authorized therein shall include the use and misuse of narcotic drugs and other drugs.
Such studies and investigations shall further include the quantities of crude opium, coca leaves, and their salts, derivatives, and preparations, and other drugs subject to control under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) and Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951 et seq. ), together with reserves thereof, necessary to supply the normal and emergency medicinal and scientific requirements of the United States. The results of studies and investigations of the quantities of narcotic drugs or other drugs subject to control under such Acts, together with reserves of such drugs, that are necessary to supply the normal and emergency medicinal and scientific requirements of the United States, shall be reported not later than the first day of April of each year to the Attorney General, to be used at his discretion in determining manufacturing quotas or importation requirements under such Acts. § 702 [321 note] Pending Proceedings (a) Prosecutions for any violation of law occurring prior to the effective date (see Effective Date of 1970 Amendment note above) of section 701 (repealing section 360a of this title, and amending sections 321, 331, 333, 334, 360, 372, and 381 of this title, sections 1114 and 1952 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and section 242 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare) shall not be affected by the repeals or amendments made by such section, or abated by reason thereof. (b) Civil seizures or forfeitures and injunctive proceedings commenced prior to the effective date of section 701 shall not be affected by the repeals or amendments made by such section, or abated by reason thereof.
(c) All administrative proceedings pending before the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (now the Drug Enforcement Administration) on the date of enactment of this Act (Oct. 27, 1970) shall be continued and brought to final determination in accord with laws and regulations in effect prior to such date of enactment. Where a drug is finally determined under such proceedings to be a depressant or stimulant drug, as defined in section 201(v) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (par. (v) of this section), such drug shall automatically be controlled under this title (subchapter I of chapter 13 of this title) by the Attorney General without further proceedings and listed in the appropriate schedule after he has obtained the recommendation of the Secretary. Any drug with respect to which such a final determination has been made prior to the date of enactment of this Act which is not listed in section 202 (section 812 of this title) within schedules I through V shall automatically be controlled under this title (subchapter I of chapter 13 of this title) by the Attorney General without further proceedings, and be listed in the appropriate schedule, after he has obtained the recommendations of the Secretary. (d) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section or section 1103 (of Pub. L. 91-513, set out as a note under sections 171 to 174 of this title), section 4202 of title 18, United States Code, shall apply to any individual convicted under any of the laws repealed by this title or title III (subchapter I or subchapter II of chapter 13 of this title) without regard to the terms of any sentence imposed on such individual under such law.
§ 703 [822 note] Provisional Proceedings (a) (1) Any person who - (A) is engaged in manufacturing, distributing, or dispensing any controlled substance on the day before the effective date of section 302 (this section), and (B) is registered on such day under section 510 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (section 360 of this title) or under section 4722 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (formerly I.R.C. 1954, section 4722 of Title 26), shall, with respect to each establishment for which such registration is in effect under any such section, be deemed to have a provisional registration under section 303 (section 823 of this title) for the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing (as the case may be) of controlled substances. (2) During the period his provisional registration is in effect under this section, the registration number assigned such person under such section 510 (section 360 of this title) or under such section 4722 (section 4722 of Title 26) (as the case may be) shall be his registration number for purposes of section 303 of this title (section 823 of this title). (b) The provisions of section 304 (section 824 of this title), relating to suspension and revocation of registration, shall apply to a provisional registration under this section. (c) Unless sooner suspended or revoked under subsection (b), a provisional registration of a person under subsection (a)(1) of this section shall be in effect until - (1) the date on which such person has registered with the Attorney General under section 303 (section 823 of this title) or has had his registration denied under such section, or (2) such date as may be prescribed by the Attorney General for registration of manufacturers, distributors, or dispensers, as the case may be, whichever occurs first. § 704 [801 note] Effective Dates and Other Transitional Provisions.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, this title (see Short Title note below) shall become effective on the first day of the seventh calendar month that begins after the day immediately preceding the date of enactment (Oct. 27, 1970). (b) Parts A, B, E, and F of this title (Parts A, B, E, and F of this subchapter), section 702 (set out as a note under section 321 of this title), this section, and sections 705 through 709 (sections 901 to 904 of this title and note set out below), shall become effective upon enactment (Oct. 27, 1970). (c) Sections 305 (relating to labels and labeling) (section 825 of this title), and 306 (relating to manufacturing quotas) (section 826 of this title) shall become effective on the date specified in subsection (a) of this section, except that the Attorney General may by order published in the Federal Register postpone the effective date of either or both of these sections for such period as he may determine to be necessary for the efficient administration of this title (see Short Title note below). § 705 [801 note] Continuation of Regulations. Any orders, rules, and regulations which have been promulgated under any law affected by this title (see Short Title note above) and which are in effect on the day preceding enactment of this title (Oct. 27, 1970) shall continue in effect until modified, superseded, or repealed. § 706 [901] Severability If a provision of this chapter is held invalid, all valid provisions that are severable shall remain in effect. If a provision of this chapter is held invalid in one or more of its applications, the provision shall remain in effect in all its valid applications that are severable.
§ 707 [902] Savings Provision Nothing in this chapter, except this part and, to the extent of any inconsistency, sections 827(e) and 829 of this title, shall be construed as in any way affecting, modifying, repealing, or superseding the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. Sec. 301 et seq.). § 708 [903] Application of State Law No provision of this subchapter shall be construed as indicating an intent on the part of the Congress to occupy the field in which that provision operates, including criminal penalties, to the exclusion of any State law on the same subject matter which would otherwise be within the authority of the State, unless there is a positive conflict between that provision of this subchapter and that State law so that the two cannot consistently stand together. § 709 [904] Payment of Tort Claims Notwithstanding section 2680(k) of title 28, the Attorney General, in carrying out the functions of the Department of Justice under this subchapter, is authorized to pay tort claims in the manner authorized by section 2672 of title 28, when such claims arise in a foreign country in connection with the operations of the Drug Enforcement Administration abroad. Return to top - THE MARIHUANA TAX ACT OF 1937 Full Text of the Marihuana Tax Act as passed in 1937 Introduction (in italics) by David Solomon The popular and therapeutic uses of hemp preparations are not categorically prohibited by the provisions of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937. The apparent purpose of the Act is to levy a token tax of approximately one dollar on all buyers, sellers, importers, growers, physicians, veterinarians, and any other persons who deal in marijuana commercially, prescribe it professionally, or possess it.
The deceptive nature of that apparent purpose begins to come into focus when the reader reaches the penalty provisions of the Act: five years' imprisonment, a $2,000 fine, or both seem rather excessive for evading a sum (provided for by the purchase of a Treasury Department tax stamp) that, even if collected, would produce only a minute amount of government revenue. (Fines and jail sentences were f urther increased to the point of the cruel and unusual in subsequent federal drug legislation that incorporated the Marijuana Tax Act. It is now possible under the later version of the Act to draw a life sentence for selling just one marihuana cigarette to a minor.) One might wonder, too, why a small clause, amounting to an open-ended catchall provision, was inserted into the Act, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to grant the Commissioner (then Harry Anslinger) and agents of the Treasury Department's Bureau of Narcotics absolute administrative regulatory, and police powers in the enforcement of the law. The message becomes entirely clear when, having finished the short text of the Act itself, one proceeds to the sixty-odd pages of administrative and enforcement procedures established by the infamous Regulations No. 1. That regulation, not fully reproduced here, calls for a maze of affidavits, depositions, sworn statements, and constant Treasury Department police inspection in every instance that marijuana is bought, sold, used, raised, distributed, given away, and so on. Physicians who wish to purchase the one-dollar tax stamp so that they might prescribe it for their patients are forced to report such use to the Federal Bureau of Narcotics in sworn and attested detail, revealing the name and address of the patient, the nature of his ailment, the dates and amounts prescribed, and so on. If a physician for any reason fails to do so immediately, both he and his patient are liable to imprisonment-and a heavy fine.
Obviously, the details of that regulation make it far too risky for anyone to have anything to do with marijuana in any way whatsoever. Regulations No. 1 was more than an invasion of the traditional right of privacy between patient and physician; it was a hopelessly involved set of rules that were obviously designed not merely to discourage but to prohibit the medical and popular use of marijuana. In addition to the Marihuana Tax Act and Regulations No. 1, the Bureau of Narcotics prepared a standard bill for marihuana that more than forty state legislatures enacted. This bill made possession and use of marihuana illegal per se, and so reinforced the federal act. U. S. TREASURY DEPARTMENT BUREAU OF NARCOTICS REGULATIONS No. 1 RELATING TO THE IMPORTATION, MANUFACTURE, PRODUCTION COMPOUNDING, SALE, DEALING IN, DISPENSING PRESCRIBING, ADMINISTERING, AND GIVING AWAY OF MARIHUANA UNDER THE ACT OF AUGUST 2, 1937 PUBLIC, No.
238, 75TH CONGRESS NARCOTIC-INTERNAL REVENUE REGULATIONS JOINT MARIHUANA REGULATIONS MADE BY THE COMMISSIONER OF NARCOTICS AND THE COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE WITH THE APPROVAL OF THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY EFFECTIVE DATE, OCTOBER 1, 1937 LAW AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO THE IMPORTATION, MANUFACTURE, PRODUCTION, COMPOUNDING, SALE, DEALING IN, DISPENSING, PRESCRIBING, ADMINISTERING, AND GIVING AWAY OF MARIHUANA THE LAW (Act of Aug. 2, 1937, Public 238, 75th Congress) Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That when used in this Act, (a) The term "person" means an individual, a partnership, trust, association, company, or corporation and includes an officer or employee of a trust, association, company, or corporation, or a member or employee of a partnership, who, as such officer, employee, or member, is under a duty to perform any act in respect of which any violation of this Act occurs.
(b) The term "marihuana" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin- but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. (c) The term "producer" means any person who (1) plants, cultivates, or in any way facilitates the natural growth of marihuana; or (2) harvests and transfers or makes use of marihuana. (d) The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Treasury and the term "collector means collector of internal revenue. (e) The term "transfer" or "transferred" means any type of disposition resulting in a change of possession but shall not indude a transfer to a common carrier for the purpose of transporting marihuana. SEC. 2. (a) Every person who imports, manufactures, produces, compounds, sells, deals in, dispenses, prescribes, administers, or gives away marihuana shall ( 1 ) within fifteen days after the effective date of this Act, or (2) before engaging after the expiration of such fifteen-day period in any of the above mentioned activities, and (3) thereafter, on or before July 1 of each year, pay the following special taxes respectively: (1) Importers, manufacturers, and compounders of marihuana, $24 per year.
(2) Producers of marihuana (except those included within subdivision (4) of this subsection), $1 per year, or fraction thereof, during which they engage in such activity. (3) Physicians, dentists, veterinary surgeons, and other practitioners who distribute, dispense, give away, administer, or prescribe marihuana to patients upon whom they in the course of their professional practice are in attendance, $1 per year or fraction thereof during which they engage in any of such activities. (4) Any person not registered as an importer, manufacturer, producer, or compounder who obtains and uses marihuana in a laboratory for the purpose of research, instruction, or analysis, or who produces marihuana for any such purpose, $1 per year, or fraction thereof, during which he engages in such activities. (5) Any person who is not a physician, dentist, veterinary surgeon, or other practitioner and who deals in, dispenses, or gives away marihuana, $3 per year: Provided, That any person who has registered and paid the special tax as an importer, manufacturer, compounder, or producer, as required by subdivisions ( 1 ) and (2) of this subsection, may deal in, dispense, or give away marihuana imported, manufactured, compounded, or produced by him without further payment of the tax imposed by this section. (b) Where a tax under subdivision (1) or (5) is payable on July 1 of any year it shall be computed for one year; where any such tax is payable on any other day it shall be computed proportionately from the first day of the month in which the liability for the tax accrued to the following July 1.
(c) In the event that any person subject to a tax imposed by this section engages in any of the activities enumerated in subsection (a) of this section at more than one place, such person shall pay the tax with respect to each such place. (d) Except as otherwise provided, whenever more than one of the activities enumerated in subsection (a) of this section is carried on by the same person at the same time, such person shall pay the tax for each such activity, according to the respective rates prescribed. (e) Any person subject to the tax imposed by this section shall, upon payment of such tax, register his name or style and his place or places of business with the collector of the district in which such place or places of business are located. (f) Collectors are authorized to furnish, upon written request, to any person a certified copy of the names of any or all persons who may be listed in their respective collection districts as special taxpayers under this section, upon payment of a fee of $1 for each one hundred of such names or fraction thereof upon such copy so requested. SEC. 3. (a) No employee of any person who has paid the special tax and registered, as required by section 2 of this Act, acting within the scope of his employment, shall be required to register and pay such special tax. (b) An officer or employee of the United States, any State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or insular possession, or political subdivision, who, in the exercise of his official duties, engages in any of the activities enumerated in section 2 of this Act, shall not be required to register or pay the special tax, but his right to this exemption shall be evidenced in such manner as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe. SEC. 4.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person required to register and pay the special tax under the provisions of section 2 to import, manufacture, produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, distribute, prescribe, administer, or give away marihuana without having so registered and paid such tax. (b) In any suit or proceeding to enforce the liability imposed by this section or section 2, if proof is made that marihuana was at any time growing upon land under the control of the defendant, such proof shall be presumptive evidence that at such time the defendant was a producer and liable under this section as well as under section 2. SEC. 5. It shall be unlawful for any person who shall not have paid the special tax and registered, as required by section 2, to send, ship, carry, transport, or deliver any marihuana within any Territory, the District of Columbia, or any insular possession, or from any State, Territory, the District of Columbia, any insular possession of the United States, or the Canal Zone, into any other State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or insular possession of the United States: Provided, That nothing contained in this section shall apply to any common carrier engaged in transporting marihuana; or to any employee of any person who shall have registered and paid the special tax as required by section 2 while acting within the scope of his employment; or to any person who shall deliver marihuana which has been prescribed or dispensed by a physician, dentist, veterinary surgeon, or other practitioner registered under section 2, who has been employed to prescribe for the particular patient receiving such marihuana; or to any United States, State, county, municipal, District, Territorial, or insular officer or official acting within the scope of his official duties. SEC. 6.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not required to pay a special tax and register under section 2, to transfer marihuana, except in pursuance of a written order of the person to whom such marihuana is transferred, on a form to be issued in blank for that purpose by the Secretary. (b) Subject to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, nothing contained in this section shall apply: ( 1 ) To a transfer of marihuana to a patient by a physician, dentist, veterinary surgeon, or other practitioner registered under section 2, in the course of his professional practice only: Provided, That such physician, dentist, veterinary surgeon, or other practitioner shall keep a record of all such marihuana transferred, showing the amount transferred and the name and address of the patient to whom such marihuana is transferred, and such record shall be kept for a period of two years from the date of the transfer of such marihuana, and subject to inspection as provided in section 11. (2) To a transfer of marihuana, made in good faith by a dealer to a consumer under and in pursuance of a written prescription issued by a physician, dentist, veterinary surgeon, or other practitioner registered under section 2: Provided, That such prescription shall be dated as of the day on which signed and shall be signed by the physician, dentist, veterinary surgeon, or other practitioner who issues the same; Provided further, That such dealer shall preserve such prescription for a period of two years from the day on which such prescription is filled so as to be readily accessible for inspection by the officers, agents, employees, and officials mentioned in section 11.
(3) To the sale, exportation, shipment, or delivery of marihuana by any person within the United States, any Territory, the District of Columbia, or any of the insular possessions of the United States, to any person in any foreign country regulating the entry of marihuana, if such sale, shipment, or delivery of marihuana is made in accordance with such regulations for importation into such foreign country as are prescribed by such foreign country, such regulations to be promulgated from time to time by the Secretary of State of the United States. (4) To a transfer of marihuana to any officer or employee of the United States Government or of any State, Territorial, District, county, or municipal or insular government lawfully engaged in making purchases thereof for the various departments of the Army and Navy, the Public Health Service, and for Government, State, Territorial, District, county, or municipal or insular hospitals or prisons (S) To a transfer of any seeds of the plant Cannabis sativa L. to any person registered under section 2. (c) The Secretary shall cause suitable forms to be prepared for the purposes before mentioned and shall cause them to be distributed to collectors for sale. The price at which such forms shall be sold by said collectors shall be fixed by the Secretary but shall not exceed 2 cents each. Whenever any collector shall sell any of such forms he shall cause the date of sale, the name and address of the proposed vendor, the name and address of the purchaser, and the amount of marihuana ordered to be plainly written or stamped thereon before delivering the same. (d) Each such order form sold by a collector shall be prepared by him and shall include an original and two copies, any one of which shall be admissible in evidence as an original. The original and one copy shall be given by the collector to the purchaser thereof.
The original shall in turn be given by the purchaser thereof to any person who shall, in pursuance thereof, transfer marihuana to him and shall be preserved by such person for a period of two years so as to be readily accessible for inspection by any officer, agent, or employee mentioned in section 11. The copy given to the purchaser by the collector shall be retained by the purchaser and preserved for a period of two years so as to be readily accessible to inspection by any officer, agent, or employee mentioned in section 11. The second copy shall be preserved in the records of the collector. SEC. 7. (a) There shall be levied, collected, and paid upon all transfers of marihuana which are required by section 6 to be carried out in pursuance of written order forms taxes at the following rates: (1) Upon each transfer to any person who has paid the special tax and registered under section 2 of this Act, $1 per ounce of marihuana or fraction thereof (2) Upon each transfer to any person who has not paid the special tax and registered under section 2 of this Act, $100 per ounce of marihuana or fraction thereof. (b) Such tax shall be paid by the transferee at the time of securing each order form and shall be in addition to the price of such form. Such transferee shall be liable for the tax imposed by this section but in the event that the transfer is made in violation of section 6 without an order form and without payment of the transfer tax imposed by this section, the transferor shall also be liable for such tax. (c) Payment of the tax herein provided shall be represented by appropriate stamps to be provided by the Secretary and said stamps shall be affixed by the collector or his representative to the original order form.
(d) All provisions of law relating to the engraving, issuance, sale, accountability, cancelation, and destruction of tax-paid stamps provided for in the internal-revenue laws shall, insofar as applicable and not inconsistent with this Act, be extended and made to apply to stamps provided for in this section. (e) All provisions of law (including penalties) applicable in respect of the taxes imposed by the Act of December 17, 1914 (38 Stat. 785; U. S. C., 1934 ed., title 26, secs. 1040-- 1061, 1383-1391), as amended, shall, insofar as not inconsistent with this Act, be applicable in respect of the taxes imposed by this Act. SEC. 8. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person who is a transferee required to pay the transfer tax imposed by section 7 to acquire or otherwise obtain any marihuana without having paid such tax; and proof that any person shall have had in his possession any marihuana and shall have failed, after reasonable notice and demand by the collector, to produce the order form required by section 6 to be retained by him, shall be presumptive evidence of guilt under this section and of liability for the tax imposed by section 7. (b) No liability shall be imposed by virtue of this section upon any duly authorized officer of the Treasury Department engaged in the enforcement of this Act or upon any duly authorized officer of any State, or Territory, or of any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, or of any insular possession of the United States, who shall be engaged in the enforcement of any law or municipal ordinance dealing with the production, sale, prescribing, dispensing, dealing in, or distributing of marihuana. SEC. 9.
(a) Any marihuana which has been imported, manufactured, compounded, transferred, or produced in violation of any of the provisions of this Act shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture and, except as inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, all the provisions of internal-revenue laws relating to searches, seizures, and forfeitures are extended to include marihuana. (b) Any marihuana which may be seized by the United States Government from any person or persons charged with any violation of this Act shall upon conviction of the person or persons from whom seized be confiscated by and forfeited to the United States. (c) Any marihuana seized or coming into the possession of the United States in the enforcement of this Act, the owner or owners of which are unknown, shall be confiscated by and forfeited to the United States. (d) The Secretary is hereby directed to destroy any marihuana confiscated by and forfeited to the United States under this section or to deliver such marihuana to any department, bureau, or other agency of the United States Government, upon proper application therefor under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary. SEC. 10. (a) Every person liable to any tax imposed by this act shall keep such books and records, render under oath such statements, make such returns, and comply with such rules and regulations as the Secretary may from time to time prescribe. (b) Any person who shall be registered under the provisions of section 2 in any internal- revenue district shall, whenever required so to do by the collector of the district, render to the collector a true and correct statement or return, verified by affidavits, setting forth the quantity of marihuana received or harvested by him during such period immediately preceding the demand of the collector, not exceeding three months, as the said collector may fix and determine.
If such person is not solely a producer, he shall set forth in such statement or return the names of the persons from which said marihuana was received, the quantity in each instance received from such persons, and the date when received. SEC. 11. The order forms and copies thereof and the prescriptions and records required to be preserved under the provisions of section 6, and the statements or returns filed in the office of the collector of the district under the provisions of section 10 (b) shall be open to inspection by officers, agents, and employees of the Treasury Department duly authorized for that purpose, and such officers of any State, or Territory, or of any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, or of any insular possession of the United States as shall be charged with the enforcement of any law or municipal ordinance regulating the production, sale, prescribing, dispensing, dealing in, or distributing of marihuana. Each collector shall be authorized to furnish, upon written request, copies of any of the said statements or returns filed in his office to any of such officials of any State or Territory, or political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, or any insular possession of the United States as shall be entitled to inspect the said statements or returns filed in the office of the.said collector, upon the payment of a fee of $1 for each 100 words or fraction thereof in the copy or copies so requested. SEC. 12. Any person who is convicted of a violation of any provision of this Act shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, in the discretion of the court. SEC. 13. It shall not be necessary to negative any exemptions set forth in this Act in any complaint, information, indictment, or other writ or proceeding laid or brought under this Act and the burden of proof of any such exemption shall be upon the defendant.
In the absence of the production of evidence by the defendant that he has complied with the provisions of section 6 relating to order forms, he shall be presumed not to have complied with such provisions of such sections, as the case may be. SEC. 14. The Secretary is authorized to make, prescribe, and publish all necessary rules and regulations for carrying out the provisions of this Act and to confer or impose any of the rights, privileges, powers, and duties conferred or imposed upon him by this Act upon such officers or employees of the Treasury Department as he shall designate or appoint. SEC. 15. The provisions of this Act shall apply to the several States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, and the insular possessions of the United States, except the Philippine Islands. In Puerto Rico the administration of this Act, the collection of the special taxes and transfer taxes, and the issuance of the order forms provided for in section 6 shall be performed by the appropriate internal revenue officers of that government, and all revenues collected under this Act in Puerto Rico shall accrue intact to the general government thereof. The President is hereby authorized and directed to issue such Executive orders as will carry into effect in the Virgin Islands the intent and purpose of this Act by providing for the registration with appropriate officers and the imposition of the special and transfer taxes upon all persons in the Virgin Islands who import, manufacture, produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, prescribe, administer, or give away marihuana. SEC. 16. If any provision of this Act or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. SEC. 17. This Act shall take effect on the first day of the second month during which it is enacted. SEC. 18. This Act may be cited as the "Marihuana Tax Act of 1937."
(T. D. 28) Order of the Secretary of the Treasury Relating to the Enforcement of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 September 1, 1937 Section 14 of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 (act of Congress approved August 2, 1937, Public, No. 238), provides as follows: The Secretary is authorized to make, prescribe, and publish all necessary rules and regulations for carrying out the provisions of this Act and to confer or impose any of the rights, privileges, powers, and duties conferred or imposed upon him by this Act upon such officers or employees of the Treasury Department as he shall designate or appoint. In pursuance of the authority thus conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury, it is hereby ordered: 1. Rights, Privileges, Powers, and Duties Conferred and imposed Upon the Commissioner of Narcotics 1. There are hereby conferred and imposed upon the Commissioner of Narcotics, subject to the general supervision and direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, all the rights, privileges, powers, and duties conferred or imposed upon said Secretary by the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, so far as such rights privileges, powers, and duties relate to: (a) Prescribing regulations, with the approval of the Secretary, as to the manner in which the right of public officers to exemption from registration and payment of special tax may be evidenced, in accordance with section 3 (b) of the act. (b) Prescribing the form of written order required by section 6 (a) of the act, said form to be prepared and issued in blank by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as hereinafter provided. (c) Prescribing regulations, with the approval of the Secretary, giving effect to the exceptions, specified in subsection (b), from the operation of subsection (a) of section 6 of the act.
(d) The destruction of marihuana confiscated by and forfeited to the United States, or delivery of such marihuana to any department, bureau, or other agency of the United States Government, and prescribing regulations, with the approval of the Secretary, governing the manner of application for, and delivery of such marihuana. (e) Prescribing rules and regulations, with the approval of the Secretary, as to books and records to be kept, and statements and information returns to be rendered under oath, as required by section 10 (a) of the act. (f) The compromise of any criminal liability (except as relates to delinquency in registration and delinquency in payment of tax) arising under the act, in accordance with section 3229 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (U. S. Code (1934 ed.) title 26, sec. 1661), and the recommendation for assessment of civil liability for internal- revenue taxes and ad valorem penalties under the act. II. Rights, Privileges, Powers, and Duties Conferred and Imposed upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue 1. There are hereby conferred and imposed upon the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, subject to the general supervision and direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, the rights, privileges, powers, and duties conferred or imposed upon said Secretary of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, not otherwise assigned herein, so far as such rights, privileges, powers, and duties relate to� (a) Preparation and issuance in blank to collectors of internal revenue of the written orders, in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Narcotics, required by section 6 (a) of the act. The price of the order form, as sold by the collector under section 6 (c) of the act shall be two cents for the original and one copy.
(b) Providing appropriate stamps to represent payment of transfer tax levied by section 7, and prescribing and providing appropriate stamps for issuance of special tax payers registering under section 2 of the act. (c) The compromise of any civil liability involving delinquency in registration, delinquency in payment of tax, and ad valorem penalties, and of any criminal liability incurred through delinquency in registration and delinquency in payment of tax, in connection with the act and in accordance with Section 3229 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (U. S. Code (1934 ed. ), title 26, sec. 1661)- the determination of liability for and the assessment and collection of special and transfer taxes imposed by the act; the determination of liability for and the assessment and collection of the ad valorem penalties imposed by Section 3176 of the Revised Statutes, as modified by Section 406 of the Revenue Act of 1935 (U. S. Code (1934 ed.) title 26, secs. 1512-1525), for delinquency in registration; and the determination of liability for and the assertion of the specific penalty imposed by the act, for delinquency in registration and payment of tax. General Provisions The investigation and the detection, and presentation to prosecuting officers of evidence, of violations of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Narcotics and the assistants, agents, inspectors, or employees under his direction. Except as specifically inconsistent with the terms of said act and of this order, the Commissioner of Narcotics and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the assistants, agents, inspectors, or employees of the Bureau of Narcotics and the Bureau of Internal Revenue, respectively, shall have the same powers and duties in safeguarding the revenue thereunder as they now have with respect to the enforcement of, and collection of the revenue under, the act of December 17, 1914, as amended (U. S. Code (1934 ed.
), title 26, sec. 1049). In any case where a general offer is made in compromise of civil and criminal liability ordinarily compromisable hereunder by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and of criminal liability ordinarily compromisable hereunder by the Commissioner of Narcotics, the case may be jointly compromisable by those officers, in accordance with Section 3229 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (U. S. Code (1934 ed. ), title 26, sec. 1661). Power is hereby conferred upon the Commissioner of Narcotics to prescribe such regulations as he may deem necessary for the execution of the functions imposed upon him or upon the officers or employees of the Bureau of Narcotics, but all regulations and changes in regulations shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the Commissioner of Narcotics may, if they are of the opinion that the good of the service will be promoted thereby, prescribe regulations relating to internal revenue taxes where no violation of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 is involved, jointly, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. The right to amend or supplement this order or any provision thereof from time to time, or to revoke this order or any provision thereof at any time, is hereby reserved. The effective date of this order shall be October 1, 1937, which is the effective date of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937. STEPHEN B. GIBBONS, Acting Secretary of the Treasury. REGULATIONS Introductory The Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, imposes special (occupational) taxes upon persons engaging in activities involving articles or material within the definition of "marihuana" contained in the act, and also taxes the transfer of such articles or material. These regulations deal with details as to tax computation, procedure, the forms of records and returns, and similar matters.
These matters in some degree are controlled by certain sections of the United States Revised Statutes and other statutes of general application. Provisions of these statutes, as well as of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 are quoted, in whole or in part, as the immediate or general basis for the regulatory provisions set forth. The quoted provisions are from the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 unless otherwise indicated. Provisions of the statutes upon which the various articles of the regulations are based generally have not been repeated in the articles. Therefore, the statutory excerpts preceding the several articles should be examined to obtain complete information. Chapter I Laws Applicable SEC. 7 (e) All provisions of law (including penalties) applicable in respect of the taxes imposed by the Act of December 17, 1914 (38 Stat. 785; U. S. C., 1934 ed., title 26, secs. 1040- 1061, 1383-1391), as amended, shall, insofar as not inconsistent with this Act, be applicable in respect of the taxes imposed by this Act. ART. 1. Statutes applicable. All general provisions of the internal revenue laws, not inconsistent with the Marihuana Tax Act, are applicable in the enforcement of the latter. Chapter II Definitions SEC. 1. That when used in this Act: (a) The term "person" means an individual, a partnership, trust, association, company, or corporation and includes an officer or employee of a trust, association, company, or corporation, or a member or employee of a partnership, who as such officer, employee, or member is under a duty to perform . any act in respect of which any violation of this Act occurs.
(b) The term "marihuana" means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resins; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. (c) The term "producer" means any person who ( 1 ) plants, cultivates, or in any way facilitates the natural growth of marihuana; or (2) harvests and transfers or makes use of marihuana. (d) The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Treasury and the term "collector" means collector of internal revenue. (e) The term "transfer" or "transferred" means any type of disposition resulting in a change of possession but shall not include a transfer to a common carrier for the purpose of transporting marihuana ART. 2. As used in these regulations: (a) The term "act" or "this act" shall mean the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, unless otherwise indicated. (b) The term "United States" shall include the several States, the District of Columbia, the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, and the insular possessions of the United States except Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. It does not include the Canal Zone or the Philippine Islands.
(c) The terms "manufacturer" and "compounder" shall include any person who subjects marihuana to any process of separation, extraction, mixing, compounding, or other manufacturing operation. They shall not include one who merely gathers and destroys the plant, one who merely threshes out the seeds on the premises where produced, or one who in the conduct of a legitimate business merely subjects seeds to a cleaning process. (d) The term "producer" means any person who induces in any way the growth of marihuana, and any person who harvests it, either in a cultivated or wild state, from his own or any other land, and transfers or makes use of it, including one who subjects the marihuana which he harvests to any processes rendering him liable also as a manufacturer or compounder. Generally all persons are included who gather marihuana for any purpose other than to destroy it. The term does not include one who merely plows under or otherwise destroys marihuana with or without harvesting. It does not include one who grows marihuana for use in his own laboratory for the purpose of research, instruction, or analysis and who does not use it for any other purpose or transfer it. (e) The term "special tax" is used to include any of the taxes, pertaining to the several occupations or activities covered by the act, imposed upon persons who import, manufacture, produce, compound, sell, deal in, dispense, prescribe, administer, or give away marihuana. (f ) The term "person" occurring in these regulations is used to include individual, partnership, trust, association, company, or corporation; also a hospital, college of pharmacy, medical or dental clinic, sanatorium, or other institution or entity. (g) Words importing the singular may include the plural; words importing the masculine gender may be applied to the feminine or the neuter.
The definitions contained herein shall not be deemed exclusive. WASHINGTON, DC — SEPTEMBER 9: View of the cured and finished buds as well as growing medical marijuana plants propagated at Josh Gender's medical marijuana growing operation in Washington, D.C. on September 7, 2016. Genderson, who owns a successful DC liquor store, is a licensed grower in Massachusetts. And recently, he was awarded a license to grow in Maryland. Genderson is marketing his products under the Liberty cannabis label. (Photo by Linda Davidson / The Washington Post) The Drug Enforcement Administration published a rule in the Federal Register Wednesday clarifying that certain marijuana extracts — notably cannabidiol, or CBD — are indeed Schedule 1 controlled substances and just as illegal under federal law as whole-plant marijuana itself. DEA spokesman Russell Baer says it is an administrative measure to help with record-keeping, but the rule drew attention for its use of the archaic spelling of “marihuana" -- with an “H” instead of a “J.” The rule is entitled “Establishment of a New Code for Marihuana Extract,” and uses the H spelling throughout. Some marijuana legalization advocates speculated that this spelling was used to be sneaky, “so the article wouldn't pop up under any searches for changes in marijuana policy.” Others asked “when the DEA will step into the 21st century and stop using the archaic version of the word 'marihuana. '” The spelling is freighted with historical significance. Traditionally, the plant and the drugs derived from it had been called “cannabis,” the scientific word for the genus of the plant itself. "'Cannabis' is the botanical term for the plant, and the term for the drug in most of the world,” explained drug policy expert Mark Kleiman of NYU in an email.
In the early 20th century “marijuana” or “marihuana” were primarily colloquial terms borrowed from Mexican Spanish, as the Brookings Institution's John Hudak explains in his book Marijuana: A Short History. “During and especially after the Spanish-American War,” Hudak writes, “American resentment toward Mexicans and Mexican immigrants exploded.” Authorities who wanted to prohibit use of the drug soon discovered that associating it with Mexican immigrants was an effective propaganda tool. The word marijuana — with both “H” and “J” variants — was “popularized in the United States during the 1930s by advocates of prohibition who sought to exploit prejudice against despised minority groups, especially Mexican immigrants,” explained journalist and medical marijuana advocate Martin Lee in his book Smoke Signals. NYU's Kleiman said that “if the drug could be made to sound Mexican it would seem more dangerous.” The “h” variant is what eventually made its way into the Marihuana Tax Act of the 1930s, the federal government's first crack at regulating the drug. That spelling was again used in the Controlled Substances Act, passed in 1970. Starting in the 1960s “marijuana” began to be adopted as the preferred spelling in popular usage. “Marihuana” declined precipitously in the 1970s shortly after the passage of the Controlled Substances Act. You can see the evolution of all three terms — “cannabis,” “marijuana” and “marihuana" -- in Google's corpus of English language books between the 1860s and early 2000s. In the late 19th and early 20th century, “cannabis” was the dominant term. Starting in the 1930s both “marijuana” and “marihuana” gained popularity.
The use of all terms exploded in the 1960s, particularly “marijuana.” Google Ngrams The cause for the switch between the “h” and the “j” isn't clear. Kleiman attributes it to “people learning how to pronounce Spanish words,” but stresses he doesn't know for certain. The 70s were a time of increasing marijuana use nationwide, and many of those new users appear to have adopted the spelling with the “j.” Today, “marihuana” is rarely used and “cannabis” is making a comeback. Many in the drug reform community advocate doing away with “marijuana” altogether due to the term's racial baggage. A number of researchers prefer using “cannabis” as well, as a simple matter of precision. As for the DEA, spokesman Russell Baer told me they use “marijuana” and “marihuana” interchangeably. He said “there's no clear dividing line” between the two. The spelling used in any given document usually comes down to the preference of whoever's writing it, he said. Indeed, a perusal of the DEA's federal register notices turns up numerous results for both “marijuana” and “marihuana.” Asked how the DEA would respond to advocates arguing for dumping the word “marijuana” completely, Baer declined to comment.
Julia Bartoli & Chantal Abergel; Information Génomique et Structurale, CNRS-AMU In what seems like a plot straight out of a low-budget science-fiction film, scientists have revived a giant virus that was buried in Siberian ice for 30,000 years — and it is still infectious. Its targets, fortunately, are amoebae, but the researchers suggest that as Earth's ice melts, this could trigger the return of other ancient viruses, with potential risks for human health. “This guy is 150 times less compacted than any bacteriophage. We don’t understand anything anymore!” The newly thawed virus is the biggest one ever found. At 1.5 micrometres long, it is comparable in size to a small bacterium. Evolutionary biologists Jean-Michel Claverie and Chantal Abergel, the husband-and-wife team at Aix-Marseille University in France who led the work, named it Pithovirus sibericum, inspired by the Greek word 'pithos' for the large container used by the ancient Greeks to store wine and food. “We’re French, so we had to put wine in the story,” says Claverie. The results are published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences1. Claverie and Abergel have helped to discover other so-called giant viruses — including the first, called Mimivirus, in 20032, and two others, known as Pandoraviruses, last year3 (see 'Giant viruses open Pandora's box'). “Once again, this group has opened our eyes to the enormous diversity that exists in giant viruses,” says Curtis Suttle, a virologist at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada, who was not involved in the work.
Two years ago, Claverie and Abergel's team learned that scientists in Russia had resurrected an ancient plant from fruits buried in 30,000-year-old Siberian permafrost4. “If it was possible to revive a plant, I wondered if it was possible to revive a virus,” says Claverie. Using permafrost samples provided by the Russian team, they fished for giant viruses by using amoebae — the typical targets of these pathogens — as bait. The amoebae started dying, and the team found giant-virus particles inside them. Under a microscope, Pithovirus appears as a thick-walled oval with an opening at one end, much like the Pandoraviruses. But despite their similar shapes, Abergel notes that “they are totally different viruses”. Julia Bartoli & Chantal Abergel; Information Génomique et Structurale, CNRS-AMU Surprising properties Pithovirus has a ‘cork’ with a honeycomb structure capping its opening (see electron-microscope image). It copies itself by building replication ‘factories’ in its host’s cytoplasm, rather than by taking over the nucleus, as most viruses do. Only one-third of its proteins bear any similarity to those of other viruses. And, to the team’s surprise, its genome is much smaller than those of the Pandoraviruses, despite its larger size. “That huge particle is basically empty,” says Claverie. “We thought it was a property of viruses that they pack DNA extremely tightly into the smallest particle possible, but this guy is 150 times less compacted than any bacteriophage [viruses that infect bacteria].
We don’t understand anything anymore!” Although giant viruses almost always target amoebae, Christelle Desnues, a virologist at the French National Centre for Scientific Research in Marseilles, last year discovered5 signs that another giant virus, Marseillevirus, had infected an 11-month-old boy. He had been hospitalized with inflamed lymph nodes, and Desnues's team discovered traces of Marseillevirus DNA in his blood, and the virus itself in the a node. “It is clear that giant viruses cannot be seen as stand-alone freaks of nature,” she says. “They constitute an integral part of the virosphere with implications in diversity, evolution and even human health.” Claverie and Abergel are concerned that rising global temperatures, along with mining and drilling operations in the Arctic, could thaw out many more ancient viruses that are still infectious and that could conceivably pose a threat to human health. But Suttle points out that people already inhale thousands of viruses every day, and swallow billions whenever they swim in the sea. The idea that melting ice would release harmful viruses, and that those viruses would circulate extensively enough to affect human health, “stretches scientific rationality to the breaking point”, he says. “I would be much more concerned about the hundreds of millions of people who will be displaced by rising sea levels.” Image copyright CNRS-AMU Image caption The virus was inactive for more than 30,000 years until it was revived in a laboratory in France An ancient virus has "come back to life" after lying dormant for at least 30,000 years, scientists say. It was found frozen in a deep layer of the Siberian permafrost, but after it thawed it became infectious once again.
The French scientists say the contagion poses no danger to humans or animals, but other viruses could be unleashed as the ground becomes exposed. The study is published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS). Professor Jean-Michel Claverie, from the National Centre of Scientific Research (CNRS) at the University of Aix-Marseille in France, said: "This is the first time we've seen a virus that's still infectious after this length of time." Biggest virus The ancient pathogen was discovered buried 30m (100ft) down in the frozen ground. Called Pithovirus sibericum, it belongs to a class of giant viruses that were discovered 10 years ago. Image copyright CNRS-AMU Image caption The virus infects amoebas but does not attack human or animal cells These are all so large that, unlike other viruses, they can be seen under a microscope. And this one, measuring 1.5 micrometres in length, is the biggest that has ever been found. The last time it infected anything was more than 30,000 years ago, but in the laboratory it has sprung to life once again. Tests show that it attacks amoebas, which are single-celled organisms, but does not infect humans or other animals. Co-author Dr Chantal Abergel, also from the CNRS, said: "It comes into the cell, multiplies and finally kills the cell. It is able to kill the amoeba - but it won't infect a human cell." However, the researchers believe that other more deadly pathogens could be locked in Siberia's permafrost. "We are addressing this issue by sequencing the DNA that is present in those layers," said Dr Abergel. "This would be the best way to work out what is dangerous in there." 'Recipe for disaster' The researchers say this region is under threat.
Since the 1970s, the permafrost has retreated and reduced in thickness, and climate change projections suggest it will decrease further. It has also become more accessible, and is being eyed for its natural resources. Prof Claverie warns that exposing the deep layers could expose new viral threats. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Professor Jean-Michel Claverie: Large viruses suggest that the Earth may have "multiple" origins of life He said: "It is a recipe for disaster. If you start having industrial explorations, people will start to move around the deep permafrost layers. Through mining and drilling, those old layers will be penetrated and this is where the danger is coming from." He told BBC News that ancient strains of the smallpox virus, which was declared eradicated 30 years ago, could pose a risk. "If it is true that these viruses survive in the same way those amoeba viruses survive, then smallpox is not eradicated from the planet - only the surface," he said. "By going deeper we may reactivate the possibility that smallpox could become again a disease of humans in modern times." Finding a virus still capable of infecting its host after such a long time is still pretty astounding Prof Jonathan Ball, University of Nottingham However, it is not yet clear whether all viruses could become active again after being frozen for thousands or even millions of years. "That's the six million dollar question," said Professor Jonathan Ball, a virologist from the University of Nottingham, who was commenting on the research. "Finding a virus still capable of infecting its host after such a long time is still pretty astounding - but just how long other viruses could remain viable in permafrost is anyone's guess. It will depend a lot on the actual virus. I doubt they are all as robust as this one." He added: "We freeze viruses in the laboratory to preserve them for the future.
If they have a lipid envelope - like flu or HIV, for example - then they are a bit more fragile, but the viruses with an external protein shell - like foot and mouth and common cold viruses - survive better. "But it's the freezing-thawing that poses the problems, because as the ice forms then melts there's a physical damaging effect. If they do survive this, then they need to find a host to infect and they need to find them pretty fast." Follow Rebecca on Twitter Scientists discover virus thawed from permafrost after 30,000 years. It's now reproducing but poses no threat to people. The black oval is a cross-section of a giant virus, first discovered in a sample of 30,000-year-old permafrost from Russia, infecting an amoeba. (Photo: Julia Bartoli and Chantal Abergel/IGS and CNRS-AMU) Story Highlights Largest virus on Earth poses no danger to humans Virus discovered in long-frozen soil in the tundra of Siberia While this virus isn't harmful to people, permafrost may harbor other viruses that are The frozen soil deep below the Siberian tundra has yielded an astonishing discovery: giant viruses that are still infectious though they've spent the last 30,000 years or so on ice. The newfound virus, although invisible to the naked eye, is the biggest on Earth -- larger even than many bacteria and some regular cells -- and may be a new branch of a giant-virus family tree. It poses no danger to people, infecting only one-celled creatures called amoebas. But the scientists who identified the new super-virus say their work shows that humans who disturb permafrost, or frozen soil, may encounter viruses that aren't as benign. It's a growing possibility as climate change warms the far north.
The permafrost may harbor viruses harmful to humans or animals, and "at the moment, there's no reason to believe they (aren't) also resistant for a long time under the same conditions," says study author Jean-Michel Claverie of Aix-Marseille University in France. Now that the loss of sea ice has made mineral-rich north Siberia more accessible, "there will be people where there were no people before, and those people are going to manipulate and disturb those (soil) layers that have not been disturbed for a million years." The unlikely source of the new microbe is a layer of permafrost 100 feet beneath the treeless tundra in northeastern Russia. The soil has been frozen for thousands of years, shielded from the oxygen and light that degrade living material. Hoping the permafrost might have made a safe haven for prehistoric viruses, the researchers added some excavated material to colonies of amoebas, tiny, blobby organisms that live in water and soil. Some of the amoebas burst and died, suggesting they'd been infected by a virus. That virus was a fat, elongated giant, according to the new study. The scientists christened it Pithovirus, from the Greek word "pithos," a large ceramic storage barrel used in ancient times, they say in this week's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Pithovirus is bigger than any other giant virus and 10 to 20 times larger than ordinary viruses but still much smaller than a grain of sand. As for how giant viruses evolved, Claverie says, "frankly, at the moment, your guess is as good as ours." Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1c1VwlJ
(CNN) -- Oscar-winning director James Cameron has plunged to the deepest known point in the world's oceans, tweeting from his one-man submersible during the process. The filmmaker reached Challenger Deep, which is part of the Mariana Trench in the western Pacific Ocean, near Guam, at 7:52 a.m. Monday (5:52 p.m. ET Sunday), according to Ellen Stanley, a spokeswoman for the National Geographic Society that is working with Cameron on the project. "Just arrived at the ocean's deepest pt," Cameron wrote on Twitter. "Hitting bottom never felt so good." At more than 10,900 meters (about 35,800 feet), the Mariana Trench is deeper than Mount Everest is tall. And it has had only two previous human visitors, as U.S. Navy Lt. Don Walsh and late Swiss explorer Jacques Piccard descended to that spot in 1960. Cameron is the first person to make the dive solo, a distinction that also had been sought by billionaire businessman and adventurer Richard Branson and Patrick Lahey, an experienced submarine pilot. The man behind the blockbuster hits "Titanic" and "Avatar" went down in a high-tech vessel, the Deepsea Challenger, which he and a team of scientists and engineers constructed in Australia over the past eight years. Outfitted with special cameras and robotic arms, Deepsea Challenger is able to dive vertically at speeds of 500 to 700 feet per minute and can withstand immense pressure -- up to 16,000 pounds per square inch. Engineers and scientists joined Cameron's team during Sunday's deep sea endeavor. Earlier, he'd said he plans to spend six hours at the bottom of the trench collecting samples for research that will allow scientists on board and around the world to learn about the habitat and life forms at that depth.
"It's so exciting -- every second you see something cool or you've got something to do or you're photographing or you see some amazing fish," Cameron told CNN earlier this month. Scientists hope that a fresh look at Challenger Deep will provide insight into many unfamiliar life forms in the depths of the ocean. It is estimated that more than 750,000 marine species have not been formally described in scientific literature over the centuries, triple the number of those that have been. The figures exclude microbes, of which a 2010 marine life census estimates there are up to one billion kinds. The nonprofit X-Prize Foundation has announced it will award a $10 million prize to the first person to reach the bottom of the Mariana Trench. Cameron told CNN he's not interested in competing for this prize, or any other, because his mission is purely about scientific research. "You know, there's so much we don't know," Cameron said. "I'm hopeful that we'll be able to study the ocean before we destroy it." CNN's Adam Reiss contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON (CNN) -- A manufacturing defect blamed for the mid-air breakup of an F-15 Eagle fighter may cause the Air Force to ground a quarter of its fleet of those warplanes permanently, a top general said Thursday. The mid-air breakup of an F-15 fighter jet is being blamed on a a manufacturing defect. Gen. John Corley, the head of the U.S. Air Combat Command, said about 160 of the jets may never return to service after an investigation into the November 2 crash that left the plane's pilot seriously injured. The single-seat F-15C broke up in a 500-mph turn during a combat training mission over Missouri, with its fuselage breaking in half behind the cockpit, an Air Force probe of the crash determined. Investigators concluded that a critical piece of the jet's airframe broke during the flight because of a manufacturing defect. A defective longeron -- a metal strut that runs lengthwise down the fuselage -- was cut improperly by the manufacturer, Boeing, and led to a series of cracks over the plane's lifespan, Corley said. Watch a report on the plane and its problems » . "Some of these airplanes will never return to flight," Corley said. "The age, the fatigue on these airplanes has been manifest as we looked under the hood extensively over these last two months." The Air Force has been flying the twin-engine, supersonic F-15 since the early 1970s. The C model involved in November's crash is credited with 34 of the 37 "kills" credited to Air Force pilots in the 1991 Persian Gulf war, according to Thursday's report on the accident. The service has about 700 F-15s in its fleet, all of which were grounded after the November crash. Most were returned to service after being checked out, but about 40 percent of the Air Force's 442 F-15 models A through D remain grounded.
"I flew these airplanes 30 years ago," Corley told CNN "This is a fleet of airplanes that's 25-plus years old on average. That constant pulling and pushing and twisting has also caused fatigue." If the grounded planes are retired, the Air Force would still have about 240 of the older fighters and nearly 300 of the newer F-15E, a two-seat version used for ground-attack missions in Afghanistan and Iraq. Investigators released the results of the Missouri crash at a news conference Thursday in the St. Louis suburb of Bridgeton, home of the Air National Guard wing involved in the accident. The pilot, 37-year-old Maj. Stephen Stillwell, told reporters that his plane broke up in a turn that produced about eight times the force of gravity. "I had no idea what was happening," he said. "I knew something bad was happening, but I didn't know what it was." Stillwell suffered a broken arm and still has problems with his shoulder. He credited his survival to the training he received. "You always prepare for the worst-case scenario," he said. "I think luck played a small part in it, but a large part of it was due to the training I received and my faith in God," said Stillwell, who is also a pilot for Northwest Airlines. Col. Bob Leeker, the wing's commander, said the first four of his F-15s took off Thursday after receiving clearance. Six other planes in the 131st Fighter Wing have not been released, but three are expected to be once additional examinations are completed, he said. The F-15 was first built by McDonnell-Douglas, and it's now manufactured by Boeing. The service is trying to determine whether Boeing would be liable for the defect after 30 years. The A through D models are used in the United States for air-defense missions.
After the initial grounding, the service had to move F-16s to cover for F-15 missions, and Canadians had to help cover missions over Alaska, according to Air Force officials. The defect was discovered as the Air Force continues to fight for more advanced F-22 Raptors, seen as the future of the service's fighter fleet. Congress allowed the purchase of only 183 of the almost 400 the Air Force wanted, but the service continues to ask for another 200. Corley said suggestions that the service is trying to use the problems with the F-15 as leverage to get more of the Lockheed-built F-22s "makes me just outraged, because it's just flat wrong." "I'm the one who looks into the eyes of the moms and dads, the sons and daughters, the husbands and wives that I put in that airplane," he said. "To think that I would put one of those individuals at risk, to almost kill one aviator and to risk other aviators, that is beyond my possible belief." E-mail to a friend .
Police Scotland said they had been "made aware" of the leak and were making inquiries. It has been reported witnesses' names and details of an alleged gun hit were posted on social media. Police Scotland said: "Police in Edinburgh have been made aware of communications posted to social media. "Inquiries are ongoing into the full circumstances surrounding this."
Regina Hungerford, 55, denied striking the 17-year-old when she lost her temper as he listened to music in her classroom at Merthyr Tydfil College. She previously had a common assault conviction quashed on appeal, saying the notebook was slammed on the desk. But on Friday, the Education Workforce Council ruled contact with the pupil was probably made and was unacceptable. It will decide whether to strike her off the register at a later date. Panel chairman Gareth Roberts said: "There was a momentary lapse of control and in that moment Mrs Hungerford acted in breach of teaching principles. "It put at risk the public trust in the profession and her conduct fell far short of the standard expected of a registered teacher. "Pupil A's behaviour was difficult to manage but we have concluded she acted in an inappropriate way." During the hearing, Mrs Hungerford's lawyer Adam Ohringer said her "calm and patient" experience with challenging students meant she would not have struck the boy. "She readily accepts she lost her temper in response to his behaviour," he said. "She slammed the notebook down on the desk as a sign of her anger. "It is something she regrets but as far as she can say she didn't make contact with him and certainly didn't intend to make contact with him." Delivering the panel's ruling, Mr Roberts said, on the balance of probabilities, she had made physical conduct with the pupil on the head or the hand. They found the case against her proven. He said the pupil's evidence was "far from satisfactory", adding: "But in general terms it was credible." He said statements from classroom assistants that she made contact with the pupil were also credible.
The research from the LSE and the universities of Manchester and York examines the coalition's tax and spending record. It says poverty will get worse over the next five years. In response the government said the richest have "lost the most" from changes to taxes and welfare. John Hills, director of the Centre for the Analysis of Social Exclusion at London School of Economics and one of the lead authors of the report said despite coalition promises that the greatest burden of the cuts would fall on those who had more, and that the poor would be protected, that had not happened. "While people at the bottom were initially protected with the way benefits were adjusted for inflation, that has not been the case for the last two years," he said. The report says tax and benefit reforms have hit families with children under five harder than any other household type. Policies affecting families with young children include the abolition of baby tax credit which increased the payments for households with a child under one and extra support for pregnant women. Further changes have affected families on limited incomes, including the £26,000 cap on total benefits a household can receive and shifting tax credit thresholds. As well as changes to taxes and benefits, the report also highlights cuts to government spending affecting young children. Real spending per child on early education and childcare and Sure Start services fell by a quarter between 2009-10 and 2012-13 it says. "That it's families that are taking the biggest hit is really disappointing and short-sighted, said Kitty Stewart, author of the part of the report examining the impact on under fives. "We know that family income and services are important to children's development. All the research evidence tells us both of those matter and both of those have been hit." She estimates some families may have lost out on around £1200 in their baby's first year. A Treasury spokesperson said: "the richest have lost the most from the government's changes to taxes and welfare."
It said the LSE's research also failed to take into account "the effects of changes to the vital public services on which so many rely. That means that it can't consider the full range of ways the government provides support to the poorest and most vulnerable families across the country". The Treasury pointed to the freezing of fuel duty and council tax, the provision of free school meals and tax-free childcare, and the increase in the tax-free personal allowance as measures that would help many people, including lower income groups and families. The Institute for Fiscal Studies reported last week that coalition changes to tax and benefits have cost the average UK household £489 a year with low-income working-age households hit hardest. The IFS said the poorest tenth of households lost around 4% of their incomes. John Hill from the LSE said it was true that the very rich, with incomes over £100,000 had lost out more than the average, but that when viewed as a proportion of their income, it was the poorest who had lost out most. He said strategic decisions on the part of the government to ring-fence the NHS and schools had meant even larger cuts for other areas of spending.
(CNN) -- A victim in the sexual abuse case against Jerry Sandusky has sued Penn State University, saying he couldn't reach a settlement with the university over claims that the longtime assistant football coach abused him. The man, known only as "Victim 9," is one of 10 victims who were part of the criminal trial, in which the Nittany Lions' former defensive coordinator was convicted on 45 counts of sexual abuse in June 2012. Since the trial, 26 men have settled claims with Penn State totaling $59.7 million in connection with the Sandusky scandal, the university announced last month. Sandusky, currently serving a 30- to 60-year sentence, has always maintained that he is innocent and wrongly convicted of abusing young boys he met through his charity, The Second Mile. Sandusky raises another appeal . Many of the victims were abused on Penn State's campus, and some even after two incidents allegedly were brought to the university's attention -- once in 1998 and again in 2001. Victim 9 was raped repeatedly starting in 2005 when he was 12 years old, and ending around the time that another victim's allegations finally started a police investigation into Sandusky's decades of abuse. "By the time this boy was introduced to Sandusky on the Penn State Campus, the top administrators at Penn State knew that Sandusky was a sexual predator," the man's attorney, Stephen E. Raynes, said in a press release. "It's now clear that Penn State enabled Sandusky to sexually abuse more than twenty other children before Sandusky preyed on this boy. Each of those tragic assaults provided Penn State with the opportunity to stop Sandusky, opportunities which Penn State squandered. We will learn through this lawsuit why that happened and what additional lessons Penn State should learn from this tragic episode in its history." Penn State paying $59.7 million to settle Sandusky cases .
Raynes said Victim 9 tried to negotiate a settlement with Penn State, but the university refused "to compensate him adequately for what he needs and deserves." Penn State's former president, vice president and athletic director are all awaiting trial on charges they lied to a grand jury, obstructed justice and failed to report allegations of abuse reported to them in 2001. The abuse scandal resulted in the dismissal, in November 2011, of legendary head coach Joe Paterno amid allegations that he failed to respond forcefully enough to reports of Sandusky's crimes. Paterno died just weeks later, on January 22, 2012, at age 85. Penn State has said a few other claims by Sandusky victims have not yet been settled. Investigators may take 2nd look at high school where Jerry Sandusky coached .
The actor interviewed Mexico's most wanted drug lord in October in northern Durango state, at a meeting organised by Mexican actress Kate del Castillo. The security forces came close to catching Guzman shortly afterwards. They finally arrested him on Friday in a raid in which five people died. Attorney General Arely Gomez said the security forces had been following Guzman's lawyer, who led them to Sean Penn and Mexican actress Kate del Castillo. Who is 'El Chapo' Guzman? - The crime lord had humble beginnings. Who is Kate del Castillo? - Actress was instrumental in arranging the interview Did Sean Penn break the law? - Unusual interview raises questions in the US and Mexico Penn's 'El Chapo' interview scorned - It has been called "grotesque" and "maddening" El Chapo extradition 'could take year' - American officials want Joaquin Guzman back in the US. Kate del Castillo had been contacted by Guzman's lawyers years earlier after she had addressed Guzman in an open letter asking him to stop trafficking in drugs and start "trafficking in love" instead. Ms Gomez said that following his escape from a maximum-security jail in July, Guzman again contacted del Castillo through his lawyers to ask her to produce a film about his life. Del Castillo has not commented but in an article for Rolling Stone magazine, Penn said the actress had put him in contact with the fugitive drug lord. They both then travelled to a remote mountain hideout where Penn proceeded to interview Guzman. Ms Gomez said that meeting had provided them with important intelligence and helped them track down the fugitive. "It was an essential element, because we were following [Guzman's] lawyer, and the lawyer took us to these people and to this meeting," she told local radio. Mexican newspaper El Universal published photographs on Monday which suggest Penn and del Castillo were under surveillance by the authorities at the time.
The Associated Press news agency asked Penn if he was worried about the images. He wrote back in an email, saying: "I've got nothin' to hide". Guzman's escape in July 2015 - his second from a maximum-security jail - was a major embarrassment for the government of President Enrique Pena Nieto. But on Monday, the authorities proudly showed journalists around the house Guzman had been hiding in in Los Mochis. It feels like a voyeuristic journalism package holiday. The marines flew us here and showed us around the house that the feared criminal escaped from. "Over there you can see how the cans burst from the force of the grenades," an official from the attorney general's office pointed out in the kitchen. "And over here, this was the spot where the second person died," he said pointing to a patch of blood measuring about two metres by two metres. In one room was a walk-in wardrobe with a floor-length mirror. You would never have guessed it was actually a door, but behind it was a narrow set of stairs leading to a tunnel. It was through this tunnel that Guzman managed to escape. But this time it was not for long, as the marines got wise to his signature escape route and hunted him down a few hours later on a nearby highway. President Enrique Pena Nieto praised the security forces for the arrest of "the world's most wanted criminal" in a brief televised speech on Monday. "With this action, 98 of the 122 most dangerous criminals no longer pose a risk to society," he said. "We're going after all of them!"
Sisters Amanda, left, and Sara Eldritch are featured in a 2016 Littleton Adventist Hospital publication. Their bodies were found Friday near the Royal Gorge Bridge and Park. (Littleton Adventist Hospital / Courtesy Photo) Twin sisters who gained fame after becoming the first people in Colorado to receive a pioneering surgery for obsessive compulsive disorder were found dead with gunshot wounds in Cañon City, the Fremont County Sheriff's Office confirmed Monday. Sisters Amanda and Sara Eldritch were found Friday in a vehicle parked near a rest area at the Royal Gorge Bridge and Park. They were 33 years old. The sisters, who lived in Broomfield, were the first people in Colorado to receive deep brain stimulation — a surgery commonly used for patients with Parkinson's disease — to treat their often-debilitating symptoms of OCD. In a spring 2016 publication printed by Littleton Adventist Hospital, where they received the surgery, the twins said they began to feel at peace with their existence after receiving the treatment in spring 2015. One year after the treatment, Sara Eldritch told the hospital, "I feel like I can identify my anxiety. I can actually see where it's coming from. And I feel like I can deal with it." But before the surgery, the story said, "they felt at war with their own existence. And in a desperate cry for help as adolescents, they tried taking their own lives." Advertisement For the sisters, coping with the disorder meant living with compulsions, such as taking 10-hour showers, 20-minute hand-washings and using dozens of bottles of rubbing alcohol to disinfect everything they touched. For many patients with OCD, according to the hospital, unwanted thoughts become unavoidable, causing them to act on compulsions. The deep brain stimulation was intended to inhibit overactive parts of the brain, halting anxiety and making therapy more effective.
As part of the procedure, a surgeon, Dr. David VanSickle, placed electrodes on specific areas of their brains, with electrode wires under the skin of their heads, neck and shoulder. The wires were then connected to a battery pack inserted into their chests. In programming appointments, doctors ensured that their brains received enough stimulation. One year after the surgery, the spring 2016 publication said, the twins began finding "hope and joy in simple things like taking a morning walk — something they hadn't done in more than a decade." And one year after the publication was printed, the twins were featured on an episode of the TV show, "The Doctors," where they were taken for spa treatments separately from each other to "help them break through their codependency," the show's website said. The sisters also spent the night in two separate hotels as part of the show, where they found struggles but made it through the night, it said. "I did kind of like the contrast of, this is what it's like to be alone, and this is what it's like to be back with my sister and friends," Amanda Eldritch said at the time. "I like having two things to compare." The sheriff's office said in a news release that no other information is available at this time. Sara Knuth: 719-276-7644, knuths@canoncitydailyrecord.com Twin sisters - the first in Colorado to receive a pioneering surgery to treat their obsessive compulsive disorder - were found fatally shot Friday in a vehicle near Royal Gorge Bridge and Park, the Fremont County Sheriff's Office said. Sara and Amanda Eldritch, 33, of Broomfield, appear to have died in a suicide pact, said sheriff's spokeswoman Sgt. Megan Richards. They had received deep brain stimulation at Littleton Adventist Hospital in the spring of 2015, the Cañon City Daily Record reported.
In the procedure, typically used for patients with Parkinson's disease or essential tremor, electrodes are placed on areas of the brain, says an article in the hospital's spring 2016 magazine. "The electrode wires are placed under the skin of the head, neck, and shoulder, connecting with a battery pack (called a neurostimulator), which is implanted in the chest during a second procedure about a week later," the article says. "Then, routine programming appointments help ensure the brain gets the proper amount of stimulation." Before the surgery, the article says, the sisters "felt at war with their own existence. And in a desperate cry for help as adolescents, they tried taking their own lives." A year after the surgery, they were "finding hope and joy in simple things like taking a morning walk - something they hadn't done in more than a decade," the article says. The sisters were featured on an episode of "The Doctors," a CBS talk show. Friday, their bodies were found in a vehicle parked at a rest area near the Royal Gorge, the Sheriff's Office reported. A sheriff's news release Saturday said one body had been found. "After further investigation and results from the autopsy," a Monday release said, "this appears to be an isolated incident, and there is no threat to the public." - Contact Ellie Mulder: 636-0198 Twitter: @lemarie Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period.
Máiría Cahill won a by-election to fill the seat left vacant after Jimmy Harte of the Labour party resigned. Labour candidate Ms Cahill won 122 of the 188 valid votes cast by serving senators and members of parliament. Last year, she told the BBC she had been raped by an IRA man when she was 16, with the organisation forcing her into silence to protect itself. The man she accused of raping her was prosecuted but later acquitted of all charges against him after two separate court cases in 2014. Earlier this year, Northern Ireland's Public Prosecution Service apologised to Ms Cahill after a report into how it handled her allegations found delays in her case had been "unacceptable". Ms Cahill is a member of one of the Irish republican movement's most prominent families. But on Thursday, ahead of the by-election, she told Irish state broadcaster RTÉ she no longer considers herself a republican. She said she was "deeply sorry" for her involvement in the dissident group Republican Network for Unity, adding that it coincided with a vulnerable point in her life. "I didn't think about it at the time and I've had a lot of reflection since" she said. After her election, Ms Cahill said she would invite sex abuse organisations to the senate to discuss support for victims. "I want to use my time [in the senate] to continue to work for victims of abuse," she said. "That is the issue that has brought me to where I am today and it is the issue that I will continue to campaign on during my time as a senator. "I also want to use my time to explore ways of engaging young jobseekers in this country and to help change their lives for the better." Ms Cahill had been the favourite to win the by-election.
The other candidates who stood were Fianna Fáil's Keith Swanick, who received 38 votes, Sinead Burke of Sinn Féin, who won 18 votes, and independent candidate Gerry Beades, who received 10.
Thomas has been replaced by The Only Way Is Essex star Lydia Bright just days before Sunday's finale. He had been set to battle it out with Olympic gymnast Louis Smith, Paralympic medallist Kadeena Cox, and Emma Parker Bowles to be crowned champion of the winter sports competition. The 42-year-old is the fourth celebrity to withdraw from this year's series. Model Caprice suffered an illness, Olympian Sir Bradley Wiggins broke his leg and Vogue Williams pulled out before an episode even aired. A Channel 4 spokeswoman said: "Gareth Thomas has withdrawn due to personal reasons." Bright replaces Thomas as she was the last to be eliminated.
Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Ever wonder who's more stupid: Justin Bieber's followers or Ashton Kutcher's? Well, wonder no more — there's a new app in town that will gauge Twitter idiocy for you. Tom Scott, of Tweleted fame, has come out with a new website called Stupid Fight that measures the mental capacity of someone's Twitter followers by sifting through the last 100 people to @ reply to the person in question. According to the site's FAQs: "It estimates based on several stupid indicators. Are they using twenty exclamation marks in a row? Do they endlessly use the abbreviation 'OMG'? Do they seem incapable of working out where their Shift key is? These indicators have a strong correlation with the message, and its sender, being stupid." Scott hypes the site as a way to determine how stupid the followers of celebs are, but it works just as well with your personal Twitter account. We pit Bieber and Kutcher against each other below as a test. Seeing as how "Justin Bieber" is an extremely popular trending topic, the results are actually quite worrisome. [Thanks for the tip, @chrisdontpanic!]
New York (CNN) -- Two New York men accused of brutally beating an openly gay man have been indicted on hate crime charges, authorities said. The indictment filed Thursday morning charges defendants Daniel Aleman, 26, and Daniel Rodriguez, 21, both of College Point in Queens, New York, of 14-counts of assault and robbery as a hate crime, according to Queens District Attorney Richard A. Brown. If convicted, both men face up to 25 years in prison. Police say the two men shouted "anti-gay remarks" while viciously beating victim Jack Price, 49, as he left a 24-hour deli on College Point Boulevard in Queens in October 2009. After the assault, the two men stole Price's wallet and other personal property from his pockets. Price was treated at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens for a broken jaw, several broken ribs, two collapsed lungs and a lacerated spleen. Aleman and Rodriguez are being held without bail. Their arraignment is scheduled for January 25. Ted Kasapis, attorney for Rodriguez, said he doesn't believe prosecutors will be able to prove "any hate crimes here." An attorney for Aleman could not be reached for comment.
By . Sara Malm . PUBLISHED: . 04:45 EST, 18 February 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 12:13 EST, 18 February 2014 . One man was killed and 77 injured after police in Papua New Guinea opened fire on rioting asylum seekers in an Australian-run detention camp last night. Thirteen people suffered serious injuries, two of which has been flown to Australia for treatment, after the the second riot this week at a detention centre on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea. Australian officials says the riot began when detainees forced their way out of the centre, but refugee advocates insist it was sparked when local residents and police stormed the facility. Scroll down for video . Deadly uproar: One person was killed and 77 injured during a second night of rioting at an Australian immigration detention centre on Papua New Guinea's Manus Island . Australian Immigration Minister Scott Morrison described the violence as the latest in a series of protests at the camp, which houses around 1,300 men from countries including Afghanistan, Sudan's Darfur region, Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, Pakistan, Somalia, and Syria. 'This is a tragedy, but this was a very dangerous situation where people decided to protest in a very violent way and to take themselves outside the center and place themselves at great risk,' he told reporters. He said one man died from head injuries as he was taken to the hospital. He would not disclose the victim's nationality, or say how he had sustained the injuries. Another person was shot and was flown to the Papua New Guinea capital Port Moresby while one man was flown to Australia for treatment of a fractured skull, he said. In all, 77 people received medical treatment including 13 who were seriously injured, he said. Criticised: UN agencies and human rights organisations have called for the camps to be closed down due to the living conditions for the refugees .
Tension: The camp, pictured in July last year, houses around 1,300 men from countries including Afghanistan, Sudan's Darfur region, Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, Pakistan, Somalia, and Syria . Morrison initially said the injuries had occurred outside the camp but later said he was uncertain whether the fatal injuries had been inflicted within the camp or outside, adding that local authorities are investigating the matter. Mr Morrison said Papua New Guinea police opened fire after detainees pushed down the perimeter fence and spilled into the street around the camp. However, an Australian advocacy group said inmates claim to have been attacked by police and local residents. Defense: Australian Immigration Minister Scott Morrison says the riot began when detainees forced their way out of the centre . Gangs of police and locals — armed with machetes, pipes, sticks and stones — had roamed from compound to compound within the camp attacking asylum seekers, Refugee Action Coalition said. This was denied by Australian officials and security firm G4S, who operates the camp. The violence followed a less serious brawl at the same facility on Sunday night that led to the arrests of eight asylum seekers and another 19 being treated for injuries. Papua New Guinea is one of two South . Pacific nations where Australia operates camps to house thousands of . asylum seekers, a majority of whom have fled wars in the Middle East, . and have tried to enter the country illegally via Indonesia. Australia . intercepts them at sea and sends them to camps at Manus Island or the . tiny Pacific atoll nation of Nauru, while their refugee claims are . evaluated with the aim to get them to settle in Papua New Guinea or . Nauru. The unrest at the . camp in Papua New Guinea, which began late Monday and ended Tuesday, . has heightened pressure on Canberra to close these camps. The . conditions in the detention centres in Papua New Guinea and Nauru have . been citicised by UN agencies and human rights organisations.
Despite this, the Australian government is holding firm, saying the . detention camp system is an effective deterrent against asylum seekers. Sorry we are unable to accept comments for legal reasons.
Tom Colicchio has changed the name of his hot Beekman Hotel restaurant Fowler & Wells to Temple Court after realizing the first moniker has a racially charged past. The chef said in a statement: “In the mid-1800s, the building where the Beekman . . . now stands housed the offices of Fowler & Wells, a pair of publishers and phrenologists.” Phrenology is the study of skull size and structure to determine mental abilities, and was often used as a justification for discrimination and slavery. After picking the name, Colicchio and his team “dove more deeply into the works of Fowler & Wells” and “discovered facts about their beliefs that go against everything we stand for.” Phrenology really was used to justify slavery, as portrayed in Django Unchained. But it was also used to justify abolition "Why don't they kill us?" asks Calvin Candie, the southern slave owner in Quentin Tarantino's Django Unchained. He wants to know why the African slaves he brutalises do not rise up and take revenge. Before long, he has the skull of a recently deceased slave on the dinner table. "The science of phrenology," he announces, "is crucial to understanding the separation of our two species." He hacks away at the back of the skull with a saw, removing a section of the cranium and pointing to an allegedly enlarged area. In African slaves, Candie claims, this bump is found in the region of the brain associated with "submissiveness". For Candie, phrenology not only explained slavery, it justified it. Needless to say, phrenology has now been thoroughly debunked: the idea that the shape of the skull can be used to infer mental characteristics is just plain wrong.
But it was extremely popular all over the world during the 19th century, finding converts among reform-minded Bengalis in Kolkata, India, and colonial settlers in Australia. As part of my research into the global history of phrenology, I came across the real-life Calvin Candie. He was called Charles Caldwell, a doctor from Kentucky who revelled in both phrenology and slave ownership. As in the film, Caldwell was a Europhile, travelling to Paris in the 1820s where he picked up the latest medical craze. He later returned to France in the 1840s in order to hobnob with Pierre Marie Dumoutier, a phrenologist just back from a three-year round-the-world voyage. Slave owner and phrenologist Charles Caldwell. Photograph: Public domain At the time, Dumoutier's immense collection of skulls and casts could be found at the Musée de Phrénologie in Paris. There Caldwell could practise phrenology, feeling for bumps on the heads of Tahitians and Marquesas Islanders. No doubt he was considered very à la mode back in Kentucky. In fact, Caldwell even boasted of being one of the earliest experts in phrenology in the United States. Caldwell deployed phrenology in almost exactly the same manner as the fictional Candie. In 1837 he wrote to a friend claiming that "tameableness" explained the apparent ease with which Africans could be enslaved. This was a standard phrenological argument. Areas located towards the top and back of the skull, such as "Veneration" and "Cautiousness", were routinely claimed to be large in Africans. His correspondent concurred, writing: "They are slaves because they are tameable." Clearly enjoying himself, Caldwell replied: "Depend upon it my good friend, the Africans must have a master."
Areas for 'veneration' and 'Cautiousness' were said to be large in Africans. Photograph: Alamy It's worth emphasising that these words are not from a Tarantino script, crafted for Hollywood shock value. They were written by a slave owner desperate to preserve his brutal way of life. And, while the physical violence of slavery is masked in Caldwell's letters, they betray his warped sense of morality. In a letter written on Christmas Eve 1838, Caldwell made the outrageous claim: "My slaves live much more comfortably than I do." The fact that phrenology was used to justify slavery is perhaps unsurprising. What would one expect from such an overtly racist science? But it wasn't just the slavers. My research revealed that some of the most vocal anti-slavery campaigners of the 19th century were also advocates of phrenology, and used it to justify their stance. Lucretia Mott, a particularly uncompromising American abolitionist, sent her children to phrenological lectures and spoke of the "truth of phrenology" in letters to friends. When she visited Britain she stayed with the renowned Scottish phrenologist George Combe, himself an anti-slavery campaigner. Horace Mann, another major figure in abolitionist politics, was so keen on phrenology that he subscribed to the official journal. After becoming president of Antioch College in Ohio, he even boasted in the same sentence that the professors he employed were both "anti-slavery men" and "avowed phrenologists". Photograph: public domain These are not isolated examples. If anything, the majority of phrenologists were against slavery. How can this be?
George Combe, a man whose phrenological books sold more copies during the 19th century than Charles Darwin's Origin of Species, explained his reasoning: "The qualities which make them submit to slavery are a guarantee that, if emancipated and justly dealt with, they would not shed blood." For abolitionists, the apparent weakness and timidity of the Africans served two purposes. It countered fears that they would take revenge on their masters if set free. It also provided a moral argument: if Africans were innately weak, society should help them, not enslave them. In the 19th century, scientific racism and abolition were by no means mutually exclusive.
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers insists his players have to step up in the absence of captain Steven Gerrard after a frustrating goalless draw at home to Sunderland. With a must-win match at home to Basle in the Champions League on Tuesday, followed by a trip to Old Trafford, the 34-year-old midfielder was left on the bench until 23 minutes from the end. He could not inspire his side to victory but Rodgers admits it should not always be up to him. VIDEO Scroll down for Sportsmail's Big Match Stats . The 34-year-old goes through his warm-up routine as he prepares to come on as a second half subsitute . Gerrard (left) shares a joke with substitute goalkeeper Brad Jones (right) during a goalless first half at Anfield . 'We can't always rely on Stevie. His talent is world-class but that contribution has to come around the team,' he said. 'It can't be up to him every single game to be the catalyst. 'It is very hard to replace that quality but going forward that is something of course we will need. 'He was excellent when he came on and of course he plays on Tuesday. 'He still has that talent, he has world-class ability and it is me looking to manage that. 'We have a big month. Until the new year there are big games and the management of Steven is fine, there is no problem with that.' Rodgers (right) decision to rest his captain was in light of Liverpool's crucial Champions League tie at home to Basle on Tuesday . Gerrard (right) came on in the 67th minute as Rodgers' side pushed for a goal against the Black Cats . Only Aston Villa and Burnley have scored fewer goals at home than Liverpool's seven and Rodgers' decision to leave Fabio Borini out of the squad - meaning he had no striker on the bench - was questioned.
The Italian enjoyed a good loan spell at Sunderland last season and almost joined them in the summer after Liverpool agreed a deal to sell him. 'That is a decision I make as a manager,' said Rodgers when asked about the forward's absence. Black Cats manager Gus Poyet admits he would leap at the chance to take Borini back to the Stadium of Light. Gerrard's introduction could not help Liverpool get the goal they needed as it finished 0-0 . Sunderland boss Gus Poyet (right) watches on the touchline alongside Liverpool boss Rodgers . 'I would love to,' he said before attempting to address the collapse of the transfer. 'It is difficult to explain. It was a long summer and the things everyone knows, we agreed a price and we flew to America (for Liverpool's pre-season tour) and he didn't come. 'The bottom line is he is not with us. I am trying to concentrate on what we have got.' What they had was good enough to keep their hosts at bay, having been beaten 4-1 by Manchester City in midweek. 'First half we were much better with the ball than in the last three or four games,' Poyet added. 'We are just missing that cutting edge but in the rest of the game we were quite good.'
(CNN) -- Shain Gandee, one of the stars of the MTV reality show "Buckwild," has been found dead along with two other people in Kanawha County, West Virginia, authorities said Monday. "This is a very sad and tragic event," Kanawha County Commissioner Kent Carper said. "We live in a very small community. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Gandee family." Gandee, 21, was found dead in a vehicle along with his uncle, David Dwight Gandee, 48, and Donald Robert Myers, 27, authorities said. 'Buckwild' producer talks about the show . "Earlier this day after releasing information Shain Gandee was missing, the Kanawha County Sheriff's Office received word of a disabled vehicle in a wooded area near Thaxton Hollow, Sissonville, Kanawha County WV," said a statement from the Sheriff's Office. "Deputies and members of the Sissonville Volunteer Fire Department used all terrain vehicles to access that vehicle, a 1984 Ford Bronco belonging to the Gandee family. The vehicle was in a muddy area along a worn path. Inside were the bodies of three people." In a subsequent release, the Sheriff's Office said the vehicle was partially submerged in mud. It was uneven but upright; its muffler was below the surface. Mud covered the lower part of the Bronco's passenger side door, but the driver's side, where the younger Gandee sat, was free, the Sheriff's Office said. Gandee was happy with life before death . He was one of the nine cast members of "Buckwild." The show follows a group of young adults trying to have fun in Sissonville, West Virginia, pulling stunts such as turning a dump truck into a swimming pool or just riding around the woods on their all-terrain vehicles.
Gandee was billed as a former high school prom king who had done "every job from coal mining to being a garbage man." MTV released a statement about Gandee: "We are shocked and saddened by the terrible news about Shain Gandee, and those involved in this tragic incident. We are waiting for more information but at this time, our main concern is for the Gandee family and their friends. Our thoughts and prayers are with them. Shain had a magnetic personality, with a passion for life that touched everyone he met and we will miss him dearly." Some of Gandee's castmates took to social media to express their feelings. "RIP Shain Gandee," cast member Ashley Whitt tweeted. "You were the most amazing person I've ever known. I know you will be watching over " "This is the emptiest I've ever felt," Cara Parrish tweeted. "Please pray for Dale and Loretta [Gandee's parents]." "Buckwild" has been compared to MTV's reality show "Jersey Shore," and on Monday, one of that show's stars, Jenni "JWoww" Farley, tweeted, "That's awful that shain passed He was just a baby. Rip. #Buckwild." Officials said there were no signs of foul play. The causes of death are still under investigation. People we've lost in 2013: The lives they lived . CNN's Karan Olson contributed to this report.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . Kidnap victim Natascha Kampusch, pictured, has become a recluse because of the 'horror' of contact with other people. The 26-year-old Austrian has given up her studies and no longer has driving lessons because she panics when she sees her instructor. She says she no longer wants children and rarely makes new friends – ending her Facebook presence and seldom using Twitter. Natascha Kampusch was kidnapped at the age of 10 and held captive for eight and a half years . Miss Kampusch was upbeat about her future after freeing herself from Wolfgang Priklopil in 2006 after being kept prisoner for more than eight years. But nerves have now destroyed her chances of an education. 'The regular contact with fellow students was really a horror scenario for me,' she said. The story of her ordeal was recently made into a film starring Irish actress Antonia Campbell-Hughes. Miss Kampusch has also put on weight significantly, in contrast with wafer-thin Campbell-Hughes who admitted she went on a massive diet in order to portray the kidnap victim in 3,096 Days. Irish actress Antonia Campbell Hughes portrayed the kidnap victim in 3,096 Days .
Chingola, Zambia (CNN) -- It's 10 minutes after the final whistle has blown but still no one knows whether their efforts have been in vain. The Libyan national soccer team sit in the dressing room at the Nchanga Stadium -- in Chingola, a small copper mining town on the Zambia-Congo border -- quietly waiting for news amidst the fog of sweat and redolence of rubefacient muscle rub. The team has just drawn 0-0 with Zambia in their final qualification match for the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations, a qualification campaign that began with the country under the rule of Colonel Moammar Gadhafi, continued through the civil war and ended before the death of the former notorious leader. Victory was needed to be sure of progression to next January's tournament in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon. A draw meant that results elsewhere had to go their way. As their campaign for Africa's biennial continental championship progressed with war as the backdrop, some players declared the team was behind Gadhafi. Others left the team to go and fight on the front line with the rebels. In unison, somehow, they qualified; news that will shortly be relayed to the team when confirmation of results from other matches are circulated. Six days earlier coach Marcos Paqueta is in good spirits in the lobby of his hotel in Tunis. The security situation is such that the team could not train in Tripoli. The Brazilian coach once famously won the under 17s and under 20s World Cups in the same year for his homeland, but signed for Libya in June 2010 when the Libyan Football Federation was run by one of Gadhafi's sons, Mohamed. "When I was there the first time I contacted only the federation, then one time I have one meeting with Dr Mohamed," Paqueta explains of his dealings with the Gadhafi regime. "He was happy because of the project I made for the national team and Libyan football.
I focus only on sports. At that time you don't know about the country." In the past, the Gadhafi family's dealings with soccer and its players had been much more hands on. His son Saadi played for Al Ahly Tripoli and installed himself as captain of the national team. The team plummeted to 186th on FIFA's rankings. But they also used soccer as a political tool. In 2000 Saadi's Al Ahly Tripoli traveled to Al Ahly Benghazi for a league match. Benghazi had long been associated with Libya's opposition and the team's fans paraded a donkey wearing Saadi's shirt. "It is a bad story, not a funny story," says 29-year-old defensive midfielder Moataz Ben Amer, the current captain of Al Ahly Benghazi. "The first half, Tripoli are winning. But the referee is no good. So Ahly Benghazi goes to the airport [in protest]. Saadi Gadhafi turned up with his dogs and the police and said: 'If you don't play the second half, we will kick you'." Unsurprisingly, the players returned to play the second half, and lost 3-0. Colonel Gadhafi was so incensed that he ordered Al Ahly Benghazi's training ground to be destroyed. The club was also banned from domestic competition for five years. When Interpol released a "Red Notice" for Saadi Gadhafi in September, the allegations given were "misappropriating properties through force and armed intimidation when he headed the Libyan Football Federation." Paqueta's early results were encouraging. Libya beat Zambia, one of Africa's best teams, in Tripoli. But then in February civil war broke out, dividing the players. After Libya had beaten the Comoros Islands in March the team's former captain, 34-year-old Tariq Taib, declared that the players were 100 per cent behind Gadhafi.
He even labeled the rebels "rats and dogs." Walid el Kahatroushi disagreed. The 27-year-old midfielder scored in that game but when the team gathered again in June, he decided to leave the camp and fight for the rebels when he heard a friend had been injured in the violence. "Some people come to me and told me one of my dear friends was in the hospital and lost his arm in that moment I decided to leave the camp and join the front line in Jebel Nafousa," explains Kahatroushi. Life on the front line was hard. Friends would shield him from worst of the fighting until, in the end, he felt he had no choice . "When I was there I was just about forgetting about football because the most important thing then is how to secure your life and secure the life of your friends. If it was about me I would never come back, you would never find me here playing football. But my friends on the front line told me: 'This is your future, you must go there. This is also like a war for you'." Others left for the front line too, like goalkeeper Guma Mousa, but not all were so lucky. Ahmed Alsagir was shot in the shoulder and spent a month in hospital before returning to the front line. By the end of August Gadhafi had been toppled. A week later the team had to play their penultimate qualifier against Mozambique behind closed doors in Egypt. Aside from the trouble of getting the players out of the country, there were some more practical concerns. For one, Paqueta had to hold a clear the air meeting with the squad. The old pro-Gaddafi players were nowhere to be seen. A new kit had to be designed, with the rebel's flag stitched on to it. The Libyans fought out a 0-0 draw.
"The last game [against] Mozambique, it had a big impact on the people in Libya. Everyone was happy and everyone was talking about us," recalls Kahatroushi. "We will do everything to qualify, Inshallah, because this will help our country too much. At least to bring them some happiness after all the sadness they have been through." The journey south to Zambia took almost 24 hours, but the players are ready when they take to the pitch at the packed Nchanga Stadium. Libya's new captain, 39-year-old goalkeeper Samir Abod is the hero, making three world class saves. The match finishes 0-0. Some of the players collapse on the floor in tears. Others pray before returning to the dressing room. They wait. The quiet is broken when one of the coaches bursts in and breathlessly delivers the news. The blue-painted room erupts in celebration and song. The rebel national anthem is sung as the new flag is held aloft in the center of the melee. Ghana's victory and a last-minute equalizer for Guinea against Nigeria means that Libya has, against the odds, qualified for the Nations Cup. As a nation recovers thousands of miles away from the ravages of civil war under the new interim government, Walid Kahatroushi leads the celebrations and the chants. "The blood of the dead," they sing, "will not be spilt in vain."
The Queen was certainly in a springtime mood as she arrived to open The Wing at the National Memorial to the Few, in Capel-le-Ferne, Kent, on Thursday. Her Majesty wore a sky blue wool coat with a royal blue collar and matching pockets and trim, topping off the look with a blue hat. The Queen and The Duke were greeted by Prince Michael of Kent, who is a patron of the Battle of Britain Memorial Trust, and Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Graydon. Queen Elizabeth II smiles at schoolchildren as she leaves the National Memorial to the Few after opening a new wing dressed in a vibrant blue outfit . The royal couple viewed the video wall and other special effects that bring to life the Battle of Britain and the life of 'The Few', who fought in the skies overheard to keep Britain free from invasion during the summer and early Autumn of 1940. The monarch and Duke then met trustees, supporters and volunteers before meeting local school children learning about the Battle of Britain in the dedicated education area, The Geoffrey Page Centre. The Queen and The Duke also visited the 'Cockpit Café', where they met a group of 'The Few', surviving RAF airmen who fought in the Battle of Britain in the Second World War, before viewing a flypast of a Hurricane, Spitfire and Typhoon. As part of her duties, the Queen unveiled a plaque to mark the opening and received a posy. In the 1980s, Wing Commander Geoffrey Page, a Hurricane pilot who was shot down during the Battle of Britain, realised that there was no national memorial to the men he had with flown with in 1940. His efforts to amend this led to the founding of the Battle of Britain Memorial Trust and the unveiling of the National Memorial to the Few – a lone pilot looking out over the English Channel, in the village between Folkestone and Dover – by Her Late Majesty Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother.
Her Majesty wore a sky blue wool coat with a royal blue collar and matching pockets and trim, topping off the look with a blue hat . The royal couple viewed the video wall and other special effects that bring to life the Battle of Britain and the life of 'The Few', who fought in the skies overheard to keep Britain free from invasion during 1940 . The Queen, followed by The Duke, was greeted by Prince Michael of Kent, who is a patron of the Battle of Britain Memorial Trust, and Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Graydon . Maintained by the Trust, the site at Capel-le-Ferne is dedicated to Churchill's famous 'Few' who fought in the skies overheard to keep Britain free from invasion. The Battle of Britain Memorial Trust’s new Wing building is home to the high-tech, interactive Scramble Experience, which tells the story of the Battle of Britain, while the Geoffrey Page Centre, is a dedicated teaching space for schools to use. The building itself follows the wing plan of RJ Mitchell’s most iconic fighter, the Supermarine Spitfire, one of the two aircraft credited with doing the most to win the Battle of Britain in 1940. The building copies the Spitfire’s uplifted wing shape and has a central first floor café, which looks directly across the Channel towards France, from where enemy aircraft would have appeared 75 years ago. Schoolchildren camp out in the rain to catch a glimpse of the Queen as she visits the National Memorial . Her Majesty The Queen, accompanied by His Royal Highness The Duke of Edinburgh, also visited Canterbury Cathedral, Kent, today . The Queen and The Duke were greeted by Prince Michael of Kent, who is a patron of the Battle of Britain Memorial Trust, and Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Graydon . The monarch met trustees, supporters and volunteers before meeting local school children learning about the Battle of Britain in the dedicated education area, The Geoffrey Page Centre .
The Wing will complement the other attractions at the National Memorial, which include the Christopher Foxley-Norris Memorial Wall, listing the names of those who took part in the Battle, the Memorial itself and a replica Hurricane and Spitfire. Her Majesty The Queen, accompanied by His Royal Highness The Duke of Edinburgh, also visited Canterbury Cathedral, Kent. The royal couple went to a private lunch before attending a service when they followed a procession to the Great West Door where they were introduced to the sculptor and stonemasons. The Queen unveiled statues of Her Majesty and The Duke of Edinburgh and following the unveiling, the Royal party attended a brief reception for staff and supporters before departing. Schoolchildren wait patiently in the rain for the arrival of the Queen . The monarch unveiled a plaque as she opened a new wing in the National Memorial . Queen Elizabeth II meets Mrs K Foster (L), Wing Commander Paul Farnes (C) and Squadron Leader Tony Pickering as she visits the National Memorial to the Few ahead of opening a new wing . Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh watch a short film on the Battle of Britain as they visit the National Memorial to the Few . Canterbury Cathedral is the Mother Church of the worldwide Anglican Communion and seat of the Archbishop of Canterbury. The Cathedral is both a holy place and part of a World Heritage Site. Founded in 597 AD by St Augustine, it is arguably the oldest institution in the English speaking world. Over the years, the Cathedral has witnessed many historic events, perhaps most famously the murder of Archbishop St Thomas Becket in his own cathedral on 29th December 1170 by four knights acting on the order of King Henry II.
The new statues of The Queen and The Duke of Edinburgh were commissioned by the Friends of Canterbury Cathedral to commemorate the Diamond Jubilee of The Queen’s reign and will complement statues by the Cathedral’s West Door of Queen Victoria (the only other monarch to celebrate a Diamond Jubilee) and Prince Albert. The royal statues have been carved by Nina Bilbey. Since 2000, Nina has specialised in stone carving and she is presently the Senior Carving Tutor at The City and Guilds Art School London. Commissions include statues for Hampton Court Flower Show, as well as St. Pancras Station and Saint George’s Chapel, Windsor. Nina has also been involved on many restoration projects across this country and abroad. Projects include The Houses of Parliament, The Royal Pavilion Brighton and Hereford Cathedral. Queen Elizabeth II meets Wing Commander Tom Neil as she visits the National Memorial to the Few . The Battle of Britain Memorial Trust's new Wing building is home to the high-tech, interactive Scramble Experience, which tells the story of the Battle of Britain, and the Geoffrey Page Centre, a dedicated teaching space for schools to use .
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 11:35 EST, 13 January 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 16:25 EST, 13 January 2013 . As a young Afghanistan soldier is enthusiastically welcomed home, one member of his family is overcome with emotion and excitement - his beloved pet dog. The heartwarming video of the soldier's welcome from his deliriously happy pup has gone viral. The dog, called Jasmine, which looks like a black and tan Hovawart, can't contain her excitement on seeing her owner who was in Afghanistan for a year. As the newly-returned soldier, known only as Josh enters a garage to greet the dog - her reaction is crazy. Scroll down for video . Emotional: The pet dog of an Afghanistan soldier gives him an excited welcome home. Jasmine couldn't contain her joy on seeing Josh returned safe to the U.S. Howling and barking, Jasmine, bounds over to him, jumping wildly up onto his uniform, trying to lick his face. Despite polite protestations from the soldier the delighted pet refuses to leave his side as he rubs and tickles her, eventually jumping again and forcing him over on the floor. More Did a shark decapitate this crocodile? Reptile's head discovered on beach sparks fears over huge great white . The horrifically tortured dogs who are learning to walk again at pioneering Mexico sanctuary . Family's heartbreak as neighbor shoots dead their dog for barking in his back yard . The video has spread across the internet since it was posted on the Armed Forces website, www.welcomehomeblog.com. A brief description is posted alongside it but no further information is available on the family involved. The woman who posted the video, who is named only as Linda P, said . the soldier is her daughter's boyfriend and they had been caring for his . pet while he was on active service with the Army Reserves Task Force.
Man's best friend: The Afghanistan soldier's pet dog has clearly missed him a lot following his year of active service. She refuses to leave his side in the video and wants to be continually petted by her beloved owner . Absence makes the heart grow fonder: Jasmine can't control her excitement on the safe return of her owner, soldier Josh. He was serving in Afghanistan for a year . 'Josh had last seen her in October of 2011, when he came home on leave. He returned to the states in March 2012. Jasmine is a well-behaved dog who loves her master, whining and snuggling when she sees him, getting very excited and as close as she can to Josh. Our dog, Sheba, doesn’t know what to do as Jasmine runs around, so excited about Josh’s return.' Laughter can be heard on the video as Josh battles to move away but Jasmine refuses to let him be. 'She doesn't know what to do', a voice is heard through laughter in the background. Showing the pet really is his best friend, Josh then walks the dog out of the garage and gets her to excitedly roll over with just the click of his fingers. Several people have posted the video across the internet. One viewer wrote: 'Aw that's so cute I am in awe on how loyal dogs are to their owners and are able to express so much happiness.' Other pets welcoming returning soldiers have made moving online videos. In 2009 golden retriever Gracie was a Youtube hit following a video of welcome home for owner Lieutenant Andrew Schmidt in Springfield, Virginia being posted. Chuck the boxer was an Internet star in March - he was so excited to meet owner, a Marine called Nick, he jumps out of the car trunk and knocks his sunglasses off.
Rasmus Barlow, 16, was reported missing on Monday by his father leading to a large-scale search by police. His death is not being treated as suspicious and a file is being prepared for the coroner's office. Police said family liaison officers were continuing to support the teenager's family.
London (CNN) -- One of England's biggest soccer stars went on trial Monday, accused of hurling racist abuse at another player during a match last year. The normally staid chambers of Westminster Magistrates' Court in London got an earful of shockingly foul language as lawyers and witnesses detailed what Chelsea captain John Terry said to Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand in the match. A lip reader watching a video of the incident told the court what Terry said, including two extremely obscene words. Terry did not deny directing a barrage of foul language at Ferdinand and referring to him as "black," but he denied engaging in racist abuse. The highly unusual criminal prosecution over words uttered on a soccer field comes as English soccer officials fight to stamp racism out of the sport, with mixed results. Liverpool player Luis Suarez was banned for eight matches when the Football Association, the English sport's governing body, found he had racially abused Manchester United defender Patrice Evra. The chanting of racist abuse by fans also remains a sporadic problem in soccer across Europe. The Crown Prosecution Service is pressing charges against Terry for a "racially aggravated public order offense" because of the comments during an October 23 match between Chelsea and Queens Park Rangers. Prosecutors played a video of the incident, without sound, as the case opened Monday morning. The alleged abuse came after Ferdinand knocked Terry down during the game, the jury heard. When he got up, Terry made a gesture as if Ferdinand's breath smelled, and he called Ferdinand a "c---," prosecutor Duncan Penny told the court. Ferdinand responded with the same word, saying it described Terry, not him, because Terry had had sex with a teammate's wife, the prosecutor said. Ferdinand also made an obscene gesture related to sex as Terry ran back into position, Penny said.
Ferdinand testified that he did not hear the comments Terry made at him, but that he would have been "hurt and disappointed" if he had heard Terry call him a "black c---" "When someone brings your color into it, it takes it to another level and it's very hurtful," Ferdinand said. Terry maintains that Ferdinand knocked him down before the incident and that the two then exchanged "normal football verbals." He told Football Association officials that he then repeated to Ferdinand words he thought the opposing player had said to him, Penny told the court Monday. The maximum penalty for the offense is Â£2,500 (about $3,900). That would be a drop in the bucket for a player worth millions, but a criminal conviction could lead to action against him by his team or England's Football Association. Terry was captain of England's national team at the time of the incident but was stripped of his captaincy after a preliminary court hearing on the racism charge in February. He remained captain of Chelsea, which went on to win the prestigious Europe-wide Champions League this year. The trial could last up to five days, court officials say.
Loss: Shanice Clark, 21, was found unresponsive in her dorm in Pennsylvania early on Sunday morning . A college basketball star has been found dead in her dorm room after choking on gum in her sleep, preliminary investigations have found. Shanice Clark, from Toronto, Canada, was found unresponsive at 3.03am on Sunday in Vulcan Village at the California University of Pennsylvania, the Washington County coroner's office said. She was rushed to Monongahela Valley Hospital but she could not be revived and was pronounced dead at 4.10am. Police said a preliminary report from medical personnel indicates Clark accidentally choked on gum while she was sleeping, the Pennsylvania Observer-Reporter reported. The manner of death continues to remain under investigation. University officials said they were 'deeply saddened' by the death of the 6-foot senior forward, who had played two dozen games for the Vulcans last season. Athletic director Karen Hjerpe called Clark 'a bright student and talented player' and said 'her smile and personality will be missed'. Clark, a communications major, had hoped to become a broadcaster and chose the school because of its good facilities after transferring from Santa Fe College in Florida. But friend Cleveland Clunis told the Toronto Star that she would often joke that she had gone to the university for a different reason. 'For Shanice, it was, "There's a good hairstylist",' said Clunis, the founder of a non-profit basketball program she had attended. 'When she shares that with you, you can't help but laugh.' He said that this sense of humor had made her popular among students and staff. 'She could start a conversation with you from morning and still have you laughing and interested till sundown,' he said.
Geraldine M. Jones, interim university president, said in a statement: 'Our thoughts today are with the family of Shanice Clark, a senior from Ontario, Canada, who passed away early this morning. 'On behalf of California University of Pennsylvania, I extend my deepest sympathy to all of Shanice's family and friends. She will be missed by her teammates and coaches, her classmates, and by the entire campus community.' Clark leaves behind her mother, Kashaeka Fearon, and a younger sister. Tragedy: Clark, who was from Toronto, was a communications major at the California University of Pennsylvania, pictured, and had dreamed of becoming a broadcaster, friends said .
The home that inspired one of the most famous paintings in American history could soon be in search of a tenant. If you're keen on living the quiet life in Eldon, Iowa (pop. 900) and have around just $250 per month, the house featured in Grant Wood's 1930 masterpiece American Gothic could be the home for you. The pitchfork, however, won't be included. Look familiar? The house that played backdrop to Grant Wood's 1930 masterpiece American Gothic is now without a tenant as of Monday . American favorite: The somehow equally stoic, comical and unsettling painting has become one of the most parodied works of art of all time . Isolated: The house is in Eldon, Iowa, a town of 900 . In fact, the State Historical Society of Iowa has yet to decide if they intend to again rent out the 700-square-foot 1882 home after tenant of four years Beth Howard moved out. 'There should be a statute of limitations for how long one can live in a tourist attraction,' she joked to the Des Moines Register Tuesday. Monday marked Beth Howard's last day in the house.. And who knows, you may gain artistic inspiration from the home, as Wood did and as Howard did thereafter. Wood was an Iowa painter who spotted the house while traveling through the area. He used it as the backdrop to his 1930 painting of a farmer holding a pitchfork next to his daughter. The man was actually Wood's dentist and the 'wife' the artist's sister Nan. And while not entirely non-fiction, the comically unsettling portrait is perhaps America's most parodied ever. So much so that the house that simply stands in its background has become a tourist attraction. At least initially, that didn't bother Howard. She liked the rent, kept artificially low to make up for the nuisance rubberneckers, and wanted a place to start anew after becoming a widow at age 48.
She was inspired and then some, becoming known as the 'Pie Lady' for the impressive pastries she churned out in the historic home's kitchen. She also started a popular pie blog. The tourist attraction is also a home: A woman named Beth Howard lived for fours years in the house, but moved out Monday . Just a regular home almost: Howard had to keep the windows covered nearly all the time to avoid peeping-tom tourists . Pie Lady: Howard cooked thousands of pies in the famous home's kitchen and made a name for herself, and even wrote a bestselling cookbook, while living there . Homey: Howard managed to make a name for herself as a pie maker, cookbook author and public speaker while she lived in the 1882 home . She also wrote a bestselling cookbook while in the home. But she's now gone off to greener pastures, a room with a view of cows in an equally rural part of the state, to write a book she says will be 'a memoir of the misadventures of living in a masterpiece painting with snakes in the basement.' Meanwhile, Jerome Thompson, the society's historic site administrator, said the group is weighing its options on what to do next. They may rent it out again or they may offer an artist-in-residence program. They may also allow the next-door visitors' center, which is run by the city and county, to use it. American Pie: Howard (with the pitchfork) moved into the home after becoming widowed at 48. She lived there four years and has now moved to a friend's farm, where she hopes to write a book about her time at the house .
(CNN) -- American Airlines has already called Alec Baldwin "extremely rude," and now the actor isn't making any friends at Greyhound either. Baldwin was booted off an American Airlines flight Tuesday because he refused to turn off his cell phone after the plane's doors were closed for departure, the airline said. The actor was apparently playing "Words With Friends," a Scrabble-like online game. In a column published by The Huffington Post on Wednesday, Baldwin said a crew member singled him out during the incident. He also raged against flight attendants who "have made flying a Greyhound bus experience." That didn't sit well with Greyhound. In an open letter to the actor issued Thursday, Greyhound President and CEO Dave Leach said he was disheartened to hear about the comments Baldwin made about the company. "I'm the first to admit that Greyhound has had some challenges in the past, so I understand that you probably were basing your comments on that alone. But we've made so many changes in recent years to significantly improve the travel experience," Leach writes. "My guess is you've never traveled with us, but I ask you to give us a try for a number of reasons and see for yourself that we're really a great way to travel." Leach then touts the hundreds of new buses the company has added to its fleet as well as the extra legroom, leather seats, power outlets and free Wi-Fi. "I think you especially would find the latter two amenities exciting, because we don't require our customers to turn off their electronic devices ever. You could therefore play 'Words With Friends' during your entire trip and nobody would give you any grief over it," Leach tells Baldwin in the letter. He also reminds the actor that Greyhound carries more than 17 million travelers a year and asks Baldwin to become one of them.
"I invite you to meet with me in New York and we'll take a trip to Boston so you can see first-hand what a great ride Greyhound can be," Leach writes. "We are not the same company we used to be. We are better, providing a safe, affordable and modern travel alternative to other forms of transportation. Greyhound is an American icon, a proud company that many people depend on to get them to their destinations, the same people who watch your films and TV show." No word on whether Baldwin plans to take Leach up on his offer. The actor deactivated his Twitter account after the American Airlines incident.
England’s Golden Generation could get another chance to win the World Cup, but they will have to do it in the blistering heat of Qatar in 2016. As a test run for the real thing six years later, Qatar is set to be chosen to host the inaugural Veterans World Cup in two years time and many of the players who played for England in 2002, 2006 and 2010 would be selectable as over-35s. Organisers of the 16-team tournament, World Sport Company, have yet to confirm Qatar as the venue but managing director Jawid Bunyadi told the Aspire Global Summit in Doha this week that the Middle East was the chosen location and Qatar appears to be the favourite within that zone. VIDEO Scroll down to watch for keeper David Seaman face a penalty from Jeff Stelling . England's David Beckham reacts as he gets sent off for tripping Argentina captain Diego Simeone . Beckham is shown red by referee Kim Milton Nielsen and the former England star could face Simeone again . Beckham and Simeone, now Atletico Madrid's manager, could go head-to-head at the Veterans World Cup . It will be an early test of the air conditioning in a country where soaring temperatures have created concerns over the 2022 World Cup. The age limit on the 300 players expected to compete in the 2016 event would be 50 and the games are likely to last 35 minutes each half of a 10-minute break. The tournament will be played at the end of the European season and if it passes without incident it could end all doubts over the safety of the World Cup for real due to take place six years later. Over 300 football legends will be invited to play in the World Cup and Spain, England, Argentina and Brazil are all expected to take part. Sol Campbell, at the age of 40, is among those who would be eligible to play and represent England again .
Phil Neville (left) and Gary Neville (right) would be eligible to play for England at the Veterans World Cup . Beckham is another player from England's so-called 'Golden Generation' who could play in 2016 . The ban on over-50s might rule out reunion between Terry Butcher and Diego Maradona but Diego Simeone could come face-to-face with David Beckham and David Seaman might have to face his 2002 nemesis Ronaldinho. Sol Campbell, Gary Neville and his brother, Phil, would also be eligible to represent England. Qatar are desperate to allay fears that they cannot host a big football occasion and have already won the right to host the Italian SuperCup this December. The 2016 Veterans World Cup would will also revert to a simpler format with 16 teams in four groups of four, in stark contrast to Michel Platini’s 24-team extravaganza to be played the same summer. Ronaldinho is another who could be eligible to take part at the Veterans World Cup in Qatar in 2016 . David Seaman, England's goalkeeper, could return and face his 2002 nemesis Ronaldinho once again . Seaman watches in disbelief as Brazil's Ronaldinho scores during the World Cup quarter final in 2002 . The 16-team tournament in Qatar's soaring temperatures would be a prime test for the 2022 World Cup .
By . James Slack for the Daily Mail . Foreign criminals have been rounded up from Britain’s ‘soft’ open jails and put back behind bars to stop them absconding. Over the past 48 hours, more than 20 offenders were moved back to closed conditions. Justice Secretary Chris Grayling has now imposed a ban on foreign convicts who are subject to deportation orders being placed in open jail. More than 20 offenders were moved from open jails and back to closed conditions to stop them absconding . They will also be barred from taking part in Release on Temporary Licence, whereby inmates can leave a jail in the daytime to find work or undergo rehabilitation because a string of prisoners have failed to return. The move will affect hundreds of foreign prisoners. There are some 800 awaiting deportation. Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said: ‘We are working hard to return foreign national prisoners to their own countries to serve their sentences. While they remain with us, we must do all we can to make sure they stay safely under lock and key. ‘That’s why I am changing the rules to prevent those foreign nationals who are going to be deported from being transferred into open prisons or getting temporary release. ‘It’s clearly not right that foreign nationals who are going to be deported end up in open prisons where they might abscond and threaten public safety.’ Figures published last month showed a sharp rise in the number of inmates going missing from jail – in the past year there were 225, up almost 30 per cent over the past two years. This included 137 from open prisons, which have been the subject of controversy after a spate of criminals walked out. The most high-profile was Michael Wheatley, known as the ‘Skullcracker’, who sparked a nationwide hunt after absconding from HMP Standford Hill on the Isle of Sheppey, Kent.
Justice Secretary Chris Grayling (pictured) has imposed ban on foreign convicts subject to deportation orders . Officials say the number of foreign criminals who have walked out is around 10 over the past five years. It comes amid renewed controversy over the Government’s record. On Monday, the Mail revealed how the number of overseas inmates escaping deportation rocketed by 50 per cent last year. In total, only 1,310 of the 4,030 overseas convicts considered for removal were sent home. The offenders who were not thrown out last year included 15 murderers, five people guilty of manslaughter, 15 rapists, 140 robbers and 20 people guilty of sex offences against children. The foreign convicts are now avoiding deportation in one in every three cases – a sharp increase on previous years.
(CNN) -- When Joanne Branham lost her husband, Frank, to a brain tumor, she was devastated. But it wasn't until she visited her old neighbors in McCullom Lake, Illinois, that she began to question the cause of his death. Back in the community where she and Frank had lived for almost 40 years, Branham learned two of her former neighbors also had brain tumors. "It was like a light bulb went off," Branham recalls. "How can that many have cancer living right next door to each other?" Since then, more brain cancer cases have turned up, 30 in all, among current and former residents of McCullom Lake, a community of about 1,000 residents in northern Illinois, not far from the Wisconsin state line. Branham and others in McCullom Lake are now pointing the finger at a chemical plant a mile up the road in Ringwood, Illinois. For decades, they say, the Rohm and Haas plant dumped, spilled and leaked thousands of pounds of vinyl chloride and other toxic chemicals, poisoning the water and air around McCullom Lake. "I don't think there's been a bigger brain cancer cluster outside the workplace -- ever," says Aaron Freiwald, attorney for 31 McCullom Lake Village plaintiffs now suing Rohm and Haas. In addition to the brain cancer cases, there is one plaintiff alleging her liver damage resulted from environmental pollution. The company denies making anyone sick. Branham's case is the first to go to trial, with jury selection set to begin Wednesday in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 'Frank didn't have a chance' Frank Branham died in June 2004, a month after learning that he had a deadly glioblastoma brain tumor. He was 63. "Frank didn't have a chance," Joanne Branham says. "What they did was very wrong. They played with people's lives. I lost a husband, who was my best friend. The kids lost their father.
The grandkids lost their grandfather," she added, barely able to get her words out through her tears. Rohm and Haas says even though the cancer cases are close together, they are random. "There is no cluster in McCullom Lake Village," says Kevin Van Wart, attorney for Rohm and Haas. "If you draw circles around selected cases, you can always draw the conclusion of something unusual." Brain and central nervous system cancers strike 7.6 per 100,000 people in the United States, according to the National Cancer Institute. An estimated 22,020 men and women in the United States will get diagnosed with these cancers this year. A month after the lawsuit was filed in 2006, the McHenry County Health Department in Illinois concluded there was no cluster of cancer cases in McCullom Lake. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention did its own analysis and agreed. Originally a dairy . The Rohm and Haas site produces polymers, adhesives, resins and sealants on a 120-acre site originally built as a dairy operation in 1916 and converted to chemical manufacturing in the early 1940s. The facility has disposed its waste off site since 1978, but vinyl chloride, trichloroethylene, or TCE, and vinylidene chloride have all been found in nearby groundwater, according to the CDC. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services calls vinyl chloride "a known carcinogen." Long-term exposure to vinyl chloride on the job increases workers' risk of cancers of the liver, brain, lung and blood, according to the U.S. Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Breathing or drinking high levels of TCE can damage the central nervous system, liver and lungs and also cause an abnormal heartbeat, according to the agency. Breathing high levels of vinylidene chloride can affect the central nervous system, liver and kidneys, the agency says.
But Van Wart, the Rohm and Haas attorney, says the plume of contaminated groundwater is moving away from McCullom Lake and does not affect any homes or residential wells. "Nobody disputes that it exists. But that is not going anywhere near McCullom Lake Village," Van Wart says. "No agency has ever concluded any resident was exposed to dangerous chemicals." To put residents' fears at ease, Rohm and Haas has offered to pay up to $50,000 to test residents' wells. There are about 400 homes with private wells in the village. The company has also offered to pay $5,000 to monitor the air for vinyl chloride and $50,000 for an independent analysis of theories of possible vinyl chloride exposure. 'A beautiful place to live' When Joanne and Frank Branham moved to McCullom Lake in August 1960, they saw a picturesque community with other young families. "It was a beautiful place to live. We lived by a beach. We had such close neighbors. The whole subdivision was like a family," says Branham, who raised five children there. Frank Branham worked as general manager at a die cast plant in nearby Woodstock, Illinois. On Sundays, the husbands would go down to the beach to play baseball. The wives would pack picnic baskets and watch. Looking back, Joanne Branham says there were warning signs. In the summer, a terrible odor would sometimes force them to close their windows, she says. "We didn't put two and two together until we found there were so many other neighbors with cancers," Branham says. After her husband died, Joanne Branham's children bought her a plane ticket to return to Illinois, from Phoenix, Arizona, where she and her husband had retired. Visiting old friends, she learned former next-door neighbor Bryan Freund also has a brain tumor, an oligodendroglioma.
So does Kurt Weisenberger, who lives on the other side of the Freunds, two doors down from the Branhams' former home. Freund, 49, a truck driver and jewelry store owner, says he never gave the Rohm and Haas plant a second thought until Joanne Branham came back to town. "It was really just a place I drove past," says Freund, who now suffers from headaches, seizures and memory loss. "I had dreams and aspirations," he adds. "Now when I look to the future it's really sort of a blank. I can't really expect to have one. That's a daily struggle." Weisenberger, 69, a retired general contractor, says he hopes the lawsuit will bring out the truth of what happened to the people of McCullom Lake. "It was a cover-up from the get-go as far as I'm concerned," says Weisenberger, who also suffers from seizures. Joanne Branham says she hopes the lawsuit, which asks for unspecified compensatory and punitive compensation, will make companies think twice. "What they did was wrong, and if this will save one person's life and they won't do this again, it will be worth it," she says. The trial is expected to last 10 to 12 weeks.
By . Francesca Infante . PUBLISHED: . 20:48 EST, 28 March 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 20:50 EST, 28 March 2013 . Dramatic scenes of a burning boat drifting out into the harbour left Broadchurch fans glued to their screens last week. But they didn’t much impress the firm which sponsors the ITV crime series – Viking River Cruises. The firm pulled its adverts from this week’s episode of the show, which stars David Tennant and Olivia Colman as detectives. Unfortunate: Cruise ship company Viking River Cruises has ended its sponsorship of ITV's Broadchurch, starring David Tennant and Olivia Colman, after the calamity . The offending scene, which involved a . boat being set on fire to destroy evidence, was aired minutes between . two clips showing one of the firm’s fleet taking passengers on a cruise. Wendy Atkin-Smith, managing director . of Viking River Cruises, confirmed that the firm had pulled its . sponsorship for the rest of the show’s run because of ‘sensitivities . around the content’. She said: ‘We are proud to continue . as sponsors of Mystery Dramas on ITV. [But] We have taken the decision . not to continue with our sponsorship of Broadchurch.’ Cruise company Viking River Cruises has ended its sponsorship of Broadchurch after the mishap . Since its premier on March 4 ITV’s . latest crime drama has held audiences enthralled as police detectives . David Tennant and Olivia Colman try to unravel the murder of an . 11-year-old boy. Set in the . fictional Dorset coastal town of Broadchurch the show has attracted . more than seven million viewers addicted to its complex and twisting . plotline. The unfortunate juxtaposition did not . go unnoticed by viewers. One, Joanna Montgomery, joked on Twitter: .
‘Viking River Cruises did not sponsor last year’s ITV blockbuster . four-part mini-series, Titanic #Broadchurch.’ Another Jerome Turner tweeted: . ‘Seriously, what happened to Viking River Cruises sponsoring . #Broadchurch? Shame? Budget? Taste?’
(CNN) -- Protesters in parts of Egypt rallied Friday against the government and a vote on a constitution that would ban religious parties, leading to clashes with security forces or demonstrators' opponents in at least three cities, Egyptian media reported. The demonstrations are the latest by members or supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group that has regularly protested Egypt's interim government since Brotherhood-backed President Mohamed Morsy was ousted in a coup in July. Muslim Brotherhood supporters clashed with opponents in parts of Cairo after Morsy loyalists tore down posters supporting the proposed constitution, on which Egyptians will vote Tuesday and Wednesday, the semiofficial Ahram Online news outlet reported. In Giza, security forces fired tear gas at Morsy supporters to disperse their march there, Ahram Online reported. The demonstrators began to march after Friday prayers and clashed with police in various parts of the city, Ahram Online said. Clashes also broke out in al-Sabah city in Suez province, where security forces fired tear gas at a pro-Morsy march, according to the state-run Middle East News Agency. The Muslim Brotherhood-led National Alliance to Support Legitimacy had called for protests, MENA said. The alliance has focused its ire on Egypt's January 14-15 referendum on a new constitution, which would not only ban religious parties but also put more power in the hands of the military. The alliance has called for a boycott of the referendum. Muslim Brotherhood supporters have continued their protests, even though the government declared the group a terrorist organization last month. The government has threatened to arrest anyone who attends Muslim Brotherhood protests or provides financial support to the organization. Supporters of the organization demand the reinstatement of Morsy, who became the country's first democratically elected president in 2012, and the full restoration of their political and social rights.
The interim government blames the group for coordinated attacks on churches and government facilities, including a recent bombing of a police headquarters that left 16 dead and more than 100 injured. The military ousted Morsy on July 3 after he was accused of pursuing an Islamist agenda and excluding other factions from the government. Morsy's supporters say that the deposed president wasn't given a fair chance and that the military has returned to the authoritarian practices of longtime ruler Hosni Mubarak, who was deposed in a popular uprising in 2011. Morsy is awaiting trial in several cases, including one in which he and 14 other Muslim Brotherhood members face charges stemming from December 2012 protests over a constitution he shepherded into effect. Egyptian authorities have accused Morsy and his staff of ordering supporters to attack protesters after guards and members of the Interior Ministry refused to do it. Morsy and four others are charged with inciting violence, but they are not accused of using force. Eleven others are charged with killing three men, torturing 54 people, using force and possessing weapons. That trial, delayed Wednesday, is expected to resume on February 1. Morsy, who says he still is Egypt's legitimate president, has refused to recognize the court's authority and has yet to accept legal representation for the proceeding. CNN's Jason Hanna, Sarah Sirgany, Saad Abedine and Laura Smith-Spark contributed to this report.
Accidentally brought your marijuana to the Aspen/Pitkin County Airport? Don't worry. Pitkin County Sheriff Joe DiSalvo plans to install amnesty boxes at the airport, possibly as soon as next week, for people traveling out of state. "We'll have signs around the airport saying that although marijuana is legal in this state, it may be illegal in your final destination," DiSalvo told CNN. "This is an opportunity to dispose of your marijuana with no legal consequences." But don't try to fly with that marijuana, not even departing from the pot-happy states of Colorado and Washington. Both states allow adults 21 and older to have up to an ounce of marijuana, but those policies are at odds with federal law. Leave the brownies at home, too -- even in states where it's legal, it's not yet clear how marijuana-laced food is evaluated under those limits. The Transportation Security Administration seized 36 ounces of marijuana-laced food in a passenger's checked luggage at the Aspen airport earlier this month, and the federal agency referred the case to the Pitkin County Sheriff's Office, DiSalvo confirmed. (The edibles' amount of THC, the active ingredient in cannabis, was much less than the weight of the food. The sheriff's office declined to press charges.) The story was first reported in the Aspen Daily News. Colorado's recreational marijuana stores make history . In fact, the TSA has called the sheriff several times over the past six months to report passengers carrying marijuana and related products, DiSalvo said. His office offers to dispose of the product before passengers depart the state. "Most everybody heeds our warnings," he said. The larger conflict is between state and federal law. While Colorado and Washington allow some marijuana use, federal law hasn't changed. And it's probably not a good idea to test the TSA or other federal agencies at the nation's airports.
If they find a substance that violates federal law, they can refer possible violations to federal, state or local law enforcement in any state. Still, pot isn't exactly the TSA's top priority. Denver International Airport bans pot despite Colorado's new marijuana law . "TSA's focus is on terrorism and security threats to the aircraft and its passengers," TSA spokesman Ross Feinstein wrote in a statement. "TSA's screening procedures, which are governed by federal law, are focused on security and are designed to detect potential threats to aviation and passengers. As has always been the case, if during the security screening procedures an officer discovers an item that may violate the law, TSA refers the matter to law enforcement. Law enforcement officials will determine whether to initiate a criminal investigation." It can be hard to sort out the competing state and federal regulations, especially for the dazed and confused passenger. The Colorado Springs airport has already placed amnesty boxes for people to get rid of their marijuana before clearing security or getting on an airplane. The Denver International Airport decided not to play with pot, banning the substance entirely at the airport, a spokeswoman confirmed. Seattle-Tacoma International Airport doesn't ban legal amounts of marijuana at the airport. That's because Washington state law doesn't allow facilities to add any additional regulation, airport spokesperson Perry Cooper said. A word of caution to Super Bowl fans from Colorado and Washington: Don't try to take your marijuana to less pot-friendly states. We know your (possible) cannabis consumption won't get in the way of the game, but consider where the Super Bowl is being played. If your pot makes it to your destination, you could be dealing with the Port Authority of New York and police guarding Kennedy and LaGuardia airports in New York and Newark airport in New Jersey. How do you think will they react if your goods are discovered?
"If they're possessing contraband in New York or New Jersey," Port Authority spokesman Joe Pentangelo said, "the prevailing laws would apply." Recreational pot sales: Where the grass is much greener .
A teenage girl helped her big sister to give birth at a rest spot on the I-95 when the baby decided that she couldn't wait for them to get to the hospital. Kennedy Smith, 14, and her sister Kelsea Marcus, 21, were being driven to Christiana Hospital in Newark by their mom on Sunday. But they soon realized that the baby was not going to wait until they got to the hospital as they drove down the busy road near Delaware. Beautiful: Little Karter Zoe Marcus is pictured here with her mom Kelsea Marcus, after she made a dramatic entrance into the world in the front seat of a Lexus . Special delivery: Mom Kelsea holds her newborn baby in the front seat of a car as emergency workers arrive . Stunning: This beautiful little baby Karter Zoe Marcus, was delivered by her aunt Kennedy Smith on Sunday . ‘Everyone was going crazy, so someone had to stay calm and keep everything together,’ Kennedy told Fox 29. Kennedy said she was sitting in the back seat of the car supporting Marcus who was sitting in the front seat and calming their mother down as she drove them at top speed to the hospital. As Smith entered the northbound I-95 from Del. 896, Marcus told her that she was trying not to push, 'but had to.' Kennedy said: ‘Ten minutes after my sister's water broke, the baby came.’ Kennedy called 911 and her mother pulled over into the Delaware Welcome Center on I-95. By that time, the baby was fully delivered with Kennedy's help. The 911 operators instructed Kennedy how to tie off the baby's umbilical cord and wipe the baby's mouth area. Safe hands: Kennedy Smith, 14, is an honor student and helped to deliver the baby, she has plans to enter the medical field and will study at the University of Pennsylvania next summer . They also instructed her to go six inches down and tie off the umbilical cord.
She said that if she hadn't been wearing shoelaces she was prepared to use the string from her hooded sweatshirt instead. The beautiful baby girl was born weighing a healthy seven pounds, one ounce. She was welcomed into the world with kisses and cuddles from her aunt, mom, and great- grandmother. Soon, New Castle paramedics arrived on the scene and assessed both the baby and her mother. They were then transported to the hospital. The baby had been due on September 20 but was not born. Marcus was scheduled to be induced at 9 p.m. on Sunday. But the baby clearly had other plans. Meanwhile, Kennedy, an honor student, says she plans to become a doctor. This summer, she studied at Southern Methodist University in Dallas and is scheduled to study next summer at the University of Pennsylvania. She told Fox 29: 'I'm in a STEM program so I'm training to be a physician. And this gives me more experience I guess so I think I'd actually consider going into medical field and delivering babies.' Her proud mother added: ‘We don't know what we would have done if Kennedy wasn't in the car keeping us calm. It was scary.’
By . Jill Reilly . Every year the RAF proudly honours the fearless servicemen who were brutally executed during The Great Escape. But modern times have now caught up with tradition and yesterday airmen were ordered to wear high-visibility vests over their fatigues due to health and safety reasons as they took part in a march to mark 70 years since the daring escape. The bright yellow jackets are being worn by 50 British Royal Air Force personnel as they march from the site of the Nazi prisoner camp to a war cemetery in western Poland. A source involved with the march said: 'It is common sense. And there are some really bad Polish drivers.' Scroll down for video . Modern times have now caught up with tradition and RAF personnel were ordered to wear high-vis vests over their fatigues due to health and safety reasons as they took part in a march to mark 70 years since the Great Escape of Allied airmen and to honour 50 of them who were caught and executed . The bright yellow jackets are being worn by 50 British Royal Air Force airmen as they march from the site of the Nazi prisoner camp to a war cemetery in western Poland . One onlooker told The Sun: 'It's bonkers - they are trying to honour daring and secrecy by ticking all the health and safety boxes. Our war heros would be turning in their graves.' In four days, the British airmen . are to walk more than 100 miles to the British war cemetery in Poznan, . where the ashes of those executed were buried after the war. Marek Lazarz, director of the Stalag Luft III Museum near Zagan, said the British group started in pouring rain from a monument marking the place where 76 prisoners of war emerged. During . observances this week, they have met two British former Stalag inmates, . retired RAF airmen Andrew Weisman and Charles Clarke, who were held at . the camp after the time of the Great Escape.
One onlooker said: 'It's bonkers - they are trying to honour daring and secrecy by ticking all the health and safety boxes. Our war heros would be turning in their graves' One of a group of some 50 members of the British Royal Air Force, carrying a picture of an executed British airman . The plot became the inspiration . behind the classic war film The Great Escape starring Hollywood legend . Steve McQueen. A group of about 250 prisoners, started . to digging tunnels, in which they were going to escape the 59-acre site, . which had five miles of perimeter fencing. More than 600 prisoners were involved . in the construction of three tunnels - codenamed Tom, Dick and Harry - . at the camp in the German Province of Lower Silesia, 100 miles southeast . of Berlin. Tom and Dick had to be abandoned with Harry becoming the focus of their escape route. Time for a change? A mock-up of what the Horse Guards Parade would look like if they decided to wear a high-vis jacket over their red uniform . If the concept of wearing a high-vis jacket was deployed across all units it could look like this. Left, a patrol searching for IEDs and Taliban fighters and right, the Royal Guards at Buckingham Palace . Left: A mock-up of what Prince Harry would have looked like if he had been made to wear a high-vis vest during his time in Camp Bastion and left, how Steve McQueen would have looked in The Great . Escape if he too had fallen victim to the health and safety zealots . It was approximately 300ft long and 28ft deep. Only 200 of the higher ranking . captives, those who could speak German and had put a lot of work into . digging the tunnels, would have time to escape in the plan. But there was a series of problems on the night of the escape.
The main issue was that the Harry tunnel came up short and in close proximity to a guard tower. The plan: 250 officers spent 11 months building Harry, a 300ft tunnel out of the camp in Zagan, Poland . The site 100 miles south of Berlin was built to hold 10,000 prisoners of war during World War Two . This is a shot of the entrance of the Harry tunnel which captured the hearts of the world when it emerged . A commemorative stone has been laid over the track listing the names of the men who concocted the idea . As the 77th man exited the tunnel, . they were spotted by a guard who alerted the rest of the camp and 73 of . the escaped prisoners were captured. Fifty of those were shot. An RAF spokesperson said: 'There are 50 current serving RAF personnel currently walking towards Poznan, which is the final resting place for Sqn Ldr Roger Bushell, who was the mastermind for the Great Escape; when these personnel are walking on busy main roads, which are not closed to traffic, they are wearing hi-vis jackets to ensure they reach their destination safely.'
The experienced 31-year-old was released by Bristol City at the end of last season. El-Abd started his career at Brighton, clocking up over 300 appearances for the Seagulls in nearly 11 years. He moved to Ashton Gate in January 2014 before loan spells with Bury, Swindon and Gillingham. El-Abd joins former Bury full-back Joe Riley in Shropshire as boss Micky Mellon continues to rebuild his squad ahead of the new League One campaign. Defenders: Adam El-Abd, Oliver Lancashire, Ryan McGivern, Joe Riley Midfielders: Gary Deegan, Jim O'Brien Forwards: Louis Dodds, AJ Leitch-Smith, Antoni Sarcevic Find all the latest football transfers on our dedicated page.
It may take a split second to take a photo but learning the art of posing for a magazine quality shot can take years of practice - just ask fashion stylist Jane de Teliga. She has styled some of the most beautiful people in the world during her lengthy career as a stylist for magazines and newspapers around the world and now Ms de Teliga is revealing her secrets for those after the perfect Instagram shot. The former style director of the Australian Women's Weekly says one of the things she used to tell the celebrities, sport stars, designers and prime ministers she photographed was to 'get over your ego'. Scroll down for video . Jane de Teliga has styled some of the most beautiful people in the world during her lengthy career as a stylist for magazines and newspapers around the world, including supermodel Megan Gale . The former fashion stylist says this photo of her is the perfect example of how her tips could work into a great photo . 'I always find people are terrified of having their picture taking. If they get rid of the negative self-talk of thinking they'll look bad and just focus on the end result, we'll get a good photo,' Ms de Teliga told Daily Mail Australia. 'You've got to pull yourself up, stand up straight and then relax. But don't stand straight towards the camera, I always find facing (your body) three-quarters away and then having your face to the camera works best. 'Dividing your legs a little and putting the weight on one hip also helps with that relaxed look. The former style director of the Australian Women's Weekly, pictured here with Sophia Loren, says it can take years of practice to learn the art of posing for a magazine quality shot . Ms de Teliga, pictured here with Kathy Lette (left) and Dannii Minogue (right), says her top tip to being photographed is to face your body three-quarters away and then having your face to the camera .
The mother-of-two, pictured here with Spanish designer Manolo Blahnik, says you should look straight down the lens and smile . 'Look straight down the lens and smile, smile, smile. You've got to send the camera a lot of warmth. In my years of having photos taken, those tips are the ones that work.' Ms de Teliga, who has styled fashion shoots for high profile Australians like Nicole Kidman, Megan Gale, Rachel Griffiths and Toni Collette, said you should always lean in towards the camera so it makes you look engaged. 'If a celebrity looked tired and their eyes looked glazed from too many photos, I'd get them to look away and then turn and smile in time for the photo,' she said. Ms de Teliga, who has styled fashion shoots for high profile Australians like Megan Gale, said you should always lean in towards the camera so it makes you look engaged . The mother-of-two was well-known in the fashion industry here in Australia and regularly styled shoots for Dannii Minogue . Ms de Teliga's most memorable high-profile shoot was Nicole Kidman. Pull yourself up, stand up straight and then relax . Face your body three-quarters away and then have your face to the camera . Divide your legs a little and put the weight on one hip . Lean in towards the camera so it makes you look engaged . Look away and then turn and smile in time for the photo . Look straight down the lens and smile . 'I really enjoyed styling her. I like her a lot too. She's very graceful and intelligent and nicely brought up, you could say.' The mother-of-two, who was well-known in the fashion industry here in Australia, released a memoir this week titled Running Away From Home. In it, she details walking away from her glamorous and fulfilling career as a fashion and style director almost seven years ago.
She sold her home in Sydney's eastern suburbs, quit her high pressure job and with just two suitcases in tow, she followed her dream of moving to Paris. 'Being in Australia, people knew me. I was well known in my field. I felt like I had always been doing that and I needed to disappear away from it,' she said. 'I had been going to Europe for the fashion shows for nearly two decades. I wanted to see what life had to offer out there. I think a lot of people would like to but don't actually do it.' She sold her home in Sydney's eastern suburbs, quit her high pressure job and with just two suitcases in tow, she followed her dream of moving to Paris . Ms de Teliga worked in Paris before heading to the UK where is still currently based . Ms de Teliga said she left her career and home behind in search of finding some type of balance between work and life . She released her memoir this week titled Running Away From Home, which details walking away from her glamorous and fulfilling career . Ms de Teliga worked in Paris before heading to the UK where is still currently based. 'I love working and I adore being in the media. But I don't want to put my slippers on and give up. I just wanted to find some type of balance between work and life - I think I'm closer to that now.' Running Away from Home by Jane de Teliga (Lantern, $39.99)
By . Becky Evans . PUBLISHED: . 10:47 EST, 6 October 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 10:47 EST, 6 October 2013 . An 18-year-old woman has today been charged with causing the death of her four-month-old baby daughter. Police have also charged the teenager with wilful neglect of the baby girl and her two siblings, aged three and one. She will appear at Thames Magistrates' Court in east London tomorrow. The woman, 18, will appear at Thames Magistrates' Court (pictured) tomorrow charged with causing the death of her baby daughter and neglecting two other children, aged one and three years old . Detectives from the Metropolitan Police's . Homicide and Major Crime Command unit launched an investigation after . the baby girl died on Friday. She . was taken to hospital by paramedics at about 5.30pm from a house in Bow, . east London, but was pronounced dead just 15 minutes later. The London Ambulance Service contacted police due to the girl's condition. The woman, who has not been named by the police, was arrested yesterday and later charged. A post mortem has yet to take place. Metropolitan Police launched an investigation after they were contacted by paramedics on Friday . Sorry we are unable to accept comments for legal reasons.
International investigators were more cautious, however, saying only there were "very strong" indications this was the case. The plane disappeared between Kuala Lumpur and Beijing in March 2014 with 239 people on board - this is the first trace of it found. What are the chances this find will solve one of the biggest aviation mysteries ever? It appears to bolster the theory that the plane crashed into a patch of the Indian Ocean west of Australia after it diverted from its route. Australian authorities including Prime Minister Tony Abbott said that the search would continue in the 60,000-sq-km area near Perth. "It is heartening that the discovery of the flaperon is consistent with our search area and we will continue to search this area thoroughly in the expectation we will find the missing aircraft," said the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, which is leading the operation. Reunion is roughly 6,000km (3,700 miles) west of the search area. Australia's national science agency CSIRO has computer simulations of the debris path showing the pieces would have initially stayed at the latitude of the search site, before winds and currents - known as the Indian Ocean gyre - pushed them in a north-west arc. On where the debris could have ended up, CSIRO oceanographer David Griffin says: "Madagascar was probably the highest probability, and Reunion is not far from that in the scheme of things." Others have noted that a boat lost off the Western Australian coast last year was found nearly intact eight months later, west of Madagascar. Investigators have been examining the 2m-long (6ft) piece in Toulouse, France this week after it was found on a beach in Reunion on 29 July. They have based their belief that the plane part could very possibly be from MH370 on two sources. One is Boeing which has confirmed that the piece, called a flaperon, belongs to a 777 plane - the same model as MH370.
The other is Malaysia Airlines which has provided documentation on MH370's aircraft. But investigators have stopped short of providing full confirmation, saying they can only do this after further tests on the fragment. French prosecutor Serge Mackowiak, who has presented investigators' is exercising supreme legal caution, says the BBC's Hugh Schofield in Paris. It could also be months before they make any tentative deductions about how the plane may have come down. One key question is whether the plane part's serial number is intact, which French investigators have not mentioned. Aeroplane parts, including flaperons, usually come with details such as a serial number, its manufacturer, and safety certification. These can be traced back to the manufacturer, who in turn would check its database to see which plane the part was used in. Investigators say that Boeing identified the part based only on "technical characteristics" such as the colour and the structure of its joints. There is no shortage of aircraft debris floating in the oceans so French investigators need to be absolutely certain this flaperon is not from another plane. Several aeroplanes have crashed in the Indian Ocean or in the vicinity of Reunion in the past two decades, although none were Boeing 777s. Two crashes involved large aircraft which ended up in waters near the Comoros Islands. One is Yemenia Airways IY626 - an Airbus 310 - which crashed in 2009. The other is Ethopian Airlines ET961 - a Boeing 767 - that crashed in 1996. Greg Waldron, of Flightglobal, said what is really needed are the plane's flight recorders - one piece alone won't solve the mystery, he told the BBC. Others say it is difficult to use the piece to pinpoint the exact location of where the plane is. "You can't trace the flight path with enough certainty based on this," said David Griffin from CSIRO. Marine salvage expert David Mearns agreed with this assessment.
He told the BBC that even if the debris was from MH370, the "uncertainty is too great" to find the crash site given that the plane disappeared 16 months ago. "I have backtracked wreckage to locate shipwrecks but only over a drift period of one to three days," he said. Robin Beaman, a marine geologist with Australia's James Cook University, said the pictures showed substantial marine growth - gooseneck or stalked barnacles - on the debris. These are commonly found on flotsam in the Indian Ocean, he told the BBC, and only on objects floating on the surface. Mr Beaman said it was obvious from the barnacle growth that the part had been drifting for "quite a long time". But he said it was hard to say how long exactly - it could be years or months - and that it was also unclear how long the part had been onshore before it was found. The announcement has been met with mixed reactions by relatives. Sarah Bajc whose partner Philip Wood was on MH370, told the BBC: "Perhaps families will finally have the chance to grieve now, though this doesn't solve the mystery or hold anyone accountable. Both of those things still have to happen." She added that there was still "much outstanding mistrust" of the authorities. "It hurts to have to give up that last thread of hope, but there is also a sad relief," she said. Some say the finding does not necessarily mean the plane crashed into the sea. Lee Khim Fatt, whose wife Foong Wai Yueng was on MH370, told the BBC: "I'm not convinced by the finding. I want to see an item that I can recognise. Others have been angered by the difference in Malaysian authorities and French investigators' responses.
A 73-year-old Montreal drama teacher who appeared in some softcore budget films over 40 years ago - one called The Secret Diary of a Nymphomaniac - has been fired from her position at the elite private school after some students traced back her racy roles. Jacqueline Laurent-Auger says she briefly worked as a young erotic actress in Paris - appearing in titles like Swedish Sex Games and Nathalie: Escape From Hell, but nothing pornographic - in the 1970s before returning to her native Quebec. She continued a career in TV and film before settling as a teacher, having taught at the prestigious private school Collège Jean-de-Brébeuf for the last 15 years, according to The National Post. However Laurent-Auger is now out of a job after some male students tracked down some of her work online, presumably by accessing her IMDB page. Scroll down for video . Fired: Drama teacher Jacqueline Laurent-Auger, 73, as fired from private boys school Collège Jean-de-Brébeuf after some students tracked down a set of erotic films she appeared in between 1960 and the 1970s . Controversial: One of the racy titles Laurent-Auger appeared in was Campo de Perversion, which was released in English as Nathalie: Escape From Hell and was set inside a Nazi war camp . Tasteful: In Nathalie: Escape From Hell, Laurent-Auger plays a 'sadistic female SS officer' who tortures an American doctor imprisoned at a Nazi concentration camp . Finale: In this scene, Laurent-Auger's character is shot and killed by the Americans . Sex cinema: Le journal intime d’une nymphomane (The Secret Diary of a Nymphomaniac) and Lorna The Exorcist are some of the titles Laurent-Auger appeared in as a young woman .
The school deemed the material - some of which included nude scenes - as unacceptable behavior of a teacher, regardless of when it was filmed. 'The fact these films were made 40 years ago does not change their risqué, suggestive — explicit even — nature,' the school told The National Post. 'Thanks to the Internet, it appears these types of films from the 1970s have come back in fashion. 'As educators, we had to ask what message is transmitted to all our students, boys and girls, from the first year of high school to the fifth, by the fact that the teacher of their drama workshops could now be seen on the Internet in the most suggestive of scenes.' Collège Jean-de-Brébeuf is considered the best school in Quebec. However Laurent-Auger thinks the move is outrageous. She believes, as an elderly woman, the decisions she made in her twenties should not have any great leaning on her life. 'It’s completely absurd,' she told Radio-Canada. 'I’m 73 years old. Elite: Collège Jean-de-Brébeuf is considered the best boys school in Quebec . 'When I made those films I must have been 28 or 29. 'It was to make a living so that after(wards) I could work with great teachers and actors, in Paris and in Quebec. Come on.' 'It is too bad (the principal) said something so stupid, that I was distracting (the students). 'They should have been made to understand what was the cinema of that period.' Laurent-Auger said the films reflect what was happening in cinema at the time and are not considered pornographic but just 'open-minded'. An online petition has been start in order to get Laurent-Auger her job back. There were reports late Wednesday Laurent-Auger had been talking with the school about a new outcome.
By . Jennifer Newton . An unknown man who captured his own image in a photobooth 445 times over 30 years is proving to be a mystery. Starting in the 1930s, he took black and white selfies in a photobooth over three decades until the 1960s, charting his passage through time. Most of the pictures show the mystery man grinning at the camera in the photobooth while others show him almost scowling as his mood changes. For three decades this unknown man took over 445 selfies in photobooths from the 1930s to the 1960s. They now form a new exhibition at Rutgers University . It is thought the man may have been a photobooth technician and took the pictures as a way of testing the equipment . Nobody knows for sure exactly who the man is, or indeed why he took the pictures of himself over the 30 years, especially as taking self portraits were a lot harder back then. In some of the pictures he is seen sporting a fedora and smoking a pipe, while other times he is dressed in a suit. The pictures are now being shared in an exhibition at Rutgers University in New Jersey in an appropriately named show called '445 Portraits of Man'. Nobody knows for sure exactly who the man is, or indeed why he took the pictures of himself over the 30 year period . The exhibit is being shown at the Rutgers' Zimmerli Art Museum in New Brunswick and they say they are taking these early selfies and showing them as art. The images on display of the unknown man were taken during a time when photobooths were hugely popular in the United States. The 445 prints are owned by historian Donald Lokuta, who bought the pictures two years ago at a New York City antiques show. The pictures are owned by historian Donald Lokuta, who bought the images at an antiques show in New York City in 2012 .
He originally only came across a handful of the photographs but the dealer told him there were hundreds more images of the man and he decided to buy them all. Mr Lokuta told Rutgers: 'As a historian, I knew this was very rare, but on a deeper level, I wondered, "Why would somebody want to take almost 500 photos of himself in a photobooth?"' 'Thereâ€™s quite an age difference in the photos: You see him as younger man and then with a white, receding hairline and wrinkles.' It is thought the mystery man in the pictures could be from the Midwest and it is hoped the exhibition will shed new light on his identity . Mr Lokuta also added that based on conversations with another historian, it could be likely that the mystery man was a photobooth technician, who was taking the pictures to test out the equipment. It is also likely that he hailed from the U.S. Midwest, and it is hoped the exhibition will shed new light on who the man is. It is thought the photos originated previously from an auction in Michigan.
By . Daily Mail Reporter and Associated Press . PUBLISHED: . 16:52 EST, 21 June 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 06:12 EST, 22 June 2012 . Victim in the family: Matt Sandusky was preparing to testify against his adopted father during the child sex abuse trial . Jerry Sandusky's own adopted son has dramatically accused him of abuse as a jury deliberates over scores of sex abuse charges against the former Penn State coach. A lawyer for Matt Sandusky said the man told authorities that the former Penn State assistant football coach abused him. Matt Sandusky is one of Jerry Sandusky's six adopted children. His lawyers, Andrew Shubin and Justine Andronici, issued a statement on Thursday naming Matt Sandusky and saying that the 33-year-old had been prepared to testify on behalf of prosecutors at his father's sex abuse trial. The statement says Matt Sandusky is 'a victim of Jerry Sandusky's abuse,' but doesn't go into specifics. NBC News reported that Matt Sandusky was to take the stand as a 'rebuttal witness' if Jerry Sandusky testified. Jerry Sandusky's defence team ultimately decided the 68-year-old former coach wouldn't speak in his own defence . Matt Sandusky's attorney's told the network: 'This has been an extremely painful experience for Matt and he has asked us to convey his request that the media respect his privacy,' they said. The statement came after jurors began deliberating 48 charges against the ex-coach. Prosecutors say Sandusky met the 10 sex-abuse victims through his charity, The Second Mile, which he established in 1977. Lawyers for Matt and Jerry Sandusky and . prosecutors did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Matt . Sandusky's lawyer says his client met with investigators very recently. Scroll down for video .
New allegation: One of Jerry Sandusky's six adopted sons, Matt, has come forward through an attorney, saying that the ex-coach abused him too . Spouse: Jerry Sandusky and his wife Dottie, pictured Thursday outside the courthouse, were married in 1966, and have no biological children, but they adopted six times . Matt Sandusky went to live with Sandusky and his wife, Dottie, as a foster child and was adopted by them as an adult. Shortly after Sandusky's arrest in November, Matt Sandusky's ex-wife Jill Jones successfully obtained a restraining order forbidding the children from sleeping at their grandparents' home. At about the same time, details emerged that Matt Sandusky had attempted suicide just four months after first going to live with Jerry and Dottie Sandusky in 1995. He had come into the home through The Second Mile charity, and was first a foster child before being legally adopted. His name also came up last week during the testimony of one of Sandusky's 10 accusers. The man, dubbed Victim 4 by prosecutors, said Matt Sandusky was living at the Sandusky home on an occasion when he had stayed there overnight. When asked by prosecutors whether Jerry Sandusky ever engaged him in a soap battle in the showers, he recounted a time when he and Matt Sandusky had been playing racket ball. When they were done, he said, they went back to a locker room. Matt got undressed and got into the shower and then Victim 4 and Sandusky followed him in there, he testified. 'Me and Jerry came in. He started pumping his hand full of soap,' he said. At that point, Matt shut off his shower and left and went to another locker room to shower, the witness said. Asked by prosecutors about Matt's facial expression when the soap battles started, he replied: 'Nervous.'
Jerry and Dottie Sandusky married in 1966 and have no biological children together, but adopted six times and have served as foster parents. The news comes just hours after a 30-year-old Ohio man became the first alleged Sandusky victim to reveal himself to the public, saying in an interview that he was sexually abused by Jerry Sandusky more than 100 times, starting when he was just ten. Travis Weaver said Sandusky preyed on . him after he and his brother went to a summer camp for the Second Mile, a . charity the coach founded and through which he is accused of cultivating . most of his victims. In the jurors' hands: Sandusky is pictured leaving court on Thursday after closing arguments in his child sex abuse trial . Coming forward: Travis Weaver is the first alleged victim of Jerry Sandusky to go public with his story of abuse at the hands of the Penn State coach . The revelation comes on the same day as a jury begins to deliberate Mr Sandusky's fate on 48 counts of sexual abuse charges. In closing arguments, his attorney said the accusers were liars who were hoping to cash in on legal settlements from the university. Mr Weaver is not one of the eight accusers who testified at trial, but he did tell his story to the grand jury that handed down the Sandusky's indictment, NBC News reported. An exclusive interview with Mr Weaver will air at 10pm Thursday on Rock Center. When asked what he would do if he ever met Sandusky again, Mr Weaver doesn't hesitate. Silence: For 15 years, Mr Weaver says, he thought he was Sandusky's only victim. That all changed last fall when the former coach was indicted on charges he abused other eight boys . 'I'd punch him in his mouth,' he said. 'There would be no reason to say anything. He knows what he did.' During the sex abuse trial, Sandusky's .
lawyer Joe Amendola said the former coach is being railroaded by . overzealous investigators and prosecutors. He strenuously denied that . accusations and Sandusky has maintained his innocence since his arrest . last fall. Jurors in Jerry Sandusky's child sexual abuse case began deliberations on Thursday after his lawyer and a state prosecutor made closing arguments that followed seven days of testimony. The former Penn State University coach's attorney claimed all eight of Jerry Sandusky's accusers are lying about their sex abuse allegations in the hopes of winning big settlements from the college. Joe Amendola quoted Mother Theresa as he said his client had been railroaded by overzealous investigators and greedy witnesses. He told the jury that prosecutors' case 'doesn't make sense. Sandusky is accused of molesting eight boys over the course of 15 years in a case that shocked the nation and led to the firing of Joe Paterno, one of the most respected head coaches in college football history. When Amendola cited Sandusky's decades of charity work, he referred to the Mother Theresa 'Anyway.' It includes the line: 'If you are kind, people may accuse you of selfish, ulterior motives; Be kind anyway.' Amendola laid the blame for the allegations at the feet of state police investigators who he said coached the alleged victims into giving accusatory statements. Amendola . said the accusers were greedy an they lied about the abuse in the hopes . of winning big payouts from Penn State University so they could drive . new cars and buy big houses. Mr Weaver has also filed a lawsuit and is being represented by a well-known attorney who has specialized in sex abuse cases against the Catholic church. The abuse began in 1992, Mr Weaver told NBC's Rock Center, when he met Sandusky at a swimming pool at a camp sponsored by the Second Miles, which Sandusky founded to help at-risk young boys.
'It was like meeting my hero,' Mr Weaver said of Sandusky, who was once the top pick to replace legendary Penn State football coach Joe Paterno. The individual attention Sandusky gave Mr Weaver began innocently, but gradually grew more and more sinister, he said. It began with a shower in the Penn State football team's locker room. 'After the shower was over he'd dry me off with a towel. He'd say he was trying to wrestle with me and then it progressed into oral sex,' Mr Weaver told NBC. He always assumed he was the only victim, he said. He never imagined there have been other boys until Sandusky was arrested last fall. Mr Weaver also blasted Sandusky's wife, Dottie, who testified that she never saw or heard anything that would have made her think her husband was molesting boys. He recalled on incident when Sandusky performed oral sex on him in a bedroom across the hall from Mrs Sandusky. 'How could she not know?' Mr Weaver said. He man said the abuse continued for four years until he moved away to Ohio to flee Sandusky. Watch video here . Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy . Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy .
By . Jennifer Newton . Visitors have been flocking to a new elephant enclosure at a Swiss zoo which features an underwater viewing area. Crowds have been drawn to Zurich Zoo to watch the animals bathe and swim after the elephant park called Kaeng Krachan opened to visitors yesterday. The 11,000 square metre enclosure provides a spacious living area for the six elephants that live at the zoo. An elephant cools off in the water at the newly opened elephant enclosure at Zurich Zoo in Switzerland . Visitors to the zoo are delighted with the new underwater viewing enclosure as it allows them to watch the elephants swimming and bathing . The elephant park called Kaeng Krachan is an 11,000 square metre enclosure, providing living space for six elephants .
The man's body was discovered in a field near Belsyde Avenue at about 11:25 on Saturday. Police said they were carrying out inquiries to establish the man's identity. A post-mortem examination will be held to determine his cause of death.
London (CNN) -- It's a classic family scene. The proud parents showing off their new baby in the garden. A doting grandpa snapping photographs. Fine for Facebook or Instagram. But when the baby in question is the future British king, and the photos are the first official photos, it doesn't take long for the world to weigh in -- on their quality, no less. Most seem to agree that Michael Middleton, father of Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, and granddad to Prince George of Cambridge, should leave royal photography to the professionals. "They are lovely snaps for a grandfather to have taken. But in terms of the quality, they are not really what you want for such a historic picture" is the verdict of Eddie Mulholland, vice chairman of the British Press Photographers Association and a photographer for the Daily Telegraph. The Daily Mail describes Catherine and Prince William's decision to use "one of proud grandpa Mike's happy family snaps" as "a startling break with tradition." Most criticism zeroed in on the focus and the lighting -- always a challenge for amateur photographers not equipped with fancy flashes or reflectors. Prince William and Catherine, the latter holding Prince George swaddled in a white blanket, are posed on the lawn of her parents' home in Berkshire with the sun behind them, a difficult shot to pull off. "I guess the reason Kate's father chose backlight was to avoid bright sun on little George," speculates the Mirror's royal photographer, Kent Gavin. He's happy to share some advice though. "Back-lighting is always a little tricky for the non-professionals but it does give a nice result. Photographing against the sun needs a fill-in flash. Another option would be to use an area in shade away from harsh light." His other tip? "My professional view would be to see more of baby George."
'Babies, happy parents and dogs all bring smiles' The inclusion of the family pets -- the Cambridges' cocker spaniel Lupo and the Middletons' golden retriever Tilly -- in some of the snaps also gets a mixed reception. A reporter for The Times of London remarked that the official photographs came "in a choice of formats: with or without dogs." Mulholland, of the Telegraph, was more scathing. "The photograph with the dogs is the worst. One of the dogs in the corner looks like a furry rug," he wrote. But the pictures got a more favorable write-up from some CNN readers who commented on the story. "Babies, happy parents and dogs all bring smiles and the world needs more smiles!" said Earlypro. "Its nice to see a family snap and not a professional one. Its a special time with a new baby I hope the press backs off and let them enjoy it," wrote Ann. The public also weighed in on Twitter. "Who cares? The photos are beautiful and show a new family! I think it's great that 'Grandad' got to take the photos," tweeted MammaMia, a mother of two from the English West Midlands. "I'm no royal watcher, but love choice new family made to release photos snapped by baby George grampa. Can u blame them?" posted @MemoryMan Studios, a portrait studio in Dublin, Ireland. No 'feeling of grandeur' However, John Keatley, an editorial and celebrity photographer in Seattle, told CNN that taking such informal pictures jars the royal "brand." "The amateur image that these photos put across certainly doesn't create the most grand or royal image in the viewer's mind," he said. "They're decent photos. They're not terrible.
But at the same time, they certainly don't have the same shine and pop and feeling of grandeur that you often see from official royal family photos." He acknowledged that the family may have been trying to project a casual, informal image. But, he added, "You can still make it casual. But this is just casual and poor quality. They didn't have to make a bad quality product to put that idea across." Christopher Barr, a professional photographer in Arizona, agrees. "It's obvious that a professional didn't take these. It hasn't been color-corrected. Even somebody with a modicum of Photoshop knowledge could improve these pictures immeasurably," he said. "It's not a very good effort. It's a particularly poor effort given that he's taking pictures of such an important thing at such an important time." But Lana Marks, a friend of the late Diana, Princess of Wales, told CNN's "AC360" show that she thinks William's mother would have been delighted by his approach. "One of the things she told me is that she so much wanted William to have a normal life with his family in the future, with whoever he wed and had children with," she said. "All of her dreams have come true and her legacy's coming true, and all the influences she's had on William, the normalcy, is showing through so greatly now. She would be immensely happy." INTERACTIVE: Where does Prince George of Cambridge fit in to the royal family tree? CNN's Laura Smith-Spark wrote and reported in London, and Melissa Gray reported in Atlanta.
As businessman Geoffrey Edelsten is chased for millions by the Australian Tax Office and US creditors, it's now been revealed more than $30 million has been 'inexplicably' removed from his private trust account ledgers. The Australian Taxation Office is pursuing the former doctor for $14,130,000 in taxes and penalties and a motion was filed in the US Bankruptcy Court on Friday regarding a secret settlement last month between Mr Edelsten and his creditors, namely Florida's Mawardi family, reported the Daily Telegraph. The ATO says the US trustee liquidating Mr Edelsten's assets showed that it 'disproportionately favours (the) trust' and may have been unaware of $30.9 million in his Norman South Trust as of June, because that amount of money may not have been disclosed before the agreement. Scroll down for video . Geoffrey Edelsten (pictured left), with fiance Gabi Grecko (pictured right) is being chased for millions by the Australian Tax Office and US creditors . The ATO filed a motion in the US Bankruptcy Court on Friday regarding a secret settlement last month between Mr Edelsten (pictured left) and his creditors, namely Florida's Mawardi family . The Daily Telegraph also reported the ATO motion said that as of 2012, Mr Edelsten extended a loan of $35.1 million to his own trust. It said the settlement, which seeks to distribute funds from assets such as apartment complexes in the US, an airplane and homes and cars in Australia, was unreasonable. The reason being because it did not consider a 'sizeable loan Edelsten extended to the trust that was removed inexplicably from later financial statements. He filed for bankruptcy in the US earlier this year and was described by a US judge as being 'self servingly ambiguous' about his assets. Mr Edelsten declined to comment saying it was 'against the law'.
Businessman Geoffrey Edelsten (pictured right) filed for bankruptcy in the US earlier this year and was described by a US judge as being 'self servingly ambiguous' about his assets . Daily Mail Australian contacted the ATO and a media spokesperson said they were unable to hand out information on individual clients.
Jay Brenton Liptrot, 43, owned the property in Prestatyn, Denbighshire, where five people died in October 2012. Lee-Ann Shiers, 20, her partner Liam Timbrell, 23, their son Charlie, 15 months, Ms Shiers' nephew Bailey, four, and niece Skye, two, died in the fire. Mr Liptrot, of Prestatyn, did not enter a plea when he appeared at the town's magistrates' court on Friday. Melanie Smith has already been jailed for at least 30 years for five counts of murder after starting the fire in a row over a shared hallway. Mr Liptrot will appear at Mold Crown Court in May.
Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon confirmed the government's decision to end the scheme on a visit to a housing association in Glasgow. Margaret Thatcher's Tory government introduced the scheme in 1980. The Scottish government has already scrapped "right to buy" for new tenants and it will be abolished altogether in 2017. Since the opportunity to buy was introduced, 455,000 Scottish properties have been sold. The Scottish government said that had reduced the number of homes available for cheap rent and increased the waiting lists for properties of this type. Ms Sturgeon, during a visit to Queens Cross Housing Association, said the move would "safeguard social housing stock for future generations". She added: "It is absolutely vital that people can access social housing when they need it most. Social housing is under significant pressure and so too are the budgets that support it. "The Scottish government is doing everything possible to maximise our investment in housing and deliver on our target of 30,000 new, affordable homes over the lifetime of this parliament. "But, given the pressure on both the housing stock and budgets - and with 400,000 people on waiting lists for social housing - we can no longer afford to see badly needed homes lost to the social sector." By Glenn CampbellBBC Scotland news "Two thirds of residential properties in Scotland are now owned by their occupiers. But there is a big shortage of homes for rent, particularly social housing. It is mainly for that reason that the Scottish government has restricted the 'right to buy'. In March 2011, it was scrapped for new tenants and new social housing. From 2017, it will be abolished altogether. This is in marked contrast to policy in England. In this year's budget, the UK government increased the discount available to tenants in London. The Chancellor also promised to reduce the qualifying period from five to three years to widen access. Devolution continues to increase the policy differences between Scotland and other parts of the UK."
In November last year, a Scottish government consultation revealed that a majority of Scottish councils wanted the right to buy policy scrapped. The report also showed that many tenants and social landlords wanted it to end. An opponent of the move is former Scottish Conservative Party leader Annabel Goldie. She told BBC Radio Scotland's Good Morning Scotland programme that the policy was "arguably" one of the most "socially liberating" policies to be introduced in Scotland and across the UK. Miss Goldie added: "I can still remember the days when people lived in monolithic council house schemes - that is what they were called - and they were afflicted by a postcode prejudice. "They were apprehensive about disclosing their address because they felt it would negate their chance of getting a job or even being accepted for an interview. "By offering a tenant the right to buy, you did two things - you first of all introduced a freedom to the individual to make a choice about how they wanted to live, and secondly you stopped them being trapped in that environment - because that is exactly what they were." She went on: "Right to buy freed people from the environmental prison they were in." The Scottish Federation of Housing Associations welcomed the Scottish government's announcement. Its membership manager said: "Right to buy has had its day and has no place in 21st century Scotland. "It has been beneficial to a relatively small number of individuals, but clearly a loss to the greater public good. Half a million social rented homes have been lost in the 30 years of this policy in Scotland, very often the better stock in the more popular areas." Although the right to buy policy will come to an end in Scotland in 2017, it continues to exist elsewhere in the UK.
By . Matt Chorley, Mailonline Political Editor . PUBLISHED: . 06:00 EST, 17 January 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 08:46 EST, 17 January 2013 . MPs who demanded pay rises of up to 32 per cent were today branded ‘potty’ by Nick Clegg. The Deputy Prime Minister said it ‘beggars belief’ that MPs surveyed by the Commons expenses watchdog had said they should be earning tens of thousands of pounds more. A survey last week revealed that 69 per cent believe they are ‘underpaid’ following the introduction of a new expenses regime that forces them to provide receipts for all claims. Nick Clegg said MPs were wrong to demand vast pay rises when public sector workers were seeing salaries increase by just one per cent . The studies were commissioned by the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority, which is reviewing whether MPs’ pay should be changed from its current level of £65,738. On average, Tories said their salary should be £96,740, while Lib Dems thought the right amount was £78,361 and Labour £77,322. Mr Clegg said: ‘It just beggars belief apparently that some MPs have anonymously said they deserve a pay increase.’ Challenged over MPs pay on his weekly radio phone-in, he added: ‘They are living on a different planet to think that you can say to teachers and nurses and doctors “you’re only going to get a one per cent increase in your pay for the next several years but we deserve a [32 per cent] increase”. ‘I think it’s potty and it’s not going to happen, certainly if I’ve got anything to do with it.’ YouGov conducted online interviews with 100 MPs on Ipsa's behalf, and weighted the results slightly to represent the Commons by party, gender, year elected, and geography.
Conservatives were the most likely to believe they were underpaid, with 47 per cent saying that was the case. Some 39 per cent of Labour members and 9 per cent of Lib Dems held the same view. One MP said they should be paid £40,000 or less. Some 5 per cent said £60-65,000 was fair, and 17% went for £65-£70,000. It was Mr Clegg's second week as a talk show host, appearing alongside LBC presenter Nick Ferrari to answer questions from callers on LBC 97.3 . Mr Clegg said he hoped Ipsa would do ‘the sensible thing’ and restrain pay, . Taking aim at the MPs who used anonymity to demand bigger salaries, he added: ‘I flatly and totally disagree with it. I don’t know who put their names to this. ‘Whoever did needs to think again and also needs to think about what signal it sends out to the constituents of MPs who are being asked to have real restraint and limits on how fast their own pay increases.’ For more from Nick's weekly show on LBC click here .
By . Nick Mcdermott . PUBLISHED: . 03:10 EST, 26 June 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 04:55 EST, 27 June 2012 . Cait Reilly, pictured, yesterday asked the High Court to declare the Government¿s back-to-work programme unlawful . A graduate made to work for her jobless benefits as a shelf stacker in Poundland yesterday claimed the scheme amounted to ‘forced labour’ which breached her human rights. Cait Reilly yesterday asked the High Court to declare the Government’s back-to-work programme unlawful after she was required to work in the budget store or risk losing her £53.45-a-week jobseeker’s allowance. The 23-year-old said she had to give up a voluntary post in a museum to take the placement but was promised a job interview if she completed two weeks training at Poundland. However, she says, that never materialised. The Government is fighting her claim . and strongly denies that its flagship work programme, which has placed . thousands of jobseekers on unpaid placements since its launch last year, . is equivalent to ‘slave labour’. Unemployed . mechanic Jamieson Wilson, 41, is also challenging the legality of . another Government work scheme that compels the jobless to take unpaid . work. Lawyers for the pair . are seeking a judicial review into the Department for Work and Pensions . programme, saying it violates Article 4 of the European Convention on . Human Rights, which prohibits forced labour and slavery. The . schemes, championed by Employment Minister Chris Grayling, aim to help . 250,000 young people over the next two years through training and unpaid . experience in the public, private and charity sectors. Placement-providers include chains such as Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Argos and . Asda.
Miss Reilly, who graduated in geology . from Birmingham University in 2010, was placed on the scheme after . attending a retail jobs ‘open day’ in October last year at the . suggestion of her Jobcentre Plus adviser. Legal challenge: Cait Reilly, pictured, was 'forced' to leave her voluntary work at a museum to stack shelves at Poundland or risk losing her benefits . Only after attending was she told she had to undertake a period of training or risk losing her benefits. Nathalie Lieven, QC, appearing for . Miss Reilly, said her placement at Poundland, near her home in Kings . Heath, Birmingham, involved carrying out ‘menial’ tasks, adding: ‘Such . work did not contribute to (Miss Reilly’s) search for work to any . extent.’ Miss Reilly had undertaken the work under ‘menace of penalty’ in breach of her human rights, she added. Unhappy: Cait Reilly is shown outside the Poundland store in Birmingham where she claims she was forced to work . The court was told Poundland is a successful firm with a net turnover of £500million, and her placement did not contribute to the public interest. Miss Lieven told Mr Justice Foskett the way in which the back-to-work programme was administered was ‘blatantly unlawful’, and had put thousands at risk of unfairly losing their benefits. She also accused the Government of ‘seemingly sub-delegating to private sector providers’ how the schemes were run, including whether those who refused unpaid work should lose benefits. Miss Lieven added: ‘These claimants have an entitlement to subsistence-level benefits.
'Taking away these subsistence-level benefits for up to six months is in many ways just as fundamental as being detained as an immigrant in prison.’ The court heard that Mr Wilson, also from the Midlands, had been unemployed since 2008. He was told last November he would be required to undertake up to six months of unpaid work cleaning furniture. After refusing, he had his benefits cut, and now faces the loss of his jobseeker’s allowance for six months. Paul Nicholls, QC, appearing for the DWP, argued that both legal challenges were ‘wrong in law’. He said the purpose of the schemes was to assist the long-term jobless to better equip themselves for work, and thousands of people in different situations had benefited. The case continues. Prestigious: Cait Reilly, 22, is a geology graduate from Birmingham University .
One of the main features Apple devices are missing is the option to easily increase an iPhone and iPad's built-in storage. But now a company from California has created a USB flash drive that connects to Apple's Lightning connector. It’s not the first flash drive to feature a Lightning connector, but it is the first to be approved by Apple and can be used to stream films when there's no web connection, or easily transfer files to a PC. Scroll down for video . Called iStick, the device, pictured, was created by . San Francisco firm HYPER. It’s not the first USB drive to feature a Lightning connector, but it is the first to be approved by Apple and can be used to stream films when there's no web connection, or easily transfer files to a PC . Capacity: 8GB, 16GB, 32GB, 64GB and 128GB . Connectors: Standard USB 2.0 and Apple MFi-Certified Lightning Connector . Dimensions: 51.6 x 28.6 x 9.1mm . Weight: 10g . Colours: White, black, gold and silver . Compatibility: iPhone 5, 5S and 5C, iPad (4th generation), iPad mini, iPad mini with Retina display, iPad Air, iPod touch (5th generation) Early Bird Prices (50% off retail price): $65 (£3) for 8GB, $85 (£50) for a 16GB model, $100 (£59) for 32GB, $150 (£89) for the 64GB version and $199 (£118) for 128GB. Called iStick, the device was created by San Francisco firm HYPER, which currently makes portable power packs for Apple’s Macbook, as well as other Apple accessories.
Storage options range from 8GB to 64GB and Early Bird Kickstarter prices, which offer 50 per cent off the retail price, start at $65 (£38). Other prices include $85 (£50) for a 16GB model, $100 (£59) for 32GB, $150 (£89) for the 64GB version and $199 (£118) for 128GB. The drive can be used to store files, including films, music, photos and documents, and transfer these files to a computer or any device with a USB connector. At the moment, the best way to increase storage on an Apple device is to upload it to the cloud, but this is less secure than a USB drive and becomes near-on useless without a web connection. The iStick, pictured, removes the need for this connection and means users can stream films on a plane, for example . At the moment, the best way to increase storage on an Apple device is to upload it to the cloud, but this is less secure than a USB drive and becomes near-on useless without a web connection. The iStick removes the need for this connection and means users can stream films on a plane, for example. Once the Kickstarter project ends on 17 June, prices are expected to rise to $129 (£77) for 8GB, $169 (£100) for 16GB, $199 (£118) for 32GB, $299 (£177) for 64GB and $399 (£237) for 128GB. The iStick is due to be shipped by August and shipping costs outside the U.S will add an extra $10 (£6) to the price. To use iStick, owners will additionally need to download an iOS app, which will be available after the stick has launched. The iStick is due to be shipped by August.
It will be available in white, black, gold and silver and will be compatible with the iPhone 5, 5S, pictured left, 5C, pictured right, the iPad (4th generation), iPad mini, iPad mini with Retina display, iPad Air, pictured centre, and iPod touch (5th generation)
Gerard Pique took advantage of the international break by going to a basketball game with his popstar girlfriend Shakira. The Barcelona defender was axed from the Spain squad by Vicente del Bosque following their World Cup humiliation in Brazil. Pique, along with Fernando Torres and Juan Mata, were all left out of the new-look squad for the Euro 2016 qualifier with Macedonia. Time out: Gerard Pique and his girlfriend Shakira watch the basketball . All smiles: Pique appears to be over his Spain snub after being axed by Vicente del Bosque . Sealed with a kiss: Shakira and Pique pucker up courtside in Barcelona . However, the 27-year-old certainly didn't appear down in the dumps as he watched Slovenia against USA in the FIBA World Cup quarter-finals in Barcelona on Tuesday. Pique laughed and joked with his girlfriend and seemed to be enjoying the time away from international duty. The former Manchester United man is due to return to action on Saturday when Barcelona take on Athletic Bilbao. Man marking: Shakira keeps tabs on her man at the basketball . Three-pointer: Pique talks tactics with Shakira . She Wolf: Something catches Shakira's eye at Sant Jordi Palace .
Federal authorities are asking for the public to be on the lookout for an armed suspect who may be hiding on eastern Long Island after allegedly holding up banks in three states. Luis Alomar is wanted on a federal arrest warrant for allegedly robbing banks in Delaware, New York and New Jersey, according to the FBI. He speaks Spanish and has ties to the Mastic-Shirley area. “Alomar is alleged to have made verbal threats to bank tellers, telling them he would shoot them if they said anything,” the agency said in a statement. In most cases, he allegedly handed a demand note to the teller indicating he was carrying a weapon. In some cases, a weapon was displayed. He normally demands large bills. Alomar also has ties to southern Florida, specifically Palm Beach County, Kissimmee and Osceola County. He should be considered armed and dangerous. The 37-year-old suspect is described as 5-feet, 4-inches tall, 145 pounds, with black hair and brown eyes. He has a large mole on his right forehead, as well as tattoos on right arm and right leg. He also uses the aliases Arturo Alomar, Luis Arturo, David Diaz, David Gonzalez, Louis Alomar and Luis Castillo. Anyone with information is asked to call the New York FBI at 212-384-1000. Tipsters may remain anonymous. Story highlights Suspected serial bank robber arrested in Medford, New York Luis Alomar is suspected in 20 robberies in three states The FBI had asked for public's help in finding Alomar A suspected serial bank robber wanted in incidents in three East Coast states has been arrested in Medford, New York, the FBI said Tuesday. Agents and New York police arrested Luis Alomar, 37, around 2:30 a.m. Tuesday, the agency said in a statement.
It didn't provide details of where he was arrested in the Long Island community or how he was located. The FBI had sought the public's help Monday in finding Alomar, who is suspected of robbing 20 banks in New York, New Jersey and Delaware. Alomar allegedly flashed a gun at tellers in some of the robberies, sometimes threatening to shoot them if they said anything, the FBI said. Luis Alomar, 37, is wanted by the FBI in a series of bank robberies along the Eastern Seaboard. Photo Credit: FBI A suspect in a series of bank robberies along the Eastern Seaboard was arrested in Medford early Tuesday, the FBI said. Fugitive Luis Alomar, 37, was taken into custody at about 2:30 a.m., the FBI's New York field office said in a news release. He is currently being held on state parole violations at the Suffolk County Jail, said Christios Sinos, a supervisory special agent at the FBI. An arraignment had not yet been scheduled, he said. The release said that police from Suffolk County, Westchester, Yonkers and Greenwich, Conn., assisted in the arrest, as did the New York State Division of Parole. The release did not provide details of the arrest or Alomar's arraignment information, and the agency did not immediately respond to an email seeking more information. The FBI had issued a news release on Monday, warning that Alomar -- who has ties to the Mastic and Shirley areas -- was wanted and could be armed and dangerous. A federal arrest warrant had been issued for Alomar in Delaware for bank robbery, and he is a suspect in several more, including ones in New York and New Jersey, the FBI said Monday. The FBI did not specify the locations of the robberies.
In addition to ties to Long Island, Alomar also has ties to southern Florida, specifically Palm Beach County, as well as Kissimmee in Osceola County. He has used aliases, including Arturo Alomar, Luis Arturo, David Diaz, David Gonzalez, Louis Alomar and Luis Castillo, the release said.
Mr Kennedy, who led the party between 1999 and 2006, died at his home in Fort William on Monday aged 55. Following a post-mortem examination, his family issued a statement saying his unexpected death was "a consequence of his battle with alcoholism". "Ultimately this was an illness Charles could not conquer despite all the efforts he and others made," they said. Details of Mr Kennedy's funeral arrangements will be released in due course. Mr Kennedy fought a long battle with alcoholism, which he first publicly revealed in 2006 when he stood down from the leadership of his party, just eight months after leading it to its best-ever performance at an election. After his death was announced on Tuesday, the police said they did not believe there were any suspicious circumstances. Charles Kennedy: 1959-2015 Nick Robinson on Kennedy's legacy John Pienaar's memories The Charles Kennedy story Charles Kennedy's life in pictures Charles Kennedy in his own words In their statement the family said the Procurator Fiscal's post-mortem report "makes clear his (death) was a consequence of his battle with alcoholism". "We are grateful to the many friends and also medical experts who sought to help down the years but ultimately this was an illness Charles could not conquer despite all the efforts he and others made," they said said. The family said they had been "touched beyond measure by the outpouring of warmth" from all parts of the country and all sides of politics following Mr Kennedy's death. "The pain we feel has been at least eased somewhat by the reaction of so many people across Scotland, the UK and beyond, and by the affection expressed by politicians across the spectrum. "It has become all too apparent to us how much Charles meant to so many people and how many lives he touched."
Mr Kennedy's 10-year old son Donald and his ex-wife Sarah were in Parliament on Wednesday to listen to 90 minutes of tributes, led by Prime Minister David Cameron, Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg and Labour leader Harriet Harman. Many of the MPs who spoke addressed their comments to Donald, who was born during the 2005 general election, saying he could be rightly proud of how his father had conducted himself in his 32-year political career and the difference he had made. What are the long-term effects of alcoholism? By Philippa Roxby, BBC News health reporter The effects of long-term alcohol addiction do not just affect the liver. Drinking large amounts over many years will take its toll on other parts of the body, including the heart, pancreas, brain and nervous system. Heavy drinking can increase blood pressure and blood cholesterol levels, which are both major risk factors for heart attacks and strokes. It can also weaken the immune system, increase the risk of a range of cancers and make people more prone to depression, dementia and infertility. Drinkers at high risk of damaging their health are those drinking more than eight units of alcohol a day or 50 units a week, for men, and more than six units a day or 35 units a week, if you're a woman. That's equivalent to several pints of strong lager or a bottle of wine every night. With no alcohol-free days to let the body recover between drinking, health problems will automatically begin to pile up. But NHS Choices warns that alcohol can start to have a health impact at even lower levels - when drinking more than the recommended weekly amount of 21 units for men and 14 units for women. Giving up alcohol when it has become a habit is not easy. Recognising there is a problem is often the first important step - but it is just the start.
NHS Choices recommends going to see a GP and being honest about how much you drink, before trying to cut down gradually. Its website has more information on which organisations to contact for help. The family's statement adds: "The words and images of that day, and of so many other tributes, will be there for us to look back on with pride in Charles, and Donald will always know what a special father he had." Tony Blair's former communications director Alastair Campbell, who was a friend of Mr Kennedy's despite the two being on opposite sides over the Iraq War, said he hoped it would make politicians take alcoholism more seriously as an illness. "None of us are surprised that alcoholism played a part in his tragic death but what has been great about the tributes is that they have focused on so much more than this. "I hope that remains the case as people continue to remember him as we move towards the funeral and then subsequent memorials. "I also hope that politicians of all parties develop a better understanding of alcoholism, take it more seriously and devise policies to treat it as a disease on a par with the other major diseases." And Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie said he hoped the days when people felt "a little bit embarrassed" to talk about such a personal issue in public were over. "We need to remember Charles for all his achievements, not just how he died," he told the BBC News Channel. "I hope we can also use this tragic moment to understand a little bit more about what alcoholism is and what it does to people. "We need not to be ashamed of the illness, just like we would not be ashamed of any other illness, so that it allows people to be open and seek the help they need to deal with what is a terrible illness."
Paramedics treated about 12,000 people who were so drunk it was noted on Scottish Ambulance Service systems in the six months to the end of September. The figures were obtained by the Scottish Conservatives under freedom of information laws. The ambulance service said alcohol had a significant impact on its operations. It comes after a recent internal Scottish Ambulance Service survey showed alcohol was a factor in more than half of all call-outs ambulance staff dealt with at weekends. The latest figures showed Scotland's largest health board, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, had the highest number of alcohol-related 999 call-outs in the six month period at 3,849. It was followed by NHS Lothian, with 1,935, and NHS Lanarkshire, with 1,470. Tory health spokesman Jackson Carlaw said the statistics highlighted how "deep-rooted and complex" a problem alcohol is in Scottish society. He said: "Not only is it harming those who are over-consuming, but it is diverting scarce resources away from those whose need was not so avoidable. "Of course the Scottish government and NHS can always do more to discourage reckless patterns of drinking and provide more help for paramedics who have to repeatedly go into these challenging situations - often several times each shift. "But ultimately this is a case of personal responsibility, and that's where the real change has to come from." A Scottish Ambulance Service spokesman said its teams had to respond to an increase in demand over the festive period, which was largely driven by alcohol. He added: "They are highly trained professionals who are frustrated by the amount of time they spend looking after patients who are simply intoxicated. "Our staff should not have to fear for their own safety when responding to patients but alcohol is often a key factor in assaults. "Assaults or threatening behaviour are reported to the police and support and counselling services are available to staff."
Public Health Minister Maureen Watt said a recent four nations report found that Scotland was leading the way in the UK in taking action to tackle alcohol misuse. She added: "However, the harmful effects of excessive alcohol consumption puts additional pressure on these services, and this is another reason why everyone should drink responsibly and keep safe."
The Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) scheme, set up in 2012 by the now First Minister and DUP leader Arlene Foster, is set to run £490m over its budget. The motion, proposed by former DUP councillor Ruth Patterson, was passed by 23 votes in favour to 12 against. The UK government has already rejected an Alliance call for a public inquiry. The Treasury has refused to cover the RHI overspend and it will have to be paid from the block grant that Northern Ireland receives from Westminster. Mrs Patterson, who was expelled from the DUP in 2015, asked her fellow councillors to note the "serious public concern amongst our constituents in relation to financial squander" over the RHI scheme. Now an independent councillor, she proposed that Belfast City Council writes to Secretary of State James Brokenshire to request a public inquiry. "The secretary of state has a public responsibility to initiate an inquiry regarding this," Mrs Patterson said. "I certainly think he will listen to Belfast City Council - we are elected by the people and we certainly need to have our say in this. We are the closest, on the ground, to the people of Northern Ireland, right across the province, and everyone is talking about the same issue." A government spokesman said it is up to the Northern Ireland Executive to decide on what form of investigation is carried out. Mrs Patterson's motion also called on her former party leader Mrs Foster to "step aside" during the inquiry. DUP councillor Lee Reynolds said the outcome of the vote was "predictable" and accused other parties of playing political "games". "They're not interested in solving the problems with RHI, which we should be trying to move forward," Mr Reynolds told BBC News NI. "They're not interested in getting towards an independent investigation, they're just trying to find ways of having a go at the DUP and trying to undermine the First Minister Arlene Foster." Eighteen councillors abstained from taking part in the vote.
Sinn Féin attempted to amend Mrs Patterson's motion, this time calling not for a full public inquiry, but for an independent investigation led by a judicial figure from outside Northern Ireland, but their amendment did not attract enough support. "We think the public want the truth, but they also want the truth as quickly as possible," said Sinn Féin councillor Jim McVeigh. "They don't want to wait a year, or two years, like some of these public inquiries can take, so we think the best way to do this is a robust, transparent investigation that will get to the truth quickly." The Ulster Unionist Party also proposed an amendment that called on Mrs Foster to resign, but it too failed. Earlier on Tuesday, it was reported that the UK government has already rejected a request from Alliance Party leader Naomi Long to hold a public inquiry into the RHI scandal. Mrs Long had written to both Mr Brokenshire and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury David Gauke to ask for their intervention. A government spokesman said: "The operation of the RHI scheme is a matter for the Northern Ireland Executive. So it is right for the executive and the assembly to decide the form of any investigation or inquiry." Mrs Foster has resisted calls for a public inquiry and for her to temporarily step aside while the matter is investigated. The matter has caused a rift at the heart of the Stormont administration, with Sinn Féin threatening to call a fresh election if the first minister does not stand aside for an investigation.
(CNN) -- As warring sides prepared to hold their first face-to-face talks to end weeks of ethnic fighting in the world's newest country, clashes flared around a key town Sunday. Nhial Majak Nhial, the mayor of Bor, told CNN that rebel troops had been driven away from his town, which has exchanged hands several times during three weeks of violence that has killed hundreds and forced about 200,000 people from their homes. Defense Minister Kuol Manyang said government forces tried to take back the disputed town but were forced to retreat to a military base eight miles away after rebels ambushed them. Brig. Gen. Abraham Jongroor was killed and several officers were wounded when rebels attacked, the defense minister said. Helicopters airlifted dozens of injured government troops to a military hospital in Juba, about 125 miles (200 kilometers) away. Bor, capital of the oil-rich Jonglei state, has been the scene of some of the heaviest fighting during the violence, as military forces have battled the rebel fighters. "Their technique of fighting is numbers -- they are using numbers against capable and well-trained government troops," Nhial said. "Many of their men, some even children, have died." President Salva Kiir and the rebels' leader, former Vice President Riek Machar, have sent delegations to the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, for talks on a possible ceasefire. Face-to-face negotiations were scheduled to begin on Sunday but now are expected to start Monday morning, said Mahboub Maalim, executive secretary of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, a regional group mediating the talks. Mediators meet both sides . While neither Kiir nor Machar are in Addis Ababa, home of the African Union, group representatives have gathered and are talking amongst themselves on the sidelines, Maalim said.
"A lot of discussing and discussions going on for sure we are ready to start face-to-face anytime, but we have to wait on the groups to be ready," he said. The talks will focus on the cessation of hostilities and negative propaganda, the granting of access to monitors and to humanitarian aid workers, and the question of detainees, Maalim said on Saturday. The proxy talks have been attended by special envoys to IGAD; the heads of negotiating teams of the two South Sudanese parties; Maalim; and the ministers of foreign affairs of Ethiopia and Kenya. No breakthrough has come yet despite pressure on Kiir and Machar from African and Western powers to end the conflict. So far, the mediators met with representatives of both delegations to try to pin down the issues and set out a framework for the talks. Speaking during a visit to Israel, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the negotiations needed to be "serious." "They cannot be a delay gimmick in order to continue the fighting and try to find advantage on the ground at the expense of the people of South Sudan," he said. "We will work to apply international pressure to any elements that attempt to use force to seize power. That is not acceptable." Ethnic tensions . But as the two sides' teams negotiate, fighting has continued in their country. So far the violence has claimed more than 1,000 lives and displaced about 200,000 others. Humanitarian agencies have warned that the estimated 200,000 who have fled to makeshift camps are facing dire conditions, with many lacking clean water and sanitation in makeshift camps. The fighting began in Juba on December 15 but quickly spread across the country, with reports of mass killings soon emerging. Kiir, from the Dinka ethnic group, accused troops loyal to Machar, from the Nuer community, of trying to launch a coup.
The two have long been political rivals, and Kiir dismissed Machar, along with the Cabinet, in July. Although the conflict began as a political power struggle, it has taken on an ethnic dimension and includes evidence of ethnically targeted killings, according to the U.N. mission in South Sudan. Some observers have said both sides may want to gain the upper hand militarily before beginning to discuss a possible cease-fire. South Sudan is the world's youngest nation, having seceded from Sudan in 2011 after decades of war. Editors' Note: This article has been edited to remove plagiarized content after CNN discovered multiple instances of plagiarism by Marie-Louise Gumuchian, a former CNN news editor. Journalist Mading Ngor contributed to this report.
Former England captain and QPR defender Rio Ferdinand plans to retire from football at the end of the season. But the 35-year-old says that while this season with Rangers will likely be his last as a player, he is keen to go into coaching. 'I probably think the end of this season,' Ferdinand said when asked about retirement on The Jonathan Ross Show, due to be broadcast on Saturday. Rio Ferdinand has revealed he plans to retire from playing at the end of the current season . Ferdinand was appearing on The Jonathan Ross Show alongside Lindsay Lohan and Russell Brand . The 35-year-old defender joined QPR in the summer after being released by Manchester United . Clubs: . 1996-2000: West Ham . 2000-02: Leeds United . 2002-14: Manchester United . 2014-15: QPR . International caps: 81 . International goals: Three . Honours: Premier League (6), FA Cup (1), Community Shield (5) League Cup (2), Champions League (1), Club World Cup (1) 'I'm not fearful of retirement, I'm looking forward to it, I can see some good stuff hopefully happening ahead. 'You get to a time where you start understanding your body and the strains playing football (is) putting your body through, going out and training every day.' The former West Ham, Leeds and Manchester United centre back, who has worked as a pundit, expects to stay involved in football in some capacity and has begun his coaching badges. 'I've done it for so many years, it's what I love,' he added. 'I will stay in football I'm sure in some capacity. I've signed to BT and stuff and I've done stuff with the BBC at the World Cup which I really enjoyed and it's something I'm sure I will take up and do a bit more (of).
'I'm doing my (coaching) badges as well and there are other bits and pieces outside of football.' Ferdinand spent 12 years at United, winning six Premier League titles as well as the Champions League . Ferdinand played 81 times for England and scored three goals for his country . Ferdinand blocks a shot from Ander Herrera on his first return to Old Trafford after leaving the club . Ferdinand was an unused substitute in last weekend's loss to Liverpool and could be confined to the bench again for Monday's match at home to Aston Villa. Adel Taarabt could be offered the opportunity to prove himself to Harry Redknapp after the pair's public disagreement this week, when the QPR boss accused the Moroccan playmaker of being overweight. Defender Nedum Onuoha hopes to shake off a hamstring problem sustained against Liverpool, midfielders Joey Barton and Jordon Mutch could be fit again after recent hamstring trouble, but Alejandro Faurlin (knee) is a long-term injury absentee. In February 2010, Ferdinand replaced Chelsea's John terry as captain of England . The former West Ham man recently signed a contract with BT, where he works as a television pundit . Ferdinand left Leeds under acrimonious circumstances, forcing a £30million move to Manchester United . Rio Ferdinand was speaking on The Jonathan Ross Show, which is broadcast on Saturday, October 25 at 2210 on ITV1. He appeared on the show alongside Lindsay Lohan, Russell Brand and Daniel Radcliffe.
The writers of Toy Story are reportedly in talks to pen a movie based on FarmVille, the popular Facebook game. Alec Sokolow and Joel Cohen said in an interview with IGN that they're working with Zynga on a movie based on one of the company's most popular games, adding "Can't really say too much on that front yet, but 'Old MacDonald' didn't have a factory, if you get our drift." We get it: Making a movie is super risky. Unlike launching new apps and websites, movies are a huge upfront investment in the vague hope of a hit. Hence the tendency to just remake something that's already popular. Or the flurry of movies based on popular websites, apps and tech personalties. The Facebook movie. The Steve Jobs movie (possibly). The Angry Birds movie. Why take a chance on something new when you can buy the rights to something with tens of millions of fans already? What does a FarmVille movie look like anyway? No doubt it'll be a computer-animated feature (in 3D, of course!) incorporating the graphics and themes of the Facebook game. But FarmVille is a game in which you tend crops. Is that going to be a bit boring? And while to tens of millions of people, FarmVille is an addictive pastime, for the friends of those people (ie. us!) it's actually kind of a nuisance. Would a FarmVille movie be met with glowing reviews or - more likely - an audible sigh from those of us who grudgingly tolerate the addiction of our FarmVille-playing friends and relatives? And could the critics be anything but, well, critical of this cynical attempt at turning a successful gaming franchise into an equally popular film? Ah, but plenty can happen at these early stages — one of a hundred issues may prevent the movie from entering production.
Not to mention that FarmVille is no longer the most popular Facebook game, reducing the potential audience for the movie. Or perhaps I'll be proven sorely wrong. After all, a certain movie based on the Facebook story took home 3 Oscars this year. PS. For those movie studios thinking of following suit, Zynga was kind enough to list its top-performing games - plus some intriguing stats - in its IPO filing earlier this year: In an interview about their work on upcoming game Skylanders Spyro's Adventures, Toy Story writers Alec Sokolow and Joel Cohen have revealed that they're currently in talks to pen a film based on Farmville. Speaking with IGN, the pair said the following when asked about projects they're currently working on: "So, yes, we will continue writing movies. We are also working on several new and very exciting opportunities. We're in conversations with Zynga to do something with one of their brands. Can't really say too much on that front yet, but 'Old MacDonald' didn't have a factory, if you get our drift." Previous rumors have led to speculation about Zynga working on a Mafia Wars film , but a Farmville movie has never been revealed.The project has not been formally announced. When contacted, Zynga refused to comment.For our full interview with Sokolow and Cohen, be sure to check IGN tomorrow.
In the last few years, the beard has had a renaissance. No longer just the preserve of tramps and lumberjacks, it is now seen on lawyers, bar staff and artists across the western world who have wanted to add a bit of edge to their look. The move has not gone unnoticed by the fairer sex, many of whom are delighted at the new facial hair trend. So it can only be good news that a new dating website has emerged, specifically linking up beard lovers with men who have beards. Scroll down for video . New dating website Bristlr matches beard lovers to men with beards. The site launched six weeks ago and it already has tens of thousands of users . John Kershaw from Manchester launched Bristlr six weeks ago and already tens of thousands of people have signed up. He started the project as a bit of a joke after suggesting the idea on Facebook and seeing a positive response from his friends. The (bearded) 28-year-old software developer said: 'When I posted the question on my Facebook page, my friends said they thought it was a really good idea. 'So I made this fake landing site where people could sign up to this app that didn't really exist, just because I was curious to see how far people would go with it.' In the last week alone, more than 10,000 new people signed up to the site . He continued: 'I wanted to see who was willing to go through the hassle of signing up, giving their email address, etc. 'After 100 people signed up in four days, I thought there must be some scope, so I made a proper website and launched it four weeks ago. 'It has kind of got a little bit out of hand at this moment, so I'm just kind of going with it, which is great fun.' John Kershaw from Manchester launched Bristlr six weeks ago .
In the last week alone, more than 10,000 new people signed up to the site and when the IOS and Android apps are launched in a couple of weeks, those numbers are likely to grow even faster. John admits he can't believe how successful it has been so far, especially as it started out as a bit of a joke. He said: 'We are comfortably in the five figures now. It does surprise me because I'm very cynical and I think it is such a stupid idea that no one is going to want to do it. 'But it turns out that actually, people think it's kind of cool. I've started to talk to the people using it, and some say that it is the best dating site they've ever used. 'I think it's the fact that instead of it being this serious business like “Hey, if you click this button we're going to do this serious thing,” it's more like “Hey, I like your beard.” 'It’s light-hearted - you can't take it too seriously, which I think is really appealing to people. I did build a block button just in case though, because inevitably there are going to be creepy dudes. 'I’m sure there will also be guys who go on there without beards to try and pick up women, but they're not going to have much luck.' The site uses a minimal amount of information from users, so as not to be too invasive. But it does keep a tally of people with beards and people who love beards - the ratio is almost 50:50. John said: 'I've been quite surprised by the ratio of beards to people looking for beards.' The site keeps a tally of people with beards and people who love beards - the ratio is almost 50:50 .
'We don't track whether people are male or female, just whether or not they have a beard or they are looking for someone with a beard - we track the import stuff. 'It's just under half of people who have beards on Bristlr. 'I think I was expecting it to be 90 per cent people with beards.' That isn't the only surprise, John is also amazed by the different countries around the world where the site has already become a hit. He said: 'It's only international by chance - because I was too lazy to limit it when I was building the site.' The site is already in the UK, Holland, Canada and the US . He continued: ''It's really big in Holland and I had someone from Montreal today tell me it is now getting quite big over there, which is ridiculous. 'San Francisco was one of the first cities to embrace it. 'It's catching on slowly in New York, but I feel like they're slightly more cynical about it.' John admits that it may just be a craze while the beard trend lasts, but he is enjoying it while it does. He said: 'I know beards are definitely in, people have realised they are kind of lovely. Keep it neat. Invest in some nice beard oil, get a good pair of trimmers and just experiment. If you feel good in your beard then that comes across as confidence. A good beard doesn’t replace your personality but it does compliment it. 'I get that it is personal preference, just like some people like short hair and some like it long. 'I know some people who are repulsed by beards and some people just love them. 'You can tell a lot about a man by his beard, not that they just have one, because they may have just forgotten to shave. 'But just like seeing someone with a really nice suit or haircut, a nice well-kept beard shows some pride in appearance.'
Cryptoy was created by three industrial placement students and tells the story of four historical cyphers, including the German Enigma code, cracked at Bletchley Park during World War Two. The free app for Android tablet devices also encrypts messages using the codes. GCHQ says it is hoping it will help to encourage teenagers to be the next generation of cyber security experts. Cryptoy also showcases the substitution and vigenere cyphers, and the shift, which dates back to Roman times. A spokeswoman for Cheltenham-based GCHQ said the app is intended as a "fun teaching aid" to help 14-16 year olds studying at the Key Stage 4 level learn something about code making and code breaking. She said it aims to encourage them to become interested in associated disciplines such as mathematics, as well as problem solving and the necessary programming skills to create such an app. "All of this is extremely relevant to today's world where information security is increasingly important and where we need young people to study the subjects necessary," she added. The app was initially produced by the industrial placement students for the Cheltenham Festival cultural event last year. The GCHQ spokeswoman said the agency was keen where possible to be open about some aspects of its work. The BBC's technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones said the public should have no qualms about downloading the app. Cryptoy will be available to download directly from Google Play or through the GCHQ website. It is understood that a version for Apple iPads will not be available until next year.
By . Anna Edwards . Imomotimi Wilson treated his alleged victim 'like a piece of meat' A man on trial for rape for allegedly refusing to wear a condom on the third time he had sex with a woman in a one-night stand has told the jury it was 100 per cent consensual. Imomotimi Wilson, 30, met his alleged victim in a pub and she agreed to go back to his house but told him she would only have sex if he used protection. They had consensual sex twice but on the third occasion claims that Wilson failed to use a condom. The woman, a 40-year-old, said Wilson treated her 'like a piece of meat' as the alleged attack took place. She said he held her hands over her head and told her 'if you love me you'll do it' before raping her for 15-20 seconds. But giving evidence at his trial at Cambridge Crown Court Wilson said 'she said stop and that's when I stopped'. He said: 'She said I feel like having sex again and I said "Yes, I feel like having sex with you as well again but there is no condom". 'She was romancing me, touching and kissing, and I said no, I do not want to do that because there is no condom. 'She started kissing me again and then I penetrated her. I believed 100 per cent it was consensual. 'Then she said stop and that's when I stopped. There were three seconds of penetration.' The court heard how the pair met at The Regal pub in Cambridge on June 9 last year . The court heard how she phoned police later that afternoon and Wilson was arrested . The court heard how the pair met at The Regal pub in Cambridge on June 9 last year and took a taxi back to Wilson's shared house in the city at 2am. She then spent most of the evening in bed with the defendant before leaving the property at around 6am.
The court heard how she phoned police later that afternoon and Wilson was arrested. Caroline Allison, prosecuting, said: 'The prosecution say that she had made it perfectly clear in plain straight-forward language that the situation was no condom, no sex and that nothing had happened in the intervening period that would invite a reasonable belief that she was indeed consenting to unprotected sex.' Wilson, of Cambridge, has pleaded not guilty to rape after claiming he stopped on the third time the woman said no. The trial continues. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
By . Victoria Woollaston . PUBLISHED: . 05:04 EST, 6 June 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 06:00 EST, 6 June 2013 . The world's oldest tumour has been discovered in the rib of a Neanderthal who lived around 130,000 years ago. Scientists at the University of Kansas took X-rays of the inch-long rib fragments - first found in the Krapina rock shelters of Croatia - and discovered parts of the inner bone were missing. Following CT scans the scientists discovered that this was likely to have been caused by soft-tissue tumour known in modern-day patients as fibrous dysplasia. Scans found that a small part of the inner bone network was missing and had been 'eaten away' by a soft-tissue tumour. This condition is called fibrous dysplasia . Fibrous dysplasia is an abnormal bone growth where normal bone is replaced with soft fibrous bone tissue. It can cause abnormal growth or . swelling of the bone. Although it can occur in any part of the . skeleton the soft tumours are most commonly found in the skull, thigh, shin, ribs, upper . arm and pelvis . Fibrous dysplasia is not cancerous but is rare and there is no known cure. The disorder is usually diagnosed in childhood or early adulthood. Males and females of any race are equally affected. The bones studied by Kansas university anthropologist David Frayer and his team were first excavated more than 100 years ago in Croatia. The site, known as the Krapina rock shelter, in the north of the country held more than 900 Neanderthal bones dating back from between 120,000 and 130,000 years ago. Frayer wanted to scan the bones because many of them showed signs of trauma and marks that happened after the neanderthal had died.
Many of the 900 neanderthal bones found in Croatia had evidence of trauma or possible bite marks. This scan taken during the 1980s by researchers in Pennsylvania has a white area of overexposure which was the first evidence that a tumour had 'eaten away' the bone . The detailed scans show exactly where the bone has been 'eaten away' These marks suggest either cannibalism or burial rituals. Researchers . from the University of Pennsylvania took X-rays of the bones during the . 1980s and published a book containing all the radiographs. One of the inch-long rib fragments was shown to have sections of bone that were 'burned out' in the X-ray images. 'Burned out' sections of X-rays suggest over exposure, and in the rib bones this overexposure was caused by missing bone in the inner part of the fragment. Frayer used these images as a guide to take new, higher-resolution X-rays of the specimens. His team also scanned the bones using high-resolution microCT scanners that doctors currently use on modern-day patients. The microCT scan found that the 'spongy bone' which should be on the inner part of the fragment was missing and may have been 'eaten away' by a soft-tissue tumour. This type of tumour is seen in modern-day patients and is called fibrous dysplasia. Fibrous dysplasia is an abnormal bone growth where normal bone is replaced with fibrous bone tissue. It can cause abnormal growth or swelling of the bone and although it can occur in any part of the skeleton, it is most commonly found in the skull, thigh, shin, ribs, upper arm and pelvis . Fibrous dysplasia is not cancerous but is rare and there is no known cure. Frayer reported the findings in the journal PLOS ONE. He told LiveScience: 'People .
of that time didn't live as long as they did today; plus, there weren't . very many of them compared to the Egyptians and people today. 'Finding evidence of tumors and evidence of cancers, is - . I don't know if I want to say "lucky" - but there isn't a lot of . evidence for it.' It was previously thought that climate change and a reduction in tree cover forced early man to stand up, but now experts believe the rocky African landscape played a far more significant role . Describing the type of tumour that was found, Frayer added: 'They range all the way from being totally benign, where you wouldn’t . recognize them, to being extremely painful. 'The size . of this one, and the bulging of it, probably caused the individual . pain.' Previously the earliest known tumours were found in Egyptian mummies dating back 4,000 years so this discovery predates this find significantly. A study released earlier this month discovered that Neanderthals lost out to homo sapiens in the battle to survive because they were not clever enough to adapt. The . results showed that . modern man walked the planet much earlier than was believed and Neanderthals died out much sooner than was estimated. Neanderthals had larger eyes than Homo sapiens but did not develop brain power in the same way. This meant that Homo sapiens were able to outsmart and ultimately outlive Neanderthals who had to use their brains more for physical rather than mental needs . Neanderthals breastfed their babies for over a year - just like humans, according to new research. Chemical . analysis of a neanderthal child's tooth reveal it was reared on . mother's milk for seven months with suckling continuing for the same . period coupled with solid food. The . change from breastfeeding to plants and grains can be established by . looking at differences in the distribution of barium – a similar .
compound to calcium - in teeth enamel. This . enabled Dr Manish Arora and colleagues at Mount Sinai School of . Medicine in New York to discover the early life diet of a 10 to 12 . year-old child that lived in a cave in Belgium around 100,000 years ago. The . brains of Neanderthals were the same size as those of modern man but . more of it was used to focus on the physical needs of their larger . bodies. Researchers from the University of York additionally found that early man began to walk on two feet because of rocky terrain and not climate change. The study found that our upright gait may . have its origins in the rugged landscape of East and South Africa which . was shaped during the Pliocene epoch by volcanoes and shifting tectonic . plates. Hominins, human's early ancestors, would . have been attracted to the terrain of rocky outcrops and gorges because . it offered shelter and opportunities to trap prey. But it also required . more upright scrambling and climbing gaits, prompting the emergence of . bipedalism.
(CNN) -- There's a whole world of people out there, and boy, are they pissed off. The anonymity of the Internet encourages online ranting, from election-season tirades to mockery of celebrities. On political blogs, the invective flies. Posters respond to the latest celebrity gossip with mockery or worse. Sports fans set up Web sites with names that begin with "fire," hoping coaches, athletic directors and sportscasters lose their jobs. And though there are any number of bloggers and commenters who attempt to keep their postings and responses on a civil level, all too often interactive Web sites descend into ad hominem attacks, insults and plain old name-calling. Indeed, there are even whole sites devoted to venting, such as justrage.com (one screed there was titled, "I don't give a flying f***, so f*** you") and mybiggestcomplaint.com. This is not a world Emily Post would want to be caught in after dark. "The Internet can be a great tool," said Sara Black, a professor of health studies at St. Joseph's University who takes a particular interest in online bullying. "Like any tool, it can also be misused." See examples of Internet anger » . One reason for the vitriol that emerges on the Web, experts say, is the anonymity the Internet provides. Commenters seldom use their real names, and even if they do, the chance for retaliation is slim. "In the [pre-Internet era], you had to take ownership [of your remarks]. Now there's a perception of anonymity," said Lesley Withers, a professor of communication at Central Michigan University. "People think what they say won't have repercussions, and they don't think they have to soften their comments."
Contrast that with a face-to-face conversation, or even a phone conversation, where you can judge people's moods from facial movements or vocal inflections, observes University of Texas psychology professor Art Markman. iReport.com: Second Life avatars grapple with reduced nonverbal communication . "It's hard to be aggressive when you're face to face," he said. Moreover, he points out, aggression often carries a subtext of power. "A lot of times, real anger is an attempt to get control over a situation where the person doesn't usually have it," he said. In that respect, comments to blog posts are attempts to strike back. Those power games are innately grasped by children and teens, with schools serving as a perennial social laboratory. Cheryl Dellasega, a Penn State women's studies professor, ticks off hypothetical examples that could have come straight from the scripts to "Mean Girls" or "Heathers." "Girls who are getting teased come home and let their [aggressors] have it by putting something on their blog and starting a rumor campaign," she said. And instead of rumors simply making the rounds among peer groups -- which can be bad enough -- "they go out to a much bigger group, a worldwide group. The impact is devastating, and it's as easy as clicking a button." "Kids don't realize that one post can destroy somebody's life forever," she added. Indeed, such incidents have made headlines. In 2006, 13-year-old Megan Meier committed suicide after becoming attracted to a boy on MySpace who then turned on her. The boy turned out to be a hoax created by a neighbor family that included a former friend of Meier's.
In August, The New York Times Magazine did a story about trolls, some barely out of their teens, who antagonize others for the sake of "lulz": "Lulz is watching someone lose their mind at their computer 2,000 miles away while you chat with friends and laugh," one ex-troll told the publication. Adults aren't immune by any means. A Japanese woman, angry at her online "husband," killed his avatar after he divorced her. A South Korean actress committed suicide after being harassed by online rumors following a divorce. Celebrity gossip sites are full of snarky comments about stars; reaction from readers is often brutal, turning the story into the online equivalent of a pile-on. Markman is quick to observe that he doesn't believe there's more anger out there. But, he said, "there are more ways of expressing it on the Internet." "We've all had interactions with unpleasant people, but we don't confront them. We take it out elsewhere," he said. "What the Internet has created is groups of people where there are no repercussions with being too aggressive." Indeed, though electronically transmitted anger has parallels throughout human history -- the bitter letter, the village gossip -- the speed at which it travels, and the number of people who may come in contact with it, is something new, says St. Joseph's Black. "[Electronic] media can increase potential for violence in a number of ways," she said in an e-mail interview. "First, it introduces ideas (good and bad) that people may not have come up with on their own. Second, it is easier to depersonalize the victim, facilitating perpetration. Third, aggressive behaviors may be reinforced with points, attention or status, especially in games." Withers has seen that first hand.
She teaches a course on the "dark side of communication" at Central Michigan, involving "the mean or evil things we do on a day-to-day basis," as she describes it: cheating, for example, or lying. As part of the course, several of her students work on a collaborative project with students at other schools, and they come together in Second Life, the virtual reality environment. If someone isn't pulling his or her weight, says Withers, others can be harsh in their judgments -- harsher than in real life, because the anger is expressed at the person's avatar. Sidebar: Dealing with anger in Second Life . Which led at least one of Withers' students to forget that the avatar was attached to a real person. "One student went off on another student and she was sitting in the classroom a few rows behind him," she said. "He knew she was there, but didn't -- there was that distancing." iReport.com: Residents of virtual worlds deal with drama, stress . Is there a way to restore civility to the Internet? Among children and teenagers, say Dellasega and Black, it's up to parents to exercise control. "I think parents need to take responsibility," Dellasega said. "They give kids computers and leave them alone. When a child is 8 or 9, the computer should be in a public place. Kids should understand that using a computer is a privilege, not a right." Schools can also play a role, she says. Black adds that parents should set clear rules on behavior and build empathy in their kids by having them reach out to those who are different. As for adults, human nature dictates that people will always lash out at others, whether it's over a perceived insult or simply because of a power differential. Web sites may ban the worst offenders, but they'll almost always pop up elsewhere, using a different name, e-mail address or even computer.
"Some people are just bitter and angry," said psychiatrist Dr. Terry Eagan, medical director of the Moonview Sanctuary in Santa Monica, California. "Sometimes, they're against everyone, other times against a specific group. That person can get really stimulated and can say all sorts of horrible things. But I don't think it's not like they didn't exist before." Whether the problem will get control of us, or we will get control of the problem, is in the way we face up to it, he says. Anger, he says, is rolled up with anxiety and fear, and nothing creates more fear like a lack of understanding. "I tell patients that I'd rather know everything about people; information is powerful," he said. "When the climate of the world is more fear-based, it permeates everything."
By . Damien Gayle . Edging slowly out of her dry dock at Barrow-in-Furness, this is the third of the Astute class submarines that will take the Royal Navy's fighting capabilities into the 21st Century. The 97m long, 7,400 tonne nuclear-powered attack submarine Artful has cost taxpayers more than £1billion but, along with its sisters, sets a new standard in weapons load and stealth. Armed with both Spearfish heavy torpedoes and Tomahawk cruise missiles, Artful's design marks a shift away from a Cold War focus on anti-submarine warfare to a concept of 'Maritime Contributions to Joint Operations'. Scroll down for video . Artful, the third highly-complex Astute class submarine designed and built by BAE Systems for the Royal Navy, appears outside her construction hall for the first time . Facts and stats: Armed with Spearfish torpedoes and Tomahawk cruise missiles, Artful's design marks a shift away from a Cold War anti-submarine warfare . The Tomahawk cruise missiles she will carry are claimed to have an accuracy of just a few metres over a range of within 1,240 miles, giving Artful the ability to support ground forces anywhere in the world. More than 39,000 acoustic tiles mask the vessel's sonar signature, meaning she slips through the seas with less noise than a baby dolphin. Yet her sonar is said to be so powerful it can detect ships leaving harbour in New York City from a listening point below the waters of the English Channel, 3,000 nautical miles away. Artful got her toes wet for the first time yesterday, more than 24 hours after she first emerged from the Devonshire Dock Hall in Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria.
She was officially named last September by Amanda, Lady Zambellas, wife of the Royal Navy’s First Sea Lord, Admiral Sir George Zambellas. Stealth: More than 39,000 acoustic tiles mask Artful's sonar signature, meaning she will slip through the seas with less noise than a baby dolphin . Hunter: Yet her sonar is so powerful it can detect ships from 3,000 nautical miles away - equivalent to the distance between the English Channel and New York . Expensive: The 97m long, 7,400 tonne nuclear-powered attack submarine Artful has cost taxpayers more than £1billion . Stuart Godden, Astute Programme Director for BAE Systems, said: 'The launch of Artful is another significant step forward in the Astute programme. 'Building on past experiences we’ve been able to launch her in the most advanced state of construction of any submarine to be built in Barrow. This allows us to now fully concentrate on the test and commissioning activities required to get her to sea. 'Moving a submarine of this size from its build hall to the water is very challenging. It’s testament to the experience and careful planning of the team involved that Artful is now ready for the next phase in her programme. 'Witnessing a submarine move out of the hall and be readied for launch is truly inspiring and a source of great pride to the thousands who have played a part in getting Artful to this stage.' Artful will now undergo a series of . complex tests to prove the safety and operability of her systems before she departs BAE Systems’ site for sea trials. Natural habitat: Artful got her toes wet for the first time yesterday, 24 hours emerging from the Devonshire Dock Hall in Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria .
Final checks: Artful will now undergo a series of tests to prove the safety and operability of her systems before she departs BAE Systems' site for sea trials . The Ministry of Defence’s Director Submarines, Rear Admiral Mike Wareham, said: 'The Astute programme is making real progress and the sight of the third submarine afloat in the water is a reflection of the hard work of both the MOD and industry. 'The launch of this submarine brings it a step closer to entering into service where it will provide a key capability for the Royal Navy and an essential component of the Submarine Service into the future.' BAE Systems, the prime contractor in the Astute programme, is the UK's only designer and builder of nuclear powered submarines - one of the most complex engineering programmes in the world today. The first two submarines in the Astute class – HMS Astute and HMS Ambush – have now been handed over to the UK Royal Navy, while the remaining five are in various stages of construction.
Cleaning House Pope Francis named Boston’s Cardinal O’Malley, a psychotherapist, and four women—one of them raped by a priest—to deal with child abuse in the Catholic Church. Some things are worth the wait. At least that is the hope when it comes to Pope Francis’s surprisingly well-rounded new commission appointed to deal with the ongoing priest sex abuse problem in the global Catholic Church. The commission, announced Saturday by the Holy See press office, is made up of four women, one of whom is a victim of sex abuse by a priest, and four men – only three of whom are clerics. The highest-ranking church official on the commission is Cardinal Sean O’Malley who was a front-runner in the papal conclave that finally elected Pope Francis a year ago. The other clerics are an Argentine priest Pope Francis shepherded through the Jesuit ranks in his home country and a German priest who is also a licensed psychotherapist. According to Vatican spokesperson Father Thomas Rosica, the Argentine, Humberto Miguel Yáñez, is a professor of moral theology who spearheaded the Symposium on the Sex Abuse of Minors two years ago. German Hans Zollner leads the Centre for Child Protection at the Institute of Psychology of the Pontifical Gregorian University. The more surprising members of the group are the female members. Marie Collins is a married Irish woman who was raped at the age of 13 by a priest. She is an activist for child safety within the Catholic Church and has been vocal about how she was snubbed by her local parish and told to “protect the priest’s good name” when she accused him. Francis also appointed noted French psychologist Catherine Bonnet, who has written extensively about child sex abuse, and Baroness Sheila Hollins from the United Kingdom who is an expert in mental health.
In what is seen as a nod to the late Pope John Paul II, Francis also named the Polish ambassador to the Holy See, Hanna Suchocka, who is a constitutional law professor and former prime minister of Poland and the winner of several awards for her work on human rights. The group’s final member is Italian canon law professor Claudio Papale, who specializes in crimes against morality. The Vatican was quick to point out that Papale, Collins and Hollins are all married. Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said that the announcement of the new commission, coming after Friday’s highly publicized prayer vigil against organized crime and before the beginning of Easter celebrations was by design. “Pope Francis has made clear that the Church must hold the protection of minors amongst her highest priorities,” Lombardi said in a statement. “This initial group is now called to work expeditiously to assist in several tasks, including: participating in the deliberations concerning the Commission’s final structure; describing the scope of its responsibilities; and developing the names of additional candidates, especially from other continents and countries, who can offer service to the Commission.” The announcement follows stark criticism of Pope Francis for dragging his heels on this extremely controversial issue. Writing in the Boston Globe, Vatican expert John Allen points out an interview Francis gave to an Italian newspaper in which he actually defended the church’s record on abuse, saying the Catholic Church “is perhaps the lone public institution to have moved with transparency and responsibility . . . yet the church is the only one to have been attacked.” The comment prompted an angry response from victims and a document dump by the group Bishop Accountability, which tracks errant bishops who shuffle predator priests from parish to parish for their protection. The group cited Francis’s record in five alleged abuse cases when he was archbishop of Buenos Aires.
According to the database, “he released no documents, no names of accused priests, no tallies of accused priests, no policy for handling abuse, not even an apology to victims.” Cardinal Sean O'Malley was among eight people, including four women, named by the pope to a panel to guide the Vatican’s anti-abuse inquiries. Pope Francis on Saturday named Cardinal Sean P. O’Malley of Boston and seven other figures with reputations as reformers to guide a new Vatican antiabuse commission, a move intended to demonstrate resolve about confronting the child sexual abuse scandals that have rocked Catholicism. O’Malley, already the lone American on the pope’s “G8” council of cardinal advisers, is also the lone American among the commission members announced Saturday. O’Malley’s new responsibility is not a full-time position, meaning he will not move to Rome and will continue to serve as the archbishop of Boston. Advertisement The lineup for the new Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors also includes Irish laywoman Marie Collins, who has said she was raped at the age of 13 by a hospital chaplain. When she tried to report the abuse years later, she said, she was told by church officials that “protecting the good name” of the priest was more important than remedying a “historical” wrong. Collins has acquired an international reputation as a campaigner for the rights of abuse victims. Get Fast Forward in your inbox: Forget yesterday's news. Get what you need today in this early-morning email. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here The pope tapped three clergy and five laity, including four women. The panel’s members come from eight countries, with seven from Europe or the United States.
Though early reaction suggests some critics of the church’s response to the abuse scandals see the announcement as a public relations exercise, a Vatican spokesman said it reflects the late Pope John Paul II’s statement that “there is no place in the priesthood or religious life for those who would harm the young.” In a sign of personal interest, Pope Francis also named a fellow Argentine and Jesuit priest, the Rev. Humberto Miguel Yáñez, who was received by the future pope into the Jesuit order in 1975 and who studied under him at an Argentine Jesuit college. He is seen as having direct access to the pontiff. Advertisement The other members announced Saturday are: ■ The Rev. Hans Zollner, a German Jesuit and the academic vice rector of the Gregorian University in Rome and head of its Institute of Psychology. Zollner coordinated a major antiabuse conference in Rome in 2012 called “Toward Healing and Renewal.” ■ Hanna Suchocka, a former prime minister of Poland and Poland’s former ambassador to the Vatican. ■ Claudio Papale, an Italian lay expert on church law who teaches at Rome’s Pontifical Urbaniana University. ■ Catherine Bonnet, a French child psychologist who has written widely on the effects of sexual abuse and exploitation on children. ■ Baroness Sheila Hollins, a former president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists and current president of the British Medical Association who has frequently consulted on child development issues in the United Kingdom. People not authorized to speak on the record told the Globe that Francis chose not to issue a legal document providing a structure and mandate for the new commission, preferring to allow the people he has put in charge to work out those details.
The initial group will also make recommendations to the pope for additional members “from various geographical regions of the world.” While plans originally called for the antiabuse body to be housed within the Vatican’s powerful Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Saturday’s announcement suggests it will have a more independent profile reporting directly to the pope. The announcement comes at a time when Francis had been facing mounting criticism for a perceived blind spot on the abuse scandals. In early March, the pontiff gave an interview to an Italian newspaper in which he seemed defensive about criticism of the church’s record, saying it “is perhaps the lone public institution to have moved with transparency and responsibility . . . yet the church is the only one to have been attacked.” Just days later, the American advocacy group BishopAccountability.org released records purporting to show that the future pope had failed to act aggressively on five cases involving priests accused of abuse in Argentina, though only one of those priests was actually ever under his direct authority. People who were not authorized to speak on the record said Francis took a personal interest in the makeup of the antiabuse commission, phoning subordinates in the Vatican in order to work out the timing of the announcement. The Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests, the main American advocacy group for victims, released a statement Saturday welcoming the choice of Collins but voicing suspicion that the commission “will be more about public relations than real change.” “Catholic officials have concealed child sex crimes for centuries and still are concealing child sex crimes,” the statement said.
“They do not need yet another ‘Study Commission.’ The pope must take strong steps right now to protect kids, expose predators, discipline enablers, and uncover cover-ups.” In part, Francis’ choice of O’Malley may reflect that he is the American cardinal closest to the pope, being the only one to have stayed in Francis’ residence in Buenos Aires before his election. In part, however, it also probably reflects that the Boston prelate has one of the most complete résumés of any senior church official in dealing with the abuse crisis. His experience began in the Fall River, Mass., diocese in 1992, where he took over amid a scandal centering on the Rev. James Porter, who was convicted of molesting 28 children and confessed to abusing at least 100 over a 30-year period. In 2002, O’Malley moved to Palm Beach, Fla., where he followed two different bishops who resigned after acknowledging offenses against minors. One year later, O’Malley succeeded the controversial Cardinal Bernard Law in Boston, eventually settling more than 100 abuse claims against the archdiocese and touting a “zero-tolerance” policy. He has led penitential liturgies apologizing to abuse victims around the world and called for new procedures to hold bishops accountable if they fail to respond aggressively to abuse claims. While SNAP calls O’Malley’s record, including his refusal to issue a complete list of names of accused Boston priests, “deeply flawed,” the archdiocese on his watch has gone from the global epicenter of the abuse crisis to a venue seen in many Catholic circles as an example of essentially successful recovery. O’Malley declined a Globe request to speak about his role on the commission beyond what was in the Vatican announcement.
In an early February interview with the Globe, however, O’Malley discussed the commission and Francis’ broader approach to the abuse crisis. “He’s certainly aware of how serious this issue is,” O’Malley said of the new pope at that time. “I don’t think he has a plan yet for how to deal with it.” O’Malley suggested that one important function of the new commission might be working with national-level conferences of bishops around the world to ensure that they have all implemented antiabuse guidelines. The aim of that effort, he said, is “to have some clarity about what the expectations are throughout the world.” O’Malley also suggested that the commission might be able to make progress on what many critics charge is the most serious piece of unfinished business from the crisis, which is holding bishops accountable if they fail to apply the church’s official “zero-tolerance” policy. Critics point, for instance, to Bishop Robert Finn of Kansas City, Mo., who was found guilty in September 2012 of a misdemeanor charge of failure to report a priest accused of abuse and yet remains in office. Finn was acquitted of a second charge. “I hope this commission will help the church develop protocols, so there will be a very clear path to follow” in such cases, O’Malley said. He added that it would likely not be the commission’s job to investigate individual cases, but rather to help develop procedures the pope can apply when charges arise that a bishop has failed to respond appropriately. The new commission is expected to meet two or three times a year, with members staying in touch by phone and e-mail in the meantime.
VATICAN CITY (AP) — Pope Francis named the initial members of a commission to advise him on sex abuse policy Saturday, signaling an openness to reach beyond church officials to plot the commission's course and priorities: Half of the members are women, and one was assaulted by a priest as a child. The eight members were announced after Francis came under fire from victims' groups for a perceived lack of attention to the abuse scandal, which has seriously damaged the Catholic Church's reputation around the world and cost dioceses and religious orders billions of dollars in legal fees and settlements. The Vatican in December announced that Francis would create the commission to advise the church on best policies to protect children, train church personnel and keep abusers out of the clergy. But no details had been released until Saturday and it remains unknown if the commission will deal with the critical issue of disciplining bishops who cover up for abusers. In a statement, the Vatican hinted that it might, saying the commission would look into both "civil and canonical duties and responsibilities" for church personnel. Canon law does provide for sanctions if a bishop is negligent in carrying out his duties, but such punishments have never been imposed on a bishop for failing to report a pedophile priest to police. The eight inaugural members include Marie Collins, who was assaulted as a 13-year-old by a hospital chaplain in her native Ireland and has gone on to become a prominent campaigner for accountability in the church. Also named was Cardinal Sean O'Malley, one of Francis' key advisers and the archbishop of Boston, where the U.S. scandal erupted in 2002. Two other members are professors at Rome's Jesuit Pontifical Gregorian University, which in 2012 hosted a seminar for bishops from around the world to educate them on best practices to protect children. Several participants from that conference are now founding members of Francis' commission, including Baroness Sheila Hollins, a British psychiatrist.
During that 2012 conference, Collins told the bishops of her own ordeal, of the hospitalizations, anxiety and depression she endured after Irish church authorities didn't believe her when she reported her attacker, and then blamed her for the assault. "I was treated as someone with an agenda against the church, the police investigation was obstructed and the laity misled. I was distraught," Collins said at the time, calling for bishops to be held accountable when they don't report abusers to law enforcement. The Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said the institution of the commission was evidence that Francis believed "the church must hold the protection of minors among her highest priorities." But in a March 5 interview with Corriere della Sera, Francis appeared defensive about the issue, complaining that the church had been unfairly attacked. He acknowledged the "profound" wounds abuse leaves and credited Pope Benedict XVI with turning the church around. Benedict in 2001 took over handling abuse cases because bishops were moving pedophiles around rather than punishing them. In his final two years as pope he defrocked nearly 400 abusive priests. But Francis then added: "The Catholic Church is perhaps the only public institution that has moved with transparency and responsibility. No one has done more. And yet the church is the only one that has been attacked." Collins' appointment to the panel was hailed by Dublin Archbishop Diarmuid Martin, who has clashed both with the Vatican and his fellow bishops in demanding greater accountability and honesty about abuse. SNAP, the main U.S. victim's group also praised her inclusion but said the pope doesn't need another study panel, he just needs to oust complicit bishops. "He's had more than a year to defrock, demote, discipline or denounce even one of them," said SNAP's outreach director Barbara Dorris in a statement. "But, just like his predecessors, he refuses to take this simple but crucial step toward justice, healing and prevention."
The initial group named Saturday will define the scope, statutes and priorities of the commission and propose other members to better reflect the church's geographic diversity. Other members include: —Catherine Bonnet, a French consultant in child and adolescent psychiatry. —Claudio Papale, an Italian canon lawyer and official of the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which handles sex abuse cases. —Poland's recently departed longtime ambassador to the Vatican, Hanna Suchocka, a constitutional lawyer. —The Rev. Humberto Miguel Yanez, an Argentine Jesuit who studied with Francis as a seminarian and currently is head of moral theology at the Gregorian. —The Rev. Hans Zollner, the vice-rector of the Gregorian, a Jesuit psychologist and psychotherapist who organized the Gregorian seminar and also serves on the German government's roundtable on child abuse. ___ Follow Nicole Winfield at www.twitter.com/nwinfield
The video shows the bird briefly lifting the child in a Montreal park before dropping him unharmed. Nearly 17 million people have watched the video on YouTube in three days. But a digital training centre in Montreal later told the BBC that the clip was made by its students as part of a degree course. Suzanne Guevremont, director of the Centre NAD, said the clip had been produced by four students who "had an idea of making something believable". The students - who were doing a degree in 3D animation and digital design - had come up with the idea after a brainstorming session, completing the project in seven weeks, she said. "It's a challenge they wanted to test their skills," Ms Guevremont said. She added that the bird and the child seen being snatched were all computer generated imagery (CGI), and the only real things in the video were the park, the boy (after being dropped on the ground) and his father comforting him. The CGI was dropped into real footage to create the effect. Some YouTube and Twitter users expressed doubts about the authenticity of the clip soon after it was posted online on 18 December.
By . Rosie Taylor . PUBLISHED: . 19:36 EST, 8 October 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 03:54 EST, 9 October 2013 . Craig Revel Horwood has revealed how he owes his success to a ‘sugar daddy’ lover he met when he was just 17. The Strictly Come Dancing judge said the 43-year-old man paid for his dance lessons and helped kick-start his television career in return for ‘doing the dirty’. Revel Horwood, known for his acerbic comments on the BBC1 show, said the nature of the relationship meant he had previously been described by some as a ‘rent boy’. Strictly judge Craig Revel Horwood has revealed how he owes his success to a 'sugar daddy' lover he met when he was just 17. Right, the dancer at 18 years old . The dancer made the revelations last night at the Cheltenham Literature Festival, where he also disclosed he is to undergo hip surgery in two weeks’ time. In a wide-ranging interview, he also discussed how celebrities found it uncomfortable to be ‘flung about by dancers’ on the popular show. Discussing his relationship with the older man, Revel Horwood, 48, said he was approached while he was living in his native Australia as a teenager. Describing him as ‘Mr X’ for legal reasons, Revel Horwood said: ‘It was this man who was 43 and I was 17. ‘He said I will pay for your classes but you come away with me and we do the dirty.
‘I suppose that could be compared to a lady getting engaged and getting a great big sparkling Tiffany ring – and then breaking off the engagement but keeping the ring.’ At the time, Revel Horwood had left school and was training as a chef, but said he ‘hated’ it, adding that Mr X ‘saved me from that’. Revel Horwood has become known for his acerbic comments on BBC1 show Strictly Come Dancing . However, Revel Horwood did not divulge any further details of the relationship and quickly moved on to other subjects. Talking about his imminent hip surgery, Revel Horwood said it would clash with filming for the current series. He said: ‘I’m going in at six o’clock in the morning on Sunday after filming Saturday night live. ‘I will be watching myself on the telly . on Sunday night [the results show screened on Sunday is filmed on . Saturday night] with my old hip and I’ll have a new one in.’ He added: . ‘I will be made of titanium and I can’t wait, darling.’ Asked whether he would be fit to return to the show the following week, he said he might have to face the cameras and the audience in a wheelchair, adding: ‘A fabulous glittery one I hope.’ He also revealed how celebrities found it difficult being ‘manhandled’. ‘Sometimes you throw a girl up and she will fart and come back down,’ he joked. In his latest book, Tales From the Dance Floor, Revel Horwood wrote about how fellow Strictly judge Darcey Bussell breaks wind on set.
Last night he said he had not warned her before the book was published – and the first thing she said to him when she saw him after reading it was, ‘Fart?’ But he added she had taken it well and spent the entire night’s filming leaning to one side and pretending to break wind. ‘We were in stitches,’ he said.
There can't be many days in the year when pedestrians, cyclists - and skateboarders - reign supreme on some of Israel's busiest roads. In a scene which could have come straight from a movie, there isn't a car in sight as families, teenagers and Rabbis freely roam the empty streets. On any other day, you might expect the highways in and around Jerusalem and Tel Aviv to be teeming with traffic, choking fumes rising above the cityscape. Deserted: These youngsters on a bike and a skateboard take advantage of the empty streets of Jerusalem during the Jewish holiday of Yom Kippur . Pedestrians crossing: An Israeli family takes a stroll on a deserted highway in Tel Aviv . Nice day for it: Two Orthodox Jewish men walk down a road surrounded by cyclists . But thanks to the holiest Jewish holiday of Yom Kippur the streets are empty and the air is clear, allowing many to enjoy a rare car-free day. Yom Kippur - or Day of Atonement - is the holiest of Jewish holidays, when observant Jews atone for sins of the last year. Israel came to a standstill for 24 hours during the holiday, in which Jews fast and Israelis are prohibited from driving their cars. As these incredible pictures show, youths on skateboards and bikes, joggers - and even Orthodox Jewish men - take to the tarmac making some of Israel's busiest cities look like ghost towns. Ghost town: There can't be many days in the year when boys on BMX bikes rule the roads . Holiest of Jewish holidays: Yom Kippur sees Israel come to a standstill for 24 hours - observant Jews fast while the whole country is banned from driving . Smog-free: The air must surely be clearer during Yom Kippur as there are no car exhausts emitting fumes .
Meanwhile, headstones at a Muslim and a Christian cemetery were desecrated by unknown assailants in Jaffa today, an Israeli website said. Pictures of one gravestone with the words 'death to Arabs' spray painted . in Hebrew and the words 'Price tag', a slogan used by militant Jewish . West Bank settlers and their supporters, on another. A third photograph showed a broken tombstone but none of the photographs could be independently verified due to the fast day's traditional travel limitations. The 'price-taggers' have vowed to avenge any move by Israel to uproot settlement outposts built in the occupied West Bank without Israeli government permission and have torched mosques and vandalised both Israeli and Palestinian property. City of the cyclists: These Israeli boys ride their bikes down an empty motorway in Tel Aviv . Police and Jewish Israeli officials were not available for comment during the Yom Kippur fast day and a local Muslim community leader in Jaffa quoted in the article did not reply when contacted. Jaffa is the ancient part of Tel Aviv which has a mixed Arab and Jewish population. On Monday, a mosque in a Bedouin village in northern Israel was set on fire and graffiti sprayed on its walls in an attack authorities have blamed on hard-line Jewish settlers. The torching drew broad condemnation from top Israeli leaders and President Shimon Peres and the country's chief rabbis also visited the scene to calm tensions. In 2005 a Jewish couple was charged for throwing a pig's head into a Tel Aviv mosque in an attempt to derail Israel's then pullout from the Gaza Strip which went ahead in August of that year. In 2008 riots erupted in the coastal city of Acre in northern Israel when Jews accosted an Arab man who drove his car into a predominantly Jewish neighborhood during Yom Kippur when all traffic halts and the country shuts down for 24 hours.
That's quite a sight: The Jewish 'Day of Atonement' see observant Jews atoning for their sins of the past year .
The 26-year-old collided with Black Cats midfielder Wahbi Khazri. "It is dislocated so he is out for several weeks," said United boss Louis van Gaal after Saturday's game. Luke Shaw, Marcos Rojo, Ashley Young, Antonio Valencia, Phil Jones and Guillermo Varela are out - leaving Cameron Borthwick-Jackson and Donald Love as the club's only fit full-backs. Love, 21, who was on loan at Wigan earlier this season, came off the bench during the Premier League game to make his first-team debut. Saturday was also the first time he had featured in United's first-team squad. Borthwick-Jackson, 19, made his first-team debut in November. "We don't have any more full-backs in this club," added Van Gaal. "I have to line up a 13-year-old guy or someone like that." Darmian joined United from Italian side Torino last summer and started at right-back against Sunderland.
Fulham had the better of the first half with Aboubakar Kamara's going close and Ibrahima Cisse striking the base of the post with a drive from 25 yards. David Button saved one-on-one from Chris Wood before Leeds' Felix Wiedwald made a similar stop from Sone Aluko. Kalvin Phillips and Wood missed late chances for Leeds as the sides played out a fifth successive league draw. Leeds and Fulham had drawn their previous four league games by a 1-1 scoreline, but Wood and Aluko both spurned great chances for their sides in a stalemate. The visitors dominated the opening stages, but could not beat Rob Green's replacement Wiedwald in goal as Stefan Johansen, Kamara and Cisse were all off target. Leeds responded after the break but Phillips fired wide and Wood could not get on the end of a late Stuart Dallas cross, as Thomas Christiansen's side drew a blank for the second time in four days. Leeds boss Thomas Christiansen: "It's another clean sheet and I believe the team played a very good game. "We have to recognise that we played against one of the best teams in this league. They started very well and we were not fast enough. "At the end of the first half we controlled the game a bit more and in the second we deserved more. "We need to be a bit more dangerous up front but at the end I'm satisfied with that result." Fulham boss Slavisa Jokanovic: "We showed different faces. "We opened the game very well and created chances but they pressed us better at the start of the second half and the result was fair at the end. "It's positive that we haven't lost any games but it's a bad thing we haven't won any games in the start of the season." Match ends, Leeds United 0, Fulham 0.
Second Half ends, Leeds United 0, Fulham 0. Attempt missed. Neeskens Kebano (Fulham) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Ibrahima Cissé. Neeskens Kebano (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing. Foul by Pontus Jansson (Leeds United). Attempt missed. Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Pablo Hernández with a cross following a corner. Corner, Leeds United. Conceded by Tim Ream. Attempt missed. Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) left footed shot from the left side of the box misses to the right. Attempt blocked. Neeskens Kebano (Fulham) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Oliver Norwood with a through ball. Sone Aluko (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing. Foul by Eunan O'Kane (Leeds United). Vurnon Anita (Leeds United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul. Sone Aluko (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing. Foul by Vurnon Anita (Leeds United). Substitution, Leeds United. Stuart Dallas replaces Samuel Sáiz. Offside, Fulham. Stefan Johansen tries a through ball, but Sone Aluko is caught offside. Corner, Fulham. Conceded by Felix Wiedwald. Attempt saved. Sone Aluko (Fulham) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Stefan Johansen with a through ball. Substitution, Fulham.
Oliver Norwood replaces Aboubakar Kamara. Attempt missed. Samuel Sáiz (Leeds United) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Kalvin Phillips. Attempt blocked. Stefan Johansen (Fulham) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Sone Aluko. Foul by Aboubakar Kamara (Fulham). Pontus Jansson (Leeds United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Offside, Leeds United. Pontus Jansson tries a through ball, but Pablo Hernández is caught offside. Attempt missed. Sone Aluko (Fulham) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Kevin McDonald. Attempt blocked. Pablo Hernández (Leeds United) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Foul by Ryan Fredericks (Fulham). Samuel Sáiz (Leeds United) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul. Stefan Johansen (Fulham) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United). Substitution, Leeds United. Kemar Roofe replaces Ezgjan Alioski. Attempt missed. Luke Ayling (Leeds United) left footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left following a set piece situation. Foul by Stefan Johansen (Fulham). Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) wins a free kick on the left wing. Ryan Sessegnon (Fulham) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Foul by Ezgjan Alioski (Leeds United). Corner, Leeds United. Conceded by Kevin McDonald.
Attempt blocked. Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Pablo Hernández. Attempt missed. Denis Odoi (Fulham) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. Assisted by Tim Ream.
By . Tania Steere . Cilla Black, 71, who has joined the euthanasia debate admitting that she doesn't want to live too long . Veteran TV star Cilla Black joined the euthanasia debate last night, admitting she still thinks 75 is ‘a good age to go’. ‘I still think that way,’ the 71-year-old Blind Date presenter told the Daily Mirror. ‘If things are starting to drop off – like the hearing – and I’ve got twinges in the morning, I do think that.’ Her own mother suffered from the progressive bone disease osteoporosis and endured a slow and painful end. ‘She said to me once, “I’m trying to die but I can’t”, oh God it was heart breaking. The brain was great but the body wasn’t,’ she said. ‘Eventually when she did die she was 84, it wasn’t a good experience. I think that’s what has made me feel like this. ‘My biggest fear is going like that when I can’t control my body.’ However, the mother-of-three, who also has two grandsons, said that although she agreed with clinics like Dignitas in Switzerland, where people can end their own lives, she didn’t plan to take matters into her own hands. She added: ‘I agree with Dignitas, but I couldn’t be the one to administer the poison that kills me. I know I couldn’t commit suicide. I’m too much of a coward, I couldn’t do it. I’d rather somebody make that decision for me.’ Best known for presenting Blind Date from 1985 to 2003, Miss Black has not officially retired but rarely makes TV appearances.
She had been due to star in a BBC sitcom with chat show host Paul O’Grady but the project was axed amid concerns she would be unable to stand the long filming hours. Miss Black began her career more than 50 years ago as a singer, and had a string of top ten hits in the Sixties and Seventies. Miss Black, pictured here making her last appearance on Blind Date in 2003. She has not officially retired but rarely makes TV appearances . After a brief time as a comedy actress, she became a TV presenter in the 1980s. Her husband Bobby Willis, who died in 1999 from cancer, was her manager for much of her career. On Sunday she will collect a TV BAFTA special award in recognition of her outstanding contribution to entertainment. She will receive the prize at the event - officially called the Arqiva British Academy Television Awards - on May 18 at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, in London and it will also be broadcast by BBC1. It coincides with a new biopic of her life, starring actress Sheridan Smith. The ITV drama from Jeff Pope will ‘capture the essence of 1960s Liverpool’. It will also focus on how Black’s friendship with Ringo Starr brought her to the attention of Beatles' manager Brian Epstein and producer George Martin.
(CNN) -- Borussia Dortmund moved a big step closer to a first German Bundesliga title in nine years on Saturday with a historic 3-1 victory over defending champions Bayern Munich at the Allianz Arena. Jurgen Klopp's team moved 13 points clear of second-placed Bayer Leverkusen, who visit Werder Bremen on Sunday, and 16 ahead of Bayern -- who lost at home to Dortmund for the first time in 20 years. Louis van Gaal's team dropped to fourth after the home defeat, occupying Germany's final Champions League position for next season with 10 rounds to play. Paraguay striker Lucas Barrios opened the scoring in the ninth minute with his 11th goal of the season after Bayern midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger lost posesssion to Kevin Grosskreutz, who threaded a perfect pass into the penalty area. Welcome win for struggling Wolfsburg . Brazilian defender Luis Gustavo equalized seven minutes later with his first goal for Bayern since arriving from Hoffenheim in January, sidefooting in a volley from Franck Ribery's corner. Dortmund immediately went back in front through a wonderful effort from Turkey midfielder Nuri Sahin, who curled a 20-yard left-foot shot past goalkeeper Thomas Kraft. Bundesliga top scorer Mario Gomez thought he had leveled again in the 20th minute, but the striker was ruled to be offside. Former Bayern defender Mats Hummels sealed the Westphalian team's victory with a header from Mario Gotze's corner on the hour mark. With 15 minutes left, Dortmund's 22-year-old Australian keeper Mitchell Langerak capped a solid Bundesliga debut when he denied Germany international Gomez from close range. Hanover claimed third place after central defender Christian Schulz's last-gasp header was enough to see off St. Pauli.
The 27-year-old converted from Portuguese winger Sergio Pinto's 87th-minute corner to put Mirko Slomka's team two points ahead of Bayern,. Mainz remained in fifth place after also needing a late goal to snatch all three points away to Hoffenheim. Former Austria midfielder Andreas Ivanschitz put the visitors in front before his compatriot David Alaba looked to have rescued a draw for ninth-placed Hoffenheim in the 84th minute. But with just four minutes left, 30-year-old Colombian midfielder Elkin Soto secured victory for Thomas Tuchel's Mainz with his second league goal of the season. Germany international Lukas Podolski scored an 88th-minute winner to help Cologne beat SC Freiburg and climb into 11th position, eight points behind their opponents. Sixth-placed Hamburg could only manage a 1-1 draw away to relegation-threatened Kaiserslautern. Marco Kurz's Kaiserslautern drew first blood through Adam Hlousek's first-half goal, but Marcell Jansen's leveler for Armin Veh's Hamburg left the home team in 15th position and above the relegation play-off place on goal difference. Schalke's disappointing Bundesliga season continued with a 1-1 draw at home to Nuremberg. Nuremberg, currently eighth in the table, took the lead through Jens Hegeler, only for former Real Madrid and Spain striker Raul to equalize after 52 minutes.
KATHMANDU, Nepal (CNN) -- Lawmakers in Nepal will vote Saturday to pick the country's first president since it became a republic. Nepal became a republic after the deposal of King Gyanendra Shah earlier this year. The country's newly elected Constituent Assembly abolished a 239-year monarchy following elections in April. But with no one party winning a majority of the seats, it is unclear who may become president. The position is largely ceremonial. But a president will swear in whoever is picked as the new prime minister. The three main political parties continued to negotiate over whom to name president. The Nepali Congress wants outgoing prime minister and party president Girija Prasad Koirala for the position. The Communist Party of Nepal (United Marxist-Leninist) wants its leader. But the Maoists -- which won the largest number of seats but fell short of a majority -- do not favor either of the two men. They want a non-political figure as president. Journalist Manesh Shrestha contributed to this report .
A two-year-old boy never woke from his routine afternoon nap after being struck down by a mysterious virus, an inquest heard. Fit and healthy Elliot Kerslake is thought to have had a seizure from swelling of his brain as he suffered from an everyday cold. Hours earlier, Elliot had been showing off a dance routine for his sister's friends and cheering on his big brother Oliver, 12, at a football match. Elliot Kerslake, two, from Leeds, died in his sleep from a swelling to his brain caused by a mystery virus. Doctors have said there is 'nothing that could have saved him' His parents John and Andrea Kerslake wept as a coroner heard their written evidence about his sudden death on March 3, 2013. Mrs Kerslake, 45, said Elliot had been put down for his post-lunch nap at 2pm, and his sister found him dead three hours later. She told the coroner: 'I read him a Fireman Sam story as I put him down for an afternoon nap at 2pm just after his lunch. 'I told him I loved him and closed the curtains. Around that time John came home. I had left the door open and thirty minutes later I went back to check on him. 'He was lying on his tummy and making a little sobbing noise. I didn't think much of it as my two other children used to do the same when they were younger. 'I went in and said to him 'do you want to come down, sweetheart? ', but he didn't answer.' Mrs Kerslake said she was gardening as her husband watched football on TV when their daughter Emily, now 14, screamed. They found Elliot lying 'blue and floppy' and called an ambulance to their home in Shadwell, Leeds. An operator told John how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
Mr Kerslake said: 'I continued fighting for him shouting "come on Elliot, you can do it", although I started to feel in my mind that he was gone.' Encephalitis is an uncommon but serious condition that causes inflammation of the brain. Encephalitis usually begins with flu-like symptoms, such as a high temperature, a headache and joint pain. More serious symptoms may then develop over the next few hours or days, including: . Flu-like symptoms that rapidly get worse and affect mental state should be treated as a medical emergency. In these circumstances, dial 999 immediately and request an ambulance. Source: NHS Choices . The parents accompanied their son in the ambulance but he was pronounced dead at Leeds General Infirmary. Leeds Coroners Court heard how the energetic youngster had been playing in the garden and entertaining his sister's friends who had been on a sleepover hours before his death. Mrs Kerslake said: 'Because of the other children staying, Elliot was in our bed the night before. 'We had read bedtime stories and in the morning we had a big hug. 'We chatted about what we would do that day and I dressed him in his blue dungarees with patterned socks, so I could grab hold of him if he ran off. 'He was so excited that morning and did a little dance for his sister's friends. 'We went to Starbucks to get a coffee and he ate normally. Then later we went to see his older brother Oliver play in a football match. 'I had to wipe his runny nose quite a bit that day, but didn't think much of it. 'My husband met us at the football field at lunchtime and I remember Elliot shouting "that's my daddy" and ran over to him to give him a cuddle.' She added that they left to go home for lunch, where Elliot was put down for the nap from which he never woke up.
Dr Richard Newton, a specialist in child neurology at Manchester Royal Infirmary, said the cause of Elliot's death was most likely encephalitis - inflammation of the brain - caused by a virus which triggered a seizure as he slept. He said: 'This was a well little boy with a cold, essentially. He went down in the afternoon for a nap which is a routine almost every family in Britain bears witness to. 'I would suggest the cause of Elliot's death to be a seizure during his nap related to encephalitis, caused by an indeterminable virus. 'There are thousands, if not millions of types of virus and it would be impossible to determine which kind.' Hours before his death, Elliot had been in a good mood. He woke up to a hug with mother Andrea, 45 (right), performed a dance for his sister Emily (left) Dr Newton added there was 'nothing that could have saved Elliot'. He said: 'The events that afternoon were common events in every household. 'He ate his lunch, had his nap and must have died within that time. 'It's part of nature's rare unkindness.' Coroner David Hinchliff said the cause of death was, on the balance of probabilities, 'inflammation of the brain caused by an indeterminable viral infection'. He recorded a verdict of natural causes. Speaking before the hearing, Mr Kerslake said: 'Elliot loved life, he relished every new experience. He gave so much love to us, his brother and sister and all that knew him. 'It's comforting to know that his short life will impact positively on others during the months and years to come.'
It happened on Hearthcote Road in Swadlincote, Derbyshire, just before 02:00 BST. The Range Rover ended up embedded in the property. Derbyshire Police said no one was hurt but two people had to leave their home and have not been able to return due to fears over structural damage. An investigation has begun and police have appealed for witnesses. BBc reporter Martyn Williams, at the crash scene, said: "Part of the front wall has been completely demolished with bits of brick and wall everywhere. "One part of the wall has moved at least four or five metres from where it originally was." The road was closed for about an hour and no arrests were made. Police said one driver suffered minor injuries but did not need to go to hospital.
It follows the discovery of a suspicious object in the Millreagh housing development earlier on Wednesday night. Police are also at the scene of the alert.
(CNN) -- A deathbed photo of Gary Coleman appeared Wednesday on the cover of Globe Magazine, showing the actor's ex-wife staring into the camera next to the former child actor. The man named executor in Coleman's will accused Shannon Price of profiting from her ex-husband's death by selling the image to the tabloid, and suggested she is destined for the "life of a social and professional outcast." Coleman divorced Price in 2008, but they were living together in Santaquin, Utah, when he suffered a fall at home last month and died two days later of a brain hemorrhage in a Provo, Utah, hospital. Globe parent company American Media confirmed it bought the photo, but spokeswoman Samantha Trenk would not disclose how much was paid or who sold the image. A Utah judge appointed Dion Mial, Coleman's longtime friend and former manager, as special administrator of the estate while the will goes through the probate process. A will signed in 1999 named Mial as executor. Mial threatened to have Price, 24, arrested unless she returned property he said had been taken from Coleman's home since his death. She must also stay away from the Santaquin home where they lived together, Mial said. While Coleman was not believed wealthy when he died, his personal possessions may be valuable to collectors. "These items include, but are not limited to, numerous televisions and video game systems, a black 2005 Dodge pick-up truck (registered to Coleman), cargo trailer (registered to Coleman), model train sets, computers, telephones, musical instruments, and furnishings," Mial said. "It is our hope that Miss Price should immediately and respectfully comply with the court's order, so as to avoid the filing of criminal charges against her," Mial said.
Mial was unable to stop the Globe from publishing the death images, which he accused Price of peddling to tabloids in an "ongoing desperate attempt" to profit from his death. "These actions simply illuminate and magnify the truth that our gift of free will may, ultimately, relegate us to a long life of bondage and imprisonment that the life of a social and professional outcast, indeed, will bring," Mial said Wednesday. "May God bless Miss Price and her 'free will.'" A statement released by Price's publicist Monday did not deny Mial's accusation, but did say she needed money because she had helped Mial pay for a lawyer. "Dion, who claims to be a good friend of Gary, would know that Gary's only wishes were to make sure that Shannon would be OK after he was gone," the statement said. "So if Dion was a good friend he would be assisting Shannon, not taking all her money, to pay for his attorney and then use it to take everything from her."
A spa manager received third-degree burns when a scented candle set light to acetone she was using to clean an elderly woman's nails. Julia McKeown, who works at the four-star Dalmeny Hotel in Lytham St Annes, Lancashire, was badly burned on her hands, arms, chest and stomach and had to spend three months in hospital having skin grafts after the accident. Today Blackpool Magistrate's Court heard Mrs McKeown, 38, also suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder. The customer, 96-year-old Mary Heyworth, was unharmed. Julia McKeown (pictured, left) was burned on her hands, arms and chest after a scented candle set light to acetone she was using to clean a customer's fingernails . The accident happened when Mrs McKeown spilled the chemical on herself and the candle. Staff rushed to help her but she suffered third-degree burns and had to have skin grafts . The accident happened in January last year when Mrs McKeown spilled acetone on herself during a spa treatment in the pool area of the hotel. Mrs McKeown was engulfed in flames after the liquid also spilled on to a scented tea light candle which was being used in a decorative lantern. Staff rushed to help her and managed to put out the flames, but Mrs McKeown was already very badly burned. Michael Hayton QC, prosecuting, said: 'Mrs Mc Keown the salon manager was using a pad soaked in acetone from a two and a half litre bottle. 'The bottle spilled and splashed on the beautician’s arms and body and the table.She and her clothing ignited from the naked flame of a tealight type of candle which was lit and placed in a open topped lantern. 'Staff went to her aid but she had to undergo extensive skin grafts some of them full depth.
'The local council investigated and found a a the hotel company failed in its duty to protect its employees.There was no training and no supervision when it came to using what is known to be a significantly hazardous product. 'The investigation showed there had been previous spillages of acetone and the company had been previously warned about health and safety issues.' The accident happened in January last year at the four-star Dalmeny Hotel in Lytham St Annes, Lancashire . Fining Dalmeny Hotel Ltd £16,000 and ordering the company to pay £9,075 in costs, District Judge Joanne Hirst said: 'The woman suffered significant and horrific burns to her body. 'She has suffered a loss of self esteem as a result and her marriage has been affected, as has her social life. 'The hotel failed to heed earlier warnings about health and safety. There had been previous problems with the use of acetone and a systematic failure in safety and risk to staff.' Charles Lavery, defending, said: 'The directors of the hotel deeply regret what happened. They believe the size of the bottle their member of staff purchased was unsuitable to use to take off nail varnish. 'After the incident, caused by failings which conspired together, the company brought in health and safety consultants and has totally addressed any problems.' Mrs McKeown, who has worked at the spa since 2006, is now back at work but has launched a compensation claim against her employers.
By . Will Stewart In Moscow . Media tycoon Alexander Lebedev shovelled snow in a remote Russian village last week as part of his sentence for punching a fellow oligarch during a TV debate. The former KGB spy, owner of The Independent titles and the London Evening Standard, was ordered to clear snow at a nursery school in Maxim Gorky, close to a potato farm he owns 180 miles south of Moscow. He said he was 'enjoying' the work, which will amount to 150 hours of service. Hard at work: Owner of The Independent Alexander Lebedev cleared snow in front of a school . Punishment: The snow-shovelling follows a shift of digging and lifting to repair a playground in Maxim Gorky . Convenience: Lebedev changed his official residential address to the nearby village of Popovka, 177 miles south of Moscow, which meant he would serve his punishment close to his potato farm . The 53-year-old was spared jail despite a . conviction in July for dramatically striking billionaire Sergei . Polonsky during the 2011 television chat show. The trial was considered to be a political ‘show trial’ and linked to Lebedev’s ownership of a Russian investigative newspaper which spotlights corruption in Vladimir Putin’s government and entourage. Dressed in a designer jacket and gloves, . Lebedev, 53, cleared the first big snow of winter to allow children to . attend the school. Sentenced: Lebedev was sentenced to 150 hours of service for punching a fellow oligarch on TV . So far, the banker has learned to handle a chainsaw and fretsaw to mend playground apparatus - despite criticising his conviction and the penal system for failing to exploit his expertise. He said: ‘I object to the conviction in a legal sense so how can this be a meaningful punishment?
Still, the law is the law and I show by doing what I am doing that I respect the law.’ He added: ‘It is a pity that such public works don’t use the most of what a person can do. ‘I would be glad to give some lectures, but no way, instead I must improve the environment and do something very simple that does not require even minimum qualifications.’ The penal authorities yesterday sought to . detain him in the tiny village for the duration of his sentence, but he . has demanded a move closer to Moscow, where his Siberian-born wife, . model Elena Perminova, lives with their two young children. The tycoon’s 83-year-old mother Maria, a teacher, came to check he was working properly in his exile. ‘She never praises. It was good she did not criticise me,’ he jokingly said. Mr Lebedev’s snow-clearing came as others convicted under by controversial court decisions in Russia are in limbo about their fate. Russia appeared last week to dash hopes that 26 foreigners - among 30 people seized during a Greenpeace protest in the Arctic - would be allowed to travel home for Christmas. Verdict: Lebedev, centre left with his son and co-publisher Evgeny, at the trial in Moscow earlier this year . The powerful Investigative Committee, equivalent of the FBI, is objecting allowing them exit visas to fly home pending trials for “hooliganism” in protesting at a Gazprom oil rig in the Arctic. Jailed Pussy Riot singers Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 24, and Maria Alyokhina, 25, are forced to wait to see if they qualify release under a state amnesty or whether their two year sentences will be quashed after the Russian supreme court, which last week ordered a view of their punishments.
Mr Lebedev called for both the Greenpeace campaigners and the Pussy Riot singers to be amnestied.
A car-lover's classic Morris Minor is still going strong after clocking up 300,000 miles in its 49 years on the road. Pensioner John Davies' two-door car's odometer has gone around the clock three times since it was registered on November 1, 1965. But Mr Davies, 84, from Aberystwyth, west Wales, can still rely on the Morris Minor 100 for his shopping trips, and wouldn't dream of swapping the motor for a newer model. Classic model: Pensioner John Davies's Morris Minor is still going strong after clocking up 300,000 miles in its 49 years on the road . Spinning around: The car's odometer has gone round three times since it was registered on November 1, 1965 . Retired train driver Mr Davies bought the car for just £50 from his brother Arthur 30 years ago to save it from the scrapheap. 'My brother was the second owner and he bought the Morris Minor for £350,' he said. 'Arthur left it at the garage one day and thought it would be scrapped, but I ended up driving it home and it was fine. 'I paid £900 to get it all sorted and get it on the road and it's still got the same engine it had when it was built. Going strong: Mr Davies, 84, from Aberystwyth, west Wales, can still rely on the Morris Minor 100 for his shopping trips, and wouldn't dream of swapping the motor for a newer model . On the road: Retired train driver Mr Davies bought the car for just £50 from his brother Arthur 30 years ago to save it from the scrapheap . 'But it's only ever broken down once when a piston blew - and even then I managed to drive it up a hill and to the garage.' Widower Mr Davies gets the car serviced every year and also takes it to a specialist garage in Bristol for repairs.
He attributes the cars longevity to doing everything by the book and has no plans to ever sell it. The great-grandfather said: 'Last year I did 1,153 miles in it and I spend about £15 a fortnight on petrol. 'Insurance for this year cost me £166.85, which isn't too bad. 'I don't want anything else, it's very comfortable, convenient and reliable.' Treasured: Mr Davies gets the car serviced every year and also takes it to a specialist garage in Bristol for repairs. He attributes the cars longevity to doing everything by the book and has no plans to ever sell it .
Swathes of the Australian states of Queensland and New South Wales (NSW) have been partially submerged in floods. Torrential rain lashed heavily populated areas as the remnants of Cyclone Debbie moved down the nation's east coast. As floods continued to rise in some towns, photographers captured locals surveying damage to their communities. Several rivers broke their banks, prompting emergency warnings. Residents in Billinudgel, NSW, used surfboards to paddle down the street. Queensland's capital Brisbane was not spared, and an evacuation order was issued for the town of Beaudesert. Businesses were inundated in South Murwillumbah, one of the towns hardest hit. The severe weather washed away roads and brought down trees. Insurers say it is too early to estimate a damage bill. Authorities said tens of thousands of people lost power in the downpour. Even a bull shark turned up in the floods, prompting a warning. Fortunately for New South Wales and Queensland, the storm system has now moved out to sea.
Workers have been accused of wasting money after choosing to widen a footpath rather than cut back an overgrown hedge so people could get past. The path, which links a main road to pensioner bungalows in Bradford, West Yorkshire, had become blocked due to a hedge running alongside it becoming overgrown. But it is claimed that workmen decided to widen the path so more people had space to pass the rampant overgrown hedge, rather than just prune back its leaves and branches. Scroll down for video . Leslie Howard, next to the path extension laid by workers, rather than them pruning back the nearby overgrown hedge . Leslie Howard, who lives nearby and uses the path often said he was shocked to see workers lay down the tarmac instead of cutting the hedge. The 74-year-old said: 'I couldn't believe it when I saw that instead of cutting the bush back they'd put more tarmac down. 'It's a complete waste of money. I reckon I could have cut the hedge back in half an hour. 'How long does it take to dig out the grass, put hard core down and lay a path?' Mr Howard also added that the new tarmac extension did not even solve the problem because workmen had only dealt with part of the path. Mr Howard, left, said: 'It's a complete waste of money. I reckon I could have cut the hedge back in half an hour . He explained: 'They should come back and cut the hedge back all the way up the path or remove it.' Mr Howard keeps fit by walking to nearby Eastburn, using the path, which runs up a hill towards four bungalows for the elderly. Several years ago Bradford Council replaced the steps on the incline with a ramp to provide wheelchair access to the bungalows. He said he had first reported the overgrown hedge a few years ago and that time workmen had cut it back.
However, a spokesman for the council said they weren't responsible for the new path, adding it was nothing to do with them . He added: 'The path was very wide, but this bush started growing and growing until it went over most of the path. 'You have to walk on the grass verge to get round. I'm fairly fit but I have to step on the grass. 'I've seen kids on their bikes come straight down from the path to the grass then back to the path, which is dangerous if they slip.' A council spokesman said the incident was nothing to do with the council.
Washington (CNN)Legislation to approve the Keystone XL pipeline is headed back to Congress after President Barack Obama vetoed the bill Tuesday. Obama's veto of the bill comes after a yearslong debate on the controversial pipeline which ultimately handed a legislative victory to proponents of the pipeline after Republicans took control of the Senate in January. The House and Senate may have come together to send a single piece of legislation to Obama, but don't expect that agreement to lead to construction permits for the pipeline project that would ship crude oil from Canada to U.S. refineries on the Gulf Coast. Republicans may have enough Democratic support to clear a filibuster, but they'll be hard-pressed to find the 67 votes to override a veto. So what's the big fuss? Why is this one pipeline such a contentious issue and is it really worth the fight for opponents and advocates of Keystone XL? Let's break it down: . How long would the Keystone XL pipeline be? TransCanada's full-fledged Keystone Pipeline system is waiting for U.S. approval to finish construction on 1,200 miles of pipeline known as Keystone XL -- the final piece of a 3,800-mile pipeline network. Wait. There's already a Keystone pipeline? That's right. Keystone XL represents just under a third of the entire Keystone project, and every other piece of pipe has been built and laid out. In fact, TransCanada's pipeline system is already shipping hundreds of thousands of barrels of crude oil from the Canadian oil sands across the U.S. border -- and into Illinois. The current Keystone XL proposal would run the pipeline through Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas . Oil sands that sounds familiar.
That's because oil sands are one of environmentalists' biggest gripes over the proposed Keystone XL pipeline since extracting crude oil from the oil sands (oil + sand = oil sands) pumps about 17% more greenhouse gases into the air than standard crude oil extraction, according to a State Department review of the project. And either way, the State Department concluded the oil sands will be developed regardless of whether the pipeline goes through. But that's not all that's prompted environmentalists to protest Keystone XL and deploy an inflatable pipeline on Sen. Mary Landrieu's front yard last November when she was leading the charge to pass the bill. Environmentalists, local residents and indigenous tribes are also protesting the pipeline's planned route, which would cut across the Ogallala Aquifer, which is one of the world's largest. Aqui-what? Aquifer is just a fancy term for an underground layer of porous rock trapping large deposits of water that can often be accessed through wells -- there are about 2,500 within a mile of the would-be Keystone XL route. Aquifers are a key source of fresh water, and environmentalists are concerned the pipeline could pollute those reserves. But the State Department concluded in January -- amid continued objections from environmentalists -- that the impact on water quality "would be limited." You said indigenous tribes were also protesting the project? Yes. Native Americans are concerned about the societal impact of camps with thousands of construction workers living near their communities, which face a high rate of sexual assaults from non-indigenous men, representatives of the activist Wica Agli group said in an interview earlier this week. Angus King a 'no' on Keystone XL vote . And the pipeline would also run through the sovereign lands of some tribes. The Rosebud Sioux Tribe even declared that the House bill to approve Keystone XL last week amounted to a declaration of war. War? Sounds serious. If it comes to that, will the economic benefits be worth it at least?
Depends what you consider to be "worth it." The State Department concluded in January the project would create about 42,000 jobs directly and indirectly during the construction phase (indirect: think commercial benefits for restaurants, shops, etc.). That total includes 3,900 construction jobs to actually build the pipeline. Fact checking Keystone jobs claims . All in all, the pipeline would inject $2 billion in total economic benefits, according to the State Department review. But once the construction -- which would last no more than two years -- wraps up, Keystone XL will have created just 50 permanent jobs -- the number needed to maintain the pipeline. Either way, the State Department's conclusions seriously undercut TransCanada's claims in 2011 that the project would create about 140,000 direct and indirect jobs. So if this pipeline goes through, what are the risks of an oil spill? Not too high. The State Department concluded the Keystone XL proposal "would include processes, procedures, and systems to prevent, detect, and mitigate potential oil spills." And will the pipeline help lower gas prices in the U.S.? Not really. The State Department said Keystone XL would have "little impact" on domestic gas prices. Alright, so the State Department released its findings on Keystone XL's impact in January. What's the hold up? The State Department concluded its review of the pipeline's impact in January, but was waiting on a Nebraska Supreme Court case over the pipeline's route to determine whether the pipeline project is in the U.S. national interest. That supreme court approved the pipeline's route through the state earlier this month, and the State Department has been reviewing that decision as it makes its final determinations. The State Department said the pipeline was not in the U.S. national interest in 2011, but TransCanada renewed its application in May 2012 after making changes to the proposed route. The State Department concluded in January 2014 that the Keystone XL pipeline would have a negligible impact on the environment .
The White House has insisted it will let the State Department's process play it before Obama makes a final decision on whether or not to approve the pipeline. The State Department is expected to conclude its final review soon, once it finishes reviewing comments from various federal agencies including the Environmental Protection Agency, which urged the State Department in a February letter to reconsider the negative environmental impact the pipeline would have. Obama has said his top concern in making a decision will be "does it contribute to the greenhouse gases that are causing climate change." For now at least, Obama will veto the Congressional legislation and Keystone XL is facing a dim future. Why Keystone XL matters .
Eden Hazard is on the verge of is signing a new contract with Chelsea worth a staggering £200,000 a week. Talks with the Chelsea forward’s lawyer are at an advanced stage and the club are hoping to conclude negotiations with the Belgian international within the next few weeks. Hazard’s extended deal, which will be worth around £10million to the forward over the next five seasons, will also be a bitter blow to long-term suitors Paris St Germain. Eden Hazard (left) is close to signing a new five-year deal at Chelsea worth a staggering £200,000 a week . The Chelsea winger has scored 31 goals in 114 appearances since signing for £32million from Lille in 2012 . Jose Mourinho confirmed on Tuesday: 'It's true Chelsea is trying to have an agreement for a new contract (for Hazard). 'It will be a question of time. It will end with a new contract. 'He wants to commit to us and we want to commit to him for the future.' Hazard is now one of Chelsea’s most influential players and he will be rewarded with a deal that reflects his growing status at the club. The Chelsea forward, who was named the club’s player of the year at the end of last season, was given the No 10 shirt vacated by Juan Mata at the start of the new campaign. Hazard only joined the club two years ago from Lille in a deal worth £32m and has settled in to life in London after some initial difficulties. His partnership with new signing Cesc Fabregas and Diego Costa continues to flourish and he is now considered to be one of the club’s biggest assets. Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho criticised Hazard's (pictured) work ethic towards the end of last season . Chelsea, who are top of the Barclays Premier League after a stunning start to the season, are busy tying up their best young players on new long term deals.
They announced last week that Thibaut Courtois, who has replaced Petr Cech as the club’s first choice keeper, has signed a new five year contact. Chelsea want to protect their interests by committing the best young talent to long-term contracts, but they are also being rewarded with huge rises. Hazard’s deal with Chelsea was worth around £100,000 when he arrived from Lille two years ago, but he will double that when he signs his new contract with the club. Chelsea chief Jose Mourinho continues to influence the key decisions at the club and he has built a new team at Chelsea after a year of transition following his return from Real Madrid. After their Champions League group game with Schalke at Stamford Bridge on Tuesday, they will turn their attentions to a reunion with referee Mike Dean at the Etihad on Sunday. Dean hasn’t refereed a Chelsea fixture since his unbeaten home record came to an end following the defeat against Sunderland at Stamford Bridge last season. Paris Saint-Germain were reportedly interesting in Hazard during the summer but he is committed to Chelsea . At the time, Mourinho sarcastically said: ‘Congratulations to Mike Dean because he made a fantastic performance and congratulations to Mike Riley, because what they did during the season was fantastic for the way the championship is going. ‘Congratulations to all of them and I have nothing more to say.’ Mourinho was later fined £10,000 by the Football Association, but insists he has no issue with Dean, or referees’ chief Mike Riley.
In his fighting days during the 1980s and 1990s, Ghanaian boxing legend Azumah Nelson's thudding jabs and powerful overhands earned him the moniker "The Professor," named for the lessons he'd teach opponents inside the ring. A former three-time world champion, Nelson is often described as the best boxer to come out of the African continent. His daring feats inside the four corners of the ring made him a national hero in the West African country, while in 2004 "The Professor" became the first African to be inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame. Today, Nelson's nickname has taken on new meaning as the former champion now spends his time teaching the secrets of boxing to a new generation of athletes. Watch: Training the next champions . "The Professor" has established the Azumah Nelson Foundation, a not-for-profit organization working to help Ghana's deprived youth realize their potential through education and sport. "We opened the foundation to help the needy children," says Nelson. "We look at you, see your talent and put you there -- the school is there the most important [thing]." Born in 1958, Nelson made his professional debut in 1979. He quickly became a household name in Ghana and went on to win the British Commonwealth's Featherweight title. See also: Muhammad Ali returns to Olympic stage . But despite his early success, Nelson was still unknown outside his country -- that changed, however, in June 1982 when he was given the chance to fight world Featherweight champion Salvador Sanchez at New York's Madison Square Garden. Read also: From war child to U.S. Olympics star . Although Nelson lost the fight in the 15th round, his impressive performance against a formidable opponent such as Sanchez established him as a top talent in the international boxing scene. He made history in 1984 when he beat Wilfredo Gomez to be crowned the World Boxing Council Featherweight champion.
Four years later he cemented his reputation as boxing royalty when he won the world Super Featherweight/Junior Lightweight title. Read also: Why Klitschko sold Olympic medal for $1m . Nelson's illustrious career went on for years until he decided to hang up his gloves with a record of 39 wins, 5 losses and 2 draws, with 28 knockout victories. Nowadays, Nelson is trying to preserve the legacy of boxing in Ghana, working with young talent to help create the country's next crop of champions. He says the sport can help children escape poverty and hardship. "I'm a servant -- God brought me to serve the people, especially the needy children," he says. "I want to see everybody smile." Do you agree that Nelson is the greatest African boxer? Who is the ultimate African boxing champ? Tell us what you think in the comments box below .
This picture of a banged-up Ferrari Enzo is enough to make any car lover shed a tear. The rare million-dollar vehicle was involved in a crash in Stamford, Connecticut on Monday when a mechanic took the sports car out for a ride and spun out of control. The car's owner, 71-year-old mattress company mogul Michael Fux, had placed the prized car in the care of Greenwich dealership Miller Motorcars. Abused: A rare Ferrari Enzo was badly damaged in a Monday morning crash in Stamford, Connecticut. A technician was driving the vehicle at the time . Crashed: Ferrari technician Leonardo Garcia, 40, was driving the rare car owned by 71-year-old mattress mogul Michael Fux. Aston Martin technician Daniel Palchik, 31, was also in the vehicle at the time of the crash . The man driving the Ferrari has been identified as technician Leonardo Garcia, 40, was was accompanied by Aston Martin technician Daniel Palchik, 31, for the ride. Garcia lost control of the 650-horsepower car while traveling up the northbound entrance of Interstate 95 around 8:45am, causing the car to fishtail. The car spun across three lanes before hitting a bridge wall and smashing into the center divider, heavily damaging the right side of the car. Private investigator John Michael Hoda was driving southbound when he saw the accident, and told MailOnline he was the first to respond to the scene. He says he pulled both Garcia and Palchik out of the 'totalled' vehicle to safety and that neither were wearing seat belts. Private investigator John Hoda was driving on the other side of the road and was the first to respond to the crash. He took this image, which shows a man sitting on the side of the road and wearing a Miller Motorcars shirt . Garcia suffered a minor cut while Palchik was unhurt .
Neither the dealership or owner have commented on the crash, but Fux is no doubt mourning the loss of the car. He told Bed Times Magazine, a trade publication serving the sleep products industry, that he is a 'car freak' and dreamed of owning rare vehicles since he was a little boy growing up poor in Cuba. When he struck his fortune founding mattress company Sleep Innovations, Fux started collecting like mad and last year owned 129 vehicles including 25 Ferraris, 12 Porches, 11 Aston Martins and six Rolls-Royces. The Ferrario Enzo is a special edition sports car named after the Italian motor company's founder, and only 400 were made. But it's not Fux's most valuable car. He also owns a Ferrari FXX, one of only 30 in the world, as well as the first-ever bespoke Rolls-Royce Ghost . He houses the collection in a 30,000-square foot garage at his Milford, NJ home named 'Horse Power Farm'. Fux hopes to build a museum to house the collection, with admission benefiting the Miami Children's Hospital. Prized: The Ferrari Enzo was named after the Italian motor company's founder and only 400 were made. They now range in price from $600,000 to more than a million. Above, an example of an undamaged Enzo .
The winner will be announced at the Borders Book Festival in Melrose later this year. Jo Baker, Sebastian Barry, Charlotte Hobson, Hannah Kent, Francis Spufford, Graham Swift and Rose Tremain are in the running for the Â£25,000 prize. Judges said they had extended the list to seven titles due to the "variety of the longlist". They said the seven shortlisted novels offered readers "joy in the discovery of unusual subjects and times" as well as appreciation of historical research and a "visceral connection" with their characters. The seven contenders are: A statement from the judges said: "Our shortlist was achieved by the judges' instinctive reaction to each book. "These seven wonderful books encapsulate moments in history in truly unforgettable ways, making the 2017 Walter Scott prize shortlist one to savour. "The second and final judges' meeting looks set to be as lively as the first." They will meet again to decide the winner just ahead of its announcement at the Borders Book Festival on 17 June. The Walter Scott Prize was founded in 2009 by its patrons the Duke and Duchess of Buccleuch. The winner receives Â£25,000, and shortlisted authors each receive Â£1,000.
By . Tara Brady . PUBLISHED: . 03:35 EST, 16 May 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 04:16 EST, 16 May 2013 . A police bomb squad detonated 17 homemade explosive devices found in an apartment yesterday after a routine traffic stop revealed a potentially dangerous liquid in a man's car, authorities said. Robert Wilson, 29, was taken into custody and booked on felony possession of a destructive device, police Sgt Rudy Lopez said. Authorities believe the man was acting alone, and said there were no apparent links to terrorism. Los Angeles Police Department's bomb squad gather at the apartment where police arrested a man after discovering 17 homemade explosive devices . 'This appears to be an individual who was just very curious with explosive devices and then manufactured them,' police spokesman Sgt. Frank Preciado said. The bomb squad went to an apartment complex in the Palms neighborhood of west Los Angeles after officers stopped Wilson for improper vehicle registration on Tuesday night and spotted a clear liquid that was concerning, Lopez said. Officers also found a gun and narcotics. That discovery prompted the search of the man's apartment. The complex and three surrounding buildings were evacuated and several blocks were sealed off. Officers took the explosive devices to a closed off street and disarmed them, fire Capt. Jaime Moore said. The complex and three surrounding buildings were evacuated and several blocks were sealed off while the bomb squad carried out controlled explosions . 'They've created a bunker in order to shelter any shrapnel or debris that may fly with the detonation,' Moore said. Residents were directed to a nearby shelter during the evacuation. Marion Firnhaber said she'd grabbed a book and a banana early that morning and was out the door of her apartment. 'I came outside and there were so many policemen, I thought, "Nobody's going to get away with anything"', she said.
Douglas Westcott, 55, is charged with possession of child pornography . Police in Florida found the bodies of some 50 dead cats — frozen in four separate freezers — inside the home of a man they were arresting for alleged child pornography on Wednesday. Douglas Westcott, 55, was charged in Palm Beach County with three counts of possession of child porn. There were several pictures of naked juveniles inside his Lake Worth home, according to WBPF. Deputies went to his house to haul him to jail when they found as many as 35 cats living in absolute squalor inside the filthy home, said Capt. David Walesky of the Palm Beach County Animal Care and Control, the Palm Beach Post reported. Another 50 dead bodies were kept in frozen bags. 'The bodies are spread among 4 separate freezers, which of course is the most unusual aspect of this,' Walesky told USA Today. Litter boxes overflowed with feces and urine. Officers had to wear masks to avoid the stench. Some of the cats were healthy but many suffered from respiratory and skin problems, according to the Palm Beach Post. 'The living conditions were not acceptable for the animals,' Walesky told the South Florida Sun-Sentinel. Police rescued some 35 cats (pictured) from the Florida home of Douglas Westcott, who was arrested on child pornography charges . Many of the rescued cats (pictured) had respiratory and skin problems, as well as other ailments from living in their own filth in the crowded home . Detectives executing a search warrant found 50 dead cats and another 35 alive inside this Florida home . Westcott refused to hand over custody of the cats to animal control. A judge will decide what to do with them in the next 30 days. Horrified . neighbors gathered outside the home to watch as cages upon cages of . alive cats, as well as bags of frozen carcasses, were taken out one by . one, the Sun-Sentinel reported. 'They're .
just coming from everywhere,' neighbor Lorraine Fenner told the . newspaper. 'I had no idea there were so many in that house.' Another . neighbor, Marie Jean-Pierre, said Westcott has a wife and they have . lived in the house for some 10 years, the Sun-Sentinel reported. Neighborhood kids called the place 'the cat house.' 'It's . crazy,' Jean-Pierre told the Sun-Sentinel. 'I knew they had a lot of . cats. 'They said the cats were like their kids. I don't know what to . say.' The home was so filthy, animal control officials had to wear masks to endure the stench of urine and feces inside the home .
Graffiti mocking Hillary Clinton has been plastered across the streets surrounding a restaurant where she is hosting a fundraiser for Democratic Congressional candidates on Monday. The Tavern Restaurant in Brentwood, LA, is now covered in evil winged monkeys from the Wizard Of Oz. Instead of carrying the Wicked Witch Of The West, they are holding a sign that reads: 'Hillary 2016'. Sting: Republican street artist Sabo hung evil winged monkeys with Hillary 2016 signs along the streets surrounding the Tavern Restaurant where the former First Lady will be hosting a fundraiser on Monday . Mocking: The monkeys are fictional characters that carry the Wicked Witch Of The West in The Wizard Of Oz . It is the latest strike by the anti-Obama artist known as Sabo, who earlier this year covered Gwyneth Paltrow's Hollywood home in posters featuring her face and the words 'Obama drone' ahead of a fundraiser for the president. Clinton's $32,400-a-head fundraiser is set to lure influential Hollywood figures including Steven Spielberg and Disney Studios Chairman Alan Horn. But with just three days to go, the event has been marred by Sabo's mocking posters. He has also created a fake website for the Tavern which describes its clientele as 'big money, Hollywood Fat Cats', and other Hillary 2016 memorabilia including t-shirts and stickers. Anonymous: The artist has spent 15 years creating anti-Democrat graffiti to act as 'the other voice' in LA . Large-scale project: He revealed on his website that he has also made stickers and t-shirts to mock Hillary . Hillary Clinton has not yet confirmed she plans to bid for the Democrat presidential nomination in 2016. She has lambasted claims that her vocal presence on the mid-terms campaign trail is simply a 'warm-up', insisting she wants the focus to be on next month's candidates. However, Sabo has taken aim at the former First Lady in an overnight sting.
This morning, he gleefully tweeted from the account @unsavoryagents: 'SNEAK PEEK - ABOUT LAST NIGHT' with an early morning photograph of one of the monkeys hanging from a lamp post. He told The Hollywood Reporter in an email: 'All these leftists, I'm tired of their s***'. The website describes Clinton as 'a tired old hag who can't stop wishing she was President'. On the campaign trail: Clinton has lambasted claims her vocal presence in the mid-terms is her own warm-up . For the last 15 years, LA-based Sabo has been creating right-leaning street art to be 'the other voice' in contrast with liberal graffiti artist Shepard Fairey, who designed the 2008 Obama Hope poster. According to the Unsavory Agents Facebook page, the company’s mission is not only to 'let the art world know that the left-wing will no longer hold art hostage' but to 'get more non-leftists interested and to participate in the arts.' 'Our art is politically minded, right-wing centric, brutal, street level, and hard edge,' the page reads. 'Our means are achieved by any creative means necessary.' Previous targets have included Jon Stewart, Samuel L. Jackson and Alec Baldwin.
Solving the mystery of how 900-year-old African coins ended up in remote Australia could not only recast the history of foreign contact Down Under, but shed light on Aboriginal rock art. How the ancient Kilwa coins, believed to date from about 1100, came to be discovered on the Wessels Islands off the Northern Territory in 1944 has long posed questions about foreign visits to far off Australian shores. Australian Ian McIntosh, a professor of anthropology at Indiana University-Purdue University in the United States, said rock art found on the islands -- which includes one image which appears to show a type of European sailing vessel -- could hold some clues. The Kilwa coins were discovered lying in the sand by Royal Australian Air Force radar operator Maurie Isenberg during World War II . Isenberg initially tried to sell the coins but was unsuccessful. He put them away for decades and it wasn't until 1979 that he sent them to a museum for identification . 'A big part of the next stage will be documenting, dating and interpreting (the art), together with indigenous peoples,' McIntosh told AFP from his home in Indiana. The Kilwa coins were discovered lying in the sand by Royal Australian Air Force radar operator Maurie Isenberg during World War II when he was stationed on the island as the Pacific conflict raged. He found nine coins in all, five African copper pieces and four Dutch coins of European origin which are not nearly as old. Isenberg initially tried to sell the coins but was unsuccessful. He put them away for decades and it wasn't until 1979 that he sent them to a museum for identification, along with a map showing where he had found them. McIntosh said there were several theories on the coins, including that they were washed ashore after a shipwreck. The coins - believed to have originated in the medieval sultanate of Kilwa- have led to speculation that parts of northern Australia were visited by other mariners from as far away as the Middle East and Africa .
One explanation could be that a known Indonesian, a shipwreck survivor who lived his life on the Wessels Islands, could have brought the coins to the area . European sailors are known to have sailed the coast of Australia in the 1600s, but it wasn't until captain James Cook landed in Sydney's Botany Bay in 1770 that the British laid claim to the country. The coins -- believed to have originated in the medieval sultanate of Kilwa, an area which is now in Tanzania -- have led to speculation that parts of northern Australia were visited by other mariners from as far away as the Middle East and Africa. As McIntosh wrote in a recent paper for the journal 'Australian Folklore', in terms of the chain of events in the discovery, 'the argument for the involvement of Kilwa traders and also the Portuguese is quite compelling'. He notes the sea route from Kilwa in east Africa to Oman and then onto India, Malaysia and Australia's close neighbour Indonesia was well established by the 1500s and probably for many hundreds of years before that. The coins were found on a beach on the Wessel Islands. The islands, pictured here at marker A, are off the coast of the Northern Territory of Australia. They were a key strategic position during the Second World War . Aboriginal Australians are thought to have first arrived on the Australian mainland by boat from the Malay Archipelago between 40,000 and 60,000 years ago. However, the first known landing in Australia by Europeans was by Dutch navigator Willem Janszoon in 1606. Other Dutch navigators explored the western and southern coasts in the 17th century, and dubbed the continent 'New Holland.' In 1770, British explorer Captain James Cook explored the east coast of Australia. The British penal colony was then first established at Botany Bay in January 1788. During the following century, the British established other colonies on the continent.
This reduced the number of indigenous Australians because of conflict with the colonists and new diseases bought over from Europe. Australia fought with the British during both world wars. McIntosh said a number of his team felt the coins had simply been washed ashore but admitted 'we're still toying with a whole bunch of ideas here'. The academic said one explanation could be that a known Indonesian, a shipwreck survivor who lived his life on the Wessels Islands, could have brought the coins to the area. The coins, he speculates, may have represented this man's 'worldly wealth'. McIntosh said an expedition he led in July to the site where the coins were discovered, which involved an intensive search in the harsh terrain, had not uncovered any further coins. 'Over the past couple of years, we've developed a whole series of hypotheses to explain how those coins might have got from East Africa to northern Australia,' he said. 'The whole point of this initial site survey was to try and get enough evidence to push us in particular directions.' What the researchers did uncover was the Aboriginal rock art and some potential evidence of shipwrecks -- a not unlikely proposition given the dangerous reefs off the islands -- in the form of a six-foot piece of timber from a boat. McIntosh said the scientists would work with indigenous people to look at the art and see whether it matches any known ship types, adding that there were multiple stories of interaction in the past with 'different people -- black and white from somewhere else, not Aboriginal.' For now the mystery remains. 'These coins probably remained in circulation for a couple of hundred years but only in the vicinity of East Africa, beyond that they didn't have value,' McIntosh said, adding that other coins of this type had only been found in Zimbabwe and Oman. 'Nowhere else in the world have they been found, except for northern Australia," said McIntosh. "Very unusual. That's had everybody puzzled.'
Australian scientist and professor at Indiana University, Ian McIntosh, points to the location where the copper coins were found .
Stoke Field on 16 June 1487 saw the final attempt by the House of York to seize the crown after decades of war. Despite involving more soldiers and having higher casualties, it is overshadowed by Bosworth, which saw the death of Richard III two years earlier. But a weekend of events at Stoke Hall, near Newark in Nottinghamshire, will help mark its 530th anniversary. While Bosworth witnessed the death of the last Plantagenet king, those supporting the Yorkist cause had found a new figurehead. A man claiming to be Edward, Earl of Warwick, one of the Princes in the Tower, had prompted a handful of nobles to rally to his cause. He was, in fact, a commoner called Lambert Simnel and it was likely that the rebel commander, John de la Pole, Earl of Lincoln, had his own eyes on the crown. Henry VII's army of about 15,000 was twice the size of his enemy and, despite some initial resistance, Simnel's force was routed. In an unusual display of medieval mercy Simnel was pardoned and employed in the royal kitchens as a servant. Re-enactment expert Allan Harley of the Beaufort Companye said: "The battle is largely forgotten because the Tudor dynasty wanted it that way. "They did not want anyone to think a pretender to the throne could raise an army and mount a challenge. "But it should be remembered because it was the last swansong of the House of York. "The Battle of Bosworth put the Tudors in charge but this battle was really the start of the Tudor dynasty." The weekend of events will give visitors a rare opportunity to walk around the battlefield, which is in private hands, as well as see re-enactments and hear talks about events of the time.
By . Luke Garratt . PUBLISHED: . 06:51 EST, 26 February 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 07:07 EST, 26 February 2014 . Becoming a little turned around after a pub crawl could now be a thing of the past for barflies in Leeds, as a dedicated drinker has designed a London Tube-style map that charts bars, restaurants and pubs all over the city. The 'Leeds Oderaround' was created by Steve Lovell, and features a massive 563 locations across the northern city, replacing tube stations with drinking, eating, and lodging establishments. Mr Lovell, 39, spent over a year of his spare time designing the drinker's guide, using both virtual and physical mapping methods to complete the project. The 'Leeds Orderaround' map, drawing from the iconic London Underground design, the map details the locations of 563 pubs and bars in Leeds . Steve Lovell, a former graphic design student, took over a year to create the map, walking dozens of miles in his efforts . The former Leeds University graphic design student clocked up dozens of miles walking the city, and taking virtual street tours. Most of his mapping efforts were to make sure that the pubs he was listing on his map were still open and operational, as many might have been closed or renamed. Mr Lovell said: 'Having always admired the design of the London Underground map and going out in Leeds, I decided to do this project to combine the two. the map could easily be used to chart the routes of a pub crawl, or just more easily locate a pub in the city that you've always wanted to try . Steve Lovell plans to sell the maps on his website for £10 each . 'It's been over a year in development on and off in my spare time. 'It's been deceptively long and hard work, but I'm very happy with the finished result.
'I've had lots of kind comments about it already and it does make me feel quite proud. 'Friends and neighbours have said that they are really impressed with it and when I had my photograph taken complete strangers came up to me and said they really wanted one.' Because the project took over a year to complete, Mr Lovell found that many of the sites he had listed at the start had become obsolete, and so his map required constant updating. Lovell both walked dozens of miles, and used virtual mapping techniques to make make sure that every pub, restaurant and bar was actually open and operational, and that they hadn't changed their name, so that his map was completely correct . He said: 'Since starting the project I've had to remove a lot of pubs that have closed down and even been demolished and that's always sad. 'About a quarter-of-a-mile from my house there was a pub that had been demolished before it had been printed. 'It is quite sad to see so many close and come off the map in the 12 months I have created it. 'But it is also nice to see that some new places are also opening up, but mostly in the city centre. 'When I was putting it together there were lots of places that I wouldn't know about and places that I never even knew existed. 'I can't say I've been to all of the places on the map and probably never will, but I've been to lots of places I didn't know about before as a result of researching and designing this.' Lovell's maps cost £10 and are available from www.albanydesign.co.uk. Rugby player Danny Cipriani after being released from hospital after his accident being hit by a bus on a Leeds pub crawl . A pub crawl, the act of going from one bar to another, drinking more and more drinks on a per-determined route, is a popular British pastime.
But the hobby can be dangerous. Groups of people drinking strong drinks, with the peer pressure culture of 'downing' drinks meaning that people are stumbling out of bars and into streets to head to the next place, where they are at risk of being hit by cars. This danger was shown in Leeds last year when the former boyfriend of Kelly Brook, Rugby ace Danny Cipriani, drunkenly tumbled into the road while on a pub crawl, and was hit by a bus. Cipriani was treated in Leeds General Hospital, and was pictured days later hobbling out on crutches with various cuts and bruises from his accident. According to eyewitnesses, him and friends had been taking on the Leeds 'Otley pub crawl', featuring 14 different drinking locations. One landlord said Cipriani and friends had been 'necking' drinks, with one landlord noting that they had spent £200 in 15 minutes on beer and shots. Later, he collided with the bus, and with an eyewitness commenting: 'Every bit of the bus front window was smashed to pieces, imagine what the guy looks like.'
By . Louise Boyle . and Lydia Warren . Missing: Avonte Oquendo, 14, ran away on October 4 and his remains could have been found . Authorities investigating whether remains found washed up on a New York beach belong to missing autistic teenager Avonte Oquendo have also found a skull, according to reports. A decomposed torso, left arm, legs and a sneaker . were found on a northern Queens beach last Thursday and authorities said . the clothes were similar to those worn by the 14-year-old when he went . missing in October. Authorities told DNAinfo that searchers also found a head on Sunday and have now found most of the body. Ten teeth are missing, which could make it hard to identify the body through dental records. But Avonte's family said they fear foul play if the body is his - because it was wearing unfamiliar underwear. The family's lawyer, David Perecman, told the New York Post that he is concerned about the large Fruit of the Loom underwear found on the remains because Avonte didn't wear 'large' and wore only the Hanes brand. 'If it is him, what that indicates to me is that something happened,' Perecman said. 'Someone got a hold of him, moved him. I can't say they harmed him, but why would the underwear have gotten changed?' The . remains were taken to the Queens County Morgue to be positively . identified, and authorities are now awaiting the results of a DNA test. They could have an answer by Wednesday. A police source confirmed to the Wall Street Journal that the clothing matched what Avonte was wearing when he disappeared on October 4 from the Riverview School in Long Island City. Search: An arm, torso and legs were discovered along the Queens shoreline on Thursday and authorities said the clothes found were similar to those worn by Avonte when he vanished three months ago . Hunt: An NYPD canine unit continues the search for human remains on Friday.
Authorities said a DNA test this week will determine whether or not the remains belong to the missing teenager . Skeletal remains were found on a Queens beach on Thursday night and were removed by the medical examiner. There are fears that the body parts belong to missing teenager Avonte Oquendo . Perecman also confirmed the pant and shoes sizes match what the 14-year-old was wearing the day he went missing. The Oquendo family were notified by the NYPD and are awaiting further information. The remains were found at least nine miles from where the child was last seen. For months, the boy's family has . organized search parties to scour the city for him, placed missing . posters on the subway and in stores and raising a $95,000 reward. In . particular, subway tunnels were hunted as the teenager is fascinated . with the transit system. A recording of his mother's voice was even . played over tannoys in the hope of reaching the boy. The 14-year-old is particularly vulnerable because his type of autism leaves him unable to speak and in need of 24-hour care. There have been a few sightings of . teenage boys who closely resemble Avonte, raising the family's hopes - . but he remains missing. Fears: But David Perecman, the family's attorney, pictured, said the underwear found on the remains does not match the type that Avonte wore - leading his family to fear foul play . Vanessa Fontaine, left, Avonte's mother, arrives at a vigil for her son on October 11 in Queens. The missing boy's family have been informed of the discovery of human remains . Avonte Oquendo disappeared from his Long Island City school, New York on October 4. The remains were found on a Queens beach nine miles from where he was last seen .
On January 5, the family posted a message on the Facebook page that they have set up to help find the boy pleading for FBI involvement. The message thanked volunteers for their continued help in looking for the missing teen over the winter holidays. The . message continued: 'We would like to clarify that we have sought the . help of the FBI and had petitioned them to take the lead in the . investigation regarding Avonte. 'There . are several legal reasons they gave us for not being legally permitted . to take over the investigation. The most noted is that the NYPD has . listed Avonte as a missing person, not a victim of kidnapping or other . such federal offense(s) that would require the FBI's involvement. 'It is our deepest desire for the FBI to get involved but there is a . system in place that requires protocol, we cannot force the FBI to get . involved and we continually ask and pray they do.' Runaway: CCTV footage shows Avonte Oquendo running through the corridors of his school towards the exit on October 4 . On camera: Avonte left his school on October 4 through a security door that had been left open . Avonte Oquendo is seen on the street outside his school on October 4 before he turned the corner and disappeared out of sight . A Department of Education investigation has also taken place into how the autistic boy managed to get out of his special needs school and how teaching staff handled his disappearance. Avonte's . mother Vanessa, along with police, were not informed of his disappearance until . at least an hour after he ran from the school building. The . school failed to go into lockdown mode while none of the administrators . had passwords to access the surveillance cameras at the school on the . day of Avonte's disappearance, according to Capital New York. Without . access to the security footage, school officials originally believed . Avonte 'ran back up another staircase' and remained in the building. Have you seen Avonte?
A new poster for the missing teenager was released earlier this month .
The members say they'll continue as a four-piece after Zayn Malik announced he was leaving the group last week to "live like a normal 22-year-old". His departure was followed by rumours on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook that One Direction was about to break up. But Liam Payne thanked fans for sticking with the band and for "not thinking it's finished". He tweeted: "I can see a lot of people thanking us for staying but your the real Heros here thanks for not thinking it's finished." The band continued their On the Road Again tour and have been playing concerts in South Africa. They start the European leg of the tour by playing Cardiff's Millennium Stadium on 5 and 6 June. Zayn Malik quit the group last week after flying back to the UK, having been "signed off with stress". It was after reports that he'd cheated on his 21-year-old fiancee, Perrie Edwards. He told The Sun that he was "upset" for the group's fans and he said there was no bad blood between him and his former bandmates, who he said had been "really supportive". It's thought he's working on a solo album with producer Naughty Boy, who's worked on tracks for Emeli Sande, Cheryl Cole and Leona Lewis. Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter, BBCNewsbeat on Instagram and Radio1Newsbeat on YouTube
Rage (written as Getting It On; the title was changed before publication) is a psychological thriller novel by American writer Stephen King, the first he published under the pseudonym Richard Bachman. It was first published in 1977 and then was collected in 1985 in the hardcover omnibus The Bachman Books. The novel describes a school shooting, and has been associated with actual high school shooting incidents in the 1980s and 1990s. In response King allowed the novel to fall out of print, and in 2013 he published a non-fiction, anti-firearms violence essay titled "Guns". Plot summary [ edit ] Charlie Decker, a Maine high school senior, is called to a meeting with his principal about a previous incident in which he struck his chemistry teacher with a pipe wrench, leading to the teacher's hospitalization and Charlie's suspension. For unknown reasons, Charlie subjects the principal to a series of insulting remarks, resulting in his expulsion. Charlie storms out of the office and retrieves a pistol from his locker, then sets the contents of his locker on fire. He then returns to his classroom and fatally shoots his algebra teacher, Miss Jean Underwood. The fire triggers an alarm, but Charlie forces his classmates to stay in the room, killing a history teacher, Mr Peter Vance, when he attempts to enter. As the other students and teachers evacuate the school, the police and media arrive at the scene. Over the following four hours, Charlie toys with various authority figures who attempt to negotiate with him, including the principal, the school psychologist, and the local police chief. Charlie gives them certain commands, threatening to kill students if they do not comply. Charlie also admits to his hostages that he does not know what has compelled him to commit his deeds, believing he will regret them when the situation is over.
As his fellow students start identifying with Charlie, he unwittingly turns his class into a sort of psychotherapy group, causing his schoolmates to semi-voluntarily tell embarrassing secrets regarding themselves and each other. Interspersed throughout are narrative flashbacks to Charlie's troubled childhood, particularly his tumultuous relationship with his abusive father Carl. Several notable incidents include a violent disagreement between two female students and a police sniper's attempt to shoot Charlie through the heart. However, Charlie survives due to the bullet's striking his locker's combination lock, which he had earlier placed in the breast pocket of his shirt. Charlie finally comes to the realization that only one student is really being held against his will: a seeming "Big Man On Campus" named Ted Jones, who is harboring his own secrets. Ted realizes this and attempts to escape the classroom, but the other students brutally assault him, driving him into a battered catatonic state. At 1:00 p.m., Charlie releases the students, but Ted is unable to move under his own power and remains. When the police chief enters the classroom, the now-unarmed Charlie moves as if to shoot him, attempting suicide by cop. The chief shoots Charlie, but he survives and is found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed to a psychiatric hospital in Augusta, Maine until he can answer for his actions. The final chapters contain an inter-office memo concerning Ted's treatment and prognosis at the hospital where he is now a patient, and a letter from one of Charlie's friends describing assorted developments in the students' lives during the months following this incident. The story ends with Charlie addressing the reader: "That's the end. I have to turn off the light now. Good night."
Connections to actual school shootings [ edit ] The novel's plot vaguely resembles actual events that have transpired since the book's publication, to such a degree that the author is no longer comfortable with the book's being in print for fear that it may inspire similar occurrences ("[Rage is] now out of print. "[1]) as it had already been associated with incidents of high school shootings and hostage takings: Jeffrey Lyne Cox, a senior at San Gabriel High School in San Gabriel, California, took a semi-automatic rifle to school on April 26, 1988, and held a humanities class of about 60 students hostage for over 30 minutes. Cox held the gun to one student when the teacher doubted Cox would cause harm and stated that he would prove it to her. At that time three students escaped out a rear door and were fired upon. Cox was later tackled and disarmed by another student. A friend of Cox's told the press that Cox had been inspired by the Kuwait Airways Flight 422 hijacking and by the novel Rage , [2] which Cox had read over and over again and with which he strongly identified. [3] , which Cox had read over and over again and with which he strongly identified. Dustin L. Pierce, a senior at Jackson County High School in McKee, Kentucky, armed himself with a shotgun and two handguns and took a history classroom hostage in a nine-hour standoff with police on September 18, 1989, that ended without injury. Police found a copy of Rage among the possessions in Pierce's bedroom, leading to speculation that he had been inspired to carry out the plot of the novel. [4] among the possessions in Pierce's bedroom, leading to speculation that he had been inspired to carry out the plot of the novel.
On January 18, 1993, Scott Pennington, a student at East Carter High School in Grayson, Kentucky, took a .38-caliber revolver that was owned by his father and fatally shot his English teacher Deanna McDavid in the head, during her seventh period class. He subsequently shot and killed the school's custodian, Marvin Hicks, and held the class hostage for 20 minutes before releasing them. [5] Just before the shootings he had written an essay on the book Rage and was upset that McDavid had given it a C grade. [6] Just before the shootings he had written an essay on the book and was upset that McDavid had given it a C grade. Barry Loukaitis, a student at Frontier Middle School in Moses Lake, Washington, walked from his house to the school on February 2, 1996, and entered his algebra classroom during fifth period. He opened fire at students, killing two and wounding another. He then fatally shot his algebra teacher, Leona Caires, in the chest. As his classmates began to panic, Loukaitis reportedly said, "This sure beats algebra, doesn't it? "—a line erroneously believed to be taken from Rage . (No such line appears in King’s story. The closest is when Charlie Decker quips, "This sure beats panty raids.") Hearing the gunshots, gym coach Jon Lane entered the classroom. Loukaitis was holding his classmates hostage and planned to use one hostage so he could safely exit the school. Lane volunteered to be the hostage, and Loukaitis kept Lane at gunpoint with his rifle. Lane then grabbed the weapon from Loukaitis, wrestled him to the ground, then assisted the evacuation of students. [7] . (No such line appears in King’s story. The closest is when Charlie Decker quips, "This sure beats panty raids.")
Hearing the gunshots, gym coach Jon Lane entered the classroom. Loukaitis was holding his classmates hostage and planned to use one hostage so he could safely exit the school. Lane volunteered to be the hostage, and Loukaitis kept Lane at gunpoint with his rifle. Lane then grabbed the weapon from Loukaitis, wrestled him to the ground, then assisted the evacuation of students. In December 1997, Michael Carneal shot eight fellow students at a prayer meeting in West Paducah, Kentucky. He had a copy of Rage within the Richard Bachman omnibus in his locker. This was the incident that moved King to allow the book to go out of print. [8] End of publication [ edit ] When King decided to let Rage fall out of print in the United States, it remained available only as part of The Bachman Books. In contrast, the other novels that appeared in that compilation - The Long Walk, Roadwork, and The Running Man - are available separately in the USA. Rage remained available in the United Kingdom and other countries in The Bachman Books for a time, but later appeared to become unavailable. [9] New editions of The Bachman Books do not include Rage. In a footnote to the preface of the novel Blaze, dated 30 January 2007, King wrote of Rage: "Now out of print, and a good thing." King said, in his keynote address at the VEMA Annual Meeting on May 26, 1999: "The Carneal incident was enough for me. I asked my publisher to take the damned thing out of print. They concurred.
"[8] King went on to describe his view on this subject, which acknowledged the role that cultural or artistic products such as Rage play in influencing individuals, particularly troubled youths, while also declaring that artists and writers should not be denied the aesthetic opportunity to draw upon their own culture—which is suffused with violence, according to King—in their work. [8] King went on to describe his inspiration for stories such as Rage, which drew heavily upon his own frustrations and pains as a high school student. [8] In an article on the ominous writings of Virginia Tech shooter Seung-Hui Cho for Entertainment Weekly, King said: "Certainly in this sensitized day and age, my own college writing—including a short story called 'Cain Rose Up' and the novel Rage—would have raised red flags, and I'm certain someone would have tabbed me as mentally ill because of them "[10] After the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting, he elaborated in a non-fiction essay, titled "Guns" (2013),[11] on why he let Rage go out of print. King's website states: "All profits from 'Guns' will benefit the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. "[12] This is such a visceral, divisive issue in America that even the most rational arguments will fail to sway the other side. King admits he is coming from the left on this one. He knows he is tilting against windmills yet lays out an emotional and cogent case that gun rights are out of control. He provides no new ideas but agrees that certain types of firearms should be restricted, background checks made more rigid, etc. Much of his impetus for writing this essay comes from the influence of one of his books so good on him for taking responsibility. Responsibility is something lawmakers and the American public need to take or the country will continue to see 80 gun deaths each and every day.
Topics: amazon, Books, Gun Violence, Guns, kindle single, Second Amendment, Entertainment News Stephen King has published a Kindle Single (more than a book, less than an essay, proprietary to Amazon platforms) on gun violence, in which he describes his decision to pull his pseudonymous novel “Rage” from shelves after possible copycat crimes. “Rage,” which King first wrote in high school (“I suppose if it had been written today, and some high school English teacher had seen it, he would have rushed the manuscript to the guidance counselor and I would have found myself in therapy posthaste”), depicts a hostage situation in a high school when a student brings a weapon to school. After a series of similar situations in high schools (including one where, as in the book, a math teacher was killed), King made the costly decision to pull the book from stores. Though “I never did and never would” apologize for the book, he says, the depiction of violence in the book is “a possible accelerant” for troubled young men with access to guns. Stephen King has published a 99-cent Kindle Single called “Guns,” a short essay about gun violence in America that “constructs his argument for what can and should be done.” In the essay, King wrote frankly about Rage, a novel he released under the pen name Richard Bachman about a boy who takes a high school classroom hostage with a gun. Four different teenagers cited the book after attacks on their schools and King decided to remove the book from publication. He explained in his new Kindle Single:
A presenter on Radio Flaixbak contacted Mr Rajoy's office, pretending to work for Carles Puigdemont. He was then transferred to the PM, when a Puigdemont impersonator took over. Asked if the two could meet, Mr Rajoy agreed keenly and told the fake Catalan leader he had a "very free schedule". Mr Rajoy's Popular Party won the most seats in recent elections but fell short of a majority, leaving Spain in political limbo. Mr Rajoy and Mr Puigdemont are at odds over the future of Catalonia, with the prime minster pledging to fight for national unity and the Catalan leader wanting to secede within 18 months. The radio presenter intervened soon after Mr Rajoy told the impersonator he would call back on Monday "and we could meet 24 or 48 hours after". Learning he had been hoaxed, a disappointed-sounding Mr Rajoy said "this is not very serious". The pair thanked him for taking the joke well. The Spanish leader is not the only high-profile figure to fall for a prank phone call. In 1998, the then UK Prime Minister Tony Blair took a call from an impressionist pretending to be opposition leader William Hague. Former Cuban leader Fidel Castro in 2004 was enraged by a call from a Miami DJ pretending to be the then Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez.
15 February 2017 Last updated at 12:48 GMT The new trilogy is called The Book of Dust and the first novel will come out in October although the title of that book hasn't been released yet. Phillip Pullman's first book in the His Dark Materials series was Northern Lights which came out in 1995. The His Dark Materials trilogy sold more than 17.5 million copies and was translated into 40 languages. The new series will once again be about the story of Lyra Belacqua and will begin when she is a baby and move on to when she is 20 years old later in the series. Click on the video and to watch Mr Pullman talking about it
A university student was shot during a party at his frat house this weekend after the shooter was barred from going inside and tried to rob some of the members. The 22-year-old student, who has not been named, was shot during a fight which broke out in the early hours of Saturday close to Temple University in Philadelphia. The man suffered a gunshot wound to the left thigh and was taken to Hahnemann University Hospital where he was treated and released. Scroll down for video . The 22-year-old student, who has not been named, was shot during a fight which broke out in the early hours of Saturday at a fraternity house (pictured) close to Temple University in Philadelphia . The suspect approached a group outside the fraternity house and demanded to go inside but was told he couldn't because he wasn't a student. He then threatened to rob them and brandished a handgun that he had tucked in the waistband of his pants. The victim tried to restrain the suspect and was shot, police said. One student who ran to help the victim told NBC: 'I applied the pressure on his wound. I put both my hands right on his hip. 'Also some kid who was an EMT took out a sweatshirt and covered him up and then the officer showed up and carried him out.' Police were still hunting for the gunman today. He was described as African-American, 5'8'-5'9', slim and around 35-40 years old. He was wearing blue jeans, a red hoodie, and red beanie hat and had no facial hair. MailOnline was awaiting a statement from Temple University on Monday. A 22-year-old Temple University student was shot and wounded in the left thigh close to the campus in the early hours of Saturday .
The Australian said he can "feel" the "long-seated rivalry" towards England as they prepare to face Ireland at Twickenham on Saturday (16:50 GMT). It is Jones' first home match after away wins over Scotland and Italy. "Maybe Clive Woodward summed it up best when he said everyone hates England - that's true," Jones said. "I'm not going to use it, but within the side they can use it. As I said when I took over, I'm not English, I'm Australian, but I will be absolutely committed to them." Jones revealed he sees Leicester centre Manu Tuilagi's future for England in the 12 shirt - once he is fully back to match fitness as he continues his return for Tigers after long-term injury. "I think inside centre is his best position. He's not a 13. That's what I know he's not. He's definitely a 12. He can carry the ball across the gain line," Jones said. "He threw a beautiful left to right pass on Friday night. And then he threw a terrible right to left, so maybe he's left handed! "He's got all the attributes to be an outstanding 12." England are level with France at the top of the Six Nations table, ahead on points difference with both sides on six points after two games. Jones continued to insist his side was a "work in progress", but praised his players for "commitment", "taking initiative" and "being independent". And he is preparing England for an aerial bombardment from two-time defending champions Ireland, adding: "They kick 70% of their ball away. If they want to do that, good luck to them. "It has worked for them. It is not the way I think you should play rugby but it has been successful for them, so good luck."
Kenneth Harper, 33, was convicted of the sex crimes last year, along with further charges of assault and reckless behaviour, after a high court trial. Judges at the Court of Criminal Appeal in Edinburgh quashed his convictions for the two rape charges after defence arguments about mutual corroboration. He was given a three-year sentence for the remaining offences. Solicitor advocate John Keenan challenged the rape convictions, which were based on mutual corroboration. That meant the evidence of one allegation was being used to support the other. Mr Keenan said there were only two alleged offences and there was a substantial time gap between them of almost eight years. He said the circumstances in which they were said to have occurred were different and there was an absence of "extraordinary features". He argued that there must be something compelling to link events separated by many years, but here there was nothing. The Crown claimed that there were compelling similarities as both offences involved vulnerable women who were significantly younger than Harper, the first was aged 15 and the second 22. It also argued that evidence from a third woman, who was assaulted, could be used to support the convictions. Lord Brodie, who heard the appeal with Lord Bracadale and Lady Cosgrove, said: "Long lapse of time does not preclude the finding of sufficient similarity between two incidents to infer a course of conduct, but it is relevant. "Where the interval is a long one it is necessary to consider whether there are any extraordinary features in the evidence that nonetheless make the similarities compelling. "The time interval, at a little short of eight years, was long. Accordingly for the Crown to be able to link the two alleged incidents it must be able to identify some special feature. There was no such feature in the present case." Harper had originally been jailed at the High Court in Glasgow after being convicted in Aberdeen.
By . Sadie Whitelocks . PUBLISHED: . 07:17 EST, 6 April 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 12:12 EST, 6 April 2012 . Green tea can help mask the levels of testosterone in the body, say scientists. A study found extracts contained in the beverage, reduced concentrations of the hormone by up to 30 per cent. Olympic doping officials have now raised . concerns that athletes could use tea to hide increased levels of testosterone from standard drugs tests. A study found green tea helped reduce the concentration of testosterone . Testosterone is one of the oldest illegal steroids used in sports, and it is commonly used to build muscle. Experts say athletes taking testosterone for doping purposes typically have 200 to 300 percent more in their bodies than normal. During the study, researchers added green . and white tea extracts - or catechins - to the hormone and discovered that they reduced the concentration by almost a third. The recent anomaly could now lead to a change in the tests ahead of this summer's Games. Olivier Rabin, scientific director of the World . Anti-Doping Agency, or WADA said: 'It's interesting that something as . common as tea could have a significant influence on the steroid . profile. 'We may need to adjust our steroid . (test) to allow us to exclude whether a test is modified by food or . training or disease, before we can say that it's doping,' Olympic sprinter, Ben Johnson, was banned from athletics for life after failing a drugs test for the second time in 1993 . The study was conducted in a laboratory so . scientists said it was too early to tell what the effect of green tea . might be in humans, but similar results have . been found in rodent studies. Other foods and beverages, such as alcohol, are also known to muddle test results and WADA has tight controls on other commonly consumed substances like caffeine. 'There's .
no reason to think we just happened to pick the only food in the world . that does this,' said Declan Naughton of Kingston University, who . published the findings in the journal, . Steroids. Charles Yesalis, a doping expert at Pennsylvania State University, said officials needed to react quickly. 'Athletes . will not wait for the clinical trials,' he said. 'I'll bet there are . already lots of athletes out there drinking loads of green tea,' he . added. However some experts said the limited effects . of foods like green tea on masking illegal drug use would be too small . to help doping athletes. 'You would probably need to drink the . tea continuously to get any sustained but minor effect,' said Andrew . Kicman, head of research and development at the Drug Control Centre at . King's College London, which is providing the anti-doping laboratory for . the upcoming Olympics. 'It . would be a very foolish athlete who's thinking of doping with . testosterone and thinks he could drink white or green tea to beat a drug . test,' he said. 'And I personally wouldn't want to drink nine cups of . tea on the day of a race.' The new facility in Harlow, Essex is where the athletes samples will be tested . Studies have shown that tea can mask testosterone concentration .
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 18:12 EST, 8 December 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 07:57 EST, 9 December 2012 . While the recent snowfall has proved to be a headache for most, there is at least one exception who seems delighted at the latest flurries. Giant Panda Qing Feng couldn't contain his delight after fresh snowfall covered his pen at Yantai Zoo in Shandong Province, China, earlier this week. The five-year-old Panda was captured rolling around in the icy cold snow before play fighting with a tyre. Paws for thought: Giant Panda Qing Feng appears a little confused when snow first fell in his pen at Yantai Zoo in Yantai, Shandong Province, China . Steady! Five-year-old Qing Feng attempts to climb into the tyre hoop - but quickly loses his balance . Qing Feng appeared confused at first before quickly jumping into the tyre hoop. But he didn't have much luck keeping his balance and was soon dangling from the tyre by his back paws before falling off entirely into the snow. His playmate, five-year-old Giant Panda Hua Ao was equally excited by the snow and attempted to walk a snow-covered branch. Playtime: But Qing Feng didn't appear too disheartened and refused to let go of the tyre while licking snow off his paw . Going for a tumble: Qing Feng makes a crash landing after going for a swing on the tyre . Balancing act: Qing Feng's slightly more adventurous playmate, five-year-old Hua Ao attempts to cross a snow-covered branch . Giant pandas are solitary bears when in the wild, usually preferring their own company when foraging in Chinese bamboo forests. They are an endangered species, with less than 2,000 thought to be left roaming free in the cool forests that are their natural habitat.
They mostly eat bamboo, but in captivity are also enjoy being fed honey, eggs, fish, yams, leaves, oranges, bananas and other special treats. Never mind the cold: Hua Ao attempts to cover himself head to paw in snow after rolling on the ground . Tired out: Qing Feng takes a quick break after all his running around at Yantai Zoo . Best friends: Hua Ao and Qing Feng were both transferred to Yantai Zoo last year .
(CNN) -- Is it a thing or once again a show of a whole bunch of nothing? Reports are circulating about "Seinfeld" costars Jerry Seinfeld and Jason Alexander after they were spotted outside Tom's Restaurant in New York on Monday. Better known to "Seinfeld" fans as Monks, it's a spot that the popular NBC series helped make famous after shots of its exterior were used in the show. The Huffington Post reported that Twitter user Ali Philippides tweeted a pic of the pair entering the Upper West Side restaurant. She told the publication that the celebs were filming inside, and the tip has sparked speculation about to what they are up to. Reunion? Super Bowl commercial? An episode of Seinfeld's Web series, "Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee"? Because we are almost positive there is coffee there. According to Gothamist, "Seinfeld" co-creator and "Curb Your Enthusiasm" star Larry David was also seen exiting the eatery. As Jerry would say, "What. Is. Going. On?"
His agent said his death on Friday was doctor-assisted, legal practice in Canada from earlier this year. No other details about his health were given. Kinsella published more than 30 works spanning poetry, fiction and non-fiction and won the Order of Canada, one of the country's highest honours. But it is the baseball-themed fantasy Shoeless Joe that he is best known for. In it, a farmer hears a voice urging him to build a baseball field in the middle of his corn crop. When he does the spirits of great players from the past come to play. The novel was adapted into 1989 film Field of Dreams, starring Kevin Costner. After suffering a head injury in car crash, CBC reported, Kinsella said he lost interest in writing fiction and instead spent his time playing Scrabble online. However he did resume writing and his final work Russian Dolls is due to be released next year.
Mauricio Pochettino has ordered his Tottenham players to be more aggressive after they slumped to a dismal defeat at home to West Brom at the weekend. Spurs face Nottingham Forest on Wednesday night in the Capital One Cup, with Pochettino expecting his players to show more energy and fight than they did in the league. It has been a disappointing start to his reign at the club, after replacing Tim Sherwood in the summer, and he is demanding that his players do something about it. Mauricio Pochettino has ordered his Tottenham players to be more aggressive after they slumped to a defeat . West Brom beat Tottenham Hotspur at the weekend and Mauricio Pochettino wants an immediate reaction . Mauricio Pochettino has demanded his Tottenham players show more aggression in the Premier League . Pochettino said: 'We need to move the ball quicker, faster. West Brom played a long ball and to try to win the second ball. Maybe we have problem because the second ball we arrive late always, we arrive a lot of time to late in the box of the opposition. We need to be more aggressive in the last third of the pitch. 'We had the possession more than 60 per cent, after we need all we create from the back and build, we need to be more aggressive. We are in the moment we need to set our style and philosophy. This is a normal process, it is maybe up and down in the beginning, but we need to be strong and to carry on and to work hard and believe in our way. 'We are ready to compete and to fight against Forest because we expect a tough game.' Mauricio Pochettino wants to see a change: 'We need to be more aggressive in the last third of the pitch' Spurs won their opening four games of the season under the Argentine, but have now drawn two and lost two of their last four.
But Pochettino insisted that the job is not bigger than he anticipated when he arrived in the summer. He added: 'No not really. When we arrive here we know the situation. We know that maybe happen up and down in different period. Always different when you arrive at a new club with different players you need time to get to know each other. 'I'm not worrying about the situation. I believe at the moment to we need to have more points to reflect the table, it's the beginning of the season, it's not how we start it's how we finish. We are sure our team will improve not only in how we play but in the results in the next few weeks.' Andros Townsend has returned from injury after missing Tottenham's West Brom defeat. Tottenham Hotspur face Nottingham Forest on Wednesday night in the Capital One Cup third round .
China’s first budget airline is poised to lobby industry regulators for permission to install standing-only ‘seats’ on its planes so it can cram more people on board. Shanghai-based Spring Airlines said it would offer cheaper fares to those who are willing to stand at a vertical seat, according to China National Radio. It’s not the first time the idea has been floated – Dublin-based Ryanair famously proposed selling standing-only tickets in 2009 to increase passenger traffic and cut costs. China's Spring Airlines wants to install 'vertical seats' on its planes so it can cram more passengers on board . Spring Airlines chairman Wang Zhenghua confirmed to China National Radio that he wants standing-only cabins on his planes and is seeking government approval. The 70-year-old billionaire told the broadcaster that he began exploring the idea in 2008 after a chaotic Chinese New Year travel rush. Customers told China National Radio that they would be hesitant to buy a ticket for a vertical seat out of safety concerns. One told the broadcaster that she fears passengers would be injured when the plane flies through bad weather or is rocked by turbulence. Spring Airlines said it would offer cheaper fares to those who are willing to stand at a vertical seat . Spring Airlines plans to work with manufacturers on a design that would include a safety belt. The low-cost carrier, founded in 2004, offers flights as cheap as £1 ($1.50) and flies to destinations in China, Japan, Thailand and other Asian countries. Even though designs have been proposed and no-frills airlines have expressed interest, the vertical seat concept has not taken off because it hasn’t received approval from authorities. Ryanair abandoned its proposal in 2012 after it was thwarted by an unnamed regulator. The Irish carrier planned to install ten rows of vertical seats on its planes – increasing capacity by about 40 passengers – and charge less than £5 to travellers who were willing to stand.
Airbus filed a patent for a new seat that is similar to a bicycle saddle that flips up when it is not in use . Italian firm Aviointeriors designed the ‘Skyrider’ seat, which was inspired by saddles used by cowboys . Last year, Airbus filed a patent for a new seat that is similar to a bicycle saddle that flips up when it is not in use. The design, intended for short-haul flights, would increase capacity for airlines and leave passengers with even less space. In 2010, Italian firm Aviointeriors unveiled its design for the ‘Skyrider’ seat, which was inspired by saddles used by cowboys. In that seat passengers would sit at an angle with just 23in of legroom between them and the seat in front of them – about seven inches less than the average seat pitch on most planes.
The Glasgow-based company, which makes valves and pumps for the energy and mining industries, said oil and gas orders fell 23% in the first quarter. Weir expects the decline to continue in the second quarter. It plans to cut 125 jobs, mostly in its North American oil and gas business. It will also consolidate its service centres in the region in a bid to deliver cost savings of ? ?10m. In a trading statement, Weir said oil and gas markets had been hit by much lower oil prices, which had led to significant reductions in activity levels. There was better news from the company's minerals division, which saw orders rise year-on-year by 5% between January and April, in line with expectations. However, Weir warned that mining end markets continued to be challenging, with iron ore prices falling further in the first quarter. Chief executive Keith Cochrane said: "While mining markets remained subdued, the performance of the minerals division once again demonstrated its resilience. "Trading conditions in oil and gas markets were challenging through the quarter with a steeper decline in the North American rig count than the market had anticipated. "Oil and gas activity levels are still falling and we expect a further decline in divisional revenues in the second quarter. "In response the group is taking further actions to support profitability, including additional workforce reductions and service centre consolidations." After early volatile trading, Weir's share price was nearly 5% higher by mid-morning.
America Staffers Walk Out Of Congress In Protest Over Brown And Garner Cases i itoggle caption Alex Wong/Getty Images Alex Wong/Getty Images Dozens of congressional staff members walked out of the Capitol at 3:30 p.m. ET Thursday, in a show of support for protesters angered by recent grand jury decisions not to indict police officers in the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner. Wearing suits, ties and overcoats, the staffers stood several rows deep on the steps of Capitol Hill before making the hands-up gesture that has come to symbolize frustration with the deaths of the two unarmed black men at the hands of police. They stood silently with their arms raised for a moment before disbanding and walking down the steps. While the event was spearheaded by the Congressional Black Associates, it also drew other staff members, including the Congressional Asian Pacific American Staff Association and the Congressional Hispanic Staff Association, according to CNN. A few members of Congress came out to the steps, including Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., and Rep. Marc Veasey, D-Texas. The short event included a prayer from U.S. Senate Chaplain Barry Black. The protest comes a week after Rep. Marcia L. Fudge, chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, said she was "deeply disappointed" by a Staten Island grand jury's decision not to level charges in the Garner case. Noting that the decision was similar to another jury's findings in Ferguson, Mo., Fudge wrote: "In the span of two weeks, this nation seems to have heard one message loud and clear: there will be no accountability for taking Black lives. As an American, it is growing increasingly difficult to believe that there is justice for all."
Story highlights Congressional staffers are planning to walk off their jobs Thursday at 3:30 p.m. Staffers said they are showing solidarity to communities affected by a decisions not to indict officers in killing unarmed black men Congressional staffers plan to walk off their jobs Thursday afternoon to show their support for the families of Michael Brown and Eric Garner in the wake of the decision by two grand juries not to indict the police officers responsible for their deaths, according to three staffers who plan to participate in the event. The planned walkout comes after days of protests across the country, including in Washington, D.C., where demonstrators have marched through downtown, blocking roads and bridges on an almost nightly basis since last Wednesday's decision by a grand jury in Staten Island not to indict Officer Daniel Pantaleo in the chokehold death of Garner. "We're proud to have this moment of solidarity with the families of Michael Brown and Eric Garner and the thousands of peaceful protesters around the country who are telling this country that black lives matter," said one staffer who was helping to plan the event. The Congressional Asian Pacific American Staff Association and the Congressional Hispanic Staff Association joined black staffers and the Congressional Black Associates in planning the event, which is set to take place at 3:30 p.m., and is expected to draw at least 50 people. A staffer who planned to attend the protest said it was important to show support across racial lines. "I believe it's important, because what affects one community really affects the entire country," the staffer told CNN. "It's not just one group of minorities that's affected. How one group is treated affects Asians, Hispanics, women. It's important that we show our solidarity and come together and really speak out about the injustices that are being done." The group will gather in front of the Capitol and plan to take a photo at 345 p.m. U.S. Senate Chaplain Barry Black is expected to pray for the grieving families and to pray for peace.
The US Capitol dome is cocooned in scaffolding on October 28, 2014 in Washington, DC as it undergoes its first comprehensive repairs in more than half a century a century. The two-year, USD 60 million project is aimed at repairing nearly 1,300 cracks that have emerged in the nine-million-pound (4.1-million-kilogram) cast iron dome, according to the Architect of the Capitol (AOC) office. Construction on the dome began in 1855. Work symbolically continued through the US Civil War and the structure was eventually completed in 1866. AFP Photo/Paul J. Richards (Photo credit should read ) "We're not trying to cause any type of controversy," one staffer told CNN. "We're just trying to highlight this issue, to show solidarity with people who have been affected." Chaplain Black has drawn attention before for his topical prayers. Last year during the budget battle that shut down the government for 16 days, he opened each session with a prayer appealing the lawmakers to end the impasse. "Obviously, there are probably some people who feel that my prayers should not have been as pointed as they were," Black told CNN's Anderson Cooper after the shutdown had ended. "My prayers simply reflect the reality of the environment that I am in." Black could not be reached immediately reached for comment ahead of the event. Over a hundred black congressional staffers and several black lawmakers staged a walkout at the Capitol this afternoon, leading a silent protest on the steps of the Capitol over the recent police killing involving Ferguson and Eric Garner. Reps. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., and Marc Veasey, D-Texas, were among the lawmakers participating in the walkout.
Senate Chaplain Barry Black led the group in prayer, saying they were working as a “voice for the voiceless.” “Today as people throughout the nation protest for justice in our lands, forgive us when we have failed to lift our voices for those who couldn't speak or breathe for themselves,” Black said. “May we not forget that in our national history injustice has often been maintained because good people failed to promptly act. Forgive oh God, our culpability in contributing to our national pathology as you keep us aware of our own capacity to be instruments of injustice.” Alex Wong/Getty Images After the prayer, the group stood on the steps of the Capitol, raising their hands in a gesture that has become symbolic of the Ferguson refrain –- hands up, don’t shoot.
A prankster was branded a 'reptile' today after he admitted recording himself doing a vile NekNomination stunt by swallowing - a live frog and lizard. Sheldon Jeans, 23, stripped to the waist and dressed in a 'Scouser' black curly wig and moustache before introducing the stunt to the camera. During the 90-second-long clip, Jeans downed a glass of water filled with crickets, before putting a frog in the same vessel and knocking it back whole. Scroll down for video . Sheldon Jeans swallowed a live frog and a lizard during the Neknomination stunt which he posted on Facebook . Jeans pleaded guilty to causing unnecessary suffering to the creatures under the 2006 Animal Welfare Act . Jeans, pictured, apologised to the three-inch long lizard before covering it in water and swallowing it whole . Jeans, of Cowplain, Hampshire even apologises to the three inch long lizard before covering it with water and swallowing it whole. Despite claiming he regurgitated the animals afterwards, Jeans became the first person to be successfully prosecuted for causing cruelty to any creature other than a fish, while taking part in the web craze. He was ordered to do 80 hours of unpaid work after admitting causing unnecessary suffering to the animals, under the Animal Welfare Act 2006. Portsmouth Magistrates' Court also ordered him to pay £1,200 in costs after changing his plea to guilty on the first day of his trial. RSPCA inspector Alan Browning said: 'Unfortunately this isn't the first case we've had involving NekNomination, but it is the first to come to court that involved animals other than fish. 'The two small animals would have suffered considerably during this incident, going through the distress of being swallowed and coming into contact with stomach acids. 'We hope this sick game is now on the decline as it is just not acceptable to subject animals to this sort of ordeal.'
In the video, he said: 'Hello this is Sheldon Jeans with a NekNomination. 'As you can see on the table in front of me, I've got a glass full of crickets. I had to get little ones because the geezer thought I was buying these for myself. 'I've got myself a lizard and I've got myself a frog. I'm going to call this the "I'm a Celebrity, Get me Out of Here Nek Challenge." First up, for the crickets.' Jeans zoomed the video camera onto to the frog so viewers could see that the amphibian was real . He also showed viewers that he had put the lizard, pictured, into the bottom of his glass before drinking . He also drank a glass full of crickets although these were not covered by animal protection legislation . He then called the frog a 'little fellow', before swallowing it whole and declaring it 'f***ing lovely.' He said to the lizard: 'Sorry mate, but you are next. In with the lizard, we'll have some of that. Add a little bit of water. Don't worry son, it's your turn.' Jeans then posted the footage on Facebook, which led to people complaining to the RSPCA. The only reason he was not prosecuted for killing the crickets during the 3 February stunt was because they are not covered under the Act. Jeans was fined £1,200 and ordered to complete 80 hours of unpaid community service following his stunt . Last month, Will Williams, of Caernarfon, north Wales, was criticised after drinking 70cl of the 40 per cent whiskey ahead of what he called a 'weekend on the beer'. Health experts say the reckless stunt - in which Mr Williams consumed at least 28 units of alcohol - could easily have killed him.
The video, which has gained nearly 400,000 views on YouTube, shows Mr Williams biting the seal from the bottle of liquor while his friends laugh in the background. He then inserts a straw into the bottle to help the spirits go down quickly and knocks it back in less than 10 seconds. After spitting on the floor, he then tells his friends 'Neknominate that', a reference to the recent internet craze that saw some killed after drinking large amounts of alcohol. Many of the video's viewers went online to criticise Mr Williams for completing the stunt, which they pointed out could easily have been fatal. In an earlier court case, bin man Paul Wooding of Ross-on-Wye, Herefordshire was handed an 18-month conditional discharge after he swallowed live fish during a Neknomination stunt from February. Still from a video of Paul Wooding preparing and drinking a cocktail containing alcohol and four live minnows. (RSPCA) In the video, Wooding announces 'this is my Neknominate' before downing a pint glass of wine, gin, vodka, rum and lemonade - together with the fish. The footage came to the RSPCA's attention after it was seen on Wooding's Facebook page. In it, after downing the cocktail, he nominates four other people to join the drinking game. The Neknominate phenomenon is understood to have emerged in Australia, with Wooding's believed to be the fifth such case to come to court in connection with the craze. After being interviewed about the video, Wooding later posted on Facebook: 'Some people's lives must be that sad and boring, to get any excitement they have to report me to the RSPCA for my Neknominate,' Wooding was also ordered to pay £500 costs and a £15 victim surcharge.
Three claimants had challenged the new measures which set earnings thresholds for people wishing to sponsor the UK visas of spouses coming from abroad. A judge said the court would not "strike down" the rules, but urged the home secretary to adjust them. The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants (JCWI), said the ruling proved they were "disproportionate". The Home Office introduced the rules in July 2012 to ease the financial burden of migration on the state. Under the new family migration policy only British citizens, or those with refugee status, who earn at least £18,600 a year can sponsor their non-European spouse's visa. This rises to £22,400 for families with a child, and a further £2,400 for each extra child. The policy had been challenged on the basis that the rules were discriminatory and interfered with Article 8 of the Human Rights Act, the right to a private and family life. The court concluded that the measures were not unlawful on the basis of discrimination, or due to a conflict with the statutory duty to regard the best interests of children while making visa decisions. Mr Justice Blake, sitting in London, said it would not be appropriate to "strike down" the financial requirements set out in the rules - which were laid before Parliament in June 2012. However, he said that the earnings threshold was disproportionate if combined with one of the four other requirements in the rules - for example, an inability to supplement a shortfall in income with savings, unless the savings were over £16,000. He said that while there may be sound reasons in favour of some of the individual requirements "taken in isolation", the combination of more than one of the five requirements of the rules was "so onerous in effect as to be an unjustified and disproportionate interference with a genuine spousal relationship". The judge also suggested that a more "proportionate financial requirement" might be to reduce the minimum income required of the sponsor alone to about £13,000.
In a written ruling, the judge said it would be "for the secretary of state, if she sees fit, to make such adjustments to the rules as will meet the observations of this judgement". The BBC's legal affairs correspondent Clive Coleman says it is now for Mrs May to decide whether any amendments should be made to the rules to satisfy the requirements of proportionality. The home secretary has been given permission to appeal. Responding to the ruling, a Home Office spokesperson said: "Our family changes were brought in to make sure that spouses coming to live in the UK would not become reliant on the taxpayer for financial support and would be able to integrate effectively. We're pleased that this judgment supports the basis of our approach. "We are looking closely at the judgment and its likely impact on the minimum income threshold before we decide how to respond. "In the meantime, where an applicant does not meet the minimum income threshold and there is no other reason to refuse it, the application will be put on hold." JCWI's legal and policy director, Saira Grant, said that while she was disappointed the financial requirement rule had not been overturned, her organisation was "very pleased that the judiciary has given a clear message that £18,600 is a disproportionately high requirement". She said the judge's comments represented a "clear message to (Home Secretary) Theresa May and she needs to sit up and listen". Ms Grant added that the judge's suggestion of a financial requirement of about £13,000 was a "reasonable, workable figure", but that people would still lose out. Meanwhile, a group of MPs and Lords known as the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Migration has called for an independent review of the minimum income requirement. In a review published last month, it looked at more than 175 cases from families affected by the rules.
Baroness Hamwee, chairwoman of the review and Liberal Democrat home affairs lead in the House of Lords, said the parliamentary group had been "struck by the evidence showing just how many British people have been kept apart from partners, children and elderly relatives". "These rules are causing anguish for families and, counter to their original objectives, may actually be costing the public purse," she said. The group said thousands of Britons had been unable to bring non-EU spouses to the UK since the minimum earnings requirements were introduced.
Daw hynny wedi iddo gael ei wahardd am fis o'i swydd fel cynghorydd yng Nghaerdydd am sylwadau y gwnaeth wrth un o swyddogion y cyngor. Dywedodd datganiad gan grŵp y blaid: "Gyda chytundeb Neil, mae grŵp Plaid Cymru wedi penderfynu y dylai gael ei wahardd dros dro o'r grŵp tra bod cytundeb ar y ffordd ymlaen yn cael ei ddarganfod yn dilyn digwyddiadau diweddar." Ychwanegodd y datganiad fod arweinydd y blaid Leanne Wood wedi cyfarfod gyda Mr McEvoy cyn i'r grŵp gyfarfod gan benderfynu tynnu'r cyfrifoldeb o fod yn llefarydd y blaid ar chwaraeon a thwristiaeth oddi wrtho. Mae ymchwiliad arall gan y blaid yn ehangach yn parhau. Mae'r Aelod Cynulliad wedi galw'r tribiwnlys wnaeth ei wahardd rhag bod yn gynghorydd am fis yn "ffars".
Dywedodd y tribiwnlys fod Mr McEvoy wedi bwlio swyddog o Gyngor Caerdydd drwy fygwth diogelwch ei swydd mewn digwyddiad ym mis Gorffennaf 2015, pan oedd mewn llys yn y ddinas yn cefnogi tenant cyngor oedd yn wynebu cael ei gyrru o'i chartref. Yn dilyn ei wahardd o grŵp Plaid Cymru ddydd Mawrth, dywedodd Mr McEvoy mewn datganiad nad oedd yn ymddiheuro am ymladd achos ei etholwraig ac y byddai'n mynd â'i achos i'r Uchel Lys er mwyn dangos ei fod "yn gwneud y peth iawn". Ychwanegodd nad oedd yn gallu gwneud sylw pellach gan ei fod angen derbyn cyngor cyfreithiol a bod y gwaharddiad o'r grŵp yn un dros dro. Dywedodd cadeirydd grŵp Plaid Cymru yn y Cynulliad, Dai Lloyd AC: "Gyda chytundeb Neil, mae grŵp Plaid Cymru wedi cytuno y dylai gael ei wahardd tra'n bod ni'n dod i gytundeb ar ffordd ymlaen yn dilyn digwyddiadau diweddar.
"Cyn y cyfarfod grŵp fe wnaeth arweinydd Plaid Cymru, Leanne Wood, gyfarfod Neil McEvoy a phenderfynu ei dynnu allan o'r cabinet cysgodol a chymryd ei gyfrifoldebau portffolio oddi arno." Dywedodd Mr Lloyd yn gynharach bod "proses ddeuol" yn mynd rhagddi - gydag ACau yn cwrdd gyfochr ag ymchwiliad cenedlaethol. Ychwanegodd mai cadeirydd Plaid Cymru fyddai'n gwneud y penderfyniad terfynol am ddyfodol Mr McEvoy. Yn y cyfamser, mae grŵp o ymgyrchwyr hawliau merched a merched sydd wedi gorchfygu trais yn y cartref wedi ysgrifennu at Blaid Cymru yn galw ar y blaid i adolygu ei chefnogaeth i Mr McEvoy. Mae'r rhai sydd wedi arwyddo'r ddogfen yn cynnwys Rachel Williams, llysgennad ar ran Cymorth i Ferched Cymru, ac un sydd wedi dioddef o drais yn y cartref ei hun.
Galwodd y llythyr ar i Blaid Cymru i "gymryd y camau angenrheidiol (yn cynnwys gwaharddiad tra bod ymchwiliad i gwynion newydd) i sicrhau nad oes ganddo [Mr McEvoy] blatfform i ymosod ar sefyllfa fregus bresennol merched yng Nghymru". Dywedodd Ms Williams wrth BBC Cymru ei bod yn aelod o'r Blaid Lafur. Mae Mr McEvoy wedi cyhuddo Cymorth i Ferched yn y gorffennol o "gamdrin plant wedi ei ariannu gydag arian cyhoeddus". Ymddiheurodd am y sylwadau'n ddiweddarach wedi iddo dderbyn rhybudd swyddogol gan Blaid Cymru. Mewn ymateb i'r llythyr, dywedodd Mr McEvoy: "Dwi wedi brwydro'n gyson dros y gorthrymedig. Dwi'n cefnogi dynion a merched sydd wedi dioddef trais yn y cartref."
Jhon Jairo Velasquez, nicknamed Popeye, was the top hit man of late Colombian drug baron Pablo Escobar. He confessed to killing 300 people and also claimed a hand in up to 3,000 killings in the 1980s and 1990s. But he also gave evidence against an ex-justice minister convicted of ordering the killing of a rival. Velasquez, 52, walked free from the Combita high-security prison on Tuesday to start a probation period of four years. He left under heavy police escort, a sign of the risks he believes he will face outside jail. The BBC's Arturo Wallace in Bogota says Colombia is divided over his early release. Several victims insist he still hasn't paid for all his crimes, while others say that after two decades in jail it is time to give him a second chance, our correspondent says. Velasquez was convicted for his part in the murder of presidential hopeful Luis Carlos Galan in 1989. But he later turned state's witness against former Justice Minister Alberto Santofimio, a rival candidate in the 1990 presidential election, who was convicted of ordering Mr Galan's killing. Mr Galan had taken a hard line against powerful drug cartels and was favourite to win the election, but he was was shot dead in a town outside Bogota as he prepared to give a speech. Santofimio, now serving a 24-year sentence, was a close associate of Escobar - the founder of the Medellin cartel which was engaged in a war against the Colombian state.
The Grand Tour presenter was admitted to hospital on Friday after falling ill while on a family holiday in Majorca. The 57-year-old posted a message on social media saying: "To keep you up to date, I'll be out of action for quite some time apparently." He said it was "really annoying" as he had never had a day off work. Clarkson also thanked fans for "all the good wishes". On Sunday, it was confirmed the former Top Gear host was being treated in a hospital on the Spanish island. Clarkson shared a photograph of tubes in his arm and his hospital identity tags around his wrist, writing: "Not the sort of bangles I usually choose on holiday." He had been due to return to filming his new Amazon Prime series next week. End of Instagram post by jeremyclarkson1 Clarkson is the second Grand Tour host to be admitted to hospital this year. In June, Hammond, 47, was flown to hospital in Switzerland after crashing an electric super car in Switzerland. The car, which was being filmed for the latest series of The Grand Tour, burst into flames after Hammond escaped the wreckage. The presenter said he thought he was going to die during the incident, during which he became airborne and crashed after completing the Hemberg Hill Climb in Switzerland. End of Instagram post 2 by jeremyclarkson1 Clarkson made light of the situation on social media, saying the show's third co-presenter, James May, was now the only "functioning member" of the Grand Tour team, adding: "God help us." Clarkson was sacked from the BBC's Top Gear in 2015 after punching producer Oisin Tymon in an expletive-laden exchange. Co-presenters Hammond and James May also left the show and followed Clarkson to Amazon Prime. Clarkson apologised to Mr Tymon for the "unprovoked physical and verbal attack".
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
By . Zoe Szathmary . President George W. Bush announced on Saturday that his Scottish Terrier Miss Beazley has died. Bush shared the news on Instagram along with a photo of him snuggling with her in the Oval Office. Miss Beazley was nine. 'This weekend our beloved dog, Miss Beazley, was put to rest after a battle with lymphoma,' he wrote. 'She was a source of joy during our time in Washington and in Dallas. She was a close companion to her blood relative, Barney.' In loving memory: President George W Bush shared this photograph of him snuggling with Miss Beazley in the Oval Office . President's best friend: Miss Beazley is seen in this file photo with President George W Bush . 'And even though he received all the attention, Beazley never held a grudge against him,' he added. 'She was a guardian to our cats, Bob and Bernadette, who -- like @laurawbush and I -- will miss her.' Miss Beazley was born on October 28, 2004, according to her White House bio page under the Bush Administration, which also said she enjoyed cheeseburgers and tap dancing. Miss Beazley was a birthday present for Laura Bush from her husband. Both Barney and Miss Beazley were featured in a 2005 White House video called 'A Very Beazley Christmas.' Her uncle Barney died in 2013 after fighting lymphoma as well, Bush said in a statement at the time. 'Barney . was by my side during our eight years in the White House,' he wrote. 'He never discussed politics and was always a faithful friend.' Furry friends: Bush is seen playing with his Scottish Terriers Barney and Miss Beazley in this April 2005 file photo .
Barney also had his own White House page and was filmed in a series of videos called 'Barney Cams' which have been archived by the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum. Bush said that Russian President Vladimir Putin disapproved of Barney when he shared a painting of Barney he completed on The Tonight Show in November 2013. 'I introduced Barney to Putin,' he said, 'and he kind of dissed him.' 'His body language said "That's not really a dog,"' he added. He explained that Putin showed him his own pet hound a year later - whom he described as 'bigger and stronger and faster than Barney.'
By . Matt Blake . PUBLISHED: . 08:07 EST, 14 June 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 11:17 EST, 14 June 2013 . Most people are lucky to see the sky through their office window, let alone be in it. But Karim Nafani beholds more than just a few trees and clouds from his desk at work he gets to see the whole world in shimmering panorama. And now the Dubai-based commercial airline captain and photographer has taken pictures of his cockpit and posted them online. He says he began the project in a bid to . document his daily routine through a series of otherworldly images that look more like oil paintings than photographs and reveal exactly what it is like for pilots at 35,000 feet. Stunning view: Dubai-based Karim Nafani sees more than just a few trees and an open space from his desk at work he gets to see the whole world in shimmering panorama . Panorama: This photograph is of a 1st officer enjoying the sunrise at 37,000 feet above sea level en route to Chittagong Bangladesh . Into the light: He says he began the project in a bid to document his daily routine through a series of stunning photographs that reveal exactly what it is like for pilots at 35,000 feet . The only trouble is, when it gets a bit stuffy, he can't open the window as any normal office worker would. He said: 'I take you far away from skyscrapers and high rise building roof tops this time to somewhere much higher: welcome to my daily office!' He gives the images their ethereal look through a technique called 'exposure bracketing' which involves setting up a DSLR camera to take at least three shots, each at a different exposure, before combining them to create the final print. Great view: Karim usually has to be behind the camera to take pictures of the cockpit but here he turned the camera on himself .
Motherboard: Apart from the beautiful views that confront Karim each day he takes to the skies, his pictures also remind viewers of the incredible array of levers, panels and buttons that cover almost every inch of an aircraft's cockpit . Hometown: Karim took this picture as he flew over his hometown Dubai . The result looks more like an oil painting on canvas than a real-time digital photograph. Apart from the beautiful views that confront Karim each day he takes to the skies, his pictures also remind viewers of the incredible array of levers, panels and buttons that cover almost every inch of an aircraft's cockpit. And, of course, he knows his way around them just as well as he does around those on his digital SLR camera. But Karim's portfolio doesn't end inside his cockpit. As a pilot he says he developed a keen interest in how the world looks from above. So he went about climbing to the top of buildings and skyscrapers to picture cities from above. Branching out: But Karim's portfolio doesn't end inside his cockpit . 'Close up': This is an aerial view of the artificial Palm Islands in Dubai . On top of the world: Karim often uses a fish eye lens to bend the horizon beyond its natural curve . A view from a bridge: But very rarely, Karim likes to take pictures from underthings rather than over them . Moody: Karim's braketted exposure technique gives many of his cityscapes a dark edge, almost as if taken from a post-apocalyptic comic book . Rings and roundabouts: One of Karim's favourite times to photograph Dubai is at night when the city lights up in a kaleidoscope of colour . Marina-nother world: As a pilot he says he developed a keen interest in how the world looks from above. Dusk or dawn? So he went about climbing to the top of buildings and skyscrapers to picture cities from above .
Menacing: Karim paints a picture of a world without limits . Tallest in the world: Dubai has a skyline that is not only one of the world's most iconic but also the tallest .
Authorities in Russia warned the FBI ‘multiple times’ about Boston bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev, though the ethnic Chechen could have slipped through the cracks because he was not linked to al Qaeda, it was revealed Tuesday by U.S. Senators who were briefed on the terrorist attacks. The federal agency looked into the eldest brother in 2011 after the Russian government contacted them, warning that Tamerlan Tsarnaev may have deveoped radical Islamic ties following a prolonged trip to Russia, including Muslim-predominant Dagestan. However, after its initial search and interviews with him and his family members, the FBI closed the case, and has come under intense scrutiny for doing so. Scroll down for video . Conflicting: Tamerlan Tsarnaev turned from an 'arrogant' sportsman to an increasingly radical Muslim. Studying the Koran alone in Dagestan; Russian authorities tried to alert the FBI over the 'bomber' multiple times, according to lawmakers . Speaking with the Boston Herald, a senator sitting in on Tuesday’s confidential meetings on Capitol Hill said that the FBI could have missed Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s radicalization as he didn’t share links to the terror network al Qaeda. That senator spoke on the condition of anonymity, as Tuesday’s briefings were classified. Sen. James Risch, R-Idaho, told the Herald that the Russian government also had very different priorities. ‘Their concern was Chechen radicals. Our higher concern was al-Qaeda,’ he told the paper, explaining that the militant Islamist group was more dangerous to the U.S. in light of the 9/11 attacks. Lawmakers . again asked whether a failure to share intelligence contributed to the . deadly, after senior officials briefed them on the investigation into . last week's bombings, the Boston Globe reports. However, members of Congress have not . gone insofar as to say that better or more thorough intelligence could .
have prevented the bombings, which many said following the September 11, . 2001 terrorist attacks. 'There still seem to be serious . problems with sharing information, including critical investigative . information not only among agencies but also within the same agency . in one case,' Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said after the Senate . Intelligence Committee members were briefed by FBI Deputy Director Sean . Joyce. 'I don't see anybody yet that dropped . the ball,' said Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Georgia, the committee's vice . chairman, according to the Associated Press. Intel: Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said Tuesday in testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on immigration legislation, that her agency knew of the suspect's trip to Russia even though his name was misspelled on a travel document . On the attack: Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, told Napolitano that the information contradicted what he'd been told by the FBI . But he added that he was asking all . the federal agencies involved for more information to make sure enough . information was shared. 'If it wasn't, we've got to fix this,' he said. Homeland Security Secretary Janet . Napolitano said Tuesday, in testimony before the Senate Judiciary . Committee on immigration legislation, that her agency knew of the . suspect's trip to Russia even though his name was misspelled on a travel . document. A key lawmaker had said the misspelling caused the FBI to miss the trip. Napolitano's disclosure came as news . to Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, who told the secretary that it . contradicted what he'd been told by the FBI. Grilling: Sen. Dan Coats, R-Indiana, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, leaves following a closed-door briefing by intelligence agencies on the Boston Marathon bombing on Tuesday .
Behind closed doors: Deputy Director of the FBI Sean Joyce, center, enters a closed Senate Intelligence Committee hearing where he faced questions from lawmakers . 'They told me that they had no . knowledge of him leaving or coming back, so I would like to talk to you . more about this case,' Graham told Napolitano. She said that even though . Tsarnaev's name was misspelled, redundancies in the system allowed his . departure to be captured by U.S. authorities in January 2012. But she said that by the time he came . back six months later, an FBI alert on him had expired and so his . re-entry was not noted. The FBI has not released a new statement . regarding Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s trip to Russia since April 17. Investigators have concluded based on . preliminary evidence that the Russia trip may have helped radicalize . Tsarnaev, the older of the two bomber suspects, who died in a firefight . with police. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was investigated by . the FBI at Russia's request and his name was included in a federal . government travel-screening database after that, law enforcement . officials have told The Associated Press. Religious journey? Tamerlan Tsarnaev spent much time in the Dagestan capital of Makhachkala . One official told the AP that by the . time of the flight Tsarnaev would have faced no additional scrutiny . because the FBI had by that time found no information connecting him to . terrorism. The ethnic Chechen brothers imigrated . to the United States a decade ago from the predominantly Muslim region . of Dagestan in Russia's Caucasus. Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, . the ranking Republican on the Senate intelligence committee, said the . briefing raised questions about the flow of information among law . enforcement and intelligence agencies. 'I think there has been some . stonewalls, and some stovepipes reconstructed, that were probably .
unintentional, but we've got to review that issue again, and make sure . there is the free flow of information,' he said, according to Reuters. 'I can't say the FBI dropped the ball. I don't see anybody yet that dropped the ball,' he said. 'That may develop.'
The 31-year-old former Oxford United forward has scored 15 goals to help the Spitfires to within a point of the National League play-off places. "It's sad news for James as he's a great lad and a great player for us," Eastleigh manager Chris Todd said. Todd's side travel to Halifax on Tuesday knowing a win will lift them into the division's top five. "It would be nice to get James Constable promoted into the Football League," Todd told BBC Radio Solent. "I'm sure he's probably sitting at home wishing he was with us as that's the kind of player he is. "These things happen and you can't control the uncontrollables, but it gives someone else an opportunity."
By . Emma Innes . PUBLISHED: . 06:05 EST, 29 August 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 07:41 EST, 29 August 2013 . A former anorexic claims that she owes her life to her gym for banning her when her fitness obsession saw her shrink to a tiny five stone. Caitlin Millar, 21, became addicted to the gym and skipping meals after she began to feel that she was unable to control anything else in her life. While her exercise regime seemed healthy, Ms Miller was losing weight rapidly because she was consuming far fewer calories than her body needed. Caitlin Millar (left), 21, says that she owes her life to her gym for banning her when she became dangerously thin (right). In a year she dropped from weighing 8st 7lbs to weighing just 5st . It was only once she was banned from her gym that she realised how painfully thin she had become. Now, she is finally on the road to recovery - and has been able to start living like any other student at a healthy 8st 9lbs. Ms Millar, from Berkshire, said: ‘I was obsessed with being the best in everything I did whether it was in sports events or school, I had to be the most successful or I wasn’t happy. ‘When I started puberty I couldn’t deal with all the changes happening to my body that I couldn’t control. ‘I had always competed in running and when younger talent started emerging and I wasn’t the best anymore I couldn’t handle it. ‘My weight was something I could control completely and so I started skipping meals and working out more knowing that if I kept control of this then I might regain control of everything else in my life.
Ms Millar, who now weighs a healthy 8st 9lbs, says that she started to skip meals and over-exercise when she began to feel that she was losing control of her life . Ms Millar (pictured since her recovery) said: 'My weight was something I could control so I started skipping meals and working out more knowing that if I kept control of this then I might regain control of everything else' ‘When I started at university I became even worse because there was no one there to realise what I was doing or to make sure I didn’t skip meals.’ Ms Millar first began to obsess about her weight when, aged 15, training started to become more of a chore than a hobby and she could feel herself losing grasp of the perfect life she had crafted for herself. Despite being a slim size eight, she felt this was not the best she could be and started skipping meals and heading to the gym as much as she possibly could. Ms Millar (pictured when she was ill) says that her weight loss increased when she started university as there was no one there to ensure that she was not skipping meals . Ms Millar (pictured, left, when she was ill and, right, since she has recovered) says that her health problems began when she struggled to cope with the fact that she was no longer the best runner in competitions . She said: ‘Knowing that there were younger people coming into competing who were better than me was hard. ‘I wanted to regain control of something and so I started to cut meals out and added in more and more gym workouts.’ Aged 18, Ms Millar was a healthy size eight and weighed about eight-and-a-half stone – healthy for her 5ft 6ins frame. But within a year, she had lost more than a third of her body weight, dropping to five stone.
Ms Millar (pictured taking part in an athletics competition) said: 'Knowing that there were younger people coming into competing who were better than me was hard' Despite her friends and family mentioning their worries, she was determined to keep losing weight and keep control of that part of her life. Ms Millar said: ‘I had been ill for about two years when one day I was pulled into the office at the gym at university by one of the staff. ‘He sat me down and said that he was going to have to ban me from the gym as people had been commenting on how worried they were about my weight. Ms Millar said: 'I had been ill for about two years when one day I was pulled into the office at the gym at university by one of the staff. He sat me down and said that he was going to have to ban me from the gym' ‘I was furious to know that people had been talking about me behind my back but shocked that they were worried enough to make a comment. ‘I walked away from the gym feeling so embarrassed that I knew something had to change then and there. ‘I trawled the internet for somewhere that could help me and came across the Anorexia Nervosa Intensive Treatment Team. ‘They tailor-made a less terrifying diet plan based on my current food and exercise regimes which gradually built up over time.’ Ms Millar says that being banned from the gym came as a shock to her because she had not realised that she was so thin. As soon as this happened, she started to look for help . Ms Millar has now returned to full health and is able to enjoy university weighing a healthy 8st 9lbs.
Her mother said: 'I am so proud that she managed to battle the illness and come out of the other side' Ms Millar’s mother, Alison, said: ‘When Caitlin started becoming obsessed with her weight we knew that this was a battle that she had to face. ‘The more we tried to stop her from doing it the more we pushed her into doing it more. ‘We just had to hope that she got things under control herself. ‘Watching her so poorly was awful but all I could do was support her and try to look after her as much as I could. ‘I’m so happy she is better now though and back to her normal self. ‘I am so proud that she managed to battle the illness and come out of the other side a much better and happier person.’
By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 08:12 EST, 10 August 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 08:13 EST, 10 August 2013 . Waiting lists for designer handbags, clothes or even the latest must-have children's toy have become the norm. And now beauty companies have joined their ranks by garnering huge waiting lists before their products have even hit the shops. Lancome's DreamTone serum promising 'ground-breaking results' is the latest product to be in such high demand that it has accumulated a waiting list of 1,400 people before it is even released next week. In high demand: Lancome's Dreamtone serum has a waiting list of more than 1,400 people before it is even released next week . The cream is said to 'revolutionise' skin tone by reducing dark age spots by 66 per cent in just four weeks. The £69 serum isn't officially released until August 15, but stars Sarah Jessica Parker and Naomi Campbell are believed to already have a bottle of the coveted beauty product, The Times reports. The product is the result of seven years of research into the causes of hyperpigmentation. The Forever Light Creator anti-aging serum by Yves Saint Laurent accumulated a huge online waiting list of 3,000 ahead of its release last month . It is not the first time that a beauty product has become a success before its even been released. The £125 anti-ageing cream Cult 51, which is said to contain the most expensive ingredients ever, had more than 5,000 people on the waiting list when it was released last month. Model Kelly Brook and singer Myleene Klass are believed to be fans of the night cream made by British chemist Richard Mears after being given pre-release samples. In trials so far, Cult 51 has been found to reverse the signs of ageing by up to five years in just six weeks.
It is clinically proven to reduce the appearance of wrinkles and fine lines by up to 52 per cent in 28 days. It increases the skin’s absorption of oxygen by up to 45 per cent and in trials reduced the appearance of age spots by up a quarter in 12 weeks. Mr Mears said it is the first skincare product on the market that can claim to have ‘3D effects’ as it stimulates the skin to produce its own collagen while increasing cell production and oxygen flow in the skin. He said: 'Most anti-ageing creams do only one or two things, so consumers end up buying several products, such as those aimed at day time use, nights, the eyes and skin brightening, to get the full benefits. 'Brands want to sell many products to their customers and maximise sales. However, there is an accepted wisdom within skin care that the skin can only absorb so much active and that too many products actually smother it, preventing it from functioning naturally.' Yves Saint Laurent's Forever Light Creator range also totted up a huge online waiting list of 3,000 ahead of its release last month. A record-breaking 15,000 free sample vouchers for the £61 serum were also downloaded before it even hit the shops. The company even set up a dedicated hotline for customers wanting to order the product as makers YSL attempted to keep up with demand. Shoppers wanting to buy Max Factor's Lashfinity 72-hour mascara were subject to a three-week waiting list earlier this year. Age defying: A new anti-ageing cream, which is . the most expensive in the world, had a waiting list of 5,000 . women ahead of its release in July .
Newcastle ended their 20-game losing run in the Premiership with an enthralling 29-24 victory over Exeter Chiefs at Kingston Park. Both sides scored three tries each and had their chances to score a four-try bonus win in an end-to-end second half but, after Noah Cato's 69th-minute score, the Falcons had the edge. Fittingly, Falcons' man of the match Ally Hogg ended 10 minutes of almost unbearable tension for the home crowd - after Tom Catterick crossed over for a try - when he booted the ball into the stand from a scrum right on the Newcastle line to end that losing run. Newcastle Falcons celebrate emphatically at the final whistle with victory over Exeter Chiefs . Newcastle Falcons players celebrate with the Kingston Park faithful in the South Stand on Sunday . It was a cracking game from the start with the Falcons making a mess of the kick-off as the ball rebounded back on the Exeter side and eventually a penalty into the corner saw Thomas Waldrom driven over from the line-out. It was Newcastle who reacted strongest and they launched several penetrating attacks with Hogg, Mark Wilson, Dom Barrow and Alex Tait feeding off Ruki Tipuna's darting runs. Two penalties resulted from the boot of Juan Pablo Socino in the 10th and 12th minutes. But Tipuna then paid the price for trying to run the ball out of defence as he threw a wild pass which saw flanker Ben White snap it up and break through for Exeter's second try. Almost immediately Socino released Hogg down the right and big number eight slipped the ball to Sinoti Sinoti, the winger scoring in the corner to make it 11-10 and then soon afterwards Socino landed a 50-metre penalty to increase the score to 14-10. Falcons back-rower Ally Hogg put in a man of the match performance against the Exeter Chiefs .
Tom Catterick (right) celebrates scoring a try with Alex Tait during the Premiership match . It was end-to-end stuff and when Newcastle made a mess of a line-out drive and turned the ball over, Exeter should have scored when they broke away. But Henry Slade kicked ahead when keeping the ball in hand would have really stretched the Falcons, who were vastly relieved to see the ball run into touch. The centre made up for his mistake when he scrambled over in the corner right on the stroke of half-time after some heavy-duty work by the Chiefs forwards and Gareth Steenson's conversion hit the bar to send Exeter take a narrow 15-14 lead into the break. Sinoti's typically aggressive run at the start of the second half led to a penalty which Socino banged into the Exeter 22 where the Chiefs infringed at the line-out maul and Socino slotted the ball home. Gareth Steenson (left) of Exeter Chiefs is tackled by Adam Powell of Newcastle Falcons . But then three penalties from Steenson in the space of 13 minutes swung then game in Exeter's favour. A careless offside from Tipuna's box kick allowed Steenson to kick in the 52nd minute and then the Exeter fly half kicked another five minutes later for handling in the ruck, followed by a third for a scrummage offence in the 65th. But then Newcastle scored twice in three minutes to stand the game on its head. Adam Powell and Gonzalo Tiesi combined to send in Catterick under the posts before Socino converted to level the scores at 24-24. Newcastle swept back through Rob Hawkins' superb offload to Tait down the left and Cato scored in the corner to make it 29-24 leaving Newcastle in the driving seat as the clock counted down.
The £15m striker, 25, has yet to play this season after tearing ankle ligaments on the Hammers' pre-season tour of New Zealand. Carroll has started only 12 Premier League matches during an injury-hit 16-month spell at Upton Park. "It's been a long, hard road again for Andy and one he's been too familiar with recently, sadly," Allardyce said. "Hopefully he'll have a major impact when he comes back again." The striker has returned to training and Allardyce expects the England forward to feature in Under-18 and Under-21 games before a possible return to first-team action in mid-November. "It'll be another two to three weeks, if he has no niggles or problems, before we talk about playing him in the team at any level," he said. "We'll try to get him through three or four behind-closed-doors games and if that goes all right then we would hope to have him back." Allardyce says that the former Newcastle and Liverpool forward returned too soon from the foot injury that kept him sidelined for the first five months of last season. "Last time we got him back he did his ankle but carried on playing, so this time round we don't want to rush him," he said. Summer signings Diafra Sakho and Enner Valencia have impressed up front in Carroll's absence, and, with West Ham lying fourth in the Premier League table, Allardyce says the club can afford to take extra care over his return. "We're hopefully going to get him back as quick as we can but we're not going to rush him back because, touch wood, there's no desperate need at the moment." he said.
(CNN) -- A dry and mild spring led Don Villwock, like all of Indiana's corn and soybean farmers, to plant two weeks early this year. He was hopeful for a bountiful Labor Day harvest. But the rain didn't fall and June brought blistering heat. Now, as punishing drought grips the Midwest, Villwock, 61, walks his hard-hit 4,000 acres in southwest Indiana in utter dismay. Where there should have been tall, dark green, leafy plants, there now stand corn stalks that are waist high or, at best, chest high. They are pale in color and spindly. Fragile. Tired. Pull back an ear's husk and you find no kernels, he says. With temperatures rising above 95 degrees, the pollen starts to die. "It's emotionally draining," he said. "The crop got out of the ground very well. We were so optimistic. But maybe a few of us were counting our eggs before they were hatched." The costs of America's worst drought in 24 years is obvious to Villwock, who has been farming for four decades. They are not so apparent to American consumers -- at least, not yet. But down the line, people are certain to be paying more for food this year. Authorities have declared more than 1,000 counties in 26 states as natural disaster areas. A county is generally qualified as a natural disaster area if it has suffered severe drought for eight consecutive weeks. Farmers are then eligible for low-interest emergency loans from the Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency. Is the drought hitting your area? Let us know how you're coping on CNN iReport. As of Tuesday, 61% of land in the lower 48 states was experiencing drought conditions -- stretching from Nevada to South Carolina -- the highest percentage in the 12-year record of the U.S. Drought Monitor.
The parched conditions come after some areas of the United States suffered record-setting heat waves, killer storms and blazing wildfires. In America's Corn Belt, the prognosis for farmers is grim as fields and pastures become drier by the day. Villwock says the drought is already larger in scope than in 1988, and he fears it will intensify to become worse. Many areas in the southern Midwest are reporting the poorest conditions for June since 1988. Corn prices pop after lower production forecast . "In the hottest areas last week, which were generally dry, crop conditions deteriorated quickly," writes Rich Tinker, author of the Drought Monitor. He says 30% of the corn crop in the 18 primary corn-growing states is now in poor or very poor condition, up from 22% the previous week. Half of America's pastures and ranges are in poor or very poor condition, up from 28% in mid-June, he says. Think it's hot? Imagine living here . The sizzling conditions have also led to a dramatic increase in wildfire activity since mid-June, shortly after the High Park Fire ignited near Fort Collins, Colorado. During the past three weeks, acres scorched by wildfires went up from 1.1 million to 3.1 million. The past 12 months have been the warmest the United States has experienced since the dawn of record-keeping in 1895, the National Climatic Data Center said earlier this week. In Indiana, with water reservoirs at low levels, a mandatory water ban began Friday at noon in Indianapolis in hopes of saving an additional 25 million gallons a day. The ban mainly affects lawn watering. At Bilskie's Market in Indianapolis, owner Jim Bilskie says he has offered customers local produce for 40 years. This year, he's paying more for fruits and vegetables and says he has to pass on the costs. "The cost is high now," Bilskie told CNN affiliate WTHR.
"The wholesaler isn't making money. The cost is going up. We're not making money. It's outrageous." Mother nature's kill list . Iowa farmer Dave Miller, 60, has not seen rain in 21 days. His corn looked good until about two weeks ago when the soaring temperatures turned killer. "I'm about 50 percent short of needed moisture," he said. "In parts of southern Indiana, southern Illinois, they have been much drier for a longer period. We looked good, compared to them." At this stage, Miller needs 2 inches of rain right away to carry his corn crop as well as his soybeans, which will start aborting pods without adequate moisture. It will be challenging for many farmers, who often pay $800 to $1,000 per acre to plant a crop. Consumers will be hurting as well down the line when they feel the drought in their pocketbooks, says Miller, who is also the director of research and commodity services at the Iowa Farm Bureau. Corn prices have climbed 45% already, Miller says; soybeans, 22%. "In the short run, that doesn't show up in the grocery store," he said, since most of this corn is used as livestock feed. In fact, he said, meat prices could fall at first if farmers slaughter more animals to decrease the cost of buying feed. But eventually, Americans will pay more at the checkout counter. "It's likely that in three to six months from now, you will start seeing an increase in prices in the meat case," Miller said. "There will be a quicker impact on eggs and poultry because the production cycle is shorter." And even milk could see 4% to 6% price hikes if there are reductions in dairy herds. Villwock, the Indiana farmer, says he must wait now until the fall of 2013 before he can hope for a full harvest. Harsh weather affects everyone, but farmers are especially at the whim of Mother Nature, he says.
Meanwhile in Iowa, the forecast Friday included a 30% chance of rain, filling many hearts with hope. But last time Miller checked his radar, not one drop had fallen on his 350 acres. Extreme weather: Get ready to see more of it, scientists say .
By . Alexandra Klausner . PUBLISHED: . 17:43 EST, 7 February 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 18:54 EST, 7 February 2014 . One Panda at the Toronto Zoo hasn't let the snowy weather get in the way of a good time or in the way of starring in a viral video. Toronto saw heavy snow fall on Saturday, and the Toronto Zoo's five-year-old adorable Panda, De Mao, looked impossibly cute while flopping about in the the fluffy white mounds. The National Post reported that the Toronto Zoo closed early for the weather but that the security cameras were still capturing footage of animals at play. This 46 second video shows De Mao rolling around and doing an impressive nose dive off of a rock. The playful video already has 486, 549 views. See why for yourself. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO . Should I climb this tree? Snow's too slippery This Panda seems determined to have adventures in the snow . This panda prepares to jump off this rock as cute as he possibly can . De Mao bravely takes a nosedive into the fluffy snow . De Mao lands safely in the snow and isn't done playing yet To celebrate the weather De Mao decides to roll around in utter joy .
Picture this: you've taken the week off work and booked a holiday on a remote tropical beach. You land, drop of your things and walk down to the shore Only to find a formidable mountain of thongs, plastic bottles and false teeth. Late last month, three tonnes of junk washed up on Old Mapoon beach, a remote and tropical area in far northern Queensland . A team of Indigenous rangers and workers from the Tangaroa Blue Foundation spent five days clearing the seven-kilometre shoreline . A turtle hatchling scrambles for the surf on Mapoon beach. It is believed that a third of turtle deaths in Australia happen from plastic ingestion . Late last month, three tonnes of junk washed up on Old Mapoon beach in northern Queensland. A team of Indigenous rangers and workers from the charity Tangaroa Blue Foundation spent five gruelling days cleaning the seven-kilometre shoreline. Amongst the expanse of waste they found fishing nets, false teeth, bags full of plastic bottles (some filled with urine) and an enormous army of toy soldiers. Heidi Taylor, the co-founder of Tangoroa, said her company got word of the waste from a local team of rangers. ‘We work closely with the local waste rangers. They said they had seen a lot of waste washing up in the direction of Mapoon beach, which is a hotspot for Marine debris. ‘It’s a very desolate area without many communities, so the rangers were naturally overwhelmed by the project and they called on us to come and help out.’ Mapoon is on the Gulf of Carpentaria, which gets a large amount of stray waste from the Arufuru Sea in Asia. The current then moves on towards the Northern Territory, harming all marine life in it's path. Taylor said the labels on much of the waste showed it had come from foreign shores.
‘The labels suggest the waste was predominantly from south-east Asia, which is consistent with our prior experience.’ Taylor said that since much of the waste was plastic, it can stick around in the ocean until a big tide comes and washes it ashore. 'The fact that most of the waste is coming from international waters certainly makes it more difficult to tackle as an issue. Heidi Taylor, the co-founder of Tangoroa, said her company works closely with the local waste rangers (pictured above) who advise her when there is significant waste buildup . A team of Indigenous rangers and workers from the Tangaroa Blue Foundation sorts through 6000 thongs that washed up on the beach . Mapoon is on the Gulf of Carpentaria, which gets a large amount of stray waste from the Arufuru Sea in Asia. When it's not strewn with waste, Mapoon is a beautiful site . A ranger's four wheel drive transports ecotourist volunteers along Mapoon beach looking for turtle nests . 'It's a serious problem. It's impacting the marine life across the whole of the Cape York.' It is believed that a third of turtle deaths in Australia happen from plastic ingestion. Amongst the masses of junk on the beach, the remains of local turtles were found. 'We need to work at this from a federal level using government agencies. It's the only way we can really have an impact on the waste disposal from our neighbouring countries. 'Some of this waste is coming from third world countries where there is barely no recycling institutions. The only way to impact this is through government co-operation.' Taylor says the issue is only going to get worse. 'The bottom-line is that our population is increasing. And more people means more waste. 'Tackling pollution needs to be a two pronged approach.
We need to continue to build teams to clean up the areas that are badly effected, but we also need to look at the data and put pressure on the companies that are producing the most waste and ask them to take more responsibility.' Tangaroa, the name for the god of the ocean in Polynesian mythology, has been operating in Australia since 2004. The foundation has reportedly removed 3 million pieces of marine debris from the Australian coastline. For more information check their official site here.
These unusual structures - with their intricate designs and symmetrical forms - may look like they have been created by a 3D printer, but they are in fact more than a century old. Displayed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), they are the artistic equivalent of a mathematical equation. According to the team that collected the designs, the structures reveal how mathematics can describe the world around us, even in its most complex forms. The unusual structures - with their intricate designs and symmetrical forms - may look like they have been created by a 3D printer, but they are in fact more than a century old . The Clebsch Diagonal Surface is one of the most famous surfaces in mathematics. It was described by Alfred Clebsch in 1871. It is remarkable as it has exactly 27 straight lines that lie flush to its surface. The surface has three branches that join in a central column and in a flaring base. The 27 lines, etched in black, extend toward infinity. There are exactly 10 points on the structure’s surface where three of the 27 lines meet. These points are called Eckardt points, and the Clebsch diagonal surface is the only cubic surface to contain them. Joshua Batson in Wired reports that the structures were created by Göttingen-based mathematician Felix Klein and displayed in Chicago in 1893. MIT, the University of Arizona, Harvard, and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign ordered a large collection of his models which are now on display. ‘Digitally controlled 3D printers now produce such mathematical objects in exactly the same way as people did a century ago,’ Professor George Francis from the University of Illinois told MailOnline.
‘Both compute the data points from formulas, and build up the models, layer by layer like a wedding cake - but with thinner layers.’ MIT describes the structures as the artistic equivalent of a mathematical equation, designed to let algebra move away from the chalkboard and into physical form . According to a report in Wired, the structures were created by Göttingen-based mathematician Felix Klein and displayed in Chicago in 1893 . ‘Digitally controlled 3D printers now produce such mathematical objects in exactly the same way as people did a century ago,’ Professor George Francis from the University of Illinois told MailOnline. The Clebsch diagonal is described by Mr Batson in Wired as one of the most beautiful models in the catalogue. The symmetrical cubic equation was described by Alfred Clebsch in 1871 and is remarkable as it has exactly 27 straight lines that lie flush to its surface. The surface has three branches that join in a central column and in a flaring base. The 27 lines, etched in black, extend toward infinity. There are exactly 10 points on the structure’s surface where three of the 27 lines meet. ‘Making them is perhaps the most abstract art of all, in that they express in a real, touchy-feely way, ideas that initially exist purely in the mathematical mind,' said Professor Francis . MIT, the University of Arizona, Harvard, and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign ordered a large collection of these models which now adorn their hallways . These points are called Eckardt points, and the Clebsch diagonal surface is the only cubic surface to contain them. The maths models were discovered by Georgetown-based Kalev Leetaru while researchers were cleaning the models during a move of their cases many years ago. To build the model, workers in Klein’s laboratory drew the horizontal sections solving a planar version of the equation.
Each cross-section was cast separately, in a plaster made from powdered chalk. The layers were then stacked, glued together, and sanded until they were smooth. ‘Making them is perhaps the most abstract . art of all, in that they express in a real, touchy-feely way, ideas that . initially exist purely in the mathematical mind,' said Professor Francis. This symmetrical cubic equation, pictured here in physical form, was described by Alfred Clebsch in 1871 and is remarkable as it has exactly 27 straight lines that lie flush to its surface . To build the model, workers in Klein’s laboratory drew the horizontal sections solving a planar version of the equation . Each cross-section was cast separately, in a plaster made from powdered chalk. The layers were then stacked, glued together, and sanded until they were smooth to create a final design (pictured)
(CNN) -- A 48-year-old man faces several charges stemming from a flight from Amsterdam, Netherlands, to Portland, Oregon, authorities said. Donald Robert Welty is suspected of attempted assault on a police officer, disorderly conduct and harassment, according to Ansley Bernatz of Multnomah County Detention Center in Oregon. He is out on bail after his arrest Thursday. The Portland man faced federal charges of interference with flight crew and assault of a federal official, but the U.S. Marshals Service dropped a hold on Welty's detainment, Bernatz said. Details about the incident onboard were not immediately available. Representatives for the U.S. Marshals did not immediately return calls for comment. Anthony Black, a spokesman for Delta, told CNN the airline "cooperated with the air marshals while in flight and provided assistance once it was on the ground in Portland." Delta did not provide any further information. CNN's Greg Morrison contributed to this report.
By . Daily Mail Reporter . Nicola Benedetti, whose album Homecoming: A Scottish Fantasy has entered the top 20 of the UK Official Album chart . She became BBC Young Musician of the Year when she was 16, was named one of Britain’s most powerful young women earlier this year and already has an MBE and eight honorary degrees. But Nicola Benedetti has added yet another string to her bow. Yesterday she became the first solo British violinist since the 1990s to enter the Top 20 of the official UK albums chart with her record Homecoming: A Scottish Fantasy. She is also the first ever Scottish classical artist to enter the Top 20. It’s at number 19 and expected to rise. The last British violinist to score a Top 20 album as a solo performer was Vanessa Mae in 1995. Nigel Kennedy achieved the same feat in 1989. Miss Benedetti, who is due to perform at the opening ceremony of the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, said: ‘I am absolutely thrilled to have reached the Top 20, not something a classical artist ever expects. This is a deeply personal recording inspired by Bruch’s Scottish Fantasy. 'The project took me deep into the heart of Scottish culture. I hope the music, in all its diversity, is providing some uplift and pleasure.’ Earlier this year the 26-year-old lashed out at critics who claim glamorous classical musicians succeed because of their sexy image rather than their artistic ability. She said it amounted to sexism when talented female artists were judged on their looks, adding: ‘Classical music can be prouder of its integrity than many industries. People are basically chosen for their ability.’ Miss Benedetti’s latest achievement follows her MBE in 2013 for her educational and charity work.
She was named in Britain’s Top 30: The Young Female Power List, published in the Times in February, alongside the likes of Adele, Emma Watson and the Duchess of Cambridge. Miss Benedetti's latest achievement follows her MBE in 2013 for her educational and charity work . Her rendition of Scottish Fantasy, a piece of classical music written in 1880 by the German romantic composer Max Bruch, now sits in the mainstream chart alongside pop acts such as Will.i.am – a judge on BBC talent show The Voice. The number one spot was claimed by the rapper and producer. His new single has gone straight in at the top of the charts to give him his 10th UK number one. It’s My Birthday, featuring 17-year-old American singer Cody Wise, tops the pile 11 years after The Voice judge’s first number one, 2003’s Black Eyed Peas hit Where Is The Love, . He knocked reigning chart queens Ariana Grande and Iggy Azalea down to two with Problem, while Ella Henderson also slides one to number three with Ghost, according to the Official Chart Company. The pop star now has five solo number one singles in Britain, the same as he has with the Black Eyed Peas.
By . Beth Stebner . PUBLISHED: . 01:04 EST, 11 November 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 08:19 EST, 13 November 2012 . Giving a nod to Mitt Romney’s heavy defeat on Tuesday, Saturday Night Live began their weekly show with the defeated Massachusetts governor drowning his sorrows – with milk. Jason Sudeikis reprised his role as Romney during the cold open, sneaking dairy products on the back of his expansive balcony. ‘Darn it all to heck,’ he began. Numerous members of his family – including Kate McKinnon as his wife Ann and Taran Killam as his sons Tag, Matt, and Josh – came outside to try and comfort him, to no avail. Killam as Tag said that his father’s loss made him want to ‘punch America in the face.’ SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO . Pensive: Jason Sudeikis, right, played Mitt Romney in the cold open, joined by Taran Killam, left as they reflected on his presidential loss . Getting fresh: Ann Romney, played by Kate McKinnon, acts surprised as Sudeikis shows physical affection . Does the body good: Sudeikis drowned his sorrow in milk, one hidden in the shrubs and another in his shoe; Romney was pictured with a gallon of chocolate milk following his loss . SNL took it aim on the Republican presidential candidate, after he lost the Electoral College vote tally 332 to 206 in Tuesday’s election. In the skit, Romney’s family was throwing a dignified post-election soiree, but Sudeikis had retired to the balcony to chug Vitamin D milk. Romney himself was pictured with a gallon of chocolate milk following the disappointing loss. Sudeikis’ son, Killam as Tag Romney, came out to ask what more he wanted to accomplish.
‘I have so much I want to do,’ Sudeikis said. ‘I want to find out how mayonnaise is made.’ After ‘cracking open’ another carton of milk, Killam as Matt comes out, begging his father to come into the house. ‘Paul Ryan is doing feats of strength in the living room,’ he said. Sudeikis responded with vitriol. ‘I would’ve liked to see him carry Wisconsin.’ A concerned Killam then asked, ‘Have you been drinking? You smell like a dairy.’ Sudeikis offers his son a drink, but Killam sounds horrified. ‘I’m only 38!’ he said. A third son, Josh, tries to entice his father into the party. ‘Donald Trump is doing a very amusing thing where he’s racist,’ Killam said. My way or the highway: Jay Pharoah again played Obama, saying that he was not going to let anything stand in his way during his second term . Four more years: Pharoah said he was a little surprised at the election outcome, saying Republicans had his defeat in the bag - high unemployment, high gas prices, and a bad first debate performance to boot . But it’s not until McKinnon comes out again that Sudeikis really gets fired up. He kisses her on the lips, causing McKinnon to say in shock: ‘My, oh my, what has gotten into you?’ Sudeikis responds: ‘Oh, I don’t know, about 10 gallons of milk.’ On Weekend Update, Seth Meyers celebrated ‘four more…years…of gridlock,’ showing pictures of Republicans Nancy Pelosi and John Boehner.
Noting how the president won many unemployed and student voters, Meyers noted: ‘Basically, Obama became president the same way Budweiser became the king of beer.’ Meyers also commented on the David Petraeus scandal, noting the name of biographer Paula Broadwell’s biography on him, entitled ‘All In.’ ‘When they first started working on the book,’ Meyers said, ‘it was called “Just The Tip.”’ Meyers was joined by Jay Pharoah, playing the newly re-elected President Obama. Asked if he was surprised by the result, Pharoah responded: ‘A little. Come on Republicans, what happened? This was yours to win! Brokeback Maine-ton: Bill Hader, left, and Fred Armisen, right, played a gay couple from Maine dressed in fisherman's sweaters, wool caps, and waders . Angry: Bobby Moynihan played a drunk uncle on Weekend Update, bemoaning the fact that he never graduated from Electoral College . ‘Five-dollar gas, eight percent unemployment, I even gave you a first-debate head start! nd on top of that, I’m Black.’ But Pharoah said that as a second-term president, he wasn’t going to concede to those who were against him. ‘Look out!’ he said. ‘From here on out, we do it my way! Republicans don’t want to talk of immigration? Fine. Meanwhile, a gay Hispanic woman is born every 15 seconds.’ Speaking of what has traditionally been a bipartisan dead end between him and Boehner, he said: ‘Fine, you wanna be unreasonable, fine let’s be unreasonable. The military? Gone!
If you want to go to war with Iran, you have to send in Ted Nugent.’ The ‘president’ seemed to be energized, and kept bouncing his shoulders. When Meyers commented, Pharoah responded: ‘Seth, I’m in a good place. 'I want to thank Mitt Romney. Governor, I admire your tenacity, even though watching you run for president was like watching someone in roller skates trying to climb stairs.’ Leading lady: This week's episode was hosted by Anne Hathaway, who plays Fantine in the upcoming film adaptation of Les Miserables . Though he said he was glad for four more years in office, Pharoah’s closing remarks were over how awful his job is. ‘Mainly, this is a terrible job and I hate it,’ he said. Also appearing on Weekend Update were a gay couple from Maine, which just passed a gay marriage law, and a drunk uncle to talk about the election recount. Anne Hathaway, who plays Fantine in the upcoming movie version of Les Miserables, hosted for a third time, and Rihanna was the musical guest. WATCH THE VIDEO HERE .
San Diego (CNN) -- Introducing a new word: "cultuphobia." It means the fear that another person's culture is taking over your own. The word may be new, but the concept is ancient. America is a land of immigrants that has, in truth, never liked immigrants -- no matter where they came from and whether they came with the proper documents or a letter of reference from the Queen of England. Part of the reason that we don't like immigrants is because they frighten us. And one way in which they frighten us is because we worry that -- with the changes they bring -- they'll wind up marginalizing us and making us less important and less relevant. There is a name for that fear: cultuphobia. For an example, look at what happened this week to mark the launch of the new English-language, Latino-targeted television network Fusion, founded by ABC and Univision. The parent companies came up with what they thought was the cute idea of swapping anchors on their top-rated morning shows. The Spanish-language show, "Despierta America," which is based in Miami, sent hosts Raul Gonzalez and Karla Martinez to New York for some early morning chitchat with George Stephanopoulos and Robin Roberts, the hosts of "Good Morning America." Meanwhile, GMA sent Lara Spencer and Sam Champion to Miami to visit with the "Despierta America" crew. Come to think of it, this was a pretty good idea. And no one seemed to enjoy it more than the hosts who switched places. In New York, Gonzalez and Martinez were on the "Good Morning America" set on the same day as Enrique Iglesias, who sang a new song. Everyone seemed comfortable with one another, and there was a lot of laughing and dancing.
In Miami, Spencer told The Huffington Post that she "had no idea how much fun it was" to be on Spanish-language television and implored producers to "please have me back." Champion proclaimed that he loved the experience and didn't want to go back to New York. "I'm staying," he told the website. More laughing and dancing, this time to mariachi music. It is no wonder that it all went so well, proclaimed Mexican actor Eugenio Derbez, who was also a guest on "Despierta America" that day. His hit movie "Instructions Not Included" is in limited release in the United States. After all, these days, the language barrier is just a puddle jump and, he said, among Latinos in the U.S., "everyone speaks both English and Spanish." Here is where the story gets interesting. Judging from the reaction on the "Good Morning America" page on Facebook and the comment section following news stories about the switch, many regular viewers of "Good Morning America" did not appreciate the gimmick. In fact, many of them were furious. Some said they changed the channel. Others vowed to never watch the show again if there is a repeat performance. "This had better be a one-time thing," wrote one disgruntled viewer. One woman complained that, when she tunes in to her favorite morning news show, she expects to get what she always gets -- the news of the day "in ENGLISH." There's the giveaway. For many of those angry "Good Morning America" viewers, it might just have been a case of them preferring to stick with what they like. But for others, it was a case of cultuphobia. These viewers aren't just protecting their favorite show, but -- as they probably see it -- their language, culture and civilization. This is the other side to cultural marketing, and it's ugly.
A corporation -- or in this case, a media company such as ABC -- might vie for a larger market share by going after a new set of viewers and alienate its core audience members, who feel slighted, ignored or insulted. When that happens, the core isn't quiet. The core speaks up. Maybe next time, the company decides it isn't worth it. I hope that doesn't happen here. I hope ABC will stand its ground and continue down this road of trying to reach Latino viewers. Still, I'm not sure how Fusion will perform in the long run. I have concerns, and I'm not alone. While the new network is marketed to younger viewers who speak English, it doesn't seem that they've thought deeply about how to reach their viewers. That's not an easy demographic group to tap into, for either marketers or media. Plus, Fusion would be better off not becoming simply an English-language, hipper version of Univision, where -- as I would put it -- the anchors are white and the politics are blue. The liberal Spanish-language network is all about advocacy journalism and protecting what it sees as the interests of Latino immigrants -- especially the undocumented. Yet, on most of its telenovelas, which are produced in Mexico, the lead actress is European-looking with light skin. So, at Univision, they seem to believe that dark-skinned immigrants should have the full pallet of rights -- except, apparently, the right to appear in a starring role on Spanish-language television. That's evidence of a different kind of phobia, and a depressing reminder that -- in either language, and either of side of the border -- people are the same, and prejudice is alive and well. Join Us at Facebook/CNNOpinion. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Ruben Navarrette .
By . Zoe Szathmary . Utah is the nerdiest place to be in the US - and Washington, D.C. is the least, according to a new study. Real estate search engine Estately analyzed Facebook users' data to see which percentage of users said on their profiles that they were interested in 12 criteria. These included Star Trek: The Next Generation, Harry Potter, Star Wars, Doctor Who and Lord of the Rings, as well as general categories for 'Anime Movies,' 'Comic Books' and 'Fantasy Lit.' Users' interest in Dungeons & Dragons and Magic: The Gathering were also considered, as well as live-action role-playing (LARPing) and cosplay, which involves dressing up as particular characters. May the nerds be with you! The chart's rankings show Utah is considered the nerdiest state in the US . Cosplay: The study looked to see if Facebook users expressed interest in cosplay. Cosplay involves dressing up as a particular character, like the fans seen here . The numbers in the study show the 'overall rank for per capita interest' in each subject, the site says. Sci-fi and fantasy lovers will find themselves in 'nerd heaven' in mainly Pacific Northwest and Mountain states. Utah is the nerdiest state, holding . number-one per capita interests in cosplay, Harry Potter, Star Wars, . LARPing, fantasy literature and Lord of the Rings. 'In . Utah, nerdishness is so common it’s practically the norm,' Estately . says. 'Even if you factor in its high percentage of young people, Utah’s . enthusiasm for nerdy interests is unparalleled in America.' In descending order, the top ten states are Utah, Alaska, Wyoming, Idaho, Colorado, Washington, Kentucky, Oregon, New Mexico and West Virginia.
The Geography of American Nerdom: places considered 'nerd heaven' are labelled in dark blue, while 'nerd hell' spots are in bright red . Having fun? Utah was considered to have the highest interest in cosplay and the fourth-highest interest in comic books . The second-nerdiest state is Alaska, which has the highest per capita interest in Dungeons & Dragons and Magic: The Gathering. It also holds the number-two slot for interest in anime movies. 'In Alaska, if you’re standing on a street corner and the person to your left isn’t a Dungeon Master, and the person to your right isn’t, then you must be the Dungeon Master,' the site says. The ten least nerdy places in the US include Washington, D.C., Mississippi, New Jersey, Georgia, Alabama, Virginia, North Carolina, Massachusetts, South Carolina, Florida and Louisiana. The nation's capital has the lowest interest overall in nine out of twelve categories, including cosplay, Star Wars, LARPing and Doctor Who. 'If you want to get stuffed in a locker bring your Pokemon cards to school in Mississippi, New Jersey, or Washington, DC,' the site warns. Those states are part of a larger 'nerd hell' which includes New York, Connecticut, Delaware and South Dakota, whose Facebook users showed little interest in nerdy pursuits.
Photo Advertisement Continue reading the main story JERUSALEM — Food costs at the Israeli prime minister’s residence more than doubled after Benjamin Netanyahu took office in 2009, reaching nearly $120,000 in 2012, a third of it in takeout meals. The state paid about $2,000 a month to clean the Netanyahus’ private home in the seaside town of Caesarea, though the family spent most of its time in Jerusalem. A report published Tuesday by Israel’s state comptroller said these and other expenses — including $68,000 over two years in makeup, hairstyling and “presentation” for Mr. Netanyahu and his wife, Sara — “strayed from the cornerstone principles of financial management and the principles of proportionality, reasonableness, saving and efficiency.” Noting that Mrs. Netanyahu had reimbursed state coffers $1,035 after she was found to have pocketed the deposit money from recycled beverage bottles, the comptroller, Joseph Haim Shapira, said he had handed his investigative material over to the attorney general because it raised “suspicion of a criminal act.” “This is public money, and the law for a penny is the law for 100,” Mr. Shapira said in the introduction to the 36-page report. “Public trust in government institutions is the foundation stone of every democratic regime.” The much-anticipated report came a month before Israel’s elections on March 17, and Mr. Netanyahu’s challengers seized on it to buttress their assertion that he is out of touch with Israelis struggling to buy apartments and pay grocery bills.
The prime minister’s Likud Party called the surrounding media storm a slanderous campaign to topple him “through a focus on irrelevant minutiae” that “distract from the real issues at hand.” A statement by the Likud said, “There is absolutely no indication of any assault on the public’s integrity, and certainly no indication of any criminal transgression,” blaming an “embittered” former employee now suing for damages for the high expenses. Spending fell after that employee left, the statement noted, adding that many of the comptroller’s recommendations had already been adopted and that Mr. Netanyahu had “issued a directive to implement the remaining recommendations in the best and most effective manner possible.” The report’s publication came after weeks of critical news stories and commentaries about the first couple’s spending habits and treatment of employees, a recurrent theme of Mr. Netanyahu’s public life. Mrs. Netanyahu, a psychologist, has long been criticized as a mercurial boss who holds interminable grudges. The Netanyahus have survived previous spending scandals — in 2013 alone, there was the $127,000 installation of a rest chamber in the airplane that took the couple to Margaret Thatcher’s funeral, and the $2,700 annual budget for ice cream. (Pistachio for the prime minister; his wife prefers French vanilla.) The bottle-deposit affair, and the surreptitious transfer of new garden furniture from the official Jerusalem residence to Caesarea, threatened to take things up a notch.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Advertisement Continue reading the main story “If there is formally a suspicion of criminal activity, and Netanyahu himself is involved, that’s crossing the line — that’s going to change everything,” said Avraham Diskin, a political scientist at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya. “All these reports came before from the media, not from an official. Immediately afterward, we couldn’t really track any decline in the popularity of the Likud or Netanyahu himself, and, in fact, it maybe worked for his benefit.” Anticipating that the comptroller’s report would depict a life of luxury, Mr. Netanyahu posted a video on Facebook in which his wife toured the residence with a celebrity interior decorator, showing it more shabby than chic. The 15-minute video, highlighting frayed rugs, decayed doorjambs, cracked light fixtures, stained curtains and broken kitchen cabinets — viewed half a million times over two days — prompted a new cascade of criticism, including claims that it constituted both a severe security breach and an illegal campaign donation by the designer. Ben Caspit, a columnist who frequently criticizes the prime minister, called it a visit to “the royal cuckoo’s nest,” in which the couple showed “to what gutter level” they are “capable of lowering themselves and the country.” The vitriol rose after the release of the comptroller’s report. Zehava Gal-On of the leftist Meretz faction spoke of Mr. Netanyahu’s “hedonism” and “corrupt behavioral norms of a banana republic.” Others invoked Marie Antoinette. Shelly Yacimovich of the Labor Party asked: “What on earth were they eating there? Cornflakes with dolphin’s milk?
Dinosaur-egg omelets? Rhinoceros steaks?” The centrist Yesh Atid party said the report revealed a prime minister “who is totally disconnected and for whom the real problems of the people of Israel are the last thing on his mind.” Besides what it called “exaggerated” spending, the comptroller’s report said the Netanyahus had bypassed regulations to hire a private electrician connected to the Likud to do repairs in Caesarea on weekends and even on the Jewish holy day of Yom Kippur, which could also lead to criminal charges. It also said public employees “paid out of their own pocket for items purchased” for the Netanyahus and were never reimbursed. Mitchell Barak, a Jerusalem political consultant who worked for Mr. Netanyahu in the 1990s but who now often criticizes him, said the prime minister had “successfully made himself look almost like a victim” over allegations that pale compared with those made against a predecessor, Ehud Olmert, who is facing a prison sentence after being convicted of taking bribes. “The average person who lives in Tel Aviv, who leans to the left, is flabbergasted and offended by it, but they were never going to vote for him,” Mr. Barak said. “For his voter base, which is going to be right of center, more religious, poorer population, they will concentrate on the fact that someone is trying to bring him down rather than what exactly is the content of what seems to be petty criminal activity.” In a scathing report with potential political and criminal repercussions, Israel's state comptroller sharply criticized Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday for excessive spending of public funds in his official and private residences.
The highly anticipated report, which came just four weeks before Israeli elections, faulted Netanyahu and his wife, Sara, for using public funds to spend lavishly on a variety of personal goods and services, including cleaning, clothing, water and grooming, between 2009 and 2012. The spending dropped after that. Likud party election campaign in Jerusalem Abir Sultan / European Pressphoto Agency An Israeli worker hangs posters of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu under the slogan 'It's us or them,' in Jerusalem on Feb. 8. An Israeli worker hangs posters of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu under the slogan 'It's us or them,' in Jerusalem on Feb. 8. (Abir Sultan / European Pressphoto Agency) Netanyahu defended his behavior, but political opponents seized on the report. Labor Party leader Isaac Herzog said he found the findings infuriating. “But it is not because of how you conduct yourself in your homes that the public wants to replace you, but because you have destroyed our home,” Herzog wrote on Facebook. “We will replace you because on your shift, Hamas grows stronger … young couples cannot buy a house … because you eat a $5000 breakfast when every third child in Israel goes to bed hungry.” The Netanyahus live and work in the official prime minister’s residence in Jerusalem and keep a private home in Caesarea, one of the country’s priciest spots. According to the report by Comptroller Joseph Shapira, spending on both often far exceeded necessity, formal budgets and good taste. In addition, the report pointed to improprieties in management of finances, human resources and external contractors. When Netanyahu took office in 2009, expenses at both residences totaled roughly a half-million dollars a year. By 2011, that had roughly doubled before dropping to about $600,000 in 2013.
Food and hosting expenses alone started out at about $55,000 and more than doubled to about $125,000 in 2011. After a modest cut in expenses the following year, expenses for 2013 dropped to near the 2009 level. One would expect an elected public official to demonstrate extra sensitivity and serve as an exemplary model of saving public funds. - Israeli State Comptroller Joseph Shapira Cleaning both residences came with a particularly high price tag: an monthly average of about $20,000 between 2009 and 2013, including more than $2,000 a month for the Caesarea house, which was usually empty. Shapira found this spending “significantly exaggerated.” About $20,000 a year was spent to order meal deliveries, despite employing an in-house cook. These and other expenses, Shapira wrote, were “not compatible with the basic principles of proportionality, reasonability, economy and efficiency.” Personal grooming expenses for the prime minister and his wife totaled well over $100 a day, which Sharpira found to be more than double the budgeted amount. Some of the findings could lead to criminal proceedings. According to the report, Sara Netanyahu finagled employing an electrician who was barred by protocol because he was a personal friend and a member of the prime minister’s political party, Likud. Justice authorities will have to decide how to address other breaches, including money kept temporarily from recycling bottles from the official residence several years ago and a set of patio furniture bought for the official residence but transferred to the private one. While these were noted in the report, they were not officially investigated.
“Public trust in government institutions is a cornerstone of every democracy,” Shapira wrote, adding that such institutions must gain this trust by adhering to both law and “moral norms.” While he welcomed the apparent cost-cutting after 2012, the comptroller said “one would expect an elected public official to demonstrate extra sensitivity and serve as an exemplary model of saving public funds.” Netanyahu was well-prepared for the report, as his attorneys and aides responded swiftly with a press conference, stressing there were no grounds for criminal concerns. The prime minister, said his spokesman, Nir Hefetz, respects the report and has instructed his staff to act on its recommendations. A statement from Netanyahu's Likud party accused the news media of pushing the issue for weeks in a “clear effort to remove the prime minister from office … through a focus on irrelevant minutia." The statement added that the uproar was distracting from "the real issue at hand,” which is “who will defend Israel in the face of the real security threats and pressure from the international community”—Netanyahu or rivals Herzog and Tzipi Livni. But for others, money matters are a real issue, and the prime minister's spending has struck a nerve with some voters who are concerned about the high cost of living and are demanding what they consider a more just distribution of resources. Housing prices have soared since Netanyahu took office, and with 1.6 million people below the poverty line, Israel has the third highest poverty rate in the 34-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Sobelman is a special correspondent A damning official report into spending by the Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, at his official residence in Jerusalem and private seaside home has accused him of excessive and improper use of public funds, including spending huge amounts on takeaway food, hairdressing and cleaning..
Prepared by Israel’s state comptroller, Yosef Shapira – and passed to the country’s attorney general to consider whether any laws have been broken – the report is potentially highly damaging to Netanyahu, coming only a month before Israel’s elections. The government auditor’s report appears to confirm allegations that have been rumbling for several years of excessive spending by Netanyahu and his wife, Sara, and a lack of proper management of the costs in the prime minister’s official home. It has come on top of lurid allegations, detailed in a civil court case, of the high-handed and abusive treatment of staff in the official residence by Sara – claims strongly denied by the Netanyahus. What has made the issue potentially politically toxic in the middle of an election campaign – where Netanyahu is running neck and neck with his main rivals – is the sharp contrast it has afforded to Israelis suffering under a high cost of living. The claims of potential illegal conduct centre on two issues: the so called “bottle-gate affair”, which saw Sara Netanyahu pocket deposits on bottles of drinks paid for by the state, later reimbursed; and claims that garden furniture bought for the official residence was sent to their private home. Among spending items criticised in the report is a bill to the Israeli state for more than $18,000 (£11,700) for takeaway meals in a single year, despite the fact that the Netanyahus are provided with a cook and staff at the government’s expense. Another expenditure highlighted was the cost of cleaning for Netanyahu’s private home in the upmarket beach resort of Caesarea. It cost the Israeli state $2,120 a month – more than the monthly income of many Israelis – despite the fact that the Netanyahus spend the majority of their time at the official residence in Jerusalem.
Netanyahu was also criticised for excessive spending on a raft of other items including hairdressing, clothes, water consumption and electrical repairs made at the taxpayer’s expense at his private home. The official examination of the expenses – incurred between 2009-13 – showed that cleaning costs claimed at the Netanyahus’ two residences doubled without explanation from an already hefty $138,000 in 2009 at the official residence alone. Perhaps most damaging of all is the revelation that employees of the prime minister’s office were obliged to pay for some of Netanyahu’s personal expenses out of their own pockets – often small sums and not reimbursed. “The meaning of a failure to pay back these invoices from petty cash is that employees absorb the cost of private expenditures of the prime minister or his family,” the comptroller wrote in his report. “When an employee is forced to pay from his own pocket for an expenditure by the prime minister, this is improper administration and it makes no difference whether the sum is large or small.” In a scathing assessment, Shapira concluded: “The way in which the budget of the prime minister’s residence was managed during the years 2009 until 2012 does not comply with the basic principles of money management, saving and efficiency and is likely to result in a waste of public funds.” One of the murkier episodes detailed in the report relates to the employment of an electrician who was a member of Netanyahu’s own Likud party, and who, because of that, was not authorised to do state-funded work at their private home. The report noted that nobody examined the need for the work – which continued for three months – and there was no examination of whether the work was actually performed, as everything was coordinated between Sara Netanyahu or one of her staff.
Replying to the report’s findings, Netanyahu’s party issued a statement saying that while Netanyahu respected “the findings … in relation to all the matters which were investigated … there is absolutely no indication of any assault on the public’s integrity and certainly no indication of any criminal transgressions.” The statement added: “A large portion of the recommendations in the report were implemented even prior to its release. The prime minister has issued a directive to implement the remaining recommendations in the best and most effective manner possible.” Discussion of the lifestyle enjoyed by the Netanyahus has become one of the longest-running soap operas in Israeli media and politics, both taking a star turn in the court cases brought by former staff – who have complained of Sara Netanyahu’s alleged abusive behaviour and tantrums. Condemned as “evil gossip” by the couple, the saga has prompted thinly veiled comparisons over the last year between Sara and Marie Antoinette and arch digs at the imperial pretensions of Bibi, as the prime minister is nicknamed. The controversy has been exacerbated by the Netanyahus’ own efforts in recent days to pre-empt the report. Those efforts saw them invite television celebrity interior designer Moshik Galamin (a friend of the couple) to inspect their official residence on the eve of the report’s publication, with Galamin videoed as he was shown round by Sara. The tour was then posted on the prime minister’s Facebook page. The video purports to depict run-down furnishings, peeling paint and a grotty kitchen, which Galamin declares looks “like the kitchen of a Romanian orphanage from 1954”.
“The moment you come here at night, you’ll catch the prime minister on this chair snacking on all sorts of forbidden things, like a sandwich or yellow cheese,” Sara tells the designer, in what appears to be an attempt to reinforce an image of him as an ordinary guy. “The dish we like best is schnitzel and mashed potatoes and pasta!” The problem – as the reports in Israel’s media have extensively charged – is that the video appears to have been disingenuous at the very least. The kitchen featured in Galamin’s video, say critics, is the general kitchen of the residence where employees take their meals, apparently infrequently used by the prime minister. The Netanyahus’ own kitchen – not shown in the video but later displayed on Israeli television – is reportedly a newly renovated affair located on another floor. The Labour MP Shelly Yachimovich, who has in the past called on Israel’s media to leave off Sara Netanyahu, was scathing ahead of publication. Describing the video as “pathetic” and “ridiculous”, she accused Netanyahu of “cowardice” for putting his wife forward to deflect the heat. “He passed responsibility to his wife He put her in centre-stage saying: ‘I’m off to work, Sara will show you the house, that’s her kingdom.’ Beyond the chauvinistic aspect, this was done with the next day’s state comptroller’s report in mind, to create the alibi of ‘it’s not me, it’s her’.” “Ultimately,” she added, “we look [to] our leaders, we want them to lead their people, not live like emperors, disconnected completely from the lives of ordinary people.”
By . Ray Massey . PUBLISHED: . 21:25 EST, 25 September 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 06:17 EST, 26 September 2012 . If the drudgery of the daily commute has lost its charm, businessman Jeremy Paxton may have the high-octane antidote. He's started doing his treks to the office on an amazing water-powered jet pack that appears to owe more to the technology of James Bond and Buzz Lightyear than the Clapham omnibus. Instead of getting the car out of the garage or heading to the bus stop, he straps on the device, which uses water pressure to lift him up to 30ft in the air and propel him along horizontally at speeds of up to 25mph. Scroll down for demo! To infinity and be-Bond! Jeremy Paxton shows off his 007-style jet pack which he uses to commute to work . Water way to travel: The jet pack can lift Mr Paxton up to 30ft in the air and propel him horizontally at speeds of up to 25mph . He says the 40-mile journey from his riverside boathouse home in Marpledurham near Reading to his office at the Lower Mill Estate in the Cotswolds is possible because the River Thames and waterways run direct between the two. Though he does have to walk the last three minutes to his office. Mr Paxton, 51, has also been asked to be the UK's 'test pilot' and to compile a 'Pilot User Guide' for other would-be customers. But the fun comes at a price. The jet pack, which is imported from Germany where it is made under license from American company JetLev, will set you back a cool £115,000 – enough to buy an Aston Martin V8 Vantage for 007 and still have change for a few gadgets.
Who needs the car: The 51-year-old uses the device to travel from his riverside boathouse home in Marpledurham near Reading to his office at the Lower Mill Estate in the Cotswolds . A practical plaything: Depending on the pilot's weight, a JetLev Flyer can top speeds of 30mph and cruise for between two to three hours before refueling, with a range of around 80 miles . The jet pack is not a rocket. Instead it operates on the same principle as a giant pump by generating huge amounts of water pressure to provide a thrust similar to that of a fireman’s hose. Mr Paxton, whose business interests include the Lower Mill Estate in Gloucestershire, an upmarket 600-acre waterside community of eco-friendly luxury second-homes in the Cotswolds, said: 'I’m the first person in Britain to buy one. I just like alternative means of transport. 'It’s a different way to commute. It’s better than sitting in a traffic jam or being stuck on a crowded train. It’s environmentally-friendly. 'It’s fantastic fun and it’s not complicated to operate. I often commute to London by train and sometimes take my boat to the station. I have a pilot’s licence and fly planes and helicopters. Why not this?’ 00-heaven: The jet pack, designed by Chinese-born Canadian Raymond Li, was inspired by the one used by James Bond in the opening scenes of the 1965 film Thunderball (right) A Toy Story: The jet pack is not too dissimilar to the backpack used by Buzz Lightyear (right) The jet pack comprises a number of key parts. First, there is the pack itself which resembles the one used by James Bond in Thunderball or by Buzz Lightyear in the movie Toy Story.
This is connected to a 33ft hose which in turn is connected to a boat-like flotation device, inside which is a 250cc four-stroke petrol motor. The 'boat' is the pump generator and sits in the water sucking up vast quantities of water which are then forced through the hose and into the jet nozzles on a special lightweight carbon-fibre frame weighing 30lbs strapped to the pilot’s back. The sheer force of this jet lifts the pilot off the ground or out of the water. He or she then controls the speed by a motor-cycle-style twist-grip on one of the handles. Direction is just like flying and depends on the pilot shifting his or her weight. The maximum altitude is limited by the length of the tube, which also limits the distance from water a pilot can travel. A digital fly-by-wire system is used to . control the throttle which the makers say make flight controls simple, . light and intuitive. Mr Paxton added: 'It’s entirely buoyant so it won’t sink. You can go 30ft high or hover over the water – even walk on the water. 'If . you want to go right you put down your right hand you can do tight . turns. After a few goes, you get the hang of it It’s like riding a . bicycle. You have a "kill switch" around your wrist to cut the power.' Inspired by the jet pack used in the . opening scenes of Thunderball, the Jetlev is the brainchild of Raymond . Li, a Chinese-born Canadian who first . sketched out his concept on a yellow Post-it Note in 2000 and spent the . next 10 years developing it.
The makers say that, depending on pilot weight, a standard JetLev Flyer could top speeds of 30mph and cruise for between two to three hours before refueling with a range of around 80 miles. It can accommodate pilots of 1.5metres to 2metres in height and between 40kg and 150kg in weight. Mr Paxton is himself a keen flyer who has his own aeroplane and helicopter. Earlier this month, he abseiled down London’s new Shard skyscraper with the Duke of York in aid of charity. The makers say basic skills can be mastered in just 15 minutes though intermediate skills will take between one and 10 hours. Pioneer: Mr Paxton has been asked to be the UK's 'test pilot' and to compile a Pilot User Guide for other would-be customers . Price: £115,000 . Maximum altitude: 30ft . Top speed: circa 30mph . Cruising duration: 2 to 3 hours . Range:Around 80 miles . Weight of jet-pack harness: 30lbs . Jetpack height: 3ft 2in . Width: 2ft 11ins . Length: 2ft . Power: 250cc four-cylinder petrol engine . ‘Boat’ length: 10ft 7 inches . Height: 2ft 3 inches . Weight: 649 lbs . Jetlev’s website notes: ‘As soon as sufficient lift is applied, you and the jetpack become weightless and levitate in the air and even small amounts of force will move or turn you. 'You will feel some pressure from the saddle and the trapeze, but usually no more than from riding a bicycle.’ But pilots must be 18 years old. And Jetlev cautions: ‘You must be a good swimmer and should not feel uncomfortable having your face in the water from time to time. 'You should not have a fear of heights.
'You should be in good health and physical condition. 'You should have no history of any heart conditions and flying is not advised for women who are pregnant.’ Last month, hotel manager Grant Engler, 25, and his fiancé and Amanda Volf tied the knot in the world’s first jet pack wedding at a ceremony in the U.S. They each flew to the beachside ceremony at Newport Beach in California wearing Jetlev water-powered jet pack. After exchanging vows the newlyweds performed an airborne first dance - above the water - to Frank Sinatra’s ‘Come Fly With Me’. The daring couple, from Grand Rapids, Michigan, became engaged on an adventure holiday to Mexico in April.
By . Beth Stebner and Associated Press . PUBLISHED: . 15:51 EST, 13 June 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 16:54 EST, 13 June 2012 . An NYPD cop charged with gunning down an unarmed teenager in the Bronx pleaded not guilty in court today, eliciting cheers from his brethren in blue, but tears from the teen’s parents. New York Police Department Officer Richard Haste, 31, surrendered Wednesday morning and pleaded not guilty to manslaughter charges in a courtroom filled with other officers, relatives of 18-year-old victim Ramarley Graham, and their supporters. Graham was killed during a February 2 narcotics raid in the Wakefield neighbourhood of the Bronx. Haste thought Graham had a gun, and shot him in front of his grandmother and little brother as he tried to flush marijuana down the toilet, officials said. Applause: Richard Haste is applauded as he leaves the court in New York on Wednesday . Supporters try to block photographers from taking pictures as New York City Police Dept. officer Richard Haste, center, gets in a car after posting bail in New York . Anguish: Constance Malcolm, left, and Frank Graham, right, parents of 18-year-old Ramarley Graham cry as they attend the arraignment of NYPD officer Richard Haste . Moment of grief: Haste pleaded not guilty to charges of first- and second-degree manslaughter for the February shooting in the death of 18-year-old Graham . Not guilty: NYPD officer Richard Haste (centre, left) flanked by his lawyers Stuart London, (left) and Michael Martinez, (centre, right) plead not guilty . The scene at Bronx Criminal Court was a dramatic one, as Haste, wearing a dark grey suit and tie and on crutches, uttered only two words: ‘Not guilty,’ according to the New York Daily News.
'Ramarley was only 18,' his mother, Constance Malcolm, said outside court. 'We have too much of this going on and it has to stop. We need it to stop. We can't keep killing our kids. It has to stop. Something has to come out of this.' She then pleaded: 'Help me get justice for my son.' As Haste left the courtroom after posting $50,000 bail, dozens of officers applauded him. He was on crutches because of an unrelated accident and walked slowly to a car, while a small group of protesters chanted anti-police slogans behind him. The February shooting stemmed from an NYPD investigation of a persistent drug trade in the Bronx neighbourhood where Graham lived. At the time, police said investigators identified Graham as a potential suspect and radioed to other officers that he appeared to be armed with a pistol. Day in court: Haste, left, was on crutches from an unrelated incident; right, Judge Martin Marcus, who is presiding over the case, set bail at $50,000 . A witness told police that around the same time, two officers wearing NYPD jackets pulled up and yelled at a man - apparently Graham - 'Police! Don't move!' After the man ducked into Graham's three-family home, the officers found a back entrance, climbed some stairs and broke down the door to a second-floor apartment where Graham lived with his grandmother and other relatives, police said. An officer positioned behind Haste reported seeing Graham run toward a bathroom. He also heard Haste yell, 'Show me your hands!' and 'Gun! Gun!' before a shot rang out, police said. Crammed together in the tiny bathroom, Haste yelled for Graham to hold up his hands, and when the teen reached for his waistband, the officer fired, according to his lawyer, Stuart London.
'I thought he was going to shoot me, so I shot him,' Haste said in a court statement read by Mr London. Haste fired one shot at close range from his 9 mm semiautomatic handgun, police said. Graham was struck in the upper chest and collapsed in the bathroom. He was pronounced dead at a hospital. Unarmed: Ramarley Graham, 18, was shot and killed at his Bronx home in February by an NYPD officer . Officials said Graham was trying to flush a small amount of marijuana down the toilet as Haste approached . A search of the apartment didn't turn up any weapons. Police said they found marijuana in the toilet.Officers are allowed to use deadly force when they have a reasonable belief that they are facing an imminent threat of serious injury or death. But in the small Bronx bathroom, it was obvious there was no gun, and Haste should not have fired, District Attorney Robert Johnson said. 'We have too much of this going on and it . has to stop. We need it to stop. We can't keep killing our kids. It has . to stop. Something has to come out of this.' -Constance Malcolm . 'He had to know that he did not see a gun,' he said. However, Mr London said that Haste, who graduated from Lehman High School, had never before fired his gun in the line of duty in four years of service, according to the New York Post. ‘When he woke up that morning, he had no intention of firing his weapon,’ Mr London told the Post.The family has said Graham was shot as his grandmother and his 6-year-old brother looked on. Outside court Wednesday, a large group of supporters said they are holding vigils every Thursday in the Bronx for 18 weeks to celebrate the teen's life. His father, Frank Malcolm, broke down weeping when he said the boy wouldn't be home for Father's Day this weekend.
Plea for peace: Outside of court, Constance Malcolm pleaded 'We have too much of this going on and it has to stop. We can't keep killing our kids' Pause: The teen's father Frank takes a moment to close his eyes as Ramarley's mother looks out over the press . 'Haste is going home to his family. When we leave here we're going to the cemetery,' he said. 'I keep asking why. Why did he kill our son? Why, why, did he kill our son? 18 years old. 18. He did nothing to deserve this.' Police Commissioner Ray Kelly ordered a review of whether training and tactics were sufficient in the street narcotics division, where Haste worked. The division differs from full-time narcotics police, who are more specialized. Haste had been on the force for four years and in the unit just weeks before the shooting. He had never before fired his weapon in the line of duty. Kelly said some adjustments were made to the unit after the review. An order was put out codifying requirements officers needed to meet before going into the unit, but he didn't specify what the changes were. Support: The Rev. Al Sharpton, left of centre, puts an arm on the back of Constance Malcolm after the arraignment as she wipes away tears . Outside the courthouse Wednesday, police union president Patrick Lynch said he respected the Graham family's grief but called it a tragedy resulting from a difficult situation. 'Today, we're here to show support for a New York City police officer who was put in a terrible position doing a difficult job,' Lynch said as the protesters chanted, 'NYPD. KKK. How many kids will you kill today?' Supporters of Graham's family said they worry officers were expecting trouble simply because Graham was black. They also say Haste, who is white, used excessive force. 'We're not looking for revenge. We're looking for justice,' the Rev.
Al Sharpton, a family supporter, said afterward.
A disciplined Blackburn frustrated Liverpool as the Championship side held their Premier League opponents to a scoreless draw and forced an FA Cup quarter-final replay. Gary Bowyer's side kept the Reds plethora of superstars at bay and will host them again at Ewood Road, with his towering striker Rudy Gestede proving tough to contain for Brendan Rodgers' men, especially after the departure on a stretcher by Martin Skrtel following an ugly fall early on. Here, Sportsmail's Chris Wheeler rates every player's performance at Anfield. Blackburn Rovers' Rudy Gestede proved a handful for Liverpool's defence in their FA Cup draw . LIVERPOOL (3-4-2-1) SIMON MIGNOLET - 6.5 . Looked shaky under his first high ball, but settled and produced a fantastic save to keep out a goal-bound header from Baptiste. Liverpool keeper Simon Mignolet makes a reflex save after Blackburn's Alex John-Baptiste heads on target . GLEN JOHNSON - 6 . Almost turned a cross into his own goal in the first half but got forward well as Liverpool seized the upper hand. MARTIN SKRTEL - 6 . Knocked out inside two minutes after falling awkwardly when challenging Gestede and carried off on a stretcher. Martin Skrtel gives fans a double thumbs up as he left the pitch on a stretcher after a nasty fall . DEJAN LOVREN - 6 . Had his hands full with Gestede after Skrtel’s exit and struggled with the big Blackburn striker at times. Reds defender Kolo Toure hits this close-range chance into the back of the net but was judged offside . LAZAR MARKOVIC - 6.5 . Lively down the Liverpool right but faded and replaced by Balotelli just before the hour mark. JORDAN HENDERSON - 6.5 .
Another reassured display from the Liverpool skipper. Unlucky not to break the deadlock with a late effort. Lazar Markovic (centre) was lively for the Reds down the right side but was replaced by Mario Balotelli . EMRE CAN - 6 . Played in midfield again and looked solid enough without producing anything spectacular. RAHEEM STERLING - 5.5 . Didn’t make as much of an impression as he can and struggled to get into the game. Headed late chance wide. Raheem Sterling turns inside Rovers' Adam Henley during their FA Cup quarter-final on Sunday . PHILIPPE COUTINHO - 5.5 . The little Brazilian has scored some memorable goals recently but didn’t have his shooting boots on, twice firing well off target . ADAM LALLANA - 5 . Guilty of poor distribution in the first half and did not have a big enough impact on the game for a player of his calibre. Adam Lallana appeals for a penalty but he was legally dispossed by Blackburn's Matthew Kilgallon . DANIEL STURRIDGE - 6.5 . Became more of a threat as the game wore on, and had one great effort on goal end of first half, but will be disappointed not to trouble Blackburn more. Subs: Ward, Toure (for Skrtel 11, 6) Lambert, Moreno, Sakho, Balotelli (for Markovic 59, 6), Williams. Booked: Can . Manager: Brendan Rodgers – 5 . Brendan Rodgers (right) issues directions to Raheem Sterling during the frustrating draw . BLACKBURN (4-2-3-1) SIMON EASTWOOD - 7 . Had less to do than he might have expected early on but produced great reflex saves to deny Sturridge and Henderson. ADAM HENLEY - 6.5 .
Battled well throughout but fortunate to avoid a booking for a late challenge on Can. Adam Henley gets tight on Sterling during a committed performance from the battling Blackburn defender . MATTHEW KILGALLON - 7.5 . Made some great challenges, including one interception on Lallana in the first half, but rode his luck by holding back Sturridge in the box. ALEX BAPTISTE - 7 . Declared fit after hamstring problem and so nearly emerged as Blackburn’s hero but his header was saved by Mignolet. Defender Alex Baptiste (right) makes a lunging tackle on Liverpool striker Daniel Sturridge . Baptiste heads Blackburn's best chance of the match only for it to be denied by Mignolet . MARTIN OLSSON - 6.5 . Kept on his toes by Markovic but coped well on the whole to make sure Liverpool were limited to hopeful balls into the box. LEE WILLIAMSON - 7.5 . Worked tirelessly in front of his defence to ensure that Liverpool did not have the time and space to pick off their Championship opponents. Lee Williamson (right) worked tirelessly against the Reds' star-studded attack, including Philippe Coutinho . CORRY EVANS - 6.5 . Hasn’t been the best weekend for the Evans family, but he’ll be more than satisfied with a solid performance here . CRAIG CONWAY - 6 . Had Blackburn’s best chance of the first half but blazed high and wide with only Mignolet to beat from just inside the box. TOM CAIRNEY - 6.5 . Impressed in a central role behind Gestede, particularly in the first half when Blackburn were more not pinned back in their own half. Booked for high challenge on Balotelli.
Blackburn's Tom Cairney (right) impressed for his side in behind Gestede . BEN MARSHALL - 6 . Replaced by Taylor midway through the second half after putting in a decent shift on the left side of Blackburn’s midfield . RUDY GESTEDE - 8 . Posed a real problem for the Liverpool defence from the moment Skrtel was injured. Won almost every high ball and provided a vital outlet for his team. Blackburn's Rudy Gestede endures close attention from Emre Can as the Rovers held the Reds to 0-0 . Subs: Spurr, Brown, Rhodes, Taylor (for Marshall 68, 6), Henry, Lenihan, Steele. Booked: Cairney . Manager: Gary Bowyer – 7 . Rovers manager Gary Bowyer gets caught up in the moment as his side kept Liverpool at bay . Referee: Andre Marriner 6.5 . Star man: Rudy Gestede .
(CNN) -- Former England cricket captain Michael Atherton has called him "ruthless," but for Lalit Modi, the man behind cricket's revolutionary Indian Premier League and vice-president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), this is less of a criticism and more a statement of fact. Bringing glitz to the game, Lalit Modi is the man behind cricket's Indian revolution. "I am ruthless, without doubt," he told CNN's Talk Asia in Mumbai. "Otherwise we wouldn't get where we were." Many believe that Modi, 44, has taken cricket into a new era, turning a sport that can be baffling to watch and take five days to play, into a brightly-colored instant hit of action taking just a few hours. With cheerleaders, the best players in the world and even Bollywood stars as part owners of some of the teams, Modi has concocted a recipe fit for prime-time TV consumption, in a country renown for its passion for the game. Modi's came up with the idea of a new Indian cricket league came 14 years ago, but resisted the involvement of the BBCI at that time, citing too many vested interested within India's main cricketing body that would have spoiled his ideas. While ruthless he is also astute to the financial potential of cricket in India and the IPL. After graduating from Duke University in the U.S. in sports management he returned to India to launch ESPN and 10 Sports. Coming from a family that controls Modi Enterprise, an industrial conglomerate worth $1.5 billion, Modi admits his family were concerned that he was moving away from business and spending so much time with cricket while setting up the IPL. "They didn't think that I'll be spending so much time with cricket, and cricket has taken up so much time of my time, but the job has made it so demanding.
Either I do it well, and if I do it well then I need to give the time for it," he told CNN. It's been time well spent, both professionally and personally: Modi has his own private jet, gets mobbed in the streets by fans and can hang out with Bollywood stars. Yet he hasn't made a fortune from the IPL: "I have an honorary position and BCCI is a charity and a trust. It's a nonprofit-making organization and we do this for development of the game and I'm passionate about the game." However as vice-president of the BCCI he has been instrumental in boosting its revenues, brokering television deals and sponsorship associations that could see it top the $1 billion mark in the next five years. It's no surprise that such an iconoclastic figure in a game rooted in tradition has his personal critics and those that are skeptical about the direction he is taking the game. Modi was not without controversy himself, as he was accused of drug dealing and abduction while at university, claims that were never proven. The 20-over version of the game played in the IPL has worried some that the finer points of the game may be sacrificed for the instant, mass-market appeal. But for Modi, it's quite simple: "We've hit records in viewership, record numbers in sponsorships sales, record number in team franchise sales, the owner themselves have done so well, the stadiums are full. We got Bollywood involved, I mean it's a script that I couldn't have written better myself."
By . Mark Prigg . PUBLISHED: . 13:01 EST, 12 March 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 11:19 EST, 13 March 2013 . Nasa's Curiosity rover has found that the red planet could have once supported primitive life. An analysis of a rock sample collected by the rover found key chemical ingredients. 'We have found a habitable environment that is so benign and supportive of life, that probably if this water was around and you had been there, you would have been able to drink it,' said John Grotzinger, Curiosity's project scientist. Scroll down for video . This powered rock that shows there may once have been life on Mars: Analysis of a rock sample collected by the curiosity rover found key chemical ingredients for life, Nasa said today . Curiosity made the assessment after . studying a powdered sample drilled from a fine-grained rock at its . exploration site in Gale Crater, a deep impact bowl on Mars' equator. The rock was analysed in two of the rovers onboard chemistry labs: Sample Analysis at Mars (SAM) and . Chemistry and Mineralogy (CheMin) instruments. 'A fundamental question for this mission . is whether Mars could have supported a habitable environment,' said . Michael Meyer, lead scientist for NASA's Mars Exploration Program at the . agency's headquarters in Washington. 'From what we know now, the answer . is yes.' The groundbreaking analysis by the chemical lab onboard the Curiosity rover shows ancient Mars could have supported living microbes. Scientists identified sulfur, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and carbon - some of the key chemical ingredients for life - in the powder Curiosity drilled out of a sedimentary rock near an ancient stream bed in Gale Crater on the Red Planet last month. Clues to this habitable environment come from data returned by the rover's Sample Analysis at Mars (SAM) and Chemistry and Mineralogy (CheMin) instruments.
The data indicated the Yellowknife Bay area the rover is exploring was the end of an ancient river system or an intermittently wet lake bed that could have provided chemical energy and other favorable conditions for microbes. The rock is made up of a fine-grained mudstone containing clay minerals, sulfate minerals and other chemicals. This ancient wet environment, unlike some others on Mars, was not harshly oxidizing, acidic or extremely salty. The patch of bedrock where Curiosity drilled for its first sample lies in an ancient network of stream channels descending from the rim of Gale Crater. The bedrock also is fine-grained mudstone and shows evidence of multiple periods of wet conditions, including nodules and veins. a self-portrait of Curiosity at the drilling site where the discovery was made . This set of images shows the different types of rocks seen by NASA's Opportunity rover and Curiosity rover at two different parts of Mars. On the left is 'Wopmay' rock, in Endurance Crater, Meridiani Planum, as studied by the Opportunity rover. On the right are the rocks of the 'Sheepbed' unit in Yellowknife Bay, in Gale Crater, as seen by Curiosity. Curiosity's drill collected the sample at a site just a few hundred yards away from where the rover earlier found an ancient streambed in September 2012. 'Clay minerals make up at least 20 percent of the composition of this sample,' said David Blake, principal investigator for the CheMin instrument at NASA's Ames Research Center in Moffett Field, Calif. These clay minerals are a product of the reaction of relatively fresh water with igneous minerals, such as olivine, also present in the sediment, Nasa said. The reaction could have taken place within the sedimentary deposit, during transport of the sediment, or in the source region of the sediment. The presence of calcium sulfate along with the clay suggests the soil is neutral or mildly alkaline.
Scientists were surprised to find a mixture of oxidized, less-oxidized, and even non-oxidized chemicals, providing an energy gradient of the sort many microbes on Earth exploit to live. This partial oxidation was first hinted at when the drill cuttings were revealed to be gray rather than red. This side-by-side comparison shows the X-ray diffraction patterns of two different samples collected from the Martian surface by NASA's Curiosity rover. The Rocknest reading (left) suggests a dry, aeolian (wind-shaped) environment with low water activity. The John Klein pattern (right) suggests a lacustrine (lakebed) environment with high water activity. This full-resolution image from NASA's Curiosity shows the turret of tools at the end of the rover's extended robotic arm on Aug. 20, 2012 . 'The range of chemical ingredients we have identified in the sample is impressive, and it suggests pairings such as sulfates and sulfides that indicate a possible chemical energy source for micro-organisms,' said Paul Mahaffy, principal investigator of the SAM suite of instruments at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. An additional drilled sample will be used to help confirm these results for several of the trace gases analyzed by the SAM instrument. 'We have characterized a very ancient, but strangely new 'gray Mars' where conditions once were favorable for life,' said John Grotzinger, Mars Science Laboratory project scientist at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, Calif. This false-color map shows the area within Gale Crater on Mars, where NASA's Curiosity rover landed on Aug. 5, and the location where Curiosity collected its first drilled sample at the 'John Klein' rock . 'Curiosity is on a mission of discovery and exploration, and as a team we feel there are many more exciting discoveries ahead of us in the months and years to come.'
Scientists now plan to work with Curiosity in the 'Yellowknife Bay' area for many more weeks before beginning a long drive to Gale Crater's central mound, Mount Sharp. Investigating the stack of layers exposed on Mount Sharp, where clay minerals and sulfate minerals have been identified from orbit, may add information about the duration and diversity of habitable conditions.
An online register would include a list of organisations which spend large amounts of cash employing people to influence MSPs. In 2013, the Scottish government announced plans to legislate on lobbying, but no bill has yet emerged. Ministers said they remained committed to taking the issue forward. The cross-party standards committee recommended the register should cover "significant" lobbying activity, which would also take in organisations which have sustained contact with politicians. They would need to provide information on meetings with MSPs, events and hospitality involving MSPs and details of what the lobbying aimed to achieve. Healthy democracy Committee convener Stewart Stevenson, an SNP MSP, said: "Lobbying is a legitimate, valuable and necessary part of a healthy democracy. "But a parliament founded on openness must seek to make clear who is lobbying, on what issues, and why." Plans for a register of lobbyists - originally suggested by Labour MSP Neil Findlay - were put forward in the wake of events at Westminster, after three peers were accused of agreeing to carry out parliamentary work for payment. The Scottish Parliament has remained free of any serious lobbying scandal, apart from an incident in 1999 when the Observer newspaper reported that public relations firm Beattie Media touted for business by offering privileged access to Scottish ministers. A Scottish government spokesman welcomed the committee's report, adding: "We have repeatedly said that the standards committee's inquiry into lobbying is central to determining the best way forward and we will now take the time to carefully consider its findings. "The Scottish government remains committed to take forward the development of a Lobbying Transparency Bill."
By . Jonathan Wynne-jones . PUBLISHED: . 08:46 EST, 15 January 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 09:17 EST, 15 January 2014 . These shocking images show a group of horses in agony after they were found on a housing estate trapped in barbed wire. The RSPCA has launched an urgent investigation after tearful residents discovered the frail animals tethered on a plot of urban land. Five horses and a pony were found on a small patch of grass on a council estate in Low Simonside, near Jarrow, South Tyneside. Wounded and neglected: Local residents were reduced to tears at the sight of a frail group of horses tethered behind gates. They were found on a housing estate trapped in barbed wire . One of the animals required urgent help after it was found dragging barbed wire from its leg and mane. But despite the state of the animals the council has so far been powerless to remove the horses and appeals to the owner have been ignored. Both the RSPCA and South Tyneside Council are trying to resolve the issue but the owner has so far refused a notice demanding he remove his horses from the public land. Alan Bartlett, 66, whose home overlooks the site, said: 'Itâ€™s absolutely disgusting and a disgrace that horses should be left like that.' Trapped in barbed wire: One of the horses required urgent help after it was found dragging barbed wire from its leg and mane. The RSPCA has launched an urgent investigation . Looking for scraps: The horses have been left on a muddy patch of grass with no food or water. Residents have been horrified at the sight of the neglected horses . Councillor Arthur Meeks of South Tyneside Council said: 'I was horrified when I saw one of the poor animals with the wire wrapped around its tail and leg.
'It was very distressing and I believe a couple of local ladies were reduced to tears. We understand the horses have been tethered there illegally since before Christmas.' Although the site was illegally padlocked, a council officer was able to access the field and unwrap the barbed wire. RSPCA officials were informed about the site and notices have been served on the horsesâ€™ owner to remove the animals. Locked up: The five horses and a pony have been locked up illegally on a small patch of grass on a council estate in Low Simonside, near Jarrow. The owner has refused to move them despite an order from the council . Shocking sight: Alan Bartlett, 66, whose home overlooks the site, said: 'It's absolutely disgusting and a disgrace that a horse should be left like that' A South Tyneside Council spokesman, said a number of its departments are working collectively to swiftly resolve the situation. 'The council has served a notice to the animalsâ€™ owner asking them to remove the horses from the site. 'Despite assurances that they would be removed at the start of this week, they remain on the land. 'The council is concerned both at the unauthorised occupation of the land, and the environment in which the animals are being left. The RSPCA have also attended the site with a view to assessing the condition of the animals. 'Should the owner not comply with our requests, there may be no other option but to bring in the services of an enforcement company to take control of the animals. 'Tethering horses on council land is not permitted, as this action can cause danger to the public and can adversely affect the welfare of the horses themselves, as well as cause damage to the land. 'The council will not tolerate this, and will continue to take necessary action against irresponsible horse owners.'
In a throwback to the Cold War, a Russian spy ship caused a stir after unexpectedly docking in Havana on the eve of historic talks between the U.S. and Cuba. There was nothing stealthy about the arrival of the Viktor Leonov CCB-175, which was moored to a pier in Old Havana where cruise ships often dock. But the visit was not officially announced by Cuban authorities. The timing also raised eyebrows as it came on Tuesday, the eve of historic U.S-Cuba talks aimed at normalising diplomatic relations. U.S. officials in Washington played down the presence of the Russian vessel, saying it was perfectly legal and not at all out of the ordinary. 'It's not unprecedented. It's not unusual. It's not alarming,' a defense official told AFP news agency. Scroll down for video . Arriving unnanounced: The Viktor Leonov CCB-175, a Russian Navy intelligence warship, is seen docked to a pier in Old Havana after sailing into the harbour on the eve of historic talks between the U.S. and Cuba . The Vishnya or Meridian-class intelligence ship, which has a crew of around 200, went into service in the Black Sea in 1988 before it was transferred seven years later to the northern fleet, according to Russian media. The vessel previously docked in Havana in February and March last year, staying there for a few days. Those visits were also unannounced. The Russians said the visit was scheduled a long time ago and was yesterday opened up for the children of Russian diplomats. For Cubans, who became increasingly dependent on Russia after the 1959 revolution, the ship's latest visit has taken them down memory lane. Raphael Hernandez told ABC News: 'We have normal relations with Russia. 'One day, when we have normal relations with U.S., we could have an American ship visiting.'
The highest-level U.S. delegation in 35 years will conclude two-day talks in Havana today with both sides cautioning an immediate breakthrough was unlikely. Senior U.S. officials say they hope Cuba will agree to reopen embassies and appoint ambassadors in each other's capitals in coming months. Nothing to see here: U.S. officials in Washington played down the presence of the Russian vessel, saying it was perfectly legal and not at all out of the ordinary . The United States also wants travel curbs on its diplomats lifted and unimpeded shipments to its mission in Havana. During talks on Wednesday, the Americans vowed to continue granting safe haven to Cubans with special protections denied to other nationalities. Cuba complained the U.S. law promotes dangerous illegal immigration and protested against a separate U.S. program that encourages Cuban doctors to defect, calling it a 'reprehensible brain drain practice.' As her deputy sparred with the Cuban officials over immigration policy, the lead U.S. negotiator in the diplomatic talks, Roberta Jacobson, arrived in Havana aboard a commercial charter from Miami. She became the first U.S. assistant secretary of state to travel to the communist-led island in 38 years and the highest-ranking visitor in 35 years. Cuban and U.S. delegations take part in negotiations to restore diplomatic ties in Havana on Wednesday . Her Cuban counterpart will be Josefina Vidal, director of the foreign ministry's U.S. affairs, who also participated in the immigration talks. The meetings are the first since U.S. President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro announced on Dec. 17 they would work to restore diplomatic ties snapped by Washington in 1961. Despite resistance from some in Congress, Obama has set the United States on a path toward removing economic sanctions and a 53-year-old trade embargo against Cuba.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Wednesday he looked forward to formally opening a U.S. embassy in Cuba. Kerry also said he was prepared, when the time was right, to meet his Cuban counterpart Bruno Rodriguez, with whom he has only talked by telephone. 'And when it is timely, when it is appropriate, I look forward to traveling to Cuba in order to formally open an embassy and begin to move forward,' Kerry told reporters in Washington. In his annual State of the Union speech on Tuesday, Obama urged Congress to start work on ending the embargo. But critics say Obama first needs to win concessions on Cuban political prisoners and democratic rights, the claims of U.S. citizens whose property was nationalised after Cuba's 1959 revolution, and U.S. fugitives who have received asylum in Cuba. The former Soviet Union was Cuba's main patron during the Cold War.
(EW.com) -- When "Breaking Bad" left off last summer, tenacious DEA agent Hank Schrader (Dean Norris) was hot on the trail — and, er, toilet — of meth maker Walter White (Bryan Cranston). And when the revered drama returns with the second half of season 5 (beginning Aug. 11 on AMC), what should we brace for? Among other things, maybe a bit of self-reflection from the cancer-stricken chemistry teacher who transformed himself into a lethal drug kingpin with the help of high school dropout/partner Jesse (Aaron Paul). "We often said in the writers' room that if Walt had a superpower, it would be not his chemistry knowledge or his ability to cook crystal meth but his ability to lie," series creator/executive producer Vince Gilligan tells EW. "Walt has been the world's greatest liar, and I think the person he lies most capably to is himself. So in these final eight episodes, perhaps the lies will cease to find traction and the scales will start to fall away from Walt's eyes. And when that happens, will Walt really begin to realize who he is? That's a question that we asked ourselves a lot in the writers' room this year." Of course, Walt won't have too much time for navel-gazing, as he'll need to keep his eyes on his brother-in-law Hank — in addition to other adversaries. "There will be antagonistic relationships aplenty," promises Gilligan, adding: "Walt's got plenty of fight left in him. And he's got plenty of forces to fight. You met some of them. Others you haven't." Should viewers brace for a high body count? "As the movie title goes, there will be blood," answers Gilligan. "To my mind, that's not the most interesting thing. It's the emotional moments and the character moments.
We've got some stuff that I think is going to be truly satisfying and truly shocking and jarring. It does not always center on moments of violence." And these moments will come flying at you at "breakneck speed," he warns: "I have surprised myself at how much story there was left to tell and how quickly we tell it. You need to really settle down on the couch and pay close attention because it's going to come at you fast and furious in the final eight episodes." Gilligan is both cautious and upbeat when it comes to discussing that highly anticipated finale. "We worked long and hard to ensure that these final eight — and, in fact, the very last episode — would satisfy an audience," he says. "I am guardedly optimistic that we have achieved just that. And furthermore, trying to be as coy as possible, trying to give away as little as possible, I feel like this ending represents on some level, however small, something of a victory for Walter White. Read into that what you will. And try to be as open-minded as possible when you watch this episode, because it may not indeed feel like a victory. Or maybe it will. I feel good about where it all ended up, and I can't wait for people to see it." Asked for one last cryptic hint about the homestretch of episodes, Gilligan says: "Sometimes you see meth labs in the darndest places." See the original story at EW.com. CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly . © 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.
(CNN Student News) -- December 5, 2014 . This Friday's show is especially diverse in scope: It involves the subjects of science, law, biology, engineering and art. You'll hear why one city in Philippines is particularly troubled about Typhoon Hagupit, and you'll learn why this year's flu vaccine is less effective than previous doses. We also cover a grand jury's decision in New York that's sparking protests in other cities. On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call. TRANSCRIPT . Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. WEEKLY NEWSQUIZ . Click here for a printable version of the Weekly Newsquiz (PDF). 1. The U.S. Navy's first ship, a frigate, was launched in the harbor of what historic city? 2. What is the abbreviation for the virus that causes AIDS? 3. What is the name of the nuclear plant that became the site of the worst nuclear accident in world history? 4. In what year did an earthquake and tsunami in Japan cause the world's second-worst nuclear disaster? 5. Five members of what NFL team caused controversy on Sunday by taking the field with their hands up? 6. In what war-torn, Middle Eastern nation would you find the heavily damaged town of Kobani? 7. What is the name of the $370 million space capsule that NASA was scheduled to launch this week? 8. What Communist country recently made headlines when it banned its media from using puns? 9. Name the turbulent river that blind adventurer Erik Weihenmayer recently paddled through on a kayak. 10. Meaning "lash" in Filipino, Typhoon Hagupit is threatening what Pacific island nation?
CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show. ROLL CALL . For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call! Thank you for using CNN Student News!
The safety poster proclaims "Be Cool, Follow The Rules" but depicts a scene with more black children being what the poster calls "not cool" while more white children appear to be behaving sensibly or "cool". John Sawyer, from Salida, Colorado, tweeted a picture of the poster taken by his wife, saying: "Hey, Red Cross, send a new pool poster to @SalidaRec because the current one they have with your name on it is super racist." The American Red Cross quickly responded: The American Red Cross released a statement saying: "The American Red Cross appreciates and is sensitive to the concerns raised regarding one of the water safety posters we produced. "We deeply apologize for any misunderstanding, as it was absolutely not our intent to offend anyone. "As one of the nation's oldest and largest humanitarian organizations, we are committed to diversity and inclusion in all that we do, every day." The poster has now been removed from their website and they say will no longer be printed. The Salida Pool and Recreation Department also responded to John Sawyer's tweet: But that hasn't stemmed the reaction online.
U.S. authorities are watching warily but have made no new plans to protect travelers during the busy Thanksgiving week despite threats from Islamic State to strike targets in New York and Washington, two law enforcement officials said Friday. The deadly rampage in Paris and the bombing of a Russian passenger jet in the last three weeks have put U.S. law enforcement and aviation security on heightened alert for another possible terrorist attack. But U.S. intelligence officials have seen no indications of credible plots in the works beyond the bellicose videos and other rhetoric posted online by Islamic State militants. The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal assessments. "The threat level continues to be the same as it was last month," said Ali Soufan, a former FBI agent who worked on terrorism cases and now runs a security consulting firm in New York. After a bomb brought down a Russian Metrojet flight over the Sinai Peninsula on Oct. 31, killing 224 people, the Transportation Security Administration rolled out stricter screening requirements in overseas airports that are the last point of departure for U.S.-bound flights. "As the investigation and our own review of the crash proceeds, we will continually assess our aviation security enhancements, and consider whether additional changes are appropriate," Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said at the time. Russian officials confirmed this week that the jetliner had been blown apart by a homemade bomb with the explosive power of two pounds of TNT smuggled on board. In a video released Thursday, Islamic State operatives threatened to launch an attack on New York City and showed images of Herald Square and Times Square. In response, Mayor Bill de Blasio said there is no specific and credible threat, and the city "would not be intimidated." The New York Police Department this week deployed the first 100 officers of a long-planned force of about 500 anti-terrorism officers called the Critical Response Command.
The new force is headquartered on Randalls Island on the East River in order to have quick access to three of the city's five boroughs. A separate video released by Islamic State militants in Iraq after the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris warned of attacks in Washington. But security already is tight in the nation's capital. Al Qaeda, which was responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks, has sought to launch an attack on American soil since the 1990s. It's most lethal offshoot, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, based in Yemen, has repeatedly sought to bring down U.S. airliners. Islamic State, which now has eclipsed Al Qaeda, recently shifted its attention from seizing and controlling territory in Syria and Iraq, its self-declared caliphate, to actively plotting attacks against its foreign enemies, especially France, Russia and Iran-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon. Counter-terrorism officials warn that the United States could be next on the list. "Do they have the intention? Yes. Problem is, do they have the capability?" Soufan said. The current intelligence assessments are in contrast to security alerts issued shortly before the Fourth of July weekend. At the time, U.S. security agencies picked up intelligence suggesting possible attacks and urged local police to be vigilant during parades, concerts and fireworks displays. An estimated 25.3 million Americans will board an airplane in the 12 days around Thanksgiving, according to Airlines for America, an airline trade association. That's 3% more than last year's holiday season and the highest number of passengers since 2007. Each year, the holiday season stretches the capacity of airport screeners at the TSA. They face the challenge of preventing weapons and explosives from being taken on jets without delaying passengers. During the 2010 Thanksgiving travel crush, passengers faced intrusive pat-downs and body scans following a foiled attempt by Al Qaeda's affiliate in Yemen to hide makeshift bombs inside printer cartridges carried in the hold of passenger jets bound for Chicago.
The pat-downs have since been scaled back in favor of new aviation security systems, including additional database checks of travel histories, more robust screening of cargo and baggage overseas, and other measures. brian.bennett@latimes.com Follow me @ByBrianBennett on Twitter ALSO Up to 27 killed in Mali hotel attack including one American Mayor apologizes for citing WWII internment of Japanese Americans in Syrian refugee memo Boston-bound flight carrying Chris Christie delayed because of photo-snapping passenger Brace yourself, holiday travelers. Airports and train stations across the U.S. are expected to implement additional layers of security for this year’s Thanksgiving travel. With the highest number of passengers expected to hitch a ride on U.S. airlines on Thanksgiving since 2008, security officials are on heightened alert to protect our nation’s skies and railways. The Port Authority of New York & New Jersey tells ABC News it is on heightened alert in light of the deadly attacks in Paris. The Port Authority will be increasing patrols and inspections in New York City-area airports, bridges, tunnels, railways and the World Trade Center. Travelers, as usual, are being asked to report any suspicious activities to police. Railway passengers nationwide will also see a significant increase in security. Amtrak says it is working with local, state and federal law enforcement to gather intelligence and establish robust security measures not just at the stations, but on trains and along the tracks. An Amtrak spokesperson tells ABC News additional K9, uniform personnel and long guns have been deployed at various points of Amtrak’s service and employees have been debriefed with guidance regarding active shooter incidents. The Transportation Security Administration is not divulging specifics beyond the ordinary, but says it has measures in place, both seen and unseen, to protect the millions of Americans traveling nationwide. Passengers at busy airports such as LaGuardia and JFK in New York can expect longer waits, even with additional staffing at checkpoints.
According to TSA officials, the security administration screens nearly 2 million passengers daily and on the days leading up to Thanksgiving that number is expected to increase nearly 40 percent nationwide. That influx would spell the busiest travel season in its history. Significant additional layers of security are routine during the American holiday season, but the recent events in France are sure to contribute. ABC News' Erin Dooley contributed to this report.
New York (CNN) -- As weekend temperatures soared over 90 degrees Fahrenheit, New York City saw a sudden increase in shootings, with 26 people felled by bullets in 72 hours -- seven fatally. "When we have hot temperatures, we see that the crime rate seems to go up," New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said Monday. But Bloomberg emphasized that for the year, shootings are down in the city -- 127 since January 1, which is 40 less than the same period in 2012. "One shooting is one too many, but last week we had the fewest shootings in a decade, including this weekend's shootings," Bloomberg noted. A professor says the heat index and the crime rate can connect. "Lifestyle differences exist between cold weather and warm weather," says James Alan Fox, a professor of Criminology, Law and Public Policy at Northeastern University in Boston. Fox has conducted research on the possible connection between temperature and crime. His findings illustrate how these lifestyle differences can contribute to varying levels of violent crime. "In cold weather, particularly in blizzards, people stay indoors, and the violent crime rate is lower. When the weather is warm, people are interacting more with others, be they friends, family, or strangers, so there are increased opportunities for conflict," Fox says. Fox says this trend continues except when it gets incredibly hot, so unbearable that even criminals become lethargic. "When it gets to be in the high 90s, especially over 100 degrees, people just go indoors and look for air conditioning," Fox said. However, drawing any conclusions about this past weekend may be premature, says Professor Jon M. Shane, assistant professor in the Department of Law, Police Science, and Criminal Justice Administration at John Jay Criminal College. "I would not put too much emphasis on a single spike in weather and the uptick shootings," Shane said.
"The reality is that you do not have enough information from this single episode to conclude that hot weather is related to increases in crime--specifically shootings, in this case." In November 2012, New York City logged a record-breaking "murder-free Monday" when there was not a single reported slaying, stabbing, shooting or knifing in any of the five boroughs, according to the New York Police Department. "It is unusual in a city of 8 million people, but we never read that much into one day," said Deputy Police Commissioner Paul Browne, who said it was the "first time in memory" that the city had such a lull in violent crime. At the close of 2012, Bloomberg hailed New York City the "safest big city in America," giving the NYPD credit. "The fact that the safest big city in America is safer than ever is a testament to the hard work and determination of the men and women who put their lives on the line for us every day -- and it also reflects our commitment to doing everything possible to stop gun violence," Bloomberg said. CNN's Chris Boyette and Adam Reiss contributed to this report.
Mae'r eilyddion yn union yr un fath hefyd, sy'n golygu mai dyma'r tro cyntaf ers 1993 i'r Llewod ddewis yr union un tîm am ddwy gêm brawf yn olynol. Pedwar Cymro fydd felly'n dechrau'r gêm gyda Sam Warburton yn gapten. Y tri arall yw Liam Williams, Jonathan Davies ac Alun Wyn Jones, ac fe fydd Ken Owens a Rhys Webb ar y fainc. Dyma'r tîm yn llawn: Olwyr: 15. Liam Williams; 14. Anthony Watson; 13. Jonathan Davies; 12. Owen Farrell; 11. Elliot Daly; 10. Johnny Sexton; 9. Conor Murray. Blaenwyr: 1. Mako Vunipola; 2. Jamie George; 3. Tadhg Furlong; 4. Maro Itoje; 5. Alun Wyn Jones; 6. Sam Warburton (capt); 7. Sean O'Brien; 8. Taulupe Faletau. Eilyddion: 16. Ken Owens; 17. Jack McGrath; 18. Kyle Sinckler; 19. Courtney Lawes; 20. CJ Stander; 21. Rhys Webb; 22. Ben Te'o; 23. Jack Nowell.
Wrth gyhoeddi'r tîm dywedodd Warren Gatland: "Roedden ni'n teimlo y dylen ni wobrwyo'r chwaraewyr am ganlyniad yr ail brawf a'r dewrder a ddangoson nhw wrth ddod yn ôl o fod 18-9 ar ei hôl hi a gorffen yn gryf yn y 10-15 munud olaf. "Mae rhai chwaraewyr yn siomedig o beidio cael eu dewis ac rwy'n deall hynny dyna fyddech chi'n ei ddisgwyl gan athletwyr cystadleuol. "Ond ry'n ni wedi pwysleisio mai nid y 23 yma sy'n bwysig ond pawb yn y garfan - maen nhw wedi rhoi'r siom yna o'r neilltu ac yn cynorthwyo'r garfan ar y diwrnod i baratoi cystal ag y gallan nhw am y gêm brawf. "Ry'n ni'n ymwybodol iawn o bwysigrwydd y gêm ac yn disgwyl ymateb gan y Crysau Duon. "Ond roedd gweld pa mor gryf oedden ni yn y 10-15 munud olaf yn yr ail brawf - o ran cryfder a brwdfrydedd - yn gwneud i ni deimlo fod yna lefel arall yn y tîm.
"Mae hwn yn gyfle enfawr i'r chwaraewyr yma ddangos eu dawn a gweld gwaith caled pawb yn dwyn ffrwyth. "Dyma'u cyfle i greu hanes i'r Llewod!"
Editor's note: Frances Fragos Townsend, a CNN contributor on national security issues, served as President George W. Bush's chief anti-terrorism and homeland security adviser. Townsend has spent more than two decades in the fields of intelligence and criminal justice and has served during the past three administrations. Townsend is currently a consultant to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Aspen Institute Homeland Security Program. Frances Townsend says the priority for the White House must be protecting the American people. WASHINGTON (CNN) -- The Washington Post recently reported that Gen. Jim Jones, President Obama's national security adviser, is reviewing plans to reorganize the White House National Security and Homeland Security councils. Some, if not all, of the functions of the Homeland Security Council may be folded into an expanded National Security Council. There is no more solemn responsibility that the president bears than to protect American lives. During my 4½ years at the White House, I came to believe that, for this reason, organization must be dictated by effectiveness. How best to maximize effectiveness will inevitably change over time as we as a country continue to weaken al Qaeda and other enemies, as the Department of Homeland Security gains strength, and as our government better integrates the capabilities that have been built since the tragedy of September 11. As the Obama administration considers the most effective means of organizing the White House structure, I respectfully submit that any structure should be judged against three fundamental criteria. First, there must be a single person both responsible and accountable to the president who monitors threat information and who has the authority to marshal all instruments of national power (military, intelligence, law enforcement, economic, diplomatic and public diplomacy) to defeat the threat. This individual cannot wait until threats arrive on our shores, but must have the responsibility and the means to identify those threats where they originate and to ensure a coordinated response to them.
The president's homeland security adviser must not be constrained by geographic boundaries that our enemies do not respect. Second, the homeland security adviser must have direct and immediate access to the president. Ultimately, if terrorists successfully strike the United States, it is the president, and not his staff, who will be accountable to the American people for the failure. The homeland security adviser must be able to get to the president quickly without clearance from his or her colleagues on the White House staff. Unfortunately, there will be times when American lives are at stake and the president will need to be advised and operational decisions taken and communicated to the relevant Cabinet secretary in real time. These sorts of crises do not lend themselves to the normal bureaucratic process. Third, the homeland security issues faced by our government are diverse and many. They range from preparedness and response to natural disasters (ice, flooding, fires and wind) to pandemic planning and biological and nuclear threats. These issues are often distinct from the more traditional foreign policy issues faced by the National Security Council and require experienced staff with significant expertise. The staff must understand state and local emergency management policy issues and concerns. They must be organized, not simply to facilitate the homeland security policy process, but also to anticipate and respond to state and local political leaders in a time of crisis. The homeland security adviser requires adequate staffing to deal with the counterterrorism and homeland security issues. We remain a nation at war with a very determined enemy. We have troops deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan, but the national security adviser has many important responsibilities in addition to those two theaters. For example, he must contend with the Middle East peace process and counter proliferation around the world, but most especially in Iran and North Korea. I worry that increasing the span of control of the national security adviser could dilute the homeland security mission and make it just one more item on a list already overburdened. That said, I wish to be clear.
We should judge any reorganization by the substance and criteria that I have suggested above. We must be careful not to assume that a merger means the president cares less about homeland security. We must resist this easy organizational chart test and look to the substance of how responsibilities are allocated and how we are being protected. Let me suggest three questions the administration should ask before deciding on a new White House structure: (1) Is there one person responsible and accountable to the president who looks around the world at threats and advises the president? (2) Does this one person have direct and immediate access to the president? and (3) Does this person have adequate staff to fulfill his or her responsibilities? These are the questions that we should be asking and the criteria against which we should judge the effort. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Frances Townsend.
Scores of people were killed and at least 123 others were wounded Wednesday in shootings and explosions across Iraq, senior Interior Ministry officials said. Five bombings in the Iraqi capital were responsible for dozens of the casualties, Baghdad police officials said. Three of the Baghdad bombings happened in the morning, killing at least 25 people near checkpoints for entry into the city's International Zone, a heavily fortified area that houses Iraqi government offices and the U.S. and British embassies. In the deadliest blast, a suicide bomber targeted a security checkpoint near the International Zone, Iraqi Interior Ministry spokesman Brig. Gen. Saad Maan Ibrahim said. Police officials said the bomber struck a restaurant that is frequented by Iraqis going into the International Zone, which is also called the Green Zone. The second blast occurred near the entrance to Iraq's Foreign Ministry building. Police and residents said a car bomb exploded in a parking lot opposite the building, and the Interior Ministry said it was a suicide bombing. The third explosion took place in the Al-Sanak area of Baghdad, one of the capital's main commercial areas. Police officials did not give a breakdown of how many people were killed and injured in each blast. Conflicting accounts have emerged, with initial reports from security sources indicating all three of the morning blasts were car bombings. In the evening, two car bombs exploded near a busy commercial area in southeastern Baghdad, killing at least 10 people and injuring 24 others, police said. And a roadside bomb and a car bomb exploded at a coffee shop and a restaurant in al-Dora in southern Baghdad. It killed four people and wounded 16 others, police officials told CNN. In southwestern Mosul, in northern Iraq, a car bomb exploded outside the Turkish consulate, wounding five Iraqi security forces at a checkpoint outside the consulate, two senior Interior Ministry officials said. In western Mosul, gunmen targeted Um al-Rabiein police station, the officials said.
The attack started when a suicide bomber drove a bomb-rigged vehicle to the main checkpoint of the police station and exploded. That was followed by rocket-propelled grenade and small-arms fire, they said. At least five people were killed, four of them police officers, and 23 were wounded, 14 of them police. Also in western Mosul, a car bomb exploded at an Iraqi army convoy, killing three soldiers and wounding eight people, four of them soldiers, the officials said. The United Nations' special representative in Iraq, Nickolay Mladenov, condemned the violence. "Those who orchestrate such attacks should be condemned by all political, religious and civic leaders in this country," he said in a prepared statement. "Iraq political leaders should show national unity in dealing with such threats and unite against terrorism." Iraq's Foreign Ministry has been targeted in the past. The worst attack was in August 2009, when it was hit by a suicide truck bomb and dozens of staff were killed and injured. Another government building, the Transport Ministry, was attacked by gunmen last week. The militants seized part of the building and took civil servants hostage before security forces drove them out. Also Wednesday, a car bombing in the northern city of Mosul killed two bodyguards of a member of Iraq's Parliament, police said. The blast happened outside the eastern Mosul house of Wisal Salim, a Sunni Muslim lawmaker. The United Nations said 2013 was the deadliest year in Iraq since 2008, with almost 8,000 people killed, most of them civilians. The figures remained grim in January. According to the U.N. mission in Iraq, 618 civilians and 115 members of the country's security forces were killed. The U.N. tally does not include those killed in a fresh wave of violence in Iraq's Anbar province, west of Baghdad, where al Qaeda-backed militants and Iraqi security forces have been fighting since the end of last year.
The ongoing violence in Anbar, Salaheddin and Nineveh Sunni provinces has raised concerns among some observers that parliamentary elections scheduled for April 30 will be delayed. At least 1,000 killed in Iraq this month, official says . 6 gunmen killed as police retake Iraq ministry, security sources say . Three sons, two bombs, one family's hell .
On Wednesday, a court in Thane, a Mumbai suburb, had convicted Girish Pote, 35, for the 2013 murder. The prosecutors told the court that Pote killed his wife Madhuvanti Pathak and chopped her body into pieces. The crime came to light after he telephoned relatives to confess to the crime and they informed the police. In India, a life term generally ends in 14 years, but the Thane district court judge Mridula Bhatia said he would remain in jail for as long as he lived because of the "gruesome" nature of his crime. Pathak held a French passport since her mother was from France. The couple married on 20 June 2006 and lived in Mumbai's Bhayander area. They had a two-year-old son, who was with Pote's parents at the time of the crime. Police said Pote had attacked his wife with a knife. They said the couple had been fighting over money and also because Pathak wanted to return to France.
After a kissing couple, a set of Olympic rings and a larger-than-lifesize statue of Poet Laureate John Betjeman, this is the latest piece of giant art that from today floats dozens of feet above those passing through London's St Pancras Station. If travellers look up towards the iconic roof they will see Lucy and Jorge Orta's 'Cloud : Meteoros', with a group of grey figures riding them across the sky. St Pancras has become home to a series of large art installations, including Paul Day’s The Lovers and Martin Jennings’s statue of Betjeman – alongside the much loved Olympic Rings which graced the station until just after London 2012. These new clouds of metal represent: 'The intermediary between two worlds – between reality and the imagined, . between heaven and earth, between lightness and gravity,' according to the artists. They will be in place until the end of 2013 for those heading to and from Europe or the East Midlands to enjoy as they travel through. Majestic: This is 'Cloud : Meteoros', a majestic new public artwork designed by Lucy and Jorge Orta that floats high above St Pancras International from today . Flying high: The artwork is seen here above the Eurostar platform at St Pancras, where the famous Olympic rings hung until after London 2012 . Close up: A variety of metal figures prance and dance across the clouds in a variety of interesting poses . National treasure: The now famous statue of Poet Laureate John Betjeman stands looking up to the famous St Pancras roof with the clouds floating behind him . Welcome: As passengers walk off the train from Paris or Brussels they will look straight at the artwork high above them . Revealed: Artist Lucy Orta headed to London to . attend the St Pancras International launch of her artwork, along with . Nicola Shaw CEo of HS1, who own the station .
Interesting: St Pancras has gained a reputation for installing large, grand artworks and this one, which will be in place for the rest of 2013, appears to be no exception .
By . Hamish Mackay for MailOnline . Follow @@H_Mackay . Sam Allardyce has been through an incredible 18 strikers during his time at West Ham, that equates to one every 9.3 weeks. The remarkable statistic, discovered by Iron Views, comes in stark contrast to Sam Allardyce's consistent claims that the club are short on strikers. Despite the fact that the Hammers spent £12million on Enner Valencia, it was Carlton Cole who started against Spurs in their opening Premier League game. VIDEO Scroll down for Enner Valencia tries some tricks and flicks at the Olympic Stadium . Signing: Enner Valencia joined West Ham for £12m after impressing for Ecuador at the World Cup . Allardyce's side averaged just 1.05 goals per game in the Premier League last season - worse than a number of sides that finished below them. West Ham signed Andy Carroll for £15m last summer but the former Liverpool man missed 27 league games through injury. Hammers co-owner David Sullivan even admitted he had regretted buying him, saying: 'Had we known he would be out for this long, we would not have signed him.'
Strikers in summer 2011 – Sam Baldock from MK Dons – 23 apps, 5 goals - Brian Montenegro from Deportivo Maldonado – 0 apps, 0 goals (loan)Strikers in January 2012- Joe Dixon on a free transfer (unattached) – 0 apps, 0 goalsRicardo Vaz Te from Barnsley – 48 apps, 15 goalsNicky Maynard from Bristol City – 14 apps, 2 goalsStrikers in summer 2012- Modibo Maïga from Sochaux – 31 apps, 3 goals Andy Carroll from Liverpool (loan) – 24 apps, 7 goalsStrikers in January 2013- Sean Maguire from Waterford United – 0 apps, 0 goalsMarouane Chamakh from Arsenal (loan) – 3 apps, 0 goalsWellington Paulista from Cruziero (loan) – 0 apps, 0 goalsStrikers in summer 2013 – Andy Carroll from Liverpool – 15 apps, 2 goalsMladen Petrić on a free transfer (unattached) – 3 apps, 0 goals Carlton Cole on a free transfer (unattached) – 26 apps, 6 goals (second stint)Strikers in January 2014 – Marco Borriello from Roma (loan) – 2 apps, 0 goalsJaanai Gordon from Peterborough – 0 apps, 0 goalsStrikers in summer 2014- Mauro Zárate from Valez Sersfield – 0 apps, 0 goalsEnner Valencia from Pachuca 1 app, 0 goalsDiafra Sakho from Metz – 0 apps, 0 goals . Starter: Despite splashing out on Valencia, it was Carlton Cole who started against Tottenham last weekend . Injury: Andy Carroll was unavailable for selection for most of last season due to injury . VIDEO Poor finishing cost us - Allardyce .
It’s not too late to play MailOnline Fantasy Football… There’s £1,000 to be won EVERY WEEK by the highest scoring manager .
Media playback is not supported on this device Bangladesh need just 33 runs to seal their first Test win against England but have only two wickets left. "It has been a fantastic game to play in," said Broad, who took 2-26 as Bangladesh chased a victory target of 286 in their second innings. "Bangladesh have shown a huge amount of skill to get to needing 30," he added. "We have shown character to stay in this game and will come out fighting." Broad began the day with bat in hand, but was run out in the second over and England were soon bowled out for 240. The hosts replied with 253-8, with debutant Sabbir Rahman unbeaten on 59, before the umpires ended play for the day due to bad light. "I am not sure many players will get much sleep tonight," Broad told BBC Test Match Special. "Although the wicket has turned more than we expected from day one, it has been a very exciting game and both teams have played it very skilfully." The opening Test of the two-match series has already become notable for a world record number of decisions being reviewed, with 24 the current total. "It has been a really interesting Test on the review front," Broad said. "That added to the tension on the field. It has been two countries going hell for leather at each other with a lot of passion - that is what Test cricket is about. "When you get that bit of reverse as a seamer, it takes the pitch out of it. The seamers had a chat at tea and felt we could dry up the runs from one end while the spinners attack from the other. "Hopefully, tomorrow morning we will get a bit of reverse. The spinners have tended to take wickets in the morning so it is a big decision for Cooky [England captain Alastair Cook] on who will open. "It probably works in our favour.
We will get some rest and come back fresher tomorrow. And a lot of wickets have fallen in the first hour of play. We are happy to take it into tomorrow." England's tour of Bangladesh concludes with the second Test, starting in Mirpur on Friday. The team then travel to India in November for a five-Test series, plus three one-day and three Twenty20 internationals.
(CNN) -- Rwandan President Paul Kagame has won re-election with 93 percent of the vote, with all districts counted, the Rwandan National Electoral Commission said Wednesday. Turnout was registered at just over 95 percent, it said. Electoral observers had expected the outcome, and Kagame claimed victory after early results gave him a huge lead in the nation's second presidential race since the 1994 genocide. Observers said the voting was peaceful and "largely accurate." Kagame welcomed the early results at a massive party Tuesday at the national stadium in the capital of Kigali. Thousands of supporters got free drinks and danced to live music. "This is your victory, this is a victory for all Rwandans," Kagame said during the celebration speech, in vernacular Kinyarwanda. "Our development depends on you." Human rights groups had expressed concern over violence and repression leading up to the vote, but Salim Ahmed Salim, chairman of the Commonwealth Observation Group, lauded the polling as transparent. "Elections in Rwanda were conducted in a peaceful atmosphere," Salim said. "The count in the polling stations was transparent and conducted fairly." But while the vote was highly organized and efficient -- thousands of people had lined up before dawn at polling stations across the country -- observers said Rwanda's democracy faces challenges that include issues of political inclusion and press freedoms. "There was a lack of critical opposition voices," Salim said. "Each case appears to be different, but the overall impact is a concern." Of three aspiring candidates, two are under arrest and another has fled to Europe. Three other candidates cleared by Rwanda's electoral commission ran on platforms similar to Kagame's and praised him throughout their campaigns. The only representatives at many polling stations were members of the ruling party, observers said. "That, frankly, disappointed us," said Salim, though he placed responsibility on the opposition parties. "This right is a key transparency issue."
The vote comes 16 years after Rwanda's genocide left at least 800,000 people dead. Militias made up of ethnic Hutus slaughtered ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus nationwide in 100 days of violence. The killing ended when Tutsi-led militias backing Kagame ousted the Hutu government supporting the massacre. In the aftermath, Kagame transformed his country, turning it into one of the fastest growing nations in Africa and -- in the view of some -- a model of economic and social development. Kagame's administration has mixed patriotic rhetoric with strict rules in an attempt to recreate society, and recently changed the official language for schools to English, rather than French. "Liberation is a process," said Tito Rutaremara, the chairman of Kagame's party, the Rwandan Patriotic Front, and also the country's ombudsman. "We want to create the nation."
The visitors led when John Stones' sloppy pass allowed Nathan Redmond to round Claudio Bravo and slot in. City improved after being booed off by some home fans at the break, equalising when half-time substitute Kelechi Iheanacho prodded in Leroy Sane's low cross. Pep Guardiola's side controlled the second half as they searched for a winner, but Saints keeper Fraser Forster produced splendid saves to deny Ilkay Gundogan and David Silva. City's inability to grab a second goal means ex-Barcelona and Bayern Munich boss Guardiola has failed to win in five successive matches for only the second time in his managerial career. However, the point was still enough to lift the Blues back above Arsenal and Liverpool to the Premier League summit. Southampton stay eighth after extending their unbeaten league run to a fifth game. City's recent struggles are barely believable after the swaggering start they made to the season, when they won all of Guardiola's opening 10 matches. The former Spain international had been forced to defend his tactics following Wednesday's 4-0 Champions League defeat at his former club Barcelona, which came after their first loss of the season at Tottenham and the subsequent home draw against Everton. But there were signs of the home support becoming frustrated with his team's build-from-the-back approach, not least when many could be heard jeering their team off at the break after Stones' error. City lacked aggression and tempo in the opening 45 minutes, allowing an organised Southampton side to contain them and then burst forward on the break. Guardiola had to act - and he did that decisively at the break. Off came Kevin de Bruyne - City's stand-out performer this season - with young striker Iheanacho introduced in his place.
As a result, City had much more purpose and drive, typified by the desire showed by Iheanacho to beat Saints defender Virgil van Dijk to Sane's cross and prod in the equaliser. Stones is the only player to feature in every match of Guardiola's reign following his £47.5m summer move from Everton, impressing his new manager with his composure and ability to play out comfortably from the back. But critics have argued the England international is guilty of over-playing, leaving himself open to making mistakes. They were proved right on both counts when he gifted Southampton the lead. After receiving the ball just outside his own area, Stones tried to pass inside to returning skipper Vincent Kompany - instead playing it behind his captain and straight to Redmond. The 22-year-old thought he had redeemed himself five minutes later, guiding in De Bruyne's curling free-kick with a far-post volley - but it was ruled out for offside and instead his impact on this game will be remembered for the wrong reasons. Stones has now made four errors leading to goals since the start of last season - more than any other outfield Premier League player. Southampton arrived at a sunny Etihad Stadium with the intention of ending a miserable record of six successive defeats at the ground. Arguably this was their greatest opportunity in recent seasons, having showed they were starting to click under new manager Claude Puel while City had been toiling. The Frenchman saw his side earn just two points in his first four games after replacing Ronald Koeman, but any doubts about his appointment appear to have been curtailed by a rich vein of form. Saints were compact and organised defensively, while not afraid to use the pace of Redmond and Dusan Tadic on the break.
True, their goal was gifted to them and they also managed just one other shot on target - but despite not creating many chances, they did threaten to stretch City on a number of occasions and deserved a point for their work-rate and commitment alone. City manager Pep Guardiola: "The second half was much better. The first half wasn't really good. Of course our mistake was bad. The way I want to play is not to pass to the striker. On the second-half recovery: "They did it for themselves in the second half. They changed the game, I didn't change the game. We did think we were going to win it, but Southampton didn't make it easy. They have good defenders and are good at everything. On the displays in the winless last five games: "We have to analyse what is the situation. In the period, apart from at White Hart Lane against Tottenham [losing 2-0] it's been good. Against Everton and Barcelona - when it was 11 v 11 - the displays were as good as those in the first 10 games." Media playback is not supported on this device Southampton boss Claude Puel: "We can be satisfied with this point, we played against a good team and it was important to keep a good structure. We took our chances to score and after we defended well. "My players played just two days ago in the Europa League, they were tired, but showed good spirit and organisation. "Against fantastic players it was good to take a point and not disappointing. It was hard to defend at the end of the game but I am very satisfied." Media playback is not supported on this device The not-so small matter of a Manchester derby for City. The Blues aim to end their winless run when they visit United in the EFL Cup fourth round on Wednesday (20:00 BST). Southampton are also in midweek cup action, hosting top-flight rivals Sunderland on Wednesday (19:45 BST).
Match ends, Manchester City 1, Southampton 1. Second Half ends, Manchester City 1, Southampton 1. Foul by Ilkay Gündogan (Manchester City). Pierre-Emile Højbjerg (Southampton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Virgil van Dijk. Attempt blocked. Kelechi Iheanacho (Manchester City) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Attempt blocked. Kelechi Iheanacho (Manchester City) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by David Silva with a cross. Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by José Fonte. Fraser Forster (Southampton) is shown the yellow card. Attempt missed. Fernandinho (Manchester City) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by John Stones following a corner. Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Sam McQueen. Substitution, Manchester City. Nolito replaces Leroy Sané. Attempt blocked. Raheem Sterling (Manchester City) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Ilkay Gündogan. Attempt blocked. Kelechi Iheanacho (Manchester City) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Raheem Sterling. Offside, Southampton. James Ward-Prowse tries a through ball, but Nathan Redmond is caught offside. Corner, Southampton. Conceded by Aleksandar Kolarov. Attempt missed. Sergio Agüero (Manchester City) left footed shot from the left side of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Ilkay Gündogan. Substitution, Southampton. James Ward-Prowse replaces Charlie Austin.
Foul by Jesús Navas (Manchester City). Charlie Austin (Southampton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Jesús Navas (Manchester City) wins a free kick on the right wing. Foul by Steven Davis (Southampton). Substitution, Manchester City. Jesús Navas replaces Vincent Kompany. Attempt missed. Sergio Agüero (Manchester City) header from the centre of the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Raheem Sterling with a cross following a corner. Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by José Fonte. Sergio Agüero (Manchester City) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by José Fonte (Southampton). Attempt missed. Steven Davis (Southampton) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Attempt saved. Charlie Austin (Southampton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Sofiane Boufal. Attempt saved. David Silva (Manchester City) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Ilkay Gündogan. Offside, Southampton. Pierre-Emile Højbjerg tries a through ball, but Cuco Martina is caught offside. Attempt blocked. Sofiane Boufal (Southampton) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Oriol Romeu. Substitution, Southampton. Sofiane Boufal replaces Dusan Tadic. Attempt saved. Ilkay Gündogan (Manchester City) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Kelechi Iheanacho. Substitution, Southampton. Pierre-Emile Højbjerg replaces Jordy Clasie.
Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by José Fonte. Delay over. They are ready to continue. Delay in match Virgil van Dijk (Southampton) because of an injury. Attempt missed. Aleksandar Kolarov (Manchester City) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left following a corner. Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Cuco Martina.
Smiling and looking relaxed in each other’s company, Tony Blair and the autocratic ruler of Kazakhstan met yesterday for the first time since an £8million consultancy deal was revealed. The former prime minister held discussions with Nursultan Nazarbayev at the president’s Akorda Palace. Last month, the Daily Mail revealed that Mr Blair had secured a deal to act as consultant to the former Communist Party apparatchik, who has been widely criticised in the West for human rights abuses and election malpractice. Plenty to discuss: Tony Blair and Nursultan Nazarbayev during their meeting at the Kazakh president's palace yesterday . Mr Blair now runs an advisory firm and the project in the oil and gas-rich central Asian state is believed to include some of his former Downing Street aides. The former Labour leader’s office has disputed that the year-long deal is worth £8million, and stated that he is ‘not personally making a profit’ from the arrangement. His team is providing advice on improving Kazakhstan’s chequered international reputation and forging business links across Europe. Officials said that during their meeting yesterday Mr Blair and 71-year-old Nazarbayev ‘discussed working out a large-scale programme to modernise the economy of Kazakhstan, as well as a wide range of international issues, in particular, the situation in the European Union and the Middle East’. It was Mr Blair’s third visit to the Kazakh capital, Astana, in nine months. His wife Cherie has also visited Kazakhstan, in May. Critics claim Mr Blair’s role gives a mask of respectability to a regime condemned in leaked U.S. diplomatic cables for ‘pervasive corruption’ and using torture.
The 30-year-old signed for the Giants in 2016 and joins Mark Garside in committing his future to the franchise. Garside, 28, will stay at the club for an eighth year in a row after spending four years with the Edinburgh Capitals. "I am really happy to be back and excited to spend another season in Belfast chasing trophies," said Martinelli. Head Coach Adam Keefe said Martinelli was "a great guy to have around the locker room" and is "excited" about Garside's extending his stay also. "Mark has won two league titles in Belfast, as well as the recent World Championship gold and he will play a key part in our chase for silverware." Garside was a member of the Giants squad who helped the club win league championships in 2011-12 and 2013-14, while he was part of the GB national side which clinched gold in the recent World Championship hosted in Belfast.
(CNN) -- Poached for use in traditional Chinese medicine or sold as exotic pets. Sometimes slaughtered in a vicious, drawn-out war. We're all familiar with the themes dominating headlines about Africa's declining wildlife. Lions, elephants and tigers, one might think, will exist only in sad tales told to children in a decade or two. Yet amid the disturbing news, one African wildlife success story stands out like the sun rising over the Serengeti -- and it's great news for travelers. With sustainable wildlife tourism as the long-term goal, the southern African nation of Namibia has been making ambitious commitments to habitat conservation since its independence in 1990. Almost half of country protected . The nation of 2.2 million people was the first African country to write environmental protection into its constitution. More than 40% of Namibia is now under some form of conservation management. Officially inaugurated in March 2012, the KAZA (Kavango-Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area) initiative established a 100,000-square-mile, five-nation conservation zone -- the world's largest. Encompassing the entire Caprivi Panhandle in Namibia, KAZA's "conservation beyond borders" approach protects wildlife corridors shared by Angola, Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Central to the effort are the communal conservancies -- rural communities that share the proceeds of wildlife ventures equitably between members -- that now cover one-fifth of the country and affect 250,000 rural Namibians. Human-wildlife conflict reversed . In many cases, poachers have become protectors, as Namibians have come to appreciate the long-term benefits of living with wildlife. Generations of human-wildlife conflict are being reversed, while communities are made stakeholders. Much of Namibia's wildlife is now flourishing. This is also good news for travelers.
With more than 30 conservancy lodges dotting the Caprivi Panhandle and north-central regions -- Namibia's wildlife hotbeds -- visitors are privy to some of the most unforgettable wildlife encounters in Africa. Five top Namibian wildlife lodges . Susuwe Island Lodge . This remote island lodge in Namibia's eastern Caprivi is a gateway to wildlife spotting along the Kwando River and perennial wetlands. Game drives deliver superb sightings of elephant herds, lion, leopard, hippo, zebra, impala and scores of bird species. Susuwe Island Lodge; +264 64 40 3523; rates from N$2,408 ($230) per person/day based on double occupancy (meals, activities extra) Camp Chobe . Boat safaris from this tent camp near the Botswana border spot elephant families in the river, along with buffalo, hippo and large Nile crocodiles. Camp Chobe; +264 81 800 0762; rates from N$600 ($57) per person/day based on double occupancy (meals, activities extra) Chobe Safari Lodge . This substantial lodge actually located in Kasane, Botswana, is a plush base to explore the wetlands of Chobe National Park. Land safaris into the park include sightings of elephant, giraffe, buffalo, hippo and lion. Chobe Safari Lodge; +267 652 0 336; rates from N$1,333 ($132) per room (meals, activities extra) Ongava Lodge . The stark landscape here includes huge saline deserts and intermittent waterholes that are magnets to wildlife. Game drive sightings regularly include lion, leopard and hyena, as well as endangered black and white rhino. Ongava Lodge; +264 676 87187; rates from N$4,668 ($463) per person/day, includes accommodation, meals/beverages, activities and guided tours . Lianshulu Lodge .
Game drive sightings departing from this isolated lodge on the Kwando River include large herds of elephant, antelope, zebra, leopard and, uncommon for Namibia, herds of buffalo. Lianshulu Lodge; +264 64 40 3523; rates from N$2,184 ($216) per person/day based on double occupancy (meals, activities extra) Ted Stedman traveled to Namibia with the Adventure Travel Trade Association.
(CNN) -- The paint is peeling, puddles litter the inside of the building, putrid water lies in what was supposed to be a swimming pool and even the statue of the man who had the vision to build the sports complex is cracked -- a sad and inglorious tribute to Marc-Vivien Foe 10 years to the day after the Cameroonian's tragic death. Once earmarked as a state-of-the-art $10 million sports academy, the only inhabitants today are not the next generation of Indomitable Lions but a handful of squatters and policemen -- with Foe's father funding the latter because of the high risk of theft in this corner of Yaounde. Those are not Martin Foe's only financial concerns because his bitter row with Marc-Vivien's widow Marie-Louise over the distribution of the estate of the two-time African champion, double French league winner and former Premier League star lies at the heart of the complex's decline. With Martin claiming that Marc-Vivien's properties should be returned to his side of the family and the star's wife -- neither relative would speak directly to CNN -- believing she should be the recipient, the duo are at such loggerheads that a resolution seems incredibly remote. It's a dispute made all the more tragic given the former international's body lies in the all-but-abandoned complex. Shortly after the midfielder died of cardiac arrest during a Confederations Cup semi-final on 26 June 2003, Cameroon's government pledged funds to ensure completion of a project started by a man who was posthumously decorated as a Commander of the National Order of Valor. The country's then prime minister laid the medal on top of Foe's coffin as some 3,000 mourners - including further government dignitaries, FIFA president Sepp Blatter and Cameroon's football squad -- gathered at the four-hectare site.
But because of the intense familial row -- while a government promise of funds also failed to materialize -- the real legacy of Foe's death is not to be found in a suburb of Cameroon's capital but in the world's international football stadiums instead. "Foe's death really shook FIFA and what changed was the attitude of the Executive Committee and other decision-makers towards medicine and the health of the players," Professor Jiri Dvorak, FIFA's chief medical officer, told CNN from Brazil. "There were already medical courses in place and we were aware of the issue of cardiac arrest, but that was the extent of what we were doing. But once we experienced it live, in front of rolling TV cameras, we realized the reality of the situation and understood we had to do more. "It made me certain that prevention was the way to go and so many, many new regulations have been implemented since then to reduce the risk of sudden cardiac death on the pitch." Medical screening . Football's world governing has acted steadily over the years to try to ensure that there are as few repeats as possible of the awful scenes that were broadcast to millions around the world from Lyon a decade ago. The French city was, ironically, the very one where Foe's registration was kept although English side Manchester City had been keen to sign the tall Cameroonian -- who had been with them on loan the preceding year -- on a permanent basis. They would never get the chance as the then 28-year-old collapsed in the 72nd minute of the semifinal against Colombia with no-one around him. An opponent was the first to notice the seriousness of the situation and unlike the swift treatment given to Bolton Wanderers' Fabrice Muamba at Tottenham Hotspur last year, medical assistance was slow to arrive.
Despite attempts to resuscitate him for 45 minutes and the fact that he was still alive when taken to the ground's medical center, Foe died because of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy -- a condition that involves an abnormal thickening of the heart muscle. Those who are prone to the problem are up to five times more likely to suffer a cardiac arrest when exercising intensively than they would be when leading a sedentary lifestyle. As the tributes flooded in for a talented player with terrific stamina and, according to those who knew him, a permanent smile on his face, FIFA reacted by making it mandatory to equip all stadiums hosting international matches with automated external defibrillators. In addition, the organization introduced medical screenings of all players ahead of any FIFA competition -- a policy which was of clear benefit to all the recipients, but especially those from Foe's continent. At the African Under-17 Championship in Algeria, FIFA -- in conjunction with the continental body CAF and the local FA -- medically assessed all 160 players and unwittingly discovered that nearly 70% of the teenagers had never seen a doctor before in their lives. Late last month, FIFA issued all of its 209 member associations a Medical Emergency Bag, one which the global body says is similar to those in use by the American and South African military and which, more importantly, boasts a defibrillator among its contents. However, Dvorak readily concedes that the bag will be largely worthless unless the training of teams' medical personnel is up to scratch. "It is important that the doctors and paramedics are adequately educated to be able to use it in case of emergency, but we can never guarantee that the right training is being done all around the world," said the Czech. "Definitely at those competitions where we are responsible, like the Confederations Cup here in Brazil, we check that the relevant people are able to understand what they have in their hands -- and how important it is that they know."
All the more so since the first symptom of those suffering hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can sometimes be death itself, while footballers to have died of cardiac issues in recent years form a depressingly long list -- with the cases of Antonio Puerta (Sevilla), Daniel Jarque (Espanyol) and Phil O'Donnell (Motherwell) prominent among them. While the medical measures undertaken by FIFA form part of Foe's legacy, a final chapter continues to play out wherever Cameroon's Indomitable Lions roam. Irreplaceable midfielder . The first team from Africa to reach the World Cup quarterfinals (in 1990), Cameroon were feared at the time of Foe's death -- with the team having added the 2002 Nations Cup to their 2000 title as they became the first to win back-to-back crowns in nearly four decades. Since the death of a central midfielder who has simply proved irreplaceable in the middle -- a box-to-box player with aerial presence and a calming, disciplined demeanor -- Cameroon's footballing fortunes have steadily declined. They have not won a match at the World Cup since Foe's death (missing out on Germany 2006 altogether) nor another African title -- and political rows and team squabbling have meant the four-time continental champions have failed to qualify for the last two Nations Cups. The last month has been indicative of the country's recent woes, with World Cup qualification having hung by a thread until opponents Togo -- who beat Cameroon earlier this month -- were found to have fielded an ineligible player during the qualifier, meaning the Lions may be awarded some fortuitous points instead. At the same time, the football federation chose to re-elect Iya Mohamed as president -- despite the fact he was being detained by local police at the time after being accused of transgressions connected to his role as director-general of the state-owned Cotton Development Company.
A once proud game is, in short, something of a mess -- and perhaps the crumbling complex where the patriotic Marc-Vivien Foe lies is a fitting, if sad, reflection of the lamentable state of Cameroonian football today.
It is a problem parents face every year - how to get the kids to bed early on New Year's Eve. Many have tried changing clocks, throwing fake parties and even tuning in to TV stations on the other side of the world. However, Netflix now has a hi-tech solution- an on demand New Year's Eve show for kids that can be played at any time. Scroll down for video . Revellers wave during the New Year's Eve celebrations in Hong Kong's Times Square: Now parents can celebrate with their kids at any time thanks to an on demand show. Netflix boasts over 53 million members in nearly 50 countries . Offers more than two billion hours of TV shows and movies . User spend 1 billion hours a month on service . Planning 20 original series in 2015 . Founded in 1997 as DVD service . More than a third of U.S. parents (34%) admitted to starting the party early to fool their kids into thinking it’s midnight, citing their kid’s or their own bedtime as the reason, a recent survey from Wakefield Research on behalf of Netflix. 22% would go as far as to stage a countdown of their own, the team found. To make the problem easier, Netflix commissioned a special show starring King Julien, star of DreamWorks Animation’s All Hail King Julien. The animated lemur will host his very own kid-sized countdown “special” on Netflix that families can use to ring in 2015 whenever they choose to celebrate. The three minutes of high-energy, music-filled fun that lets kids celebrate the New Year no matter the time of day. The countdown will be available in the U.S., Canada, Latin America, UK, Ireland, the Nordics, the Netherlands and France beginning on Dec. 29th at Netflix.com/KingJulien.
Netflix boasts over 53 million members in nearly 50 countries, and offers more than two billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including original series. Earlier this month, the company announced it hopes to have up to 20 original series running alongside its other shows and movies. The announcement was made by chief content officer Theodore Sarandos in a conference in New York. He was reported as saying, by Seeking Alpha, that Netflix wants to expand its original programming to ‘as many as 20 original series’. This is apparently a move to try and replicate the success of channels such as HBO. Mr Sarandos said the idea was to launch an ‘original season of content every two and a half weeks’ to get into a ‘regular drumbeat with consumer expectation.’ King Julien, star of DreamWorks Animation’s All Hail King Julien, who will host the special show on Netflix . Netflix is also planning to release more original movies, which include a sequel to Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon next year - subtitled ‘The Green Destiny’. The move follows news earlier in the year that Yahoo is also making its own original TV shows. The first of these will be comedies titled Other Space and Sin City Saints, and they will be shown on the Yahoo website, mobile app, Apple TV and Roku devices. The series, which launch in 2016, will be available free to be viewers. And beginning in the summer of 2015, Yahoo is also planning to stream one live concert every day through a partnership with Live Nation. The expansion makes Yahoo one of the latest technology companies to mount a challenge to Netflix. Microsoft, Amazon, Hulu and Wuaki are among the other companies angling for a piece of the growing audience watching video piped over high-speed internet connections.
Federal MP Clive Palmer has revealed his wife will run as a candidate in his party but insists she'll be judged on her own merits. Anna Palmer is one of three candidates vying for preselection in the Gold Coast seat of Gaven at next year's Queensland election. But the Palmer United Party (PUP) leader said on Friday that she won't be favoured over other candidates and he won't have any say in his wife's political future. Scroll down for video . Anna Palmer is one of three candidates vying for preselection in the Gold Coast seat of Gaven at next year's Queensland election . 'There's an independent committee of three people, of which I'm not a member, who'll decide who the candidate will be,' Mr Palmer told AAP. 'We've got two other candidates who are pretty good - she may be selected or she may not be.' But Mr Palmer could not immediately say who the other contenders were. He said he wouldn't have discussions with the other two candidates, because 'it would be a conflict of interest, as you could appreciate'. Palmer United Party leader Clive Palmer says his wife will run as candidate in his party . But he said his wife vying for preselection wasn't a conflict of interest. 'She's entitled to do what she wants to,' he said. He also hit back at Dr Douglas' cronyism claims, saying the Queensland MP's own wife, Susie Douglas, ran for the party as a federal candidate in the seat of McPherson last year. 'Everyone that's a member of my family, who works for our company or is a member of the party is entitled individually to stand for what they want to,' he said. Mr Palmer said his wife decided to nominate for preselection because she had an interest in politics and was keen to see the party regain Gaven at the 2015 poll.
The Palmer United Party (PUP) leader said she won't be favoured over other candidates and he won't have any say in his wife's political future . He said he was yet to decide whether PUP would run a candidate in Yeerongpilly against now-independent Carl Judge, who also quit the PUP earlier this month, leaving the party without a presence in state parliament. Mr Palmer said the party would run candidates in most Queensland seats. He said he'd already endorsed Ted Shepherd in Mudgeeraba, Steve Anderson in Maryborough and Jeremy Davies in Kawana. Dr Douglas said on Thursday that he doubted PUP would run any candidates at all. 'I think the opportunity to do so has come and gone,' he said. It is currently held by former PUP state leader Alex Douglas, who quit in August to become an independent, alleging a culture of 'jobs for the boys' within the party.
By . Shari Miller . PUBLISHED: . 04:22 EST, 10 August 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 05:31 EST, 10 August 2012 . A football referee made history last night by becoming the first woman to officiate an NFL game. Shannon Eastin served as the line judge for the San Diego Chargers' 21-13 preseason victory over the Green Bay Packers, making her the first female referee in the NFL's 97-year history. All went well on the night for Eastin, who was only selected because an ongoing dispute with regular referees meant the NFL had to draft in replacements. Wearing Number 27 on the back of her black-and-white striped uniform and with her hair tucked under her cap, Eastin seemed dwarfed by the players, but remained calm as she made history within the San Diego stadium. Run to it: Shannon Eastin takes her place on the field during an NFL preseason football game between the San Diego Chargers and the Green Bay Packers . The 42-year-old, who is from Arizona, also seemed to get the thumbs up from the coaches for her performance on the night. 'She was confident and in control,' said Chargers coach Norv Turner. Packers coach Mike McCarthy added: 'I thought she did a good job of . communicating. I was focused on the . Packers, but there was communication before the game.' Though she wasn't involved in many calls until late, Eastin appeared to stay steady among the giants and worked well alongside her seven-man crew. The trailblazer got her shot at making history as a replacement official following a dispute between the NFL and the regular referees, who are now locked out. The disagreement marks the first time in 11 years that the NFL has had to draft in replacements, who are scheduled to work 16 games over the weekend.
Hearing of the decision to use Eastin for last night's game, the locked out NFL Referees Association said that she should be barred, because she once took part in a World Series of Poker tournament. The NFL has strict rules on its employees taking part in gambling. History in the making: Line judge Shannon Eastin has become the first woman in the NFL's 97-year history to officiate a game . Making a call: Eastin signals to the players at the historic NFL match . Thirsty work: Shannon Eastin stops for a drink during the game between the San Diego Chargers and the Green Bay Packers . Minute by minute: Eastin checks her watch during the game . Regrouping: The trailblazing referee waits for the ball . However, the league vetted and accepted Eastin for the game and it seems she does have all the credentials to take her place on the NFL field. She has 16 years' of experience and works as a referee in the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference of NCAA Division I's Football Championship Subdivision. Eastin joins a small group of women to crack the officiating ranks at the highest levels of sports. Violet Palmer, one of Eastin's inspirations, began officiating NBA games in 1997 and is still in the league. Bernice Gera became the first woman to . work in baseball's minor leagues, serving as an umpire in a New . York-Penn League game in 1972. Pam Postema umpired major league . spring training games in 1989 and, thanks to a push by commissioner A Bartlett Giamatti, made it up to Triple-A for six seasons. But she was fired . a few months after Giamatti's death. She filed a sex discrimination suit . against the baseball organisation and settled out of court. A multiple national judo champion as a child, Eastin also owns a company called SE Sports Officiating, which trains officials in football and basketball.
Just before the game, Eastin seemed to fit right in and appeared relax as she chatted with the other officials, members of the chain crew and players. Chargers tackle Jeromey Clary and . linebacker Antwan Barnes sought her out, shaking her . hand and saying a few words before she ran down the sideline for the . first time. She spent most of the first half . straddling the line markers and keeping track of the time, without much . action on her side of the field. But things picked up in the second . half, when she had to break up a small skirmish between players and . whipped her flag to the middle of the field for a holding call late in . the third quarter . Eastin heard a few boos early in the . fourth quarter from the hometown fans for a pass interference call on . San Diego's Corey Lynch -- a call she appeared to get right -- and later . signaled touchdown when Green Bay's Marc Tyler dived in from one yard . out. She also gave a . touchdown signal on a one-yard run by San Diego's Curtis Brinkley and . was on the spot for a fumble recovery by the Chargers near Green Bay's . bench in the closing seconds, although she did not have to climb into . the pile to make the call. Charges . coach Turner said afterwards: 'I think it's exciting for her. It's the . first female official ever in the NFL. I got my picture taken with her . before the game because it's history and it's reality.' Her cap will now take it's place in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Ohio. On the ball: Eastin watches with Chargers coach Norv Turner (left) before signalling a touchdown . Kick-off: The history-making referee carefully watches the teams playing . Whistle-blower: Eastin was dwarfed by the giant players, but seemed to keep her cool on the night .
Sports talk: Line judge Shannon Eastin and referee Donovan Briggans discuss a point of rule during the match . Lending a hand: Referee Donovan Briggans talks to line judge Shannon Eastin at the historic match . All eyes on Shannon: The match was broadcast by ESPN to an audience of millions . Walk the line: Eastin makes her way along the side of the field at the San Diego stadium .
Chicago-based United Airlines fired 13 flight attendants who refused to fly on a plane after "someone had written threatening words and drawn menacing images" on the aircraft near its tail, according to a complaint filed this week with the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. The words "BYE BYE" were written in 6-inch letters in oil residue on the jumbo jet's tail cone above two faces, one smiling and another "with a more troubling expression that could be described as frowning or devilish," according to the complaint. United Flight Attendants Fight To Get Jobs Back After Pointing Out Graffiti On Plane United Flight Attendants Fight To Get Jobs Back After Pointing Out Graffiti On Plane United Flight Attendants Fight To Get Jobs Back After Pointing Out Graffiti On Plane See more videos The 13 flight attendants from the July 14 San Francisco flight on a 747-400 aircraft bound for Hong Kong refused to fly, fearing a security threat. They claim they were fired improperly. United spokeswoman Christen David said the airline will defend the litigation "vigorously." "Our flight operations, safety and maintenance teams appropriately investigated and determined there was no credible security threat," she said. The airline said all its safety procedures as well as those of the Federal Aviation Administration were followed, "including a comprehensive safety sweep prior to boarding." "The pilots, mechanics and safety leaders deemed the aircraft entirely safe to fly," she said. The flight attendants refused to fly when the airline would not deplane passengers and conduct a security screening of the aircraft, according to the complaint filed Monday. They believed the potential threat, possibly an explosive, could endanger the lives of more than 300 passengers and crew, it said. The flight was ultimately canceled.
"In the interest of maintaining its flight schedule at all costs, United first tried to bully the flight attendants into flying, and, when they refused to accede to company threats, accused them of 'insubordination' and fired them all," the complaint alleges. The flight attendants' lawyer, David Marshall, a partner at Katz, Marshall & Banks, said: "Our clients did exactly what the flying public would expect from a group of highly experienced airline professionals. Our clients are entitled to legal protection for doing what was right." The flight attendants allege their termination was a violation of a law that protects whistleblowers in the airline industry from retaliation for reporting air safety issues. Together, the flight attendants had 299 years of experience, each with at least 18 years with United, according to the complaint. The flight attendants asked to be reinstated with back pay and compensatory damages. gkarp@tribpub.com Twitter @spendingsmart Thirteen senior flight attendants at United Continental Holdings Inc., who were fired last year for refusing to staff a plane bound for Hong Kong on security fears, filed a whistleblower complaint earlier this week with the government, according to their lawyer. They seek to be reinstated with back pay and compensatory damages. United, the
Saturday's flight was the first movement of material held at the Caithness plant to the US since an announcement in February. David Cameron, who was prime minister at the time, said the UK and US governments had agreed to an exchange of nuclear materials. He said the UK would receive a type of uranium used to diagnose cancer. But Highlands and Islands SNP MSP Maree Todd has criticised the weekend's flight and the level of secrecy surrounding the handling of nuclear material at Dounreay. She said there should not be a need for an exchange of nuclear material, and the UK should be able to purchase what it requires for medical diagnoses. Dounreay, near Thurso, is being decommissioned and the site cleaned up. Most of the radioactive materials held there, such as fuel, are being moved to other locations, including Sellafield in Cumbria where it will be reprocessed or stored. These shipments are being made by rail. Other material has been returned to nuclear sites overseas. During the 1990s, nuclear material was sent from abroad to Dounreay for reprocessing. The customers included power plants and research centres in Australia, Germany and Belgium. Under the UK-US deal signed earlier this year, highly-enriched uranium (HEU) stored at Dounreay is being sent to the US. Saturday's flight took place under tight security from Wick John O'Groats Airport, which is about 30 miles (48km) from the Dounreay nuclear site. It involved a US military Boeing C-17 transport aircraft. Radioactive material from the civil nuclear industry has been transported by plane from the UK to other countries in the past. The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA) provided Highlands and Islands Airports Limited with funding to upgrade Wick John O'Groats Airport in preparation for the US flights. A spokesman for Dounreay said: "All nuclear materials are being removed from the site.
This programme started in 2001 and we expect it to continue for a number of years. "Our priority at all times is to comply with regulations governing the safe and secure transportation of nuclear material, both in storage and transit. "Compliance with these regulations includes protecting information about routes, dates, timings and locations of nuclear material in any current or future transport." MSP Ms Todd told BBC Radio Scotland: "I am disappointed we are hearing reports from people living up in Wick that this has happened, but got no official notification. "I understand that there has to be some secrecy surrounding this industry, but I feel there is more secrecy than is absolutely required." She added: "I understand that this material is weapons-grade in exchange for some medical radionuclides. "I fail to understand why we cannot pay money for these things than have to supply them with weapons-grade nuclear material from the UK."
Burmese investigators have said they believe the Myanmar migrant workers accused of murdering two . British tourists in Thailand are innocent, but witnesses who . might be able to prove this are too afraid to testify. Zaw Lin and Win Zaw Htun are on trial for the murder of 24-year-old David Miller and the rape and murder of Hannah Witheridge, 23, on the island of Koh Tao in September. The migrant workers, both 21, . initially confessed to the murders but later retracted their . confessions saying they had been beaten and threatened by Thai . police. Zaw Lin (left) and Win Zaw Htun (right) are on trial for the murders of two British tourists on the Thaii island of Koh Tao in September . But Thai police deny those accusations and say they have . solid evidence, including DNA evidence, against the two men who . were arrested in October. A committee set up by Myanmar's embassy in Thailand to . investigate the case said they had interviewed about 40 Myanmar . nationals who were working on Koh Tao at the time of the . murders. Some of those interviewed were 'strong witnesses' who might . provide evidence to exonerate the accused, said Kyaw Thaung, who . heads the committee. But he said that they were reluctant to testify and had . returned to Myanmar for fear of being implicated in the crime. 'If they go to court and speak as witnesses, they'll have . problems with the Thai police and Thai bosses,' Kyaw Thaung told . reporters in Yangon, Myanmar's largest city. Thai Police Major General Suwat Jaengyordsuk, defended the . investigation, which he led, and said Myanmar was welcome to . present witnesses.
Win Zaw Htun (left) and Zaw Lin (right) both 21,initially confessed to the murders but later retracted theirconfessions saying they had been beaten and threatened by Thai police . The workers pleaded not guilty on December 8 to charges including . conspiracy to commit murder and rape. The first hearing in the . case will take place on December 26. 'Whatever the Thai government decides in this case, we . believe these two young people did not commit this crime,' said . Htoo Chit, the Myanmar committee's spokesman. The murders of the two tourists dealt a blow to Thailand's vital tourism industry, which generates almost 10 per cent of the gross domestic product. The country was already struggling to recover from months of political upheaval that culminated in a May 22 coup, with the unrest keeping some visitors away, and the government called on police to solve the case quickly. But human rights groups have accused Thai authorities of using the men as scapegoats. Win Zaw Htun (left) and Zaw Lin (right )took part in a reconstruction on Koh Tao, Thailand, after Thai police said DNA from the men matched samples found on victims . The two suspects were paraded in front of cameras after apparently making murder confessions, but it was reported that a Burmese embassy official later formally retracted their confessions amid allegations the pair were tortured. In November British detectives traveled to Thailand to review the police investigation into the murders after widespread criticism of blunders including allowing reporters to trample over the crime scene. But last month, the victims' families said they had seen strong evidence against the suspects and expressed confidence in the case. 'There is a great deal of detail and vast areas of investigative work which has been shared with us,' Ms Witheridge's family said in a statement released through Britain's Foreign Office.
David Miller (left), 24, from Jersey, and 23-year-old Hannah Witheridge (right), from Great Yarmouth in Norfolk, were found dead on a beach on the island of Ko Tao on September 15 . 'We would like to stress that as a family we are confident in the work that has been carried out into these atrocious crimes.' Mr Miller's family has urged restraint from rights groups and the media while the court case unfolds. 'The support for the Myanmar suspects has been strong and vocal, but please do not jump to conclusions until you have considered the evidence from both sides in full,' Miller's family said in its statement. They added: 'They must respond to these charges, and their arguments must be considered with the same scrutiny as those of the prosecution. 'Please remember that this is above all a story of two wonderful young people, David and Hannah, killed in the prime of their lives in a senseless and brutal way.' A police diver searching for clues near the spot where bodies were found on the island of Koh Tao. The murders of the two tourists dealt a blow to Thailand's vital tourism industry, which generates almost 10 per cent of the gross domestic product .
9:14 PM High-ranking Fatah military official killed in south Lebanon (Reuters) 8:59 PM Palestinian killed by IDF fire near West Bank settlement, apparently after hurling rocks (Haaretz) 8:06 PM Jordanian forces up security around Israeli embassy, worried about violent demonstration (Haaretz) 7:22 PM UN chief: Ukraine parties must avoid hasty actions (AP) 6:39 PM Israel open to joint missile defense with Jordan, Egypt (Reuters) 5:42 PM Knesset members deliberate 'governability bill' (Haaretz) 5:20 PM Ya'alon: Underneath niceties and smiles, the Iranian regime harbors the same intentions (Haaretz) 5:04 PM Netanyahu: I heard only few and feeble condemnations of Iran's weapons shipment (Haaretz) 4:44 PM Lavrov says Russia has proposals for resolving the Ukrainian 'situation' (Reuters) 4:42 PM Amnesty: Syrian regime uses starvation as 'weapon of war' (DPA) 4:03 PM Russian soldiers open fire during takeover of Ukrainian military post in Crimea (Reuters) 4:00 PM Libyan parliament orders military operation to end the occupation of oil ports by rebels (Reuters) 3:45 PM Palestinian killed by Israeli forces was a judge working in Jordan (AP) A candid photo snapped by Jerusalem Post photographer Marc Israel Sellem of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu at the end of their joint press conference in Jerusalem Tuesday inadvertently created a viral sensation. The photo showed Netanyahu pointing toward someone in the audience at the King David Hotel press conference, with Merkel to his right. The shadow created by his index finger formed a shadow above Merkel’s lip, giving the vague impression that she sported a mustache similar to Adolf Hitler’s. “I was just trying to find a good place to take pictures of them,” said Sellem Tuesday night.
“I positioned myself between Merkel and Netanyahu, and I shot the photographs that I needed for the story. Then at the end, when I saw Netanyahu begin to point, I thought it would be interesting so I just started shooting, something like seven pictures a second.”Later, when Sellem was sorting the photos on his computer, he noticed the image of Merkel, thought it was a unique picture, and included it in his email of photographs that go to the editors of the Post and its sister publication in Hebrew, The Post.One of their online editors immediately saw the unique photo of Merkel and placed it on the Post’s website. Within minutes, it had been shared over 1,000 times and retweeted hundreds of times.Both Sellem and The Jerusalem Post editorial staff were inundated with queries from media outlets around the world, asking if the photo had been retouched with Photoshop (it hadn’t been) and asking permission to reprint it.The Jerusalem Post management initially made a decision not to publish the photo or make it available to other media outlets, but once it proliferated on social media, including Facebook and Twitter, the avalanche was irreversible.Local Israeli TV news reports and websites posted the photo, as well as international outlets, from the Drudge Report to the Daily Mail.A shell-shocked Sellem said late Tuesday night that he hadn’t intended for the photo to cause an uproar.“When I saw the photo on my computer, I thought that it was unique and funny. It was not my intention to insult Merkel in any way or to make any kind of Nazi connotation with the photo.”
(CNN) -- America's top intelligence official on Thursday night challenged news reports claiming Facebook posts, Gmail messages and more have been intercepted for years in a vast data-mining operation, saying the reports "contain numerous inaccuracies." The Guardian, a British newspaper, and the Washington Post reported Thursday that U.S. intelligence agencies had access to the central servers of nine of the country's biggest technology firms including Microsoft, Apple, Google, Yahoo and Facebook. The Post reported the program -- called PRISM -- underwent "exponential growth" since its founding in 2007. In fact, the newspaper said the program has become the leading source of raw material for the National Security Agency, the secretive U.S. intelligence operation that monitors electronic communications. Yet several tech giants whose servers were reportedly ensnared in the program denied any knowledge of it Thursday. And James Clapper, the director of national intelligence, questioned the Guardian and Post articles in a statement Thursday night. He referred to Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which he noted was recently reauthorized by Congress -- one of the bodies, along with the executive branch and Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, with oversight over aspects of intelligence gathering. Section 702, Clapper added, "is designed to facilitate the acquisition of foreign intelligence information concerning non-U.S. persons located outside the United States." "It cannot be used to intentionally target any U.S. citizen, any other U.S. person, or anyone located within the United States," he said in his statement. While he made no mention of data mining, Clapper did defend the American intelligence effort generally, saying, "Information collected under this program is among the most important and valuable foreign intelligence information we collect, and is used to protect our nation from a wide variety of threats."
Clapper also called out the person or people behind "the unauthorized disclosure of information about this important and entirely legal program," saying such apparent leaks are "reprehensible and risks important protections for the security of Americans." The Post reported that its reporters had been provided a detailed briefing presentation document on the PRISM program. The program has been running since 2007 and has undergone "exponential growth" since then, the Post reported. It is now the leading source of raw material for the National Security Agency, the secretive U.S. intelligence operation that monitors electronic communications. According to a briefing slide published by the Guardian, PRISM began with data from Microsoft in 2007. The program began collecting data from Yahoo in 2008 and from Google, Facebook and the message system PalTalk in 2009. YouTube became a source in 2010, Skype and AOL in 2011 and Apple in late 2012, the slide claims. The NSA declined to comment, but several companies -- many of them using similar language -- denied Thursday any knowledge of such a program. Microsoft, for instance, said in a statement it only provides user data when legally required and for specific accounts -- adding that "if the government has a broader voluntary national security program to gather customer data we don't participate in it." Jodi Seth, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the social media giant works to "carefully scrutinize any request for compliance" and does not give government agencies "direct access" to its servers. Apple spokesman Steve Dowling offered a similar response -- saying Apple hands over information only when a government agency gets a court order. Dowling added that his company has never heard of PRISM. "We disclose user data to government in accordance with the law, and we review all such requests carefully," a Google spokesman said in response to the stories.
"From time to time, people allege that we have created a government 'back door' into our systems, but Google does not have a 'back door' for the government to access private user data." Even with these denials and Clapper's defense, President Barack Obama's administration has come under growing scrutiny in recent days over his record on balancing citizens' right to privacy and the government's efforts to combat terrorism. Patriot Act at center of Verizon phone log controversy . That includes news, first reported on Wednesday by the Guardian and commented on by U.S. politicians, that the FBI and National Security Agency have been collecting the phone records of millions of Americans -- specifically Verizon customers and perhaps others -- over a several year period. Days after taking office in 2009, Obama vowed, "Transparency and the rule of law will be the touchstones of this presidency." But on Thursday, the left-leaning Huffington Post conflated Obama with his predecessor George W. Bush while a New York Times editorial said "the administration has now lost all credibility" when it comes to overreaching in the name of fighting terrorism. "Mr. Obama is proving the truism that the executive branch will use any power it is given and very likely abuse it," the Times' editorial said. What does the Verizon order mean for me? CNN's Augie Martin and Stefan Simons contributed to this report.
By . Martha De Lacey . If you get dizzy at the top of tall buildings, spare a thought for Laura Taylor. The 22-year-old from Essex no doubt experienced more than just the head-rush of vertigo when her brave boyfriend sprung her with a marriage proposal 800ft above London at the top of the newly-opened Shard. Miss Taylor was with her boyfriend James Episcopou, also 22 and from Essex, at the official opening of the Shard's observation deck on level 72, when her beau got down on one knee and surprised her. James Episcopou proposing to Laura Taylor at top of the Shard 800ft above London as Boris Johnson opens building . Moments earlier, Mayor Boris Johnson cut the ribbon to welcome visitors to the highest vantage point in western Europe - 800ft (244m) above London. Undaunted by the world's media and the Mayor of London watching him, Mr Episcopou dropped to one knee beside the glass wall and asked for his girlfriend's hand in marriage and was rewarded for his bravery when Miss Taylor said yes. The engagement took place on level 72 of the Shard, just over 800ft (244m) above the capital. After the event, Mr Episcopou, a supervisor at John Lewis, said he had no idea that Boris Johnson and a media pack would be on the observation deck at the same time. He said: 'I've had it planned since July last year. When tickets first came out I thought I've got to buy them, it's the perfect place to propose. 'Laura means everything to me and I wanted to make her feel on top of the world. 'We had no idea the media were going to be there, but when we arrived we saw Boris Johnson and there were cameras everywhere.' When asked if the presence of the media made him even more nervous, he replied: "There was no doubt in my mind that I was going to do it.
'For Laura it's made the day even more special. When people plan a proposal they think, "how can I make it special?". I managed to do quite a good job.' Miss Taylor, a 22-year-old accountant, said: 'I had no idea he had planned it. I thought we were going up to look at the view. 'James asked me to come over to him because some photographers would like to take our picture. The next moment he was on one knee and proposing. I was so shocked. I said "yes, definitely", but then I was speechless.' Laura Taylor got engaged to James Episcopou at the top of The Shard . Mr Johnson described London's tallest building as 'a most amazing place'. He said: 'I don't think there's anything in London like this. 'It's the closest thing to being in an airplane and looking down on London. But you can walk around, you've got complete stability. 'You can see all the bends in the river, you can see my office, you can see Buckingham Palace, you can see the whole thing for 40 miles around.' The Shard's architect, Renzo Piano, added: 'This building is magic for a number of reasons. 'First, because it's in London, second, because it's so tall, and third, because this building is a part of London. It's a sense of London. 'It's sad when London is sad, it's joyful when London is brilliant and joyful.' Some 800ft in the air, James Episcopou asked Laura Taylor to be his wife . On a clear day, visitors to the Shard, which towers over the city at a height of 1,016ft, are promised a spectacular view of the capital. But visibility was restricted for the dignitaries, journalists and members of the public attending the launch because of wet and cloudy weather.
Some 4,800 people paid for admission today - at £24.95 for adults and £18.95 for children. Terry Quelch and his wife Merill travelled from Bristol to be among the first to experience the new attraction. Mr Quelch, 69, said: 'It's great looking down and seeing all the landmarks. I do like the shape of the building, the way it spikes up like an icicle in reverse.' His wife, 65, said: 'London hasn't had anything like this since the Eye. I think it's brilliant.' The engagement took place on level 72 of the Shard, just over 800ft (244m) above the capital . On a clear day, visitors will be able to enjoy a 360-degree view of the capital's skyline, from a platform almost twice the height of any other in the city. With the help of specially designed telescopes, they should be able to pick out London's landmarks in the streets below. Visitors to the attraction - on floors 68, 69 and 72 - are whisked up in two high-speed lifts in around 60 seconds. Irvine Sellar, chairman of Sellar Property and developer of the Shard, said: 'I think Londoners will feel ownership of the Shard. They'll adopt it as the Parisians adopted the Eiffel Tower or the Americans adopted the Empire State. 'I think we need a new landmark building, something that stands out.' Boris Johnson cuts the ribbon on the Shard observation deck . Anders Nyberg, chief executive of The View from The Shard, claimed it offered a unique experience. 'You're seeing a tapestry of history,' he said. 'We're in a 21st century tower, right across the river from an 11th century tower, the Tower of London. Nowhere else in the world can you get that kind of perspective.'
Heavy clouds cover the London skyline, as seen from The View at the Shard building in London, which opens to the public today .
By . Will Payne . Justin Bieber proudly poses next to a career criminal charged more than 30 times in seven years for crimes involving drugs, robbery and violence - who . was introduced to him by his jailbird dad. Renowned thug John Paul Atchison,39, has the picture posted on . his Facebook page, with the message, ‘you really are a pymp (sic) Justin Love . ya lots’ written beside it. His Facebook profile is a shot of him and the superstar’s . dad Jeremy, who in turn has a Twitter photo of the two of them posing at the . $850,000 ranch Justin bought for him, taken in March. Pals: John Paul Atchison poses proudly with Bieber. Canadian authorities only retain criminal records for seven . years, but Atchison still had 33 charges against his name in that period of . time. Alongside the picture he posted to Facebook in 2009, he said: 'You really are a pymp (sic) Justin Love . ya lots’ Influence: Those close to Justin fear that dad Jeremy Bieber, right, is trying to bring Atchison into Justin's inner circle. Here they are pictured together in March at the $850,000 ranch Bieber bought his father to live in . Sources close to the Bieber camp claim Jeremy is currently . trying to bring his close friend – from Justin’s hometown of Stratford - . into the superstar’s inner circle. It has even been suggested that Jeremy took Justin to the . local jail to see his criminal pal – known locally as JP - back in February. When MailOnline visited Stratford Court house, the clerk . immediately knew Atchison by name and said she would not be able to provide . details of all of his convictions because it would take too long. Canadian authorities only retain criminal records for seven . years, but Atchison still had 33 charges against his name in that period of . time.
They include possession of crystal meth, robbery, assault . with a weapon and a huge number of parole violations. The fact that Jeremy hangs out with Atchison and allows . him to spend time with his superstar son will add to the intense fear that he . is a terrible role model. A source close to the Bieber camp told MailOnline: ‘Jeremy . has got a very dubious past and has spent time with a lot of very unpleasant . people, but Justin’s fame has given him the chance to move away from all of . that. Previous: When MailOnline visited Stratford Court house, the clerk . immediately knew Atchison by name and said she would not be able to provide . details of all of his convictions because it would take too long . ‘For some reason though, he is not prepared to turn his back . on these characters. In fact he seems to enjoy having them in his life. 'The fact he put a picture of him and JP up on Twitter for . all of his 2.2million followers to see proves that. ‘That is his decision, but that doesn’t mean he should be . bringing them around Justin. His image has taken enough of a bashing in the . last year and he really does not need to be associating with people like JP. ‘He is a complete loser, with a serious drug problem and a . violent past. What kind of father would allow their child to spend time with a . person like that? ‘Even if Justin was just a regular kid, it would be stupid . to bring JP around your child, but considering Justin is in the public eye, it . makes it even more ridiculous. ‘And you have to question Jeremy’s decision to bring JP up . to his ranch. Not only is it owned by Justin, Jeremy’s two youngest children . live there too.
King of the world: Sources close to Bieber, pictured in New York on Tuesday, said: 'Atchison is a complete loser, with a serious drug problem and a violent past. What kind of father would allow their child to spend time with a person like that?' Role model: Jeremy Bieber has been spending a lot of time with his son over the last year despite not being there for much of the time the star was growing up. He has been by his side during many of his . ‘This guy has got several convictions for crystal meth . possession and violence. That says it all really and would make anyone question . Jeremy’s responsibility as a father.’ Justin and Jeremy’s relationship has come under intense . scrutiny in recent months, with many accusing the convicted criminal of being a . bad influence and a scrounger. Jeremy has apparently never held down a regular job, but he . lives in an $850,000 ranch bought for him by his multi-millionaire son. He has . also allegedly boasted that he is given a $50,000 a month allowance by his son. He has been present when the hit-maker has got into trouble. In January, Justin was arrested in Miami Beach, Florida, on . suspicion of driving under the influence, driving with an expired license and . resisting arrest without violence. Jeremy had accompanied his son on the . controversial break. The day after Justin was released from custody on a $2,500 . bond, the father and son pair were pictured out partying.
By . Jo Macfarlane, Nick Craven and David Rose . PUBLISHED: . 19:03 EST, 8 December 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 14:45 EST, 15 December 2012 . Thousands of hospital beds are set to be scrapped under secret plans drawn up by NHS managers. Doctors warn the loss of so many beds will put patients at risk in an NHS that is already ‘overwhelmed’. Cutbacks: The number of hospital beds could be cut by up to 25 per cent in some areas (stock image) The proposals, tucked away in documents published by Trusts planning to close or downgrade A&E departments, reveal: . The plan suggests that GPs and other services will play a bigger role in providing care in the community . The disclosures come just days after . the publication of a report warning that hospitals are ‘full to . bursting’, with Government figures showing that 94 per cent of beds were . occupied last month – more than the recommended maximum of 85 per cent . to ensure patient safety. Campaigners . argue the proposed cuts are being ‘smuggled through without proper . debate’. Dr Clare Gerada, chairwoman of the Royal College of GPs, said: . ‘I’m shocked. The NHS is heaving. We don’t have enough beds. We’ll be . looking after sicker and sicker people in the community, with nowhere to . put them. ‘We can’t cope. Community services are stretched beyond belief. Patients will suffer in the end. We could end up with beds in corridors all over again.’ A report for NHS North West London, which was leaked to The Mail on Sunday, assesses proposals to close four out of the area’s nine casualty units.
The opening page of the report, which was written by independent public-health specialist Dr David McCoy, warns that its contents should not be ‘quoted or disseminated’ and are strictly for ‘limited circulation’. The report says the closures involve ‘a significant shift of health care activity and expenditure’, to be achieved by closing A&E wards and ‘a reduction in the number of hospital beds’. Dr McCoy writes: ‘A potentially more serious issue than the closure of A&Es is the reduction in number of hospital beds by nearly 25 per cent . . . However, details of the clinical rationale and modelling used to arrive at the proposal are absent.’ He adds that ‘any shortcoming in the plans to compensate for this by strengthening and improving out-of-hospital care will have serious consequences for patients and families’. None of the hundreds of bed closures in North-West London – mostly acute beds along with 20 paediatric and maternity – are explicitly mentioned in a 78-page consultation document supplied to local residents. 'Putting lives at risk': Campaigners argue hospitals are currently operating at full capacity and community services are already at breaking point . Dr John Lister, director of campaign . group London Health Emergency, described the plans as ‘shockingly . irresponsible’. He said: ‘This is being smuggled through without proper . debate. The consultation document told local people and health . professionals only part of the story, and kept key details tucked away . in obscure documents. We urge a reopening of consultation and a proper . debate with all the facts on the table.’ In . South-East London, a special administrator appointed by the Government . to oversee changes at South London Healthcare NHS Trust, which is close . to bankruptcy, has highlighted the need to close hundreds of beds.
The information is on page 54 of Appendix K of the administrator’s draft report and reveals there should be 618 bed closures by 2017 – 15 per cent of the current total. This includes 173 at Lewisham Hospital and 224 at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust. However, a spokeswoman for Guy’s and St Thomas’ denied there were any plans to close beds. Documents from a consultation in Trafford, Greater Manchester, show similar plans. The ‘pre-consultation business case’ says: ‘Hospital beds required by the population of Trafford are reduced and those beds are replaced by the extended supported care in the community.’ At Barts Health NHS Trust in East London, bed numbers are forecast to drop by 21 per cent by 2016-17. Elsewhere in the Trust, Newham University Hospital will lose 72 beds and Whipps Cross University Hospital 138. Karen Reissman, a nurse and Unison representative from Bolton, said plans to reorganise health services in Manchester would also include bed losses, despite the public consultation literature failing to explicitly mention such changes. She said: ‘They’re saying 25 per cent of people in hospital do not need to be treated in hospital. It’s all about affordability, and it’s shocking.’ Shadow Health Secretary Andy Burnham said: ‘This reveals the full extent of the risks being taken with patient care. Hospitals are sailing dangerously close to the wind. Ministers must take urgent action to ensure patient safety.’ Katherine Murphy, chief executive of the Patients Association, said: ‘Changes should happen with patients, not simply to patients. The Government’s decision to drive through £20 billion of NHS savings is having a real impact on care.
They need to rethink.’ A spokesman for NHS North West London denied the figures had been ‘hidden’, adding: ‘The figures are all given in the document and explained in detail in the appendix. We have published all these figures on beds in 73,000 distributed copies of our consultation plan – to which we received over 17,000 responses. Modern health care means people can be better supported at home.’ A spokesman for the Health for North East London consultation, representing King George Hospital, said the bed losses could be revised lower but ‘significant reductions’ were planned. He said: ‘These relate to efficiency gains. They are not a consequence of the A&E changes. The Trust needs to bring itself back into financial balance and in line with national benchmarking around length of stay.’
The former Huddersfield coach and Great Britain assistant coach leaves ahead of the upcoming Championship Qualifiers. Sharp departs along with assistant Danny Evans after two years at the club, with Featherstone set to announce his successor within the next 24 hours. "We feel leaving Jon in charge for the Qualifiers, only for him to depart in October, would make little sense," chairman Mark Campbell said. "We are now looking forward to seeing how our Super 8s campaign unfolds. We are aiming high and expect to leave a mark this time around." Sharp joined Featherstone in July 2015, helping them win the Championship Shield, achieve consecutive top-four finishes in the Championship and reach a Challenge Cup quarter-final. Featherstone have already secured a place in the Qualifiers, but need to beat Toulouse in their final league game of the season on Saturday to be sure of finishing in third place.
(CNN) -- When someone tells you to go jump in a lake, sometimes it's best to take their advice. For one golfer, it saved him from a world of hurt. At first, Pablo Larrazabal thought nothing was out of the ordinary when he swatted an insect away from his face at a tournament in Malaysia on Friday. The next thing he knew, he was being attacked by a swarm of hornets. "They were three times the size of bees," said the Spaniard. "They were huge and 30 or 40 of them started to attack me big time. "I didn't know what to do. My caddy told me to run, so I start running like a crazy guy, but the hornets were still there, so the other players told me to jump in the lake. "I ran to the lake, threw my scorecard down, took off my shoes and jumped in the water. "It was the scariest moment of my career, for sure. I've never been so scared." Thankfully, after some treatment, the 30-year-old was able to continue. Remarkably, he birdied the hole he was on when the attack occurred -- the 14th -- then completed his second round in four-under-par 68, which meant he made the halfway cut of the European Tour event. "The referees and a doctor took me aside and gave me a couple of injections and told me to relax," Larrazabal said on the European Tour website. "After the injections I felt a lot better and could continue. Without the help of the referees I couldn't have finished the round, because I was in no state to play golf. "Tomorrow it will be very, very scary to play that hole. I'm not sure what I'm going to do, but hopefully I will play it as quickly as I can."
Larrazabal, ranked 65th in the world, has won one tournament this year -- at January's Abu Dhabi Championship, where he beat major winners Rory McIlroy and Phil Mickelson by one shot to claim the $2.7 million first prize. He will go into the weekend at the Malaysian Open tied for 25th place, trailing leader Lee Westwood by 11 shots. The Englishman, a former world No. 1, followed up his opening 65 with a 66 to be four clear of European Ryder Cup teammate Nicolas Colsaerts. The Belgian was tied for second with 327th-ranked Antonio Lascuna of the Philippines, who finished 90th in the Kuala Lumpur tournament last year.
By . Sara Malm . A top television executive has taken the blame for a public street fight with his best friend, Australia’s third richest man, outside a luxury apartment complex at Sydney's Bondi Beach on Sunday. David Gyngell, 47, chief executive of Nine Entertainment, has said he started the brawl with billionaire casino mogul James Packer, 46, at the latter's home in the exclusive Sydney suburb. Despite Mr Gyngell admitting he instigated the fight, and that no complaints have been made, police are now investigating the incident which was captured on camera and widely published in newspapers across Australia this morning. Mischief managed: David Gyngell, left, has admitted he started the fight with his billionaire best friend James Packer, pictured right on Tuesday with a black eye, at Packer's luxury apartment block in Sydney . Mr Gyngell and Mr Packer’s fathers revolutionised the television industry in Australia and as well as being best friends since high school, they were each other’s best men at their weddings. Mr Gyngell’s television company, The Nine Network, later broadcast a statement where he accepted blame for the fight on the curb outside James Mr Packer’s flat on Sunday. ‘David Gyngell respects the job police do and will cooperate fully with their investigation,’ the statement said. ‘He also fully accepts that he was the instigator of the incident,’ it said. ‘Clearly had he not turned up at Mr Packer's premises in an angry mood, then the confrontation would never have occurred.’ The morning after: TV boss David Gyngell leaves James Packer's Bondi Beach house on Monday, the day after the fight . Looking a bit better: James Packer's shiner had cleared up on Tuesday afternoon when he was pictured out in Sydney with his mother Roz .
News Corp., headed by Mr Packer and Mr Gyngell’s long-time friend Lachlan Murdoch, reportedly paid more than $200,000 for pictures of the outside Mr Packer's luxury apartment at Bondi Beach on Sunday. James Packer is chairman of Crown Resorts and has interests in casinos in Australia, Macau and Manila. Forbes lists him as Australia's third-richest person worth an estimated $6.6 billion and he is allegedly dating supermodel Miranda Kerr. It is said that the fight started after Mr Packer sent angry texts to Mr Gyngell after seeing a van from the latter’s television channel parked near his apartment and assumed Nine were trying to catch him and Miss Kerr together. Nine employee Nick Tokic later told . reporters that he lived near Mr Packer and had brought the van home . overnight for an early job Monday morning. Mr . Packer had just returned home to Sydney from Jerusalem and was met by . an angry Mr Gyngell blocking his driveway when he arrived at his flat. Cause of it all? Packer is said to have become angry when he thought a TV van from Gyngell's network was trying to catch him with his alleged new girlfriend, supermodel Miranda Kerr, pictured with her son Flynn in Sydney on the day of the fight . By his side: David Gyngell was James Packer's best man when he married his ex-wife Erica in 2007 (pictured) Best man: At the 2007 wedding of James Packer . and Erica Baxter (above, left), in the south of France, David Gyngell . (above right, on wedding platform) stood by Packer . Mr Gyngell can be heard shouting: 'I didn't even know you were in f****** Australia,' in video footage of the punch-up.
The pair fought for several minutes while Mr Packer's driver and security guard attempted to separate them. Mr Packer and Mr Gyngell released a joint media statement on Monday which they said would be their last word on the fight. ‘We have been friends for 35 years and still are,’ they said. ‘In that time, we have had our fair share of ups and downs.’ New South Wales state police on Tuesday said they were investigating the melee and appealed for any witnesses to come forward, despite no official complaint being made. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Today, fossil fuel power stations are usually built with towers that emit vapour as well as greenhouse gases into the air. Special Report: The Technology of Business Make-It-Yourself: The rise of the micro-manufacturers Could high-end camping gear save lives around the world? Could renting Fido make you rich? The maps transforming how we interact with the world Is 'mind control' now a reality? But what if a new kind of power station could create electricity without belching harmful gases into the air? Despite the development of renewable technologies, fossil fuels are still used to generate the overwhelming majority of the world's power, and it is likely they will continue to do so for many years. In the US, about 70% of the country's electricity comes from burning fossil fuels. Other major economies, such as China, are even more dependent. But now Net Power, based in the US state of North Carolina, believes it can redesign the power plant so it can still run on coal or natural gas, but without releasing harmful fumes. Rodney Allam, chief technologist at 8 Rivers Capital, which owns Net Power, says: "The perception has been that to avoid emissions of [carbon dioxide] CO2, we have to get rid of fossil fuels. "But unfortunately, fossil fuels represent over 70% of the fuel that's consumed in the world and the idea that you can get rid of that in any meaningful sense is a pipe dream." The Net Power system is different from currently operating power plants because carbon dioxide, normally produced as waste when making electricity, would become a key ingredient when burning the fuel. A brief history of climate change Carbon dioxide would be put into the Net Power combustor at a very high temperature and pressure along with the fuel, such as natural gas or coal, and oxygen.
Using the carbon dioxide as a so-called working fluid - used to make the turbine function - it would pass through the system in a loop, to be recycled and used again. Mr Allam says: "I've developed a system where we can actually make use of the impurity itself to try and assist the removal of that impurity from the power system." In addition, Net Power believes its technology would be cheaper to operate than current power stations. Mr Allam says: "It was my ambition to create a cycle which would be cheaper - or at least as cheap - as existing technology without CO2 capture, and yet go for 100% CO2 capture." The system is geared to enable a process called carbon capture and storage (CCS), which would see the excess carbon dioxide from the fuel combustion funnelled into a pipeline or a tanker instead of being released into the air. Mr Allam says that because the whole cycle happens at a high pressure of about 320 atmospheres, the gas emerges with a pressure and level of purity that is "capture ready" - or ideal for storage. This is different from the carbon dioxide produced by other kinds of power plants, which is mixed with gases such as nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide. Separating the carbon dioxide is hard, so it is difficult to apply the process to existing coal-fired power stations. 'Buying time' Experts agree that although CCS models could be effective, they are still new and need to be proven to work well. Source: UK Department of Energy and Climate Change, Nasa, International Panel on Climate Change Human role in warming 'more certain' Are ideas to cool the planet realistic? Q&A: Climate change "It would be a good idea to try out the technology and see whether it works, and what it costs," says Prof Dieter Helm at Oxford University.
Meanwhile, Dustin Benton, head of resource stewardship at the Green Alliance, says there is "huge promise" for CCS in the UK. But he adds: "CCS doesn't solve the emissions problems for the power sector. But if it's cost-effective, it will buy time and help us decarbonise rapidly. "We don't know what it will cost yet - the promise of CCS mustn't distract us from developing renewables as well." Net Power says it is planning to build a small power plant that would demonstrate the technology works. They hope to begin construction within the next 12 months. Their technology has arrived at a moment when the UK is trying to promote low carbon technologies. The UK's energy sector is in urgent need of investment, but does not have many new projects in place, says Prof Helm. He adds that by 2015-16 the UK power sector is likely to be under a lot of pressure, as a government programme requiring some power plants to close comes into effect. The government has committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 80% from 1990 levels by 2050. "There is going to have to be fairly wholesale changes to power as well as transport infrastructure in the UK if we want to meet those targets," says Prof Martin Williams, at King's College's Environmental Research Group. Mr Benton says this makes the UK a good place to explore the implementation of CCS. "The UK has a unique combination of [research and development] and offshore engineering expertise, strong, science-led carbon budgets, and an industrial and commercial base that wants CCS to happen," he says. There is still the question of what to do with the carbon dioxide, once it has been captured and stored. "You can put it straight into a pipeline and deliver it to be disposed of - usually geologically," Mr Allam says. "You put it underground somewhere." But carbon dioxide pipelines have not been built in the UK yet.
Another option would see the gas put on a ship and taken to the North Sea to be used for a process called enhanced oil recovery, where the gas is pumped deep underground into oil fields where most of the oil has already been extracted. Because of the way carbon dioxide swells when it mixes with oil, it can be used to push the oil out of places that are hard to reach, getting more out of an existing basin. But oil emissions are difficult to capture so some researchers say enhanced oil recovery could pose its own environmental challenges. Mr Benton explains: "CCS might help in the transition to a low-carbon economy, but not if it doesn't reduce emissions overall."
By . Anna Edwards . PUBLISHED: . 13:31 EST, 6 November 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 04:16 EST, 7 November 2012 . A former detective who helped catch the Yorkshire Ripper has tonight made the shocking claim that Jimmy Savile was quizzed over the serial murderer's crimes. Former West Yorkshire detective John Stainthorpe told ITV Yorkshire Calendar News that Savile was brought in for questioning after members of the public contacted the police naming the eccentric DJ as a possible killer. Mr Stainthorpe, who worked for the West Yorkshire force for more than 40 years, and who spent years trying to catch Peter Sutcliffe, told the programme: 'When the Ripper was really active one of the suspects put forward by members of the public was Jimmy Savile, strange as it may seem. Scroll down for video . Savile, seen at Broadmoor in 1991, as Yorkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe meets boxer Frank Bruno, who was on a visit to open a new gym . John Stainthorpe said a member of the public named Savile as a suspect . 'Obviously it was not him, but he was interviewed along with many others, as you can appreciate.' Today, however, a West Yorkshire Police spokesman . said: 'Hundreds of people were identified in the operation, we cannot be . more specific than that at this time. 'Details of all who were questioned . in connection with the crimes are in storage, so we cannot confirm that . Jimmy Savile was spoken to.' Mr Stainthorpe said the person who gave police the anonymous tip-off was 'aiming in the right direction'. 'Child perverts soon become child killers,' he added. The detective's shocking revelation comes as the killer claimed today that Savile regularly visited him in custody and the pair became friends. Rubbishing claims the late DJ abused . around 300 victims over six decades, Sutcliffe said those making allegations .
were 'jumping on the bandwagon'. The Yorkshire Ripper's horrific crimes shocked the nation as he embarked on a murderous rampage across the country, slashing his victims, mutilating them and killing them. Between 1975 and 1980, the vicious murderer attacked women, stabbed his victims with screwdrivers, stamped on them, left notes with their bodies taunting police for not catching him and killed in total 13 women. Officers desperate to catch him cast their net far and wide as they hunted for the man who signed his notes as 'Jack The Ripper' and launched a huge campaign, publishing his notes and voice recordings in a bid to have someone identify the murderer by his writing or voice. In 1981 he was convicted of murdering 13 women and attempting to murder seven others. Sutcliffe, 66, who will never be released from Broadmoor mental hospital, told the Sun that the claims made against his 'friend' Savile were just exaggerations. Jimmy Savile, shown relaxing at his penthouse flat in Roundhay, Leeds, in 2006, lived just yards from where Sutcliffe killed his third victim . A victim of Savile has demanded police instigate any links between him and the Yorkshire Ripper . Peter Sutcliffe has defended Savile . He said: 'It's a load of rubbish. People are just getting carried away. 'He visited a lot. He'd always come and chat with me on visits and I would introduce him to my visitors. Several times he left £500 for charities I was supporting.' One of Savile’s abuse victims urged police to investigate any links between the pair, The Sun reported. The victim told the newspaper: 'Sutcliffe and Savile are two peas in a pod. 'It's quite fitting the only person to stick up for Savile is Sutcliffe.'
Sutcliffe's 'friend' Savile was said to have been given his own set of gold-plated keys to high-security Broadmoor mental hospital, where Sutcliffe is a patient. He was allegedly given bedrooms or an office at . three hospitals, and yesterday more former patients came forward to say . he abused them on children’s wards. The details come after it was reported that Sutcliffe killed his third victim, . Irene Richardson, mere yards from Savile’s flat in Roundhay, Leeds, in . 1977. Miss Richardson was killed near the disgraced paedophile's three-bedroom penthouse, which overlooks Roundhay Park. It is three miles outside Leeds city . centre, with floor to ceiling windows, and has been put on the market . for £325,000, with the proceeds intended for the Jimmy Savile Charitable . Trust. Savile's relatives said they do not . want a penny of his £4.3million estate and called for the cash to be . donated to an organisation to tackle sex crimes. Mental hospital: A gold-plated set of keys to Broadmoor was presented to the predatory paedophile as a reward for his volunteering, and gave him access to mentally ill patients, it was claimed . At . Broadmoor, Savile boasted that he was actually responsible for getting . some mentally ill patients - among them murderers - freed from their . sentences. He called himself the ‘Governor’ of the . hospital and was made chairman of a hospital taskforce by the Department . of Health in the 1980s. Savile, who died a year ago aged 84 in his Leeds flat, is now believed by police to be one of the UK's most prolific child abusers. Scotland Yard is leading a national investigation into the television and radio star's activities.
Detectives are following 400 lines of inquiry while the BBC has launched an inquiry into the culture and practices at the corporation in the era of Savile's alleged sexual abuse. Savile was allegedly questioned by police about the crimes of Peter Sutcliffe. Seen here are twelve of his 13 victims . Police are pictured searching the grounds of a property where the body of Marguerite Walls, the 12th victim of Peter Sutcliffe, was discovered. A detective claims the disgraced DJ was quizzed by police in connection with the terrible deaths . Police and forensic experts, seen examining the place where another victim was killed by the Yorkshire Ripper, spoke to hundreds in their hunt for the killer . The police launched a huge campaign to track down the killer who hurt so many women, and were given Savile's name by a member of the public during the inquiry . Last month health chiefs announced an inquiry into Jimmy Savile’s reign of abuse at three NHS hospitals. It will be run by the Department of Health itself, raising fears it cannot be truly independent. Former barrister Kate Lampard will oversee the investigation to provide ‘independent oversight’, Downing Street pledged. It will examine why the paedophile presenter was allegedly given the keys to Broadmoor mental hospital, a bedroom at Stoke Mandeville and free rein at Leeds General Infirmary. He allegedly raped and molested young victims for decades without anyone stopping him. A Department of Health spokesman said: ‘[Kate Lampard] will provide oversight of the Stoke Mandeville, Leeds General Infirmary and Broadmoor inquiries as well as the Department of Health’s inquiries into the appointment and role Savile held at Broadmoor Hospital. ‘All relevant information from these inquiries will be passed to the police.’ Unlike the BBC, which has issued several grovelling apologies, none of the hospitals has yet said sorry for the alleged abuse.
Savile, who raised £40million for the hospital in his lifetime, boasted that he ‘lived’ in a bedroom managers had given him at Stoke Mandeville, Buckinghamshire, and said he could do as he pleased.
By . Donna Sawyer . A 41-year-old elephant has been introduced to its another of its kind for the first time in over three decades. Mila met Mary, the leader of the herd at San Diego Zoo, after being kept as a lone elephant in a circus for over 30 years and then taken in by Franklin Zoo in New Zealand. Video footage of the heart-warming meeting shows the African elephants entwining their trunks through a wire fence. Scroll down for video . Kindred spirits: Mila meets herd leader Mary at San Diego Zoo after being kept as a lone elephant in a circus for over 30 years . It is common for elephants to communicate by touching and entwining their trunks, according to African Elephant expert Tim Fullman's website. He writes that trunks 'play an important role in smell and that rubbing trunks in greeting may be partially to smell each other to gain information.' Mila's former keeper Helen Schofield, who was crushed to death by Mila in an accident in 2012, had always hoped the elephant would one day be returned to a herd of its own kind. The tragic incident sparked a fundraising effort by supporters of the zoo, who hoped to raise enough money for Mila to be relocated to a zoo with that had other African elephants. The supporters raised $1.5 million, enough for Mila to be moved from New Zealand to San Diego Zoo. Friendship grows: Mila entwines trunks with the matriach of the herd Mary in a heart-warming scene . Touching trunks: It is common for elephants to communicate to each other by touching and entwining their trunks . Elephant talk: Trunks play an important role in smell and this greeting may be to smell each other to gain information . San Diego Zoo's African elephant herd includes six African and Indian elephants ranging in age from 33 to 49 years old.
Lead keeper at the zoo Ron Ringer says that so far, Mila and Mary are really hitting it off. 'Mary walked up to Mila and they both started eating from the same tree,' Mr Ringer said. 'This is a great behavior to see because they were both calm and accepting of each other and it’s one of the types of things we look for with animal introductions.' Accidental death: Mila's former keeper Helen Schofield was crushed to death by the elephant in an accident in 2012 . Zoo keepers felt the best way to introduce Mila to the herd was to start with a one-on-one with the matriach. 'In late January, we gave Mila the first opportunity to meet another elephant with limited interaction. We decided that Mary was the best option, given she is a dominant elephant in the herd, is relatively calm, and has a good track record with meeting newcomers.' 'Being excited, nervous, scared, aggressive, or submissive were all possibilities we could have expected to observe,' zookeeper Robbie Clark said. 'Mary was curious of the newbie while Mila was surprised to find something as big as her on the other side of the wall!'
Speaking to Sky News in Sleaford on Monday, Mr Farage could be seen standing in front of a UKIP poster with a letter 'n' in the word Hykeham. Mr Farage was visiting the constituency in support of UKIP candidate Victoria Ayling. The by-election takes place on Thursday. Mr Farage seemed unaware of the error as he spoke about Brexit. BBC political correspondent Chris Mason was one of those to highlight the error on social media. One user, @HelenAnne73, tweeted: "Nice one @UKIP. Apparently I live in North Hykenham, not North Hykeham!!!" Another, @richcrook85, said: "Where is North Hykenham? Is it near North Hykeham?" The BBC contacted UKIP, but is yet to receive a response. The Lincolnshire seat is vacant following the resignation of Conservative MP Stephen Phillips Mr Phillips, who had held the seat since 2010, quit following what he described as "irreconcilable policy differences" with the government. The full list of candidates for the Sleaford and North Hykeham by-election is:
Los Angeles, California (CNN) -- The judge overseeing the Mel Gibson child custody case ordered a probe into the leak of sealed court documents published on celebrity news website TMZ, a lawyer in the case said. The confidential documents "were stolen probably from the court" and the leaker "got paid a good deal of money," said Martin Garbus, an attorney for Gibson's ex-girlfriend, Oksana Grigorieva. Grigorieva and Garbus discussed the leaks in an interview scheduled to air Wednesday night on CNN's "Larry King Live." "It's medical documents, declarations, court opinions, transcripts, everything it seems," Garbus told King. TMZ has published sworn statements from Gibson, Grigorieva and another witness in the court fight over custody of 1-year-old Lucia. "They say over 2,000 pages of documents were leaked and the district attorney's office has started an investigation," Garbus said. A spokewoman for the Los Angeles district attorney said Tuesday that she was not aware of an investigation. TMZ's spokeswoman declined to comment on the report of the investigation or the source of the documents. Lawyers involved in the case had copies, but Garbus suggested the leaked papers likely "came out of the courthouse." "Whoever took the files from the courthouse -- it's 2,000 pages -- certainly got paid a good deal of money," Garbus said. The judge ordered the probe on Friday, Garbus said. A lawyer for Gibson declined to comment, but a publicist for Grigorieva said the leaks did not come from her side. "It could be quite terrible because this case could turn into a gossip story, and swayed from what's important here," Grigorieva said. "It's domestic violence and Lucia at stake." She has accused Gibson of domestic violence during their breakup earlier this year, while he accused her of extorting him with tapes she secretly made of their arguments.
The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is investigating both accusations. In another development, Grigorieva's family lawyer, Alan Shifman, stepped aside and has been replaced by Los Angeles attorney Ronald Litz, her publicist confirmed. Gibson and Grigorieva are both scheduled to return to court on Monday.
Thank you for Reading. Please purchase a subscription to continue reading. A subscription is required to continue reading. Thank you for reading 5 free articles. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 5 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you are a current 7-day subscriber you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click Sign Up to subscribe, or Login if you are already a member. Thank you for reading 5 free articles. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 5 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you are a current 7-day subscriber you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click below to Get Started. × Expand Jordan Green Big League Politics editor Patrick Howley takes the witness stand in Orange County court on November 15. The scene was chaotic at McCorkle Place on the campus of UNC-Chapel Hill on the evening of August 20. Students and antiracist activists were angry after brief skirmishes with the university police, but they were mostly determined that the Confederate monument Silent Sam would come down. They were also on edge as neo-Confederates and other far-right activists milled around the periphery in the semi-darkness, watching with grim resignation. Some walked up to students holding banners and verbally sparred; one has been accused of charging a student protester, while another has been accused of threatening someone with a knife. Among the crowd at the base of Silent Sam before the statue was pulled down that night was Dwayne Dixon, a forty-six-year-old UNC teaching assistant professor, and a group of friends.
Dixon might be the most renowned antifascist activist in the state because of his role with the left-wing militia Redneck Revolt in providing armed security for a park held by antiracist activists during the August 12, 2017, Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, and then a week later when he carried a rifle in response to a threatened Ku Klux Klan rally in Durham. He had been charged with going armed to the terror of the people and bringing a weapon to a downtown demonstration for his involvement in the Durham incident, but a judge dismissed the charges, finding that they were unconstitutional. Some of the far-right activists stationed at the periphery of the crowd recognized Dixon at the Silent Sam protest on August 20. “There’s Dwayne Dixon, that communist leader!” one man exclaimed angrily. More than one person stalked Dixon with a camera phone, accusing him of “chasing” James Fields Jr. with a rifle and causing him to kill Heather Heyer when he rammed his car into a crowd of people in Charlottesville. One of the accusers, who declined to give his name, was captured on video accosting Dixon. Another was Patrick Howley, the twenty-eight-year-old editor of the alt-right website Big League Politics. The hideous falsehood—that Dixon caused Fields to kill Heyer—is among the most durable hoaxes to grow out of Unite the Right. Popularized by the far-right outlets InfoWars and Gateway Pundit, along with Howley’s outfit Big League Politics, the hoax has been widely embraced as a deflection of responsibility by Unite the Right participants. On the evening of August 20, Howley approached Dixon near the base of Silent Sam. “Dwayne, why did you chase James Fields with a rifle right before he hit those people?” Howley asked.
The sixty-eight-second video posted on YouTube by Big League Politics reporter Peter D’Abrosca shows the two men arguing; at one point the lens is obscured and the shot jumps as if the person holding the phone was jostled. The next day, Howley published an article on the Big League Politics site with the title “VIDEO: UNC Antifa Professor Assaults Big League Editor At Statue Tear-Down.” × Accompanied by his friend, a Chapel Hill-based political consultant named Noel Fritsch, Howley later went to a local magistrate’s office and swore out a warrant resulting in a misdemeanor charge against Dixon for simple assault. In a victim statement, Howley wrote that Dixon “rushed me, grabbed my left hand and armed with my phone in it, and struck me repeatedly.” Dixon stood trial in Orange County District Court on November 15. His lawyer, Scott Holmes, mounted an elaborate defense, attempting to impeach Howley’s credibility as a witness by building a case that Howley’s coverage is driven by ideology and monetizes a pattern of falsehoods based on dubious sourcing. Holmes also argued that the video contradicted Howley’s testimony about the alleged assault, resulting in a “fatal variance.” But Judge Samantha Cabe didn’t have to rule on any of those questions. Holmes was holding an ace card—an apparent typo by the magistrate that the District Attorney’s Office failed to correct before taking the case to trial. “Finally, the reason that it’s really defective is that it names Dwayne Dixon as the victim and not only the perpetrator,” Holmes said. “They have not proven that Mr. Dixon assaulted himself.” Judge Cabe quickly announced that she was dismissing the charge because of a “fatal flaw” in the charging document.
× Expand Jordan Green UNC professor Dwayne Dixon addresses the media on the steps of the Orange County courthouse before standing trial. Flanked by supporters before the start of the trial, Dixon gave a brief statement on the steps of the courthouse in Hillsborough. He accused Howley and his colleagues of continuing “to create falsehoods in order to create a narrative to maintain power—a power that they can only finally ever acquire by actually killing people, by killing Heather Heyer, by killing the eleven people who died in the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh. This is the truth that needs to be told: that these individuals are working in collusion with the very killers who are now incarcerated for murder.” Although he benefited from skillful representation, Dixon made it clear that whatever the outcome of the trial, he viewed the legal process as illegitimate from the start. “I have no truck with this legal system,” he said. “I have no faith in it. And yet, if we as a larger society are going to be in agreement about something, it’s that putting people in the ground is not the way to create a healthy, beneficial, and open life for all of us. So when I go in today, the things that are going to happen today are largely immaterial. I’m not concerned. This was completely based on untruths.” Holmes cross-examined Howley for more than an hour—roughly seven times the length of the time used by the prosecutor for direct examination and showing the video of the incident. Throughout the trial, Howley displayed evasion and even defiance. On eight different occasions, Judge Cabe admonished him to answer Holmes’s questions, and three times she told him to not speak unless he was responding to a question. The judge also expressed impatience with Holmes, sharply ordering him to “move on” at one point.
Holmes reminded Howley that August 20 was not the first time he had approached Dixon with a camera phone and attempted to ask him about James Fields. Howley admitted that when he and Noel Fritsch accosted Dixon in the hallway of a UNC academic building in February, he did not have an appointment to meet Dixon and did not give him notice that he was coming. And although Howley publicly accused Dixon of assaulting Noel Fritsch—identified on the site as a “Big League cameraman”—Howley testified that Fritsch opted to not pursue charges. Howley presented himself as a neutral interlocutor who remains open-minded while attempting to pose questions. He said that, in addition to asking Dixon about James Fields, he wanted to ask Dixon if he stood “behind the violence that Redneck Revolt has perpetrated across this country”—another leading question based on a faulty premise. Howley, like other activists and media figures on the far right, latched on to a Facebook comment by Dixon—since deleted—in retort to an anti-Antifa viral social media post by the firearms maker Spike’s Tactical, in which Dixon said he was proud to have carried a Spike’s firearm when he “chased off James Fields” from the block he was patrolling when Fields drove past, shortly before Fields rammed into a crowd of antiracist marchers three blocks south. Later, Dixon clarified in a talk at Harvard University that Fields “paused right in front of me, and I waved him off with my rifle.” During the trial, Holmes asked Howley if he had seen the video presented by prosecutors in the Fields case that showed the defendant putting his car in reverse for more than a block, and then accelerating into the crowd. Howley’s responses were evasive, and after Holmes asked a third time, he finally said, “I saw the video.
That’s your interpretation of what happened.” Judge Cabe said she didn’t understand “the purpose of rehashing what happened in Charlottesville.” “It shows how his level of competency as a witness—to somehow accuse Mr. Dixon of—to have seen the video of what happened and want to go to UNC campus and stick a camera in his face and accuse him of any responsibility shows that this person lacks all credibility whatsoever,” Holmes replied. Holmes called Howley’s attention to an article in which he described Dixon as “the de facto leader” of the August 20 rally that ended with the toppling of Silent Sam. After initially refusing to answer the question of how many sources he had for the statement, Howley finally responded, “Based on my research, I count myself as a source on that. I did my research. There are many sources who would say that Dwayne Dixon is the leader of this network. There are two sources that I can think of right now.” Holmes also asked Howley about a statement he published that “Dixon mostly carried out his activist plots in anonymity until Charlottesville,” asking Howley if he “had any knowledge of anonymous plots that Mr. Dixon participated in.” After deflecting by referencing events in Charlottesville and at the Silent Sam protests, Howley finally conceded that one “source said Mr. Dixon was acting anonymously prior to Charlottesville and him being exposed in Charlottesville forced him to change his strategy.” His final testimony dropped any reference to “plots” prior to Unite the Right. Howley acknowledged on the stand that he was put on suspension from Breitbart News for four days, prior to founding Big League Politics. “And that incident working with Breitbart News had to do with an incident where a reporter was accusing someone else of assaulting them,” Holmes said.
“Isn’t that correct?” Howley acknowledged the incident, in which he expressed skepticism in a series of tweets about the allegation that Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski assaulted his Breitbart colleague Michelle Fields during a campaign event in March 2016. According to screen-grabs of deleted tweets that were shared by CNN reporter Hadas Gold, Howley insinuated that Fields’s allegation was manufactured to sabotage Trump in the mainstream press. × After initially brushing aside the question as “irrelevant,” Howley reluctantly testified that Big League Politics is partially owned by Mustard Seed Media, “which is owned by my friend, Reilly O’Neal.” Howley testified that Big League Politics receives revenue through advertisements, but when asked if the site has a list of subscribers, he responded, “I really don’t want to get into that.” “Is it true or untrue that you have subscribers?” Cabe asked impatiently. “True.” “Isn’t it true that one of the sources of your revenue is selling your subscriber list to political campaigns?” Holmes asked. “I believe it is possible. You’d have to ask my business partner.” O’Neal, a Raleigh-based political consultant who owns Tidewater Strategies, could not be reached for comment. Tidewater Strategies has worked on campaigns for far-right Republican candidates, including Greg Brannon, who ran for the U.S. Senate against Thom Tillis in the 2014 primary; Corey Stewart, who decisively lost his U.S. Senate race this year in Virginia to Democrat Tim Kaine; Alabama U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore; and Paul Nehlen, who unsuccessfully sought to replace House Speaker Paul Ryan in Wisconsin’s First Congressional District. Howley has publicly sought to play down his right-wing ideological orientation.
“I consider myself to be an independent,” he testified. “I consider myself to be a populist and a citizen. I’m not a conservative or a liberal.” Tidewater Strategies is more straightforward about its orientation. “We are a full-service political consulting firm working exclusively with conservative candidates and organizations across the country,” its website announces. Some of the messaging in the campaigns that O’Neal has worked on align with Big League Politics’ drumbeat of coverage promoting the idea of antifascists being violent and out of control. In response to an inquiry from WBTV 3 in Charlotte, O’Neal acknowledged that he helped set up a political action committee called Principled Leadership Project, which ran a controversial ad in support of Republican Karen Handel during the 2017 special election to fill the vacant Sixth Congressional District seat in Georgia. The ad, which ran after a Bernie Sanders supporter shot Republican U.S. Representative Steve Scalise at a congressional baseball game, urged voters to “stop” Handel’s opponent, Democrat Jon Ossoff, while claiming that the “unhinged left is endorsing and applauding shooting Republicans.” “When will it stop?” a narrator asks. “It won’t if Jon Ossoff wins on Tuesday, because the same unhinged leftists cheering last week’s shooting are all backing Jon Ossoff. And if he wins, they win.” Fritsch, the cameraman who accompanied Howley to confront Dixon inside an academic building in February, is also a political consultant, who, like O’Neal, has worked on the Nehlen, Stewart, and Moore campaigns. Howley gave a contradictory explanation of Fritsch’s involvement with Big League Politics during his testimony. “Does he work for Big League Politics?” Holmes asked.
“No, he’s my friend,” Howley said. “He works with me. … Yes, I suppose you could say he’s a photographer for Big League Politics.” “You just said he wasn’t,” Holmes said. “Well, I changed my answer. He is.” Howley was listed as a witness in the charging document for the August 20 incident but was not called to testify. After Judge Cabe’s dismissal of Dixon’s charge, Howley stood up in the courtroom and walked out, uttering aloud: “Unbelievable. Wow.” As Dixon and his supporters were leaving, Howley returned with his cell phone. Howley turned on his camera near the courthouse’s security checkpoint and started filming Dixon as he stood near the front entrance. Howley’s question was predictable. “Can I ask you a question now about Charlottesville?” he asked. “Can we get an officer of the court to intervene here please?” Dixon asked. Frustrated once again, Howley turned his ire on the court system, and the mainstream media. “Obviously it was rigged on a technicality, but the facts are clear that Dwayne Dixon did assault me and he is a very violent person,” Howley said. “And I think that people in Chapel Hill are put in harm’s way by the radical, violent riots he and his friends cause on campus and elsewhere in this country. And until the media, sir—until the media starts reporting on this violence, we’re not gonna be able to come together and have rational conversations in this country because we’re just gonna descend into street fighting out there. And is that what the media wants?
That’s not what I want.” Howley and Big League Politics gave ample coverage about the case in the run-up to the trial. Since the verdict, both the site and its editor’s Twitter account have remained silent about the charge’s disposition. Lawyers for James Alex Fields, 21, the Ohio man charged with the first-degree murder of Heather Heyer and accused of plowing his Dodge Challenger into a crowd of demonstrators on Fourth Street August 12, 2017, suggested he may argue self defense in early questioning of potential jurors. Fields, a self-described neo-Nazi, is also charged with five counts of aggravated malicious wounding, three counts of malicious wounding and one count of leaving the scene. He appeared in court unshaved and wearing a dark suit and tie. The case—and the swarms of white supremacists and neo-Nazis in the streets of Charlottesville for the Unite the Right rally—made national news. Fields’ attorney, former commonwealth’s attorney Denise Lunsford, earlier had requested a change of venue. Judge Rick Moore took the motion under advisement, but seemed confident he could find 12 impartial jurors and four alternates. Questionnaires went out to 360 potential jurors, the largest pool ever in Charlottesville, and by 10am November 26, around 60 were sitting in Charlottesville Circuit Court. Jury selection got off to a slow start. Potential jurors were put in a group of 28 for the first round of questioning to determine juror bias. One was dismissed because she no longer lived in Charlottesville. Nearly all of the 28 raised their hands when asked if they’d heard about the case through the media. The prosecution said it planned to call 40 witnesses, including victims Marcus Martin and Marissa Blair, and former Daily Progress reporter Ryan Kelly, whose photo of the Fourth Street crash won a Pulitzer prize.
Lunsford listed around 15 possible witnesses, including Officer Tammy Shifflett, the school resource officer who left her position blocking Fourth Street at Market when she became fearful for her personal safety, and Fields’ mother, Samantha Bloom, who has called police in the past because she was frightened by her son’s behavior. The trial is expected to last three weeks.
Over the last decade, he has written and produced hits for Beyonce (XO), Adele (Rumour Has It) and Taylor Swift (Welcome To New York), while his own band's hits include Apologise, Counting Stars and the current single Kids. You may have heard him talking about songwriting, because that's what most interviews - including his last encounter with the BBC - tend to focus on. But the 37-year-old is pop music's very own Renaissance Man - investing in medicine, accumulating historical artefacts and compiling the ultimate coffee bible. So, rather than ask him about Adele and Beyonce, we used the song titles from the new OneRepublic album, Oh My My, as the jumping off point for a series of random, but revealing questions. It turns out that some things are more important than his trophy cabinet What's the worst injury you've ever had? When my Achilles heel exploded. I was playing basketball and my ankle just went off like a firework. That was very painful, but it wasn't close to what happened next. I got to the hospital and the last little bit of tendon that was attaching my calf muscle to my ankle popped, so my entire calf muscle rolled up behind my knee. No pain in this lifetime will compare. It was so severe that I actually passed out. What will happen to America after the election? Oh my God. My grandfather was born in the 1930s and he says this is the worst election he's seen in his lifetime. I don't think either candidate is the devil. If you're voting experience, Hillary clearly wins because you get two presidents for the price of one - her and Bill. But then you have all the trust issues. Trump, I don't even have to go into detail on why that's scary. But I'll say this: The future still looks good because of the checks and balances system we have.
If Trump gets in, he's going to get stonewalled. What's the best thing about being a father? Everything is the best thing about being a father. When our youngest kid sees me, he lights up like a Christmas tree. It's love on another level. Rare is the person you would throw yourself in front of a moving car for, but kids bring that out in you. Do you have a recurring nightmare? I've had one since college. It's the last week of school, and I get a call from a professor saying, "You didn't come to my class once this entire semester and I'm failing you, so you're not going to graduate". You know why I have that dream? Because that actually happened. I was enrolled on a physical education course, but I didn't know and I missed every lesson. The guy said the only way he'd pass me was if I came in the next three days in a row, and ran two miles, then three miles, then five miles. And I had to do each one in a certain time. The three-mile race I had to do in 22 minutes, so a seven-minute mile, and I almost died. After I did it, the guy looked at me and he shook his head, and he said, "You're lucky you're in decent shape because I was ready to fail you". You grew up in Tulsa which is a big oil city. Are you for or against fossil fuels? When I first made money from Apologise and Bleeding Love, I wanted to buy a solar panel farm. I was immediately looking into that as an investment strategy. I've invested in Elon Musk's [solar panel company] SolarCity and Tesla. I refuse to believe we live on a planet that doesn't have 100% renewable resources.
I don't like to invest in bonds and mutual funds, so you have to find something, whether it's a streaming service or a green technology service, or a cancer-fighting company, and invest early. I'll cold call them and be like, "Hey, you're developing an early-detection cancer system, what would it take to invest in your company?". Is it possible for a songwriter to improve with age? That's a really interesting question. In Nashville, there's a much greater likelihood that you can continue to have hits in your 50s and 60s. The only pop writer I can name in the whole world who has continued to have true hits is Billy Steinberg [Madonna's Like A Virgin, The Bangles' Eternal Flame]. He still understands the craft and melody. And the key is collaboration. You have to have youth injected into your sphere. So I'd say it's possible, but unlikely. What was the key ingredient in the conception of this album? Friends. Ed Sheeran influenced a few songs in terms of how I approached the lyrics. Bono made me question everything, try and beat every lyric, be more brutal. But I have a couple of guy friends who are in their early 30s and they don't care about pop music. Those guys give me the best feedback. Their response means more to me than anyone. Have you had your hands insured? I'm not Elton John, I've never thought of insuring my hands! But if we're in the middle of a tour I'm not really supposed to ski. Our tour insurance policy forbids it. Who is your most famous neighbour? I have two. On my left is Hedi Slimane, the fashion designer, and my other next-door neighbour is Mark Hoppus from Blink 182. Our other neighbours are the Clintons' doctors. So at least twice a year our entire cul-de-sac gets shut down.
The Clintons will come over and you have to go through secret service to get to your own house. What's the first thing you do when you arrive in a new city? I look for the best coffee shop in the city. I get online the night before and I Google coffee shops and then I read reviews on Yelp. Then I'll go and look at photos of them - because I'm a total nerd. I do this in every city. And I mean every city: Belgrade, Bucharest, Auckland, Moscow. Will I write a book? Maybe. I have all the notes stored in my phone. If your house burned down, what's the one thing you'd save, apart from your family? I would say the documents that I've collected. I have handwritten letters from George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. I have one of the last remaining photographs of Lincoln before he died. I have a hand-drafted letter from Napoleon while he was at the peak of his power, with the seal of Italy. I've got a photo of the first flight taking off in Kitty Hawk, signed by Orville Wright. I have coins that were minted in 2 AD in Jerusalem, as Christ was literally walking through the streets. They're all in the same area of my house and they're mostly wood and paper, so I'd be sprinting to those with a blanket, and I'd grab them and run out the door. The Grammys can burn. Do you read your own press? Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. It literally depends on the mood. My issue with critics is… it's funny… I read a negative review of us a few years ago and I was like, "I need to know more about this guy because he's speaking as though he wouldn't like us if we were the last band on earth".
So I go and look at who he likes, and he just went to a Black Sabbath concert, he loves Megadeth, he thinks Arcade Fire is "too pop". I was like this guy can go stuff himself. That's the only time I get irritated. Don't review us if you are predisposed to hate us. Oh My My is out now on Polydor Records. Follow us on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, on Instagram at bbcnewsents, or if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
The major search was launched after Moira Morrison, 62, was last seen close to the River Dee in Garthdee on Tuesday afternoon. Police Scotland said a body was discovered in the River Dee area on Thursday morning. Insp Steve McEwan said: "Formal identification has yet to take place. The family of Moira has been updated."
By . Louise Boyle . PUBLISHED: . 17:49 EST, 16 April 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 20:45 EST, 17 April 2013 . A woman who was seriously wounded in the Boston Marathon bombings has made an emotional plea to find an unknown Afghanistan war veteran who stayed by her side during the horrific ordeal. Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick told a news conference on Tuesday that while meeting the injured at Tufts Medical Center he spoke to a young woman called Victoria, a student at North Eastern University. She had sustained a serious shrapnel wound to her leg in the first blast on Monday afternoon and was by her own description, 'completely hysterical'. Scroll down for video . Plea: Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick asked the public to help him find Army Sgt 'Tyler' who helped a seriously injured young woman following the Boston Marathon bomb blasts . Victoria said that she had been carried to a medical tent where she was comforted by a man called Tyler, an oil rig worker. He managed to calm the young woman over her injuries. A hospital spokeswoman said that Tyler told Victoria: 'You’re going to have a scar, but you’re going to be OK. It’ll be like my scar', according to the Boston Globe. Governor Patrick said it was unclear whether Tyler had been working in the medical tent or, like so many others, simply rushed to help the wounded. The Governor asked for the public's help to track down Tyler as Victoria desperately wanted to thank him personally after he was there for her in the midst of her distress. Anyone with information on 'Tyler' was asked to call 617-725-4000 so that he could be put in touch with Victoria. Help: Medical workers aid injured people near the finish line . Victoria is among 183 injured following the Boston Marathon terror attack including nine children. Among those wounded, 23 people are in a critical condition.
Three people died in the bomb blasts - eight-year-old Martin Richard; Krystle Campbell, 29, and a Boston University graduate student who is yet to be named. The two bombs which wreaked the devastation were made from six-liter pressure cookers crammed with shards of metal, nails and ball bearings and stashed in black backpacks, police sources revealed on Tuesday. Ordeal: Ambulances sit outside the medical tent at the Boston Marathon finish area on Monday in the aftermath of two devastating bomb blasts .
(CNN) -- The Wu-Tang Clan -- the New York hip-hop supergroup that spawned millions of album sales, nine solo acts and a few acting careers -- almost never was. If RZA, left, had been jailed or Method Man killed, Wu-Tang may have never formed, RZA says. Method Man, the group's most recognizable voice, was nearly killed before the band formed, Wu-Tang's chief producer, RZA, writes in his forthcoming memoir. Meth was walking to buy marijuana at 160 Park Hill Avenue in Staten Island -- the house in Wu-Tang's "Protect Ya Neck" video -- when RZA saw him across the street, he writes in the book. "Come over here, yo!" RZA beckoned, according to "The Tao of Wu" (Riverhead). "He stopped and came running over. A few seconds later -- pow-pow-pow-pow-pow! -- a guy started shooting up the front of 160. A buddy of ours, Poppy, an innocent, school-going, nice guy -- he was shot and killed right there." Interactive: Where's the Wu been? » . It wasn't the only close call RZA said could have snuffed the band that rewrote the rule book for hip-hop acts. The year before the group formed in 1993, RZA was acquitted on an attempted murder charge that could have put him behind bars for eight years, he writes in "The Tao of Wu," out Thursday. Expanding on the book's anecdotes in an interview with CNN, RZA explained that if he had been imprisoned or if Method Man, aka Clifford Smith, had been killed, the band never would have come to fruition.
RZA, whose real name is Robert Diggs and whose stage name is pronounced "Rizza," also talked about his role in the death of his cousin, Russell Jones, better known as Ol' Dirty Bastard or ODB. Two days before his 36th birthday in 2004, ODB died in a New York recording studio from an overdose of cocaine and painkillers. RZA writes in the book that he once witnessed ODB force his own son to watch him do drugs. RZA tried to leave, he writes, but ODB wouldn't let him. Now, RZA told CNN, he wishes he would've been tougher with ODB about his drug problem. Following are excerpts from the interview, which has been edited for language, flow and length: . CNN: Could your imprisonment or Method Man's death have derailed Wu-Tang's formation? RZA: Either one of those incidents could definitely have derailed it. Of course, myself being the abbot, the one who came with the idea, if I wouldn't have made it out of that tumultuous time -- it seemed like I wasn't going to make it out of it; there was a lot of odds against me -- but we stood strong, and self-defense made sense to the jury. We beat that It was the victory over that incident that made me change my whole direction. In a way, it's double-edged in that incident. One, if I would've lost that, yeah, Wu-Tang wouldn't have happened, but also it's the victory of it that inspired me and gave me the drive also to go and really get serious about Wu-Tang and the things I was dealing with. Same thing with Meth, he always brings it up that that day saved his life. He actually said, if it was anybody else calling him, he wouldn't have came.
CNN: In the book, you cite lessons from Eastern religions, Christianity, Islam, [Nation of Islam offshoot] Five Percent, numerology, comic books, kung fu, chess. What would you say to someone who says it's difficult to reconcile these dogmas? RZA: Like it says in the Bible, "In the beginning was the word, and the word became flesh" -- if we go to the root of the word, we will find that, yeah, everything is similar. Everything is teaching us all the same path. It's just that one religion was good for these people because of their living conditions. In the Quran, they mention paradise being filled with wells, wells of water, and if you're in the desert and you've got a chance to get water and gardens -- as they describe paradise in the holy Quran -- if you're going to get gardens, that's the paradise that fits your situation. Everything they're saying relates to the people they're talking to. You remove the messenger and take the message. CNN: You say in the book that your penchant for violent lyrics in your younger years "was a product of my history and environment" and that it no longer represents you. But you also say you won't repudiate violence. Why not? RZA: One reason I haven't repudiated it is because when it's necessary, it's necessary. [The Bible's] Ecclesiastes tell us there's a time for everything -- a time for war, a time for peace -- so in times for war, there's time for violence. Then in [the Hindu scripture] Bhagavad Gita, it says Arjuna was talking, Arjuna didn't want to commit violent acts against an army that was attacking him. He couldn't find it in his heart to do it. It was people he loved.
He didn't want to get into violence, but Krishna had to point out to him, "Your duty is your duty." So, to me, violence in the light of justice is still violent, but I don't see it the same. It's because of justice that I don't repudiate violence because justice must be served somehow. CNN: ODB was a product of his environment as well. To what degree were you and other Wu-Tang members responsible for his death? RZA: The guys would say it's more me than them because they say that's my cousin and I was right there. If you let a man that you love or anybody -- man, woman or child that you love -- sit there and destroy themselves in front of you, you're neglecting them Everybody let him do what he wanted to do. There were times when I took his drugs and threw them down the toilet. When I do that, he would get so pissed off I don't see him for weeks after that. So it got to a point, I was like, "[expletive] it, let him do his drugs" just to have him around me, just to keep him there. But it's still neglect, yo. CNN: You say you ran Wu-Tang like a dictatorship in its first five years. I know you and Raekwon have had creative differences and Ghostface Killah is suing you over royalties. Ever regret the dictatorship approach? RZA: I don't regret it because it got us to the power we are. To me, in the beginning, the dictatorship led us to such a strong foundation that even though Wu-Tang seemed to be crumbling, it didn't fall because of the root foundation of one man's idea. But now as it's coming back together -- we're living in the twilight age of it right now -- it's still surviving because of the democracy of it.
CNN: Wu-Tang is still around, but nothing like the heyday of the 1990s. Will we ever see a renaissance? RZA: Well, to me, Wu-Tang is beyond Wu-Tang Clan. It's just like hip-hop is beyond Grandmaster Flash, but Grandmaster Flash was one of the first guys to hit those turntables like that. The same thing with Wu-Tang. You'll see the difference in hip-hop from the moment we came in to before we came in. We changed it. We changed the whole structure. CNN: Have you accomplished everything you've set out to accomplish? RZA: I'm me and the me that's me is me and is going to continue to be me, and it's always reaching and growing. I'm grateful for what I've accomplished. I'm grateful for anyone who thinks I accomplished something and says, "Well he did this; he did that." I'm proud to be accepted, but I feel like I've just scratched the surface for some weird reason. CNN's Kyle Almond contributed to this report.
The failure of teachers to control badly behaved children in lessons is dragging down standards, the chief inspector of schools will warn this week. Too many teachers have come to believe that poor discipline is an inevitable part of life in the classroom and heads need to crack down on the problem, Sir Michael Wilshaw will say. He will deliver his verdict after the publication of a major report by the schools inspectorate Ofsted, showing that a vast amount of teaching time is wasted because staff are struggling to control problem pupils. Scroll down for video . Head of Ofsted Sir Michael Wilshaw, centre, said teachers need to crack down on poor classroom discipline . Teacher unions hit back last night, accusing Sir Michael of ‘talking nonsense’ by suggesting teachers accepted poor discipline, arguing instead that they were being let down by out-of-touch senior staff. The Oftsed report, based on specially commissioned surveys of teachers and parents and more than 3,000 school inspections, found that most teachers admit they are plagued by pupils making silly comments to get attention, swinging on chairs, passing notes around, humming or using mobile phones. Many teachers complained that heads were failing to back them and did not assert their authority when dealing with pupils flouting rules. The findings will bolster Sir Michael’s concerns that ‘a culture of casual acceptance’ of persistent disruption was preventing England’s school system from competing with high-performing Asian countries. This week he will also say that while serious breaches of discipline are less common today, the chances of pupils being in calm and well-ordered classrooms had become ‘something of a lottery’, damaging their future prospects. Ofsted’s annual report in December found that 700,000 pupils were attending schools where behaviour needed to improve. Chris Keates, general secretary of NASUWT said teachers are not failing to address disruptive pupils .
And in a challenge to heads, he will argue that strong leadership is the key to cracking down on disruptive behaviour and creating good conditions for learning. Chris Keates, general secretary of union NASUWT, said her members acknowledged there was a widespread problem with low- level disruption in lessons. But she added: ‘The Chief Inspector is, as usual, talking nonsense to suggest that teachers accept this and are failing to address it. ‘What teachers do say is that… they are frequently unsupported by school leaders who too often do not teach and are divorced from the day to day realities of life in the classroom.’ Russell Hobby, general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, said: ‘Behaviour in the vast majority of schools is good and continually improving, according to Ofsted itself. ‘We agree that school leaders must support staff. ‘Good behaviour comes from the skills of teachers but also from a consistent policy across the institution.’
By . Lydia Warren . PUBLISHED: . 08:33 EST, 29 January 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 13:07 EST, 29 January 2013 . Turkish police have released security camera footage showing a missing mother-of-two from New York just hours before she disappeared while travelling alone in Istanbul. Sarai Sierra, 33, can be seen eating lunch and walking through a mall near her hostel on January 20 - a day before she was supposed to catch a flight back home - according to local reports. But Sarai never boarded her flight and her belongings were later found in her room. Her husband and brother have now arrived in Istanbul to talk to police who specialise in missing persons cases. Authorities earlier revealed that Sarai took trips out of Turkey to travel to Amsterdam and Munich, and that she had been chatting with a man on the internet from her hostel. Scroll down for video . Last images: Sarai Sierra, a New York mother missing in Turkey, is seen on CCTV before she disappeared . Spotted: The footage from inside a mall close to her hostel shows her eating lunch in the cafeteria . They are now trying to establish why the photographer, who had never travelled out of the U.S. before, took the trips, as well as the identity of the man. Friends say he was a Dutch tour guide. Her husband Steven, from Staten Island, said . Sierra was in constant contact with him throughout the trip and knew she . had travelled outside Turkey. 'These are things she made me well aware . of,' he told Staten Island Live before leaving for Istanbul. 'She kept me 100 percent updated.' Turkey's Dogan news agency said police had learned that Sierra had travelled . to Amsterdam on January 15 and then on to Munich on January 16, before returning to . Istanbul on January 19. VIDEO: Police release CCTV of Sarai Sierra in Istanbul mall .
No trace: Sarai Sierra, a 33-year-old mother of two young sons, set off for Istanbul January 7 and has since vanished. Her family last heard from her January 21 and she failed to catch her flight home . Her husband continued: 'Every day while she was there she pretty much kept in . contact with us, letting us know what she was up to, where she was . going, whether it be through texting or whether it be through video . chat, she was touching base with us.' Of the man she was chatting to on the . internet, he only added: 'I am aware of the gentleman she was speaking . to in the Netherlands. He was a tour guide.' Sarai, 33, was supposed to land in the U.S. on January 22, but she never arrived. Airline staff at Newark Airport told her husband she had never . boarded her flight. Her two sons, who are aged 11 and 9, have not been told their mother is missing. Mother: Sarai is pictured with her two sons, who are now 9 and 11. They do not know their mother is missing . Apart: Sarai's husband Steven, pictured, said she had told him about her trips to other countries . A . police official said authorities have been reviewing footage from . around Istanbul's Taksim neighborhood - the city's main hub where she . was staying at a hostel. Mystery: Police are trying to establish the identity of a man Sarai was chatting with on the internet . Several police teams have also been . dispatched to surrounding neighborhoods to find possible clues and . witnesses, the official said. He spoke on condition of anonymity, . in line with government rules that bar civil servants from speaking to . reporters without prior authorization. Before she went missing, the . mother-of-two told family members that she planned to take some .
photographs at Galata Bridge, a well-known tourist destination about a . mile away from Taksim that spans the Golden Horn waterway. Sierra had planned to go on the trip . with a friend but ended up going by herself when the friend couldn't . make it. She was looking forward to exploring her hobby of photography, . her family said. She was supposed to begin traveling home and was scheduled to arrive in New York City on Tuesday afternoon. Her husband, Steven Sierra, waited for . hours at Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey on the 22nd . to pick her up. Airline attendants in Turkey said that his wife did not . show up for the flight. Her belongings, including her . passport, phone, phone chargers, and medical cards, were found in her room at a hostel in Beyoglu, Turkey. An official said authorities were therefore not able to track her by her cell phone. Mystery: A view of the street with the hostel, in yellow, where Sarai Sierra, a New York City woman, left all her possessions before she disappeared . Skyline: Mrs Sierra posted a series of pictures from Turkey on her Instagram account, including this one of Isanbul . Sunset: Mrs Sierra wrote: 'Sunset, Istanbul style' on this picture that she posted to her Instagram . The hostel’s . owner told Turkish authorities that he had last seen her last on Sunday . night. Mr Sierra told ABC News that . her behavior is highly unusual, that she seemed perfectly content with her life, and that going off the radar is . extremely out-of-character for her. The heartbroken . husband said that he's been married to her for more than 14 years after meeting her at a church youth group, . adding that his love for her is ‘deeper than it is for any individual'. He told WABC: ‘You .
have so many thoughts going through your mind, you don’t know what to . think, you don’t know what to believe, you don’t know what to expect, . you don’t know what will come out of this.' Mrs Sierra's friend, Magalena Rodriguez, told the . New York Daily News that the petite woman, who stands at 5ft2in and . weighs only 110 pounds, has previously fainted without warning. Man on a mission: Mr Sierra has arrived in Turkey to help local authorities search for his wife . Last stop: Mrs Sierra told her mother on her last day in Istanbul she planned to visit the Galata Bridge but missed her flight back . Ms Rodriguez fears her friend has fainted and could be hurt somewhere in the unfamiliar country. Crime in Turkey is generally low and . Istanbul is a relatively safe city for travelers, though there are areas . where women would be advised to avoid going alone at night. The Galata and the nearby Galata Bridge areas have been gentrified and are home to fish restaurants, cafes and boutiques.
Beer is one of the world's most ancient brews and has played an essential role in society - both for its nutritional and ritual importance - for millennia. Now, 5,000-year-old fragments of pottery used by ancient Egyptians to make beer, have been discovered on a building site in Tel Aviv, Israel. The pottery shards come from large ceramic basins, which were used to prepare fruity beer that was left to ferment under the sun. Scroll down for video . ‘Among the hundreds of pottery shards (pictured) that characterise the local culture, a number of fragments of large ceramic basins were discovered that were made in an Egyptian tradition and were used to prepare beer,’ Dr Barkan said . Diego Barkan, of the Israeli Antiquities Authority, said that 17 pits were found that had been used to store produce in the Early Bronze Age, from 3,500 to 3,000 BC. Beer was the favourite drink of humans and gods in ancient Egypt. It was also drank by rich and poor, adults and children. This was because it was cleaner than water, which came from a river or canal and was often polluted. Beer was considered as staple, along with bread, Reshafim.org reported. Workers were paid with bread, oil, beer and vegetables by their employers. The standard ration was two jars containing three-and-a-half pints (two litres) of beer. Just like today, the Egyptians liked their beer cooled and kept jars in water. ‘Among the hundreds of pottery shards that characterise the local culture, a number of fragments of large ceramic basins were discovered that were made in an Egyptian tradition and were used to prepare beer,’ he said in a statement. The vessels were made with ‘straw temper’ and other organic material to strengthen them – a method which was not in local potteries.
The excavation is the first to offer evidence of an ‘Egyptian occupation’ in the centre of Tel Aviv 5,000 years ago. As well as the basins, a bronze dagger and 6,000-year-old flint tools were uncovered. Dr Barken said: ‘This is also the northernmost evidence we have of an Egyptian presence in the early Bronze Age. ‘Until now we were only aware of an Egyptian presence in the northern Negev and southern coastal plain, whereby the northernmost point of Egyptian occupation occurred in Azor. Fragments of pottery that are around 5,000 years old and were used by ancient Egyptians to make beer, have been discovered on a building site in Tel Aviv. Here, Diego Barkan holds the basin parts . Employees of the Israel Antiquities Authority(pictured) work at the site in Tel Aviv where fragments of pottery used by ancient Egyptians have been discovered. A total of 17 pits have revealed finds . As well as the basins, which were pulled from pits in the centre of Tel Aviv (pictured left) a bronze dagger and 6,000-year-old flint tools were uncovered. A flint blade is pictured right . Last year, the tomb of a leading ancient Egyptian beer brewer was discovered. The tomb of Khonso Em Heb, who lived 3,200 years ago, was found by a Japanese team and has been been described as 'one of the most important discoveries' made at the Thebes necropolic site in the city of Luxor. Egypt's antiquities minister Mohamed Ibrahim described Khonso Em Heb as the chief ‘maker of beer for gods of the dead'. He was thought to be the head of a warehouse and judging by the decorations in his tomb was an important and wealthy man. The walls of the tomb contain paintings showing everyday life and rituals.
‘Now we know that they also appreciated what the Tel Aviv region had to offer and that they too knew how to enjoy a glass of beer, just as Tel Avivians do today’. According to the antiquities authority, ‘beer was the Egyptian national drink and was a staple along with bread.’ It said beer was consumed by the entire population of Egypt, regardless of age, gender or status. ‘It was made from a mixture of barley and water that was partially baked and then left to ferment in the sun. ‘Various fruit concentrates were added to this mixture in order to flavour the beer.’ The mixture was filtered in special vessels before serving. Previous excavations carried out in Egypt's Delta region uncovered breweries that indicate beer was already being produced in the mid-fourth millennium BC, the Israeli authority said. The fragments were discovered in pits on Ha-Masger Street in central Tel Aviv (marked on the map). Excavations are taking place before the construction of an office building . The vessels (pictured) were made with ‘straw temper’ and other organic material to strengthen them – a method which was not in local potteries. This one dates to the Early Bronze Age I (3,500 BC) Dr Barken said: ‘This is also the northernmost evidence we have of an Egyptian presence in the early Bronze Age. Here, a worker for the Israel Antiquities Authority cleans findings at the site .
The 19-year-old has cost a reported £7.5m and has signed a five-year deal with the top-flight champions. Kapustka impressed for his country at Euro 2016 and played in four of their five games at the tournament. He has joined the Foxes in Stockholm before they play Barcelona in a friendly on Wednesday. Kapustka is City manager Claudio Ranieri's fifth summer signing following the arrivals of keeper Ron-Robert Zieler, defender Luis Hernandez, midfielder Nampalys Mendy and forward Ahmed Musa. Subscribe to the BBC Sport newsletter to get our pick of news, features and video sent to your inbox.
