Chapter 97 Daiyu Burns Her Poems to End Her Infatuation Baochai Goes Through Her Wedding Ceremony As Daiyu reached the gate of Bamboo Lodge, Zijuans cry of relief startled her.
She vomited blood.
The two maids were just able to catch her as she was collapsing and carry her inside then Qiuwen left Zijuan and Xueyan to attend to her.
After a while, Daiyu regained consciousness and saw that her maids were crying.
She asked them the reason.
In relief Zijuan answered, You seemed unwell just now, miss, when you left the old ladys place, and we didnt know what to do we cried for fright.
Oh, Im not going to die as easily as all that, retorted Daiyu, panting as she spoke.
The news of Baoyus impending wedding to Baochai, a prospect which Daiyu had dreaded for years, had so enraged her that she had lost her senses.
After the hemorrhage her mind gradually cleared, but she had completely forgotten what Numskull had said.
Zijuans tears brought it back to her vaguely.
Instead of grieving, however, she just longed to die quickly and be done with it.
Her maids felt constrained to stay with her although they wanted to go and report her condition, for they were afraid Xifeng would scold them again for raising a false alarm.
However, Qiuwen had gone back panic-stricken.
The old lady, just up from her nap, saw her agitation and asked her what had happened.
Qiuwens fearful description of what she had seen made the Lady Dowager exclaim in horror and send at once for Lady Wang and Xifeng to communicate this bad news.
I ordered all the maids to keep quiet, said Xifeng.
Who could have blabbed?
This makes things more difficult.
Never mind about that now, said the old lady.
Lets go and see how she is.
The three of them went to Bamboo Lodge and found Daiyu deathly pale.
She seemed comatose and her breathing was very weak.
Presently she had another fit of coughing.
Her maids brought over the spittoon and to their consternation her sputum was streaked with blood.
Her eyelids fluttered then, and she saw the old Lady by her.
Madam, she gasped, your love for me has been wasted.
Her heart aching, her grandmother said, Dont be afraid, dear child.
You must rest well.
Daiyu smiled faintly, closing her eyes again as a maid came in to report the doctors arrival to Xifeng.
Thereupon the ladies withdrew, and Doctor Wang was led in by Jia Lian to feel the patients pulse.
She will be all right, he observed.
Pent-up anger has drained her liver of blood, resulting in nervous disorders.
Some medicine to regulate the blood will set her right again.
This said, he went out with ha Lian to write out his prescription and fetch medicine.
The Lady Dowager had seen that Daiyus state was critical.
After leaving her she said to Xifeng, Its not that I want to put a jinx on her but it doesnt look to me, Im afraid, as if the child will recover.
You must get ready after-life things to counter her bad luck.
If she gets over this illness, that 11 be a great weight off our minds.
And if it comes to the worst, you wont be caught unprepared at the last minute.
Weve that other business to attend to these days.
When Xifeng had acquiesced, the old lady questioned Zijuan but the maid did not know who had told Daiyu the news.
Dubiously, the old lady went on, Its natural for young people whove played together as children to be partial to each other but now that theyre big enough to know the facts of life they should keep at a distance.
Thats how a girl should behave if she wants me to love her.
To get other ideas into her head would be most improper, and all my love for her would be thrown away.
Im quite upset by what youve been telling me.
On her return to her own quarters, she called in Xiren to interrogate her.
Xiren repeated what she had told Lady Wang, then described Daiyus behaviour earlier that day.
She didnt look deranged when I saw her just now, commented the old lady.
I simply cant understand this.
In a family like ours, of course there cant be any carryings-on, but even thinking such thoughts is taboo!
If thats not the root of her illness, Im willing to spend any sum to cure her.
If it is, I doubt if it can be cured and I dont care!
Xifeng put in, Dont worry about Cousin Lin, madam.
Lian will take the doctor to see her every day anyway.
Its the other business that matters.
I heard this morning that the rooms are practically ready.
Why dont you and Her Ladyship call on Aunt Xue to discuss it with her?
Ill go with you.
The only snag is that with Cousin Baochai there it will be difficult to talk.
Suppose we ask Aunt Xue over for a consultation here this evening?
Then we can settle everything tonight.
Youre right, Their Ladyships agreed.
But its too late today.
Well go over there tomorrow after breakfast.
As the old lady had finished her supper by now, Xifeng and Lady Wang went back to their own apartments.
The next day, Xifeng came over after breakfast and went in to sound out Baoyu.
Congratulations, Cousin Bao!
she greeted him gaily.
The master has chosen a lucky day for your wedding.
Doesnt that make you happy?
Baoyu just grinned at her and nodded imperceptibly.
Your bride will be Cousin Lin.
Are you glad?
He simply burst out laughing, and she was unclear about his mental state.
The master says you can marry her if youre better, not if you go on acting the fool, she warned.
If anyones a fool, its you not me!
he retorted seriously, then stood up and announced, Im going to see Cousin Lin to reassure her.
Xifeng promptly barred his way.
She knows it already, she said.
As shes to marry you, shell naturally feel too shy to see you.
Will she see me after the wedding?
Amused and perturbed Xifeng thought, Xiren was right.
At the mention of Daiyu, though he still raves his mind seems clearer.
If he really comes to his senses and finds out that it isnt Daiyu but weve played a trick on him, then the fat will be in the fire!
Suppressing a smile she said, If youre better shell see you, not if you act crazily.
Ive given her my heart.
When she comes, shes bound to bring it and put it back in my breast.
As he was raving, Xifeng came out and smiled at the old lady, who had been both amused and upset by their conversation.
I heard, she said.
We can ignore him for now and leave Xiren to calm him down.
Lets go.
For by then Lady Wang had come too, and together they called on Aunt Xue, ostensibly to see how her family was faring.
Aunt Xue was most grateful and gave them news of Xue Pan.
When tea had been served she wanted to send for Baochai, but Xifeng stopped her.
You neednt summon her, aunty, she said with a smile.
The old lady came partly to see how you are and partly because theres some important business which shed like to discuss with you in our place.
Aunt Xue nodded and agreed to this, and after a little more idle talk they left.
That evening Aunt Xue came over.
Having paid her respects to the old lady she called on Lady Wang, and speaking of Wang Zitengs death they all shed tears.
Just now in the old ladys place, Baoyu came out to pay his respects, remarked Aunt Xue.
He looked all right, simply a little thinner.
Why do you speak as if it were so serious?
Actually its nothing much, replied Xifeng.
But the old lady is worried.
Now the master is going to a provincial post and may not be back for some years.
Her idea is to have Baoyus wedding while hes still here.
Firstly, to set his fathers mind at rest and secondly, in the hope that Cousin Baochais golden locket will bring Baoyu good luck, overcoming the evil influence so that he recovers.
Aunt Xue wanted the match but feared Baochai might feel herself wronged.
Thats all right, she replied, but we must think it out more carefully.
Lady Wang told her Xifengs plan, adding, As your son is away from home now, you need not give any dowry.
Tomorrow send Ke to tell Pan that while we have the wedding here well find some way to settle his lawsuit for him.
Omitting to mention that Baoyu had lost his heart to Daiyu, she concluded, Since you agree to it, the sooner the bride comes the better the sooner well all feel easier in our minds.
At this point Yuanyang arrived, sent by the old lady to hear what they had decided.
Though this was treating Baochai shabbily, Aunt Xue could hardly refuse as they were so pressing.
She consented with a show of readiness.
Yuanyang went back to report this to the old lady, who in elation sent her back to urge Aunt Xue to explain the situation to Baochai so that she would not feel unfairly treated.
Aunt Xue agreed to this.
Having decided that Xifeng and her husband should act as go-betweens, the others left.
Then Lady Wang and her sister sat up half the night talking.
The next day Aunt Xue went home and told Baochai in detail all these arrangements to which she had agreed.
Baochai lowered her head in silence, and presently shed tears.
Her mother did her best to comfort her, explaining the matter at length and when Baochai went back to her room.
Baoqin went with her to try to cheer her up.
Aunt Xue also told Xue Ke, urging him to leave the following day to find out what sentence had been passed and to give Xue Pan this news, then to come back immediately.
Four days later Xue Ke returned.
Regarding Cousin Pans business, he reported, the judge has approved a verdict of accidental manslaughter, which will be pronounced at the next session and we must have silver ready by way of compensation.
As for his sisters wedding, Pan says your decision was a good one, and rushing it through will save a good deal of money.
He says you shouldnt wait for his return but do as you think fit.
This news reassured Aunt Xue that her son would be released and her daughters wedding could be carried through, although she could see that Baochai looked rather unwilling.
Still, she thought, shes a girl whos always been submissive and a model of propriety.
Knowing that Ive agreed, she wont raise any objections.
She told Xue Ke, Get a gilded card and write her horoscope on it, then have it sent at once to Second Master Lian and ask the date for the exchange of gifts, so that you can make preparations.
We dont mean to notify relatives and friends because, as youve said, all Pans friends are a bad lot and our only relatives are the ha and Wang families.
Now the Jias are the bridegrooms family and the Wangs have no one in the capital.
When Miss Shi was engaged her family didnt invite us, so we neednt put them out either.
But we must ask Zhang Dehui here to help see to things as hes elderly and experienced.
Xue Ke, acting on her instructions, had a card sent to the Jia family.
And the next day Jia Lian called to pay his respects to Aunt Xue.
Tomorrow is a very auspicious day, he said.
So Ive come to propose that we exchange gifts tomorrow.
We only hope you wont think us too niggardly, aunt.
He handed her the card .on which was written the date of the wedding, and when she had made a polite rejoinder and nodded her consent he hurried back to report this to Jia Zheng.
Let the old lady know, said Jia Zheng.
Suggest that as were not notifying friends and relatives, we may as well keep everything rather simple.
Regarding the gifts, just ask her to approve them no need to refer to me.
Jia Lian assented and went off on this errand.
Lady Wang told Xifeng to take all the gifts to the old lady for her inspection, and to get Xiren to let Baoyu know as well.
Why go to all this bother?
Baoyu chuckled.
We send things to the Garden, then they send them back here again our own people doing the sending and the accepting!
Their Ladyships hearing this remarked cheerfully, We say hes weak in the head, but today hes talking sense.
Yuanyang and the other maids could not suppress smiles either as they showed the gifts one by one to the old lady.
This is a gold necklet, they said.
Here are gold and pearl trinkets, eighty of them in all.
There are forty rolls of serpent-patterned brocade, a hundred and twenty rolls of coloured silk and satin and a hundred and twenty garments for all four seasons.
As no sheep and wine have been prepared, here is the equivalent in silver.
When the old lady had approved these gifts she quietly instructed Xifeng, Go and tell Aunt Xue not to stand on ceremony.
Ask her to wait till Pan is released to return gifts for his sister in his own good time.
We here will prepare the bedding for the happy occasion.
Xifeng assented and left to send Jia Lian to Aunt Xues place.
She then instructed Zhou Rui and Lai Wang, Dont take the presents through the main gate but by that old side-gate in the Garden.
Ill be coming over myself presently.
That gate is a good distance from Bamboo Lodge.
If people from other households notice you, warn them not to mention this to anyone there.
The stewards went off to carry out these orders.
In the happy belief that he was to marry Daiyu, Baoyus health improved, though he still talked foolishly.
The stewards sending the presents named no names when they came back and though most of the household knew where they had been, in view of Xifengs instructions they dared not disclose it.
Now Daiyu, although taking medicine, was sinking steadily.
Zijuan and her other maids pleaded hard with her.
Things have come to such a pass, miss, we must speak out, they said.
We know whats in your heart.
But nothing unforeseen can possibly happen.
If you dont believe us, just think of Baoyus health hes so ill, how could he get married?
Dont listen to silly rumours, miss, but rest quietly till youre better.
Daiyu smiled faintly without a word, then started coughing again and brought up more and more blood.
Her maids saw that she was dying, and nothing they could say would save her.
They remained at her bedside weeping, though sending three or four times a day to report to the old lady.
But as Yuanyang had noticed that recently Daiyu had lost favour in her grandmothers eyes, she often neglected to pass on their messages.
And as the old lady was occupied with preparations for the approaching wedding, when she had no news of Daiyu she asked no questions.
All her maids could do was send for the doctor to see her.
During Daiyus previous illnesses, everyone from the old lady herself down to the maids of her cousins had come to ask after her health.
But now not one relative or servant came, not even sending inquiries, and when she opened her eyes there was nobody but Zijuan in the room.
She knew there was not the least reason for her to live on.
Sister, youre the one closest to me, she murmured with an effort.
Ever since you were assigned to me by the old lady, Ive always looked on you as my own sister....
Here she had to stop for breath.
Zijuans heart ached.
She was sobbing too much to speak.
Sister Zijuan!
panted Daiyu after a while.
I feel uncomfortable lying down.
Please help me to sit up.
But youre not well, miss.
If you sit up you may catch cold.
Daiyu closed her eyes without a word but presently struggled to sit up and Zijuan and Xueyan had to help her, propping her up with soft pillows on either side while Zijuan sat by her supporting her.
Though she was so weak that she felt the bed beneath her painfully hard, she stuck it out.
My poems.... she gasped to Xueyan.
Xueyan guessed that she wanted her manuscript book which she had been going through a few days ago.
She found it and gave it to her.
Daiyu nodded, then glanced up at the case on a shelf but this time the maid could not read her thoughts.
Daiyus eyes dilated with exasperation till a fresh fit of coughing made her bring up more blood.
Xueyan hastily fetched her water to rinse out her mouth over the spittoon, then Zijuan wiped her lips with a handkerchief.
Taking it, Daiyu pointed at the case, gasping for breath again so that she could not speak.
Her eyes had closed.
Better lie down, miss, urged Zijuan.
When Daiyu shook her head, Zijuan realized that she must want a handkerchief and told Xueyan to fetch a white silk one from the case.
But at sight of it, Daiyu put it aside.
The one with writing... , she managed to whisper.
Then it dawned on Zijuan that she wanted Baoyus old handkerchief on which she had written verses.
She made Xueyan get it out and passed it to her.
For pitys sake, rest, miss!
she begged her.
Why tire yourself out?
You can look at it when youre better.
But not even glancing at the poems, Daiyu tried with all her might to tear up the handkerchief.
However, her trembling fingers lacked the strength.
Although Zijuan knew how incensed she was by Baoyu, she dared not disclose this.
Dont wear yourself out again, miss, being angry!
she pleaded.
Daiyu nodded weakly and stuffed the handkerchief up her sleeve.
Light the lamp, she ordered.
Xueyan hastily complied.
After glancing at the lamp Daiyu closed her eyes again and sat there breathing hard.
Bring the brazier, she murmured presently.
Thinking she was cold Zijuan urged, Youd better lie down, miss and put on more bedding.
Charcoal fumes might be bad for you.
As Daiyu shook her head, Xueyan had to light the brazier and put it on its stand on the floor.
At a sign that Daiyu wanted it on the kang, she moved it there, then went out to fetch a low table.
Daiyu bent forward, supported by Zijuans two hands.
She pulled out the handkerchief, looked at the fire and nodded, then dropped the handkerchief on it.
This shocked Zijuan, who wanted to snatch it off but could not let go of her mistress, as Xueyan was still outside fetching the low table.
By now the handkerchief was burning.
Miss!
protested Zijuan.
Why do such a thing?
Turning a deaf ear, Daiyu picked up her manuscript book and after glancing at it put it down.
For fear she might burn this too, Zijuan hastily leaned against her to support her, thereby freeing one of her own hands.
But Daiyu forestalled her by dropping the book on the fire out of her reach.
Xueyan coming in with the table saw Daiyu toss something on the fire and made a grab for it but the inflammable paper was already smouldering.
Not caring whether she burned her hands or not, Xueyan snatched the book from the fire, threw it on the ground and trampled it with her feet.
Too late there was nothing but a charred remnant left.
Daiyu closed her eyes and sank back, nearly knocking over Zijuan who, her heart palpitating, hastily asked Xueyan to help lay her down.
It was too late to fetch help yet what if they called no-one and their young mistress should die during the night with only herself, Xueyan, Yingge and a few young maids in attendance?
They sat up apprehensively till dawn, when Daiyu seemed a little better.
But after breakfast she had a sudden relapse, coughing and retching again.
Fearing the worst, Zijuan left Xueyan and the others in charge while she hurried to report this to the old lady.
However, she found the place quiet and deserted, except for a few old nurses and some young maids of all work left there to mind the house.
Asked where the old lady was, they returned evasive answers.
In surprise, Zijuan went into Baoyus room and found it empty too.
The young maids there also denied any knowledge of his whereabouts.
By then Zijuan had a good inkling of the truth.
How cruel these people are!
she thought to herself, remembering that not a soul had called on Daiyu during the last few days.
The more she dwelt on it, the more bitter she felt.
In her indignation she turned and left abruptly.
Id like to see how Baoyu looks today, she fumed.
Wouldnt the sight of me shame him?
That year when I told him a fib he fell ill, he was so frantic but today he blatantly does a thing like this.
It shows that all mens hearts are as cold as ice they really make you gnash your teeth!
As she walked on brooding over this, she soon reached Happy Red Court.
The gate was closed and all inside was quiet.
It occurred to her then, If he is getting married, he must have new bridal chambers.
I wonder where they are?
She was looking around when Moyu came flying along and she called to him to stop.
The page walked over, grinning broadly.
What brings you here, sister?
he asked.
I heard Master Baos getting married so I came to watch the fun, but apparently the weddings not here.
When exactly is it to be?
Ill tell you in strict confidence, sister, he whispered.
But dont let Xueyan know.
Our orders are not even to let you know.
The wedding will take place this evening.
Of course it wont be here.
His Lordship made Second Master Lian fix up new quarters for them.
Well, is there anything you want me to do?
No, nothing.
Off you go.
Moyu darted off.
Zijuan remained lost in thought until she remembered Daiyu was she still alive?
Baoyu!
she swore through clenched teeth, her eyes swimming with tears.
If she dies tomorrow, youll get out of seeing her.
But after youve had your pleasure, how are you going to brazen it out with me?
She walked on in tears towards Bamboo Lodge and saw two young maids at the gate looking out for her.
At sight of her one cried, Here comes Sister Zijuan!
With a sinking heart she signaled to them to keep quiet Hurrying to Daiyus bedside, she found her feverish, her cheeks hectically flushed.
Knowing that this was a bad sign, Zijuan called for Daiyus old nurse Nanny Wang, who took one look then started sobbing and wailing.
Zijuan had hoped that old Nanny Wang with her experience would lend her courage but the nurses reaction threw her into a tizzy till she bethought herself of someone else and sent a young maid quickly in search of her.
Do you know who this was?
Li Wan.
As a widow, it was out of the question for her to attend Baoyus wedding besides, she was the one in charge in the Garden.
So Zijuan sent to ask her over.
Li Wan was correcting a poem for Lan when a young maid burst in.
Madam!
she cried.
It looks as if Miss Lins done for!
Theyre all weeping and wailing there.
Li Wan was horrified.
Not stopping to ask any questions she sprang up and hurried out, followed by Suyun and Biyue.
And on the way she reflected tearfully, Weve been as close as sisters here.
Her looks and talents are truly so outstanding, one can only compare her to some goddess in heaven.
But poor girl, fated to die so young and be buried far from home!
I didnt like to visit her all because of Xifengs underhand plan to fob off a different bride on Baoyu so Ive let my cousin down.
How tragic this is!
Now, reaching the gate of Bamboo Lodge, she was unnerved not to hear a sound inside.
Perhaps shes already dead and theyve finished lamenting her, she thought as she hurried inside.
I wonder if they had clothes, bedding and shroud ready.
A young maid by the door of the inner room at sight of her announced, Heres Madam Zhu!
Zijuan hastily came out as Li Wan walked in.
How is she?
she asked urgently.
Zijuan choked with sobs and could not get a word out.
Her tears falling like pearls from a broken string, she could only point at Daiyu.
The maids grief distressed Li Wan even more.
Asking no further questions she went over to look at the dying girl, already past speaking.
She called her softly twice.
Daiyu opened her eyes slowly and seemed to recognize her.
She was still breathing faintly, but though her eyelids fluttered and her lips quivered, she could not utter a single word or shed a single tear.
Turning away, Li Wan saw that Zijuan had vanished and asked Xueyan where she was.
In the outer room, was the answer.
Li Wan hurried out and found her lying On the divan there, her face pale, tears flowing so fast from her closed eyes that a big patch of the silk-bordered flowered mattress was wet with tears and mucus.
At Li Wans call she opened her eyes slowly and got up.
Silly creature!
scolded Li Wan.
This is no time for weeping.
Hurry up and get Miss Lins clothes ready.
How long will you wait to change her?
Are you going to expose an unmarried girl to set out naked to the other world?
At this, Zijuan broke down and sobbed bitterly.
Li Wan though weeping too was impatient as well.
Wiping her own eyes, she patted the maid on the shoulder.
Good child, your crying is driving me distracted!
Prepare her things quickly before its too late, she urged.
She was startled just then by someone rushing in.
It was Pinger.
Bursting in on this scene she stood rooted to the spot, speechless.
Why arent you over there now?
What brings you here?
asked Li Wan as Lin Zhixiaos wife also joined them.
Pinger said, Our mistress was worried and sent me to have a look.
But as youre here, madam, I shall tell her that she need only attend to affairs over there.
Li Wan nodded.
Ill go in to see Miss Lin too, added Pinger, already in tears as she entered the inner room.
Youve come in the nick of time, Li Wan told Mrs. Lin.
Go out quickly and get some steward to prepare Miss Lins after-life things.
When everythings ready hes to report to me theres no need to go over there.
Mrs. Lin assented but made no move.
Do you have other business?
Li Wan asked.
Just now Madam Lian consulted the old lady and they want to have Miss Zijuan to help out there.
Before Li Wan could answer, Zijuan interposed, Please dont wait for me, Mrs. Lin.
When shes dead, of course well leave her.
They neednt be in such a hurry....
Embarrassed by this outburst she went on more mildly, Besides, nursing an invalid here Im not clean.
Miss Lin is still breathing and wants me from time to time.
Li Wan helped her out by explaining, Its true.
The affinity between Miss Lin and this girl must have been predestined.
Though Xueyans the one she brought with her from the south, she doesnt care for her much.
I can see that Zijuan is the only one who cant leave her for a second.
Mrs. Lin had been put out by Zijuans reply, but she was unable to rebut Li Wan.
Seeing Zijuan dissolved in tears, she smiled at her faintly.
Its all very well for Miss Zijuan to talk like that, she rejoined.
But what am Ito say to the old lady?
And how can I repeat this to Madam Lian?
At these words, Pinger came out wiping her eyes.
Repeat what to Madam Lian?
she wanted to know.
Mrs. Lin explained the situation, and Pinger lowered her head to think it over.
In that case, she suggested, let Xueyan go instead.
Will she be suitable?
Li Wan inquired.
Pinger stepped closer to whisper something to her, at which she nodded.
Very well, then.
Sending Xueyan will do just as well.
Mrs. Lin asked Pinger if she agreed, and the answer was Yes, its the same.
Then please tell her to come with me immediately.
Ill report to the old lady and Madam Lian that this was your idea, madam, and Miss Pingers too.
Later you can explain to Madam Lian yourself, miss.
All right, said Li Wan.
But why should someone of your seniority be scared to answer for such a little thing?
Its not that.
Mrs. Lin smiled.
But we cant be sure what plan the old lady and Madam Lian have and besides you and Miss Pinger are here, madam.
Pinger had already called out Xueyan, who had been holding aloof these last few days as the others had been taunting her as a careless child and in any case she would never dream of ignoring a summons from the Lady Dowager and Madam Lian.
She hastily smoothed her hair and on Pingers instructions changed into colourful clothes, then went off with Mrs. Lin.
Li Wan, after a brief discussion with Pinger, sent her to tell Mrs. Lin to urge her husband to get a coffin ready without delay.
Pinger left to attend to this and, rounding a bend, saw Mrs. Lin walking ahead of her with Xueyan.
She called to them to stop.
Ill take her there, she said.
You go first to tell your husband to get Miss Lins things ready.
Ill report this for you to my mistress.
Mrs. Lin agreed and went off, while Pinger took Xueyan to the bridal chambers and, having made her report, left to see to her own business.
Now that things had come to such a pass, Xueyan could not but grieve for Daiyu, though she dared not show her feelings to the old lady and Xifeng.
What do they want me for?
she wondered.
Ill wait and see.
Baoyu used to be so devoted to our young lady, why doesnt he come out?
Is he really ill or just shamming?
He may be trying to put her off by pretending to have lost his jade and to be out of his mind, so that shell lose interest in him and he can marry Miss Baochai.
Ill slip in and see whether hes really crazy or not.
He can hardly be shamming today.
She tiptoed to the door of the inner room and peeped in.
Now though the loss of his jade had deranged Baoyu, the news that he was to marry Daiyu seemed to him the most wonderful thing that had ever happened, and at once his health had improved, though he seemed less quick in the uptake than before.
So Xifengs cunning scheme had succeeded completely.
He could hardly wait to see Daiyu and go through with his wedding today.
Beside himself with joy, although he sometimes talked nonsense he behaved quite differently from when he was demented.
Xueyan saw this with indignation and distress, not knowing what was in his heart, then she slipped away.
Baoyu, seated in Lady Wangs room, was pressing Xiren to help him into his wedding clothes and watching busy Xifeng and Madam You as he longed for the auspicious hour to arrive.
Cousin Lins only coming from the Garden, he said to Xiren.
Why should it take so long?
Suppressing a smile she answered, She has to wait for the appointed hour.
Then he heard Xifeng say to Lady Wang, Although were in mourning and wont have musicians outside, according to us southerners rule they must bow to each other and utter silence wont do.
So Ive ordered our troupe of house musicians to play some tunes and liven things up a little.
Very well, said Lady Wang, nodding.
Presently a big sedan-chair entered the courtyard and the family musicians went out to meet the bride, while in filed twelve pairs of maids in two rows with Palace lanterns a novel and distinctive sight.
The Master of Ceremonies invited the bride to alight from the chair, and Baoyu saw a maid with a red sash help her out her face was veiled.
And who do you think the other maid assisting the bride was?
No other than Xueyan!
Why Xueyan and not Zijuan?
he wondered, then told himself, Of course.
She brought Xueyan with her from her home down south.
Zijuan is one of our household so -naturally she neednt bring her.
Reasoning like this, he felt as jubilant as if seeing Daiyu herself.
The Master of Ceremonies announced the procedure.
Bride and bridegroom paid their respects to Heaven and Earth, then invited the old lady to come out and receive four bows from them, after which they bowed to Jia Zheng and Lady Wang.
Next they ascended the hall and paid their respects to each other before being ushered into the bridal chamber -where they went through other ceremonies such as sitting on the bed and letting down the bed curtains, in accordance with the old rules of Jinling.
Jia Zheng had never-believed that this wedding could cure Baoyu, but he had to go along with his mothers decision.
Today, however, he was pleased because Baoyu looked as if he had really recovered.
After the bride sat down on the bridal bed, she had to be unveiled.
To be on the safe side, Xifeng had asked the old lady and Lady Wang there to keep an eye on things.
Baoyu fatuously stepped over to the bride.
Are you better, Cousin Lin?
he asked.
Its so long since Ive seen you!
Why keep your face covered with that rag?
He reached out to take off the veil, making the old lady break out in a cold sweat.
But then Baoyu reflected, Cousin Lins very sensitive I mustnt offend her.
So he waited till he felt he could wait no longer, then stepped forward and removed the veil, which the bridesmaid whisked away.
At the same time Xueyan withdrew, and Yinger came in to wait upon her young mistress.
Baoyu looked at his bride and could not believe his eyes she seemed to be Baochai.
He shone the lamp on her face and rubbed his eyes.
There was no doubt about it it was Baochai!
Splendidly dressed, soft and plump, her hair slightly dishevelled, fluttering her eyelashes and holding her breath she looked as alluring as lotus dripping with dew, as bashful as apricot blossom moistened by mist.
Baoyu was stupefied by the realization that Xueyan had disappeared and Yinger had taken her place.
At a loss, he thought he must be dreaming and stood there in a daze till they took the lamp from his hand and made him sit down.
Staring vacantly, he uttered not a word.
The old lady, afraid he had lost his senses again, took charge of him herself while Xifeng and Madam You led Baochai to the inner room to rest.
She, of course, remained silent too, lowering her head.
Soon Baoyu calmed down sufficiently to notice the presence of his grandmother and mother.
Where am I?
he whispered to Xiren.
Is this a dream?
This is your wedding day, she answered.
Dont let the master hear you talking such nonsense.
Hes just outside.
Whos that beautiful girl sitting there?
he asked pointing inside.
Xiren put a hand to her mouth to hide her laughter, so amused that she could not speak.
Thats the new Second Young Mistress, she finally told him.
The others also turned their heads away, unable to keep from smiling.
Dont be silly!
cried Baoyu.
What Second Young Mistress do you mean?
Miss Baochai.
Then where is Miss Lin?
It was the masters decision that you should marry Miss Baoehai, so why ask in that foolish way about Miss Lin?
But I saw her just now, and Xueyan too.
How can you say theyre not here?
What game are you all playing?
Xifeng stepped forward to whisper, Miss Baochai is sitting in the inner room so dont talk foolishly.
If you annoy her, the old lady wont like it.
This bewildered Baoyu still more.
Already deranged, after the mysterious apparitions and vanishings of-this evening he knew even less what to think.
Ignoring all else he just clamoured to go and find Cousin Lin.
The ladies did their best to pacify him, but he would not listen to reason and as Baochai was inside they could not speak out plainly.
Indeed, they knew that explanations were useless now that his wits were wandering again.
They lit benzoin incense to calm him and made him lie down.
No one made a sound and presently, to the old ladys relief, he fell into a lethargic sleep.
She decided to sit up with him till dawn and sent Xifeng to urge Baochai -to rest too.
Baochai, behaving as if she had heard nothing, lay down then fully dressed in the inner room.
As for ha Zheng, being outside he had no knowledge of these happenings and, in fact, felt relieved by what he had seen.
Since the next day was the auspicious date to start his journey, he too rested for a while before receiving the congratulations of those who had come to bid him farewell.
And when Baoyu was sound asleep, the old lady also returned to her room to sleep.
The next morning Jia Zheng bowed farewell in the ancestral temple, then came over to take his leave of his mother.
Your unfilial son is going far away, he said.
My one wish, madam, is that you will take care of your health at different seasons.
As soon as I reach my post, I shall write to pay my respects.
Please dont worry about me.
And Baoyus wedding has been carried out in accordance with your wishes.
I beg you, madam, to admonish him from time to time.
In order not to worry him on his journey, she did not tell him of Baoyus relapse.
All I have to say is this, she answered.
Though Baoyu was married last night he didnt share the same room with his bride, so today we should make him see you some way on your journey.
But as his wedding was to cure his illness and hes only just slightly better, and as yesterday was a tiring day for him.
Im afraid he might catch cold if he went out.
So Id like to know your opinion.
If you want him to see you off, Ill send for him at once but if youre concerned for him, Ill just have him fetched here to kowtow to you by way of farewell.
Why should he see me off?
Provided he studies hard from now on that will please me more than having him escort me.
In relief, the old lady told him to sit down while she sent Yuanyang to fetch Baoyu and Xiren.
Presently Baoyu came.
Told to pay his respects, he complied.
Luckily his mind cleared for a while at sight of his father, and he made no gaffes, assenting to Jia Zhengs instructions.
Then his father dismissed him and went to his wifes room to stress the need to discipline their son.
You must on no account go on spoiling him, he warned her.
Next year he must sit for the provincial examination.
Lady Wang heard him out without mentioning what had passed and had Baochai fetched to wish her father-in-law a good journey.
The other female members of the family saw him off at the inner gate, but she as a new bride could not leave the house.
Jia Zhen and the other young men listened respectfully to his admonitions.
Then having drunk a parting goblet with him, the younger male relatives and his old friends accompanied him ten li beyond the capital, then bid him farewell.
We shall now leave ha Zheng travelling to his new post and return to Baoyu.
After coming back he had a sudden relapse, becoming so deranged that he could not even take any nourishment.
To know whether he lived or died, read the next chapter.
Chapter 98 Unhappy Vermilion Pearl's Spirit Returns in Sorrow to Heaven Deranged Shen Ying' Sheds Tears in the Lodge of His Loved One Baoyu returned to his room after seeing his father more dizzy, confused and listless than before.
Without even eating his meal he drifted off to sleep.
Doctors were called in again but their remedies proved ineffectual - he could not even recognize those around him, although when helped to sit up he looked normal enough.
And this state of affairs continued for several days.
The ninth day after the wedding had now come - the day on which newly-weds should visit the bride's family.
If they stayed away, Aunt Xue might well feel slighted but how could they go with Baoyu so distraught on account of Daiyu?
On the other hand, they feared that if told of her death he might die himself of chagrin.
His bride could hardly reason with him either - for that, her mother was needed there.
Yet if they neglected to pay this courtesy call, Aunt Xue would take offence.
The Lady Dowager consulted Lady Wang and Xifeng and proposed, Baoyu may have lost his mind, but I can't see that going out would hurt him.
Let's order two small sedan-chairs and have them escorted over through the Garden to keep up appearances then we can invite Aunt Xue here to comfort Baochai, while we give our whole minds to curing Baoyu.
Wouldn't that be best on both scores?"
Lady Wang agreed and had preparations made without delay.
As Baochai was a new bride and Baoyu was crazed, neither objected to being taken over for although Baochai knew how things stood and at heart blamed her mother for this injudicious match, it was too late now to protest.
True, Aunt Xue reproached herself bitterly when she saw Baoyu's condition still, they had to go through with the ceremonies in a perfunctory way.
On their return Baoyu took a turn for the worse.
The next morning he could not sit up, and he wasted away day by day until he could not even take liquid nourishment.
In panic Aunt Xue and the others searched everywhere for good doctors, but not one was able to diagnose his illness until a certain Bi Zhan, a poor physician who lived in a ruined temple outside town, ascribed it to both internal and external factors sudden transports of joy and grief depriving him of his senses and appetite and pent-up indignation resulting in congestion.
He made out his prescription accordingly, and Baoyu took the first dose that evening.
After the second watch, sure enough, he came to and asked for a drink of water.
Their Ladyships in relief invited Aunt Xue and Baochai to the old lady's room to rest.
Baoyu, now that his mind had cleared, was convinced that he was dying.
As the others had gone, leaving only Xiren there, he called her over to him and clasped her hand.
"Tell me," he sobbed, "what is Cousin Baochai doing here?
I remember my father choosing Cousin Lin to marry me, so how did she get driven out by Cousin Baochai?
Why should she force her way in here?
I don't like to ask her for fear of offending her.
And what news have you of Cousin Lin?
Is she crying her heart out?"
Xiren prevaricated, "Miss Lin is ill." "I'll go and see her then."
He tried to get up, but after several days without nourishment of any kind he was too weak to move.
"I'm dying!"
he exclaimed.
"But I've one request which I beg you to pass on to the old lady.
Cousin Lin will be sobbing herself to death too and T'm done for now anyway, so that's two of us mortally ill in different places.
If we die apart that' 11 make more trouble for you, so why not turn out a spare room and move the two of us there?
You can nurse us both together while we're still living, and when we're dead you can lay us out together.
For the sake of our friendship these years, please do this for me!"
Xiren was so affected by his words that she sobbed convulsively.
And Baochai, coming back then with Yinger, heard him too.
"Why talk in that unlucky way instead of resting well so as to recover?"
she asked.
"The old lady's just feeling a bit easier in her mind, yet here you are starting fresh trouble.
You've always been the old lady's favourite, and now she's over eighty.
Though she's not expecting you to win her honours, if you turn out well that will please her and the pains she's taken over you won't be wasted.
As for your mother, it goes without saying she's given her heart's blood to bring you up, and if you die young what's to become of her?
And I, though I may be ill-fated, don't deserve this.
Because of the three of us, even if you want to die Heaven won't allow it!
So just rest quietly for four or five days till you're over this chill and your vital forces are restored then this disorder will naturally disappear."
This silenced Baoyu for some minutes.
Then he sniggered, "You stopped talking to me for so long, why start haranguing me now?"
"Let me tell you the truth."
she continued.
"While you were in a coma for two days Cousin Lin died."
He sat up abruptly.
"Is that true?"
he demanded.
"Of course it is.
I wouldnt say such a fearful thing if it wasn't.
The old lady and your mother, knowing how fond of her you were, were afraid the news would kill you too.
That's why they didn't tell you.
Baoyu burst out sobbing and fell back on his pillows.
All before him was black and he could not make out where he was.
He was feeling lost when he saw a figure approaching.
"Excuse me," he blurted out.
"What is this place?"
"The way to Hell," was the answer.
"But what are you doing here?
Your span of life has not ended."
"I just heard that a friend had died, and looking for her here I lost my way."
"What friend?"
"Lin Daiyu of Suzhou."
"Lin Daiyu in life was no ordinary mortal in death she is no ordinary ghost," said the apparition with a scornful laugh.
"As she has no ghost, where can you find her?
The spirits of men assume a form only when concentrated when dissipated they change into vapour.
In life they have a form after death they scatter.
So even ordinary mortals cannot be traced after death, let alone Lin Daiyu.
You had better go back at once."
Nonplussed by this Baoyu asked, "If you say the spirit is dissipated after death, why should there be a Hell?"
"Hell exists for those who believe in it," was the disdainful answer.
"Because the vulgar herd are afraid of death they tell cautionary tales about the wrath that Heaven visits on fools who are not content with their lot or senselessly cut short their lives by indulging in lust or running amok, making away with themselves for no good reason.
So Hell has been dreamed up as a prison where such ghosts will suffer endless torments to expiate their crimes during their lifetime.
By searching for Daiyu, you are courting death unjustifiably.
The more so, as she has already returned to the Illusory Land of Great Void.
If you want to find her, you must cultivate virtue and you will have occasion to meet again.
If you chafe at your lot and commit the crime of cutting short your life, you may see your parents again but never Daiyu!"
This said, he took a stone from his sleeve and aimed it at Baoyu's heart.
Terrified by this warning and a pain in the region of his heart, Baoyu longed to go home but did not know the way.
He was hesitating when he heard his name and turned to find that the old lady, Lady Wang, Baochai and Xiren had gathered round, tearfully calling him, and he himself was still lying in his bed.
The red lamp on his desk, the bright moon outside the window showed that he was still in this vain world, in the lap of luxury.
Calming down, he realized that he had been dreaming.
Though drenched with cold sweat he felt refreshed and clear-headed.
Reflecting that there was in truth no way out for him, he heaved sigh after sigh.
Now Baochai had known from the start of Daiyu's death, but the Lady Dowager forbade any mention of it to Baoyu for fear of making his illness worse, though she herself knew that his breakdown was due to his longing for Daiyu, the loss of his jade being only secondary.
She had taken her opportunity to tell him to end his torment and bring him back to his senses, so that he could be cured.
The old lady and Lady Wang not knowing her motive, blamed her for her impetuosity but when Baoyu came to they felt relieved and at once summoned Doctor Bi from the outer study to examine him.
"Strange!"
observed the physician after feeling his pulse.
"His pulse is steady and there is no sign now of melancholia.
We'll give him a restorative tomorrow, and can hope for a cure."
Then he left and the others dispersed, much easier in their minds.
Xiren, too, had been shocked by Baochai's disclosure, though she could not very well say so.
But Yin ger in confidence has taken her to task for her indiscretion.
"You don't understand," said Baochai.
"Come what may, I'll take the responsibility."
She paid no attention to ill-natured gossip, but carefully probed Baoyu's psychology and quietly needled him for his own good.
And little by little he was growing more lucid, only lapsing into senselessness when he remembered Daiyu.
It was Xiren who reasoned with him most frequently.
"The master chose Miss Baochai for you because she's so affable and good," she told him patiently.
"He thought Miss Lin eccentric and suspected that she hadn't long to live.
As for the old lady, she was afraid you might get worked up as you'd taken leave of your senses, so she had Xueyan brought over here to trick you."
Still Baoyu's heart ached and he often shed tears, tempted to kill himself.
But he checked this impulse, remembering the warning in his dream and reluctant to hurt his grandmother and his mother.
He took comfort too from the thought that, although Daiyu was dead, Baochai was a girl in a thousand and there might be something in the prophecy of a "match between gold and jade."
As he seemed unlikely to do anything drastic, Baochai felt easy enough in her mind to wait dutifully on Their Ladyships, devoting the rest of her time to amusing him.
Though Baoyu was too weak to sit up for long, the sight of Baochai sitting by his bed rekindled his amorous proclivity.
But she would urge him gravely "That can wait.
We're already husband and wife, but the main thing now is to recover your health."
Reluctantly, he had to fall in with her wishes, for during the day his grandmother, mother and Aunt Xue took it in turns to keep him company, and at night Baochai slipped away to sleep elsewhere, leaving nannies sent by the old lady to wait on him.
So he had to convalesce quietly.
Moreover, Baochai's gentle ways made him gradually transfer to her some of the love he had felt for Daiyu.
But this is anticipating.
On the day of Baoyu's wedding Daiyu lay in a coma, her life hanging by a thread, while Li Wan and Zijuan wept as if their hearts would break.
That evening she recovered consciousness and feebly opened her eyes.
She seemed to want something to drink.
As Xueyan had gone, leaving only Li Wan and Zijuan there, the latter brought her a bowl of pear juice and dried-longan syrup and gave her two or three sips with a small silver spoon, after which Daiyu closed her eyes to rest again.
Li Wan knew that this lucid interval and slight rallying were the prelude to the end, but thinking that still a few hours away she went back to Paddy-Sweet Cottage to see to some business.
Meanwhile Daiyu opened her eyes and saw only Zijuan, her old nanny and some young maids.
Clasping Zijuan's hand she addressed her with an effort.
"I'm done for!
You've served me for several years, and I'd hoped that the two of us could always stay together.
But now.... " Stopping to catch her breath, she closed her eyes in exhaustion.
Zijuan, whose hand she was still gripping, dared not move.
Because Daiyu seemed better than earlier on she was still hoping for her recovery, and so these words struck chill into her heart.
"Sister!"
continued Daiyu presently.
"I have no dear one here, I have lived chastely.... Get them to send me home!"
Closing her eyes again, she clasped Zijuan's hand even more tightly as she panted silently, breathing out more than she breathed in - at her last gasp.
Zijuan was frantically sending to fetch Li Wan when luckily Tanchun arrived.
"Look at Miss Lin, miss!"
whispered Zijuan, her tears falling like rain.
Tanchun came over and felt Daiyu's hand - it was chill and her eyes were glazed.
Weeping, they called for water with which to wash her.
Then Li Wan hurried in.
The three of them had no time for civilities.
They were washing Daiyu when she raised a sudden cry "Baoyu, Baoyu!
How...." Those were her last words.
She broke out in a cold sweat.
Zijuan and the others, holding her as she sweated, felt her body grow colder and colder.
Tanchun and Li Wan bade her maids dress her hair and change her clothes.
But her eyes turned up--alas!
-747 Her sweet soul gone with the wind, They sorrow at midnight, lost in fragrant dreams.
It was in the very same hour in which Baoyu and Baochai were married that Daiyu breathed her last.
Tanchun, recalling Zijuan and the other maids wept bitterly while Li Wan and Tanchun, recalling her lovable ways, lamented her fate and sobbed too with distress.
As Bamboo Lodge was far from the bridal chambers, their wailing could not be heard there.
Presently they caught the sound of distant music, but as soon as they pricked up their ears it vanished.
When Li Wan and Tanchun stepped into the courtyard to listen, they saw only the wind - tossed bamboos and the shifting moonlight on the wall - a scene of loneliness and desolation.
They sent for Lin Zhixiao's wife, had Daiyu laid out and assigned maids to watch by her corpse, not notifying Xifeng till the next morning.
As Their Ladyships were so busy with ha Zheng leaving home that morning and Baoyu's increased derangement making the whole household frantic, Xifeng decided not to report Daiyu's death for fear Their Ladyships would fall ill under this fresh burden of grief.
So she went herself to the Garden.
On reaching Bamboo Lodge, she could not hold back her tears.
Then she was told by Li Wan and Tanchun that all preparations had been made for the funeral.
"Well done," she said.
"But why didn't you let me know before to save me worrying?"
Tanchun answered, "How could we, when seeing the master off?"
"At least the two of you took pity on her," commented Xifeng.
"Very well then, I must go back to cope with the lovesick one over there.
What a to-do!
Not to report it today would be wrong but if I report it I'm afraid it may be too much for the old lady."
"Do as you think fit," said Li Wan.
"If possible, you should report it."
Nodding, Xifeng hurried away.
When she reached Baoyu's quarters and heard that the doctor had pronounced him out of danger, to Their Lady ships' relief, she broke the news to them about Daiyu without letting Baoyu know.
The old lady and Lady Wang were consternated.
"I have her death on my conscience," sobbed the old lady.
"But the child was really too foolish!"
She was in a dilemma, wanting to go to the Garden to mourn Daiyu, yet reluctant to leave Baoyu.
Lady Wang, suppressing her own grief, persuaded her to remain to look after her health, and the old lady agreed to her going instead.
"Tell her spirit from me," she instructed, "it's not because I'm heartless that I'm not coming to see you off, but there's someone closer here whom I have to see to.
As my daughter's daughter you are dear to me but Baoyu is closer to me even than you.
If any harm comes to him, how am I to face his father?"
She wept again.
"You were very good to her, madam," said Lady Wang soothingly.
"But each one's span of life is fixed by Heaven, and now that she's dead there's nothing we can do except give her the best funeral possible.
That will show our feeling for her, and her mother's spirit and hers can rest in peace."
This made the old lady weep still more bitterly.
And not wanting her to grieve too much, as Baoyu was still bemused Xifeng quietly sent someone with the trumped-up message, "Baoyu is asking for you, madam."
"Has anything happened?"
she asked, no longer weeping.
"No, nothing," Xifeng assured her.
"I expect he just wants to see you."
The old lady hurried out attended by Zhenzhu and followed by Xifeng.
Half-way there they met Lady Wang, whose report on her visit to Bamboo Lodge naturally caused the old lady fresh distress but she swallowed back her tears because she was going to see Baoyu.
"As all the preparations are made, I won't go over for the time being," she said.
"Do as you think fit.
Seeing her would make my heart ache.
But mind you give her a handsome funeral."
When Lady Wang and Xifeng had agreed to this, she went on to see Baoyu and asked what he wanted her for.
"Last night I saw Cousin Lin," he said with a smile.
"She wants to go back south.
I'm sure you're the only one who can keep her here for me, madam.
Don't let her go!"
"All right.
Don't worry," she answered.
Then Xiren made Baoyu lie down again.
After leaving him the old lady went in to see Baochai, who having been married less than a week behaved shyly in company.
She noticed that the old lady's face was tear-stained.
After she had served tea, she was told to take a seat and perched respectfully on the edge of a chair.
"I heard that Cousin Lin was unwell," she remarked.
"Is she any better?"
Bursting into tears the Lady Dowager answered, "I'll tell you, child, but don't let Baoyu know.
It's all because of your Cousin Lin that you've been so unfairly treated.
Now that you're married I can tell you the truth your Cousin Lin died a couple of days ago at the very hour of your wedding.
This illness Baoyu has is because of her.
You used to live together in the Garden, so I'm sure you know what I mean."
Baochai blushed, then shed tears at the thought of Daiyu's death.
And after chatting with her a little longer, the Lady Dowager left.
After this, Baochai weighed the pros and cons carefully before hitting on a plan but not wanting to act rashly she had waited till after her visit home on the ninth day after their wedding before breaking the news to Baoyu.
And now that, sure enough, he was on the mend, they no longer had to keep things secret from him.
But though Baoyu was recovering steadily, he had not overcome his infatuation and he insisted on going to mourn for Daiyu.
Knowing that the cause of his illness was not yet uprooted, his grandmother forbade him to give way to foolish fancies, but that only deepened his gloom and brought on a relapse.
The doctor, however, saw that he was ill with longing and advised them to allow him to vent his feelings, for then the medicine would be more efficacious.
Hearing this, Baoyu at once clamoured to go to Bamboo Lodge.
They had to send for a bamboo chair and help him on to it, after which they set off, the old lady and Lady Wang leading the way.
The sight of Daiyu's coffin in Bamboo Lodge made the old lady weep till she had no more tears to shed and was out of breath.
Xifeng and the others urged her to desist.
Meanwhile Lady Wang had wept too.
And they shed tears anew even after Li Wan invited them to rest in the inner room.
Baoyu on his arrival thought back to his visits here before his illness.
Now the lodge remained but its young mistress was gone.
He gave way to a storm of grief.
How close they had been, yet today they were parted by death!
He felt his heart would break.
Alarmed by his frenzied anguish, all tried to comfort him, but already he had almost fainted away.
They helped him out to rest.
Baochai and the others who had come with him also mourned bitterly.
Now Baoyu insisted on seeing Zijuan to ask her what Daiyu's dying words had been.
Zijuan had a deep grudge against him, but his misery softened her heart and in the presence of Their Ladyships she dared take no liberties.
So she reported in detail how her young mistress had fallen ill again, how she had burned his handkerchief and her poems, and what her last words had been.
Baoyu wailed again until he was hoarse and breathless, and Tanchun seized this chance to repeat Daiyu's dying request to have her coffin taken back to the south, reducing Their Ladyships to tears again.
It was Xifeng with her persuasive tongue who succeeded in consoling them a little and urged them to go back.
When Baoyu refused, his grandmother had to override his wishes.
Because the Lady Dowager was old and had been on tenterhooks day and night ever since Baoyu fell ill, this fresh access of grief made her so dizzy and feverish that although still worried about him she had to retire to her room to lie down.
Lady Wang went back too in even greater anguish, leaving Caiyun to help Xiren, with the instructions "If Baoyu breaks down again, send us word at once."
Knowing that his grief must run its course, instead of trying to console him Baochai made some cutting remarks and suspecting that she was jealous he swallowed back his tears.
So the night passed without mishap.
The next morning when others came to see how he was, they found him debilitated but less distracted.
They nursed him devotedly till he slowly recovered.
Luckily the old lady had not fallen ill only Lady Wang was still suffering from her heart trouble.
When Aunt Xue called she was relieved to find her son-in-law looking better, and she kept the young couple company for a while.
Some time after this, the Lady Dowager asked Aunt Xue over for a consultation.
"We own Baoyu's life to you," she said.
"Now he seems out of danger, but we've wronged your daughter.
As he's convalesced for the prescribed hundred days and recovered his health, and as the mourning for Her Imperial Highness is over too, it's time for them to consummate their marriage.
Please make the decision and choose a lucky day for this."
"You know best, madam.
Why ask me?"
replied Aunt Xue.
"Baochai may look stupid but she had good sense you know what she's like, madam.
I only hope the young couple will live in harmony to spare you worry, and then my sister and I can be easy in our minds too.
You settle on a date, madam.... Is there any need to notify relatives?"
"For Baoyu and your daughter, this is the biggest event in their whole lives.
Besides, think of all the trouble we had before things turned out well.
We must celebrate for a few days and invite all our relatives.
For one thing, it'll be a thanksgiving for Baoyu's recovery for another, drinking on this happy occasion will make up to us for all the worries we've had."
Aunt Xue was naturally pleased by this proposal.
She described the dowry she meant to give Baochai.
"I don't think that's necessary," said the old lady, "as we were relatives before this marriage.
Their rooms already fully furnished but if there are any things Baochai specially likes you can bring them over, aunt.
The child has never struck me as narrow-minded like Daiyu that was what made her die so young."
At this both of them shed tears.
Just then Xifeng came in and asked with a smile.
"What are you ladies discussing?"
"We were speaking about your Cousin Lin," Aunt Xue told her.
"That's what upset us.
"Well, don't be upset," Xifeng urged them.
"I've just heard a good joke which I mean to tell you."
The old lady wiped her tears and said with a smile, "Whom are you making fun of this time I wonder?
Go ahead and tell us.
But if it isn't funny, lookout!"
Xifeng, before she even started to speak, gesticulated with both hands and doubled up with laughter.
If you want to know what she told them, read the next chapter.
Chapter 99 An Upright Official Has Venal Underlings A Perusal of the Court Gazette Fills Jia Zheng with Concern for His Nephew Xifeng offered to tell a joke to stop the Lady Dowager and Aunt Xue from grieving over Daiyu.
"Can you ladies guess whom this joke is about?"
she asked, laughing herself before embarking on it.
"Our new bridegroom and his bride!"
'What's happened?"
the old lady wanted to know.
"One was sitting like this, one standing like this," began Xifeng, miming.
"One turned away like this, one wheeled round like this.
Then one...." The Lady Dowager burst out laughing.
"Tell us properly!"
she scolded.
You've named no names yet, but already you have us in stitches."
"Yes, just tell us straight out," urged Aunt Xue.
"No need to act it."
Then Xifeng expatiated, "Just now I went to Cousin Bao's place and heard laughter in his room.
I wondered who was there and peeped through the window.
Cousin Baochai was sitting on the edge of the kang, with Cousin Bao standing in front of her.
Re pulled her sleeve and pleaded, 'Do talk to me, cousin!
One word from you would cure me completely I swear it!'
But Baochai turned her head away, refusing to meet his eyes.
He bowed to her then and tugged at her jacket.
When she wrenched away, of course his legs were so weak after his illness that he toppled over and fell on top of her.
Then blushing scarlet she scolded, 'You're getting more and more undignified!"'
The old lady and Aunt Xue laughed.
"Baoyu got up then," Xifeng went on.
"Re said with a grin, 'It's lucky I toppled over -- that loosened your lips."'
"How strange of Baochai," remarked Aunt Xue.
"What's wrong with having a bit of fun now that they're married?
Hasn't she seen how you and Lian carry on?"
"What way is that to talk?"
protested Xifeng, flushing.
"I was telling you a joke to cheer you up, aunt, but you make fun of me instead."
The old lady chortled, "Quite right and proper too.
Of course a husband and wife are fond of each other still, they ought to keep within bounds.
What I like about Baochai is her sense of dignity.
I only worry because Baoyu is still such a simpleton but judging by what you say, his mind is much clearer now.
What other jokes can you tell us?"
"Soon Baoyu will have consummated his marriage, and then Aunt Xue will have a grandson to dandle won't that be a still better joke?"
"You monkey!"
laughed the old lady.
"It was all very well for you to cheer us up when we were grieving over your Cousin Lin, but now you're getting cheeky.
Do you want us to forget your Cousin Lin?
You've no call to gloat, because she hated you so don't go to the Garden all alone or her ghost may pounce on you to have her revenge!"
"She bore me no grudge," replied Xifeng.
"It was Baoyu who made her grind her teeth with rage just before she died."
Thinking she was still joking they paid no attention to this.
"Stop talking nonsense," the old lady said.
"Go and get people outside to choose the most auspicious day for Baoyu to round off his marriage."
Xifeng assented and after a little more chat went off on this errand.
Then invitations were sent out to a feast with operas but no more of this.
Now although Baoyu had recovered, when Baochai happened to discuss with him some books she had been reading, he remembered those with which he was most familiar but had quite lost his former intelligence, and he himself could not account for this.
Baochai attributed it to the loss of his jade of "spiritual understanding."
Xiren, however, frequently reproached him.
"How come you've lost that ready wit you used to have?"
she would ask.
"If you'd forgotten your foolish ways that would be fine but you're just as bad as before - the only change is that you've grown more dimwitted."
Baoyu never flared up at these strictures, simply grinned.
If he carried on wilfully, Baochai reasoned with him and managed to restrain him to some extent.
Thus Xiren did not have to scold him so often and could devote herself to serving him well.
The other maids also admired Baochai for her goodness and gentleness, and out of respect for her they all behaved well.
Baoyu, by nature restless, hankered after a stroll in the Garden.
However, his grandmother was afraid that he might get over-heated there or catch cold, and that the place might upset him for though Daiyu's coffin had been deposited in a nunnery outside town, the sight of Bamboo Lodge might bring back his earlier grief for its dead mistress.
So they would not allow him to go.
Besides, most of his girl cousins had left the place.
Xue Baoqin had gone back to live with Aunt Xue.
Shi Xiangyun had been fetched home after Marquis Shi's return to the capital, and as a date for her marriage had been fixed she seldom paid them visits, coming only for Baoyu's wedding and the later celebration, on both of which occasions she stayed with the old lady.
And as Baoyu was now a married man and she would soon be married herself, she could not joke and laugh with him as before so sometimes she just talked with Baochai, merely greeting Baoyu if they happened to meet.
After Yingchun's marriage, Xing Xiuyan had gone to live with Lady Xing.
The Li sisters were also living outside at present, and when they came with their mother they simply called on Their Ladyships and their girl cousins, then stayed for a couple of days with Li Wan.
Thus the only inmates of the Garden now were Li Wan, Tanchun and Xichun.
The old lady had meant to move them out, but after Yuanchun's death a succession of domestic troubles had left her no time to attend to this.
Moreover, now that it was growing warmer, it was pleasant in the Garden and they decided not to move till autumn.
We will return to this later.
Now Jia Zheng had set off from the capital with several secretaries.
Travelling by day and resting at night, he finally reached his province post and presented himself to his superior.
Re then went to his office, and when the official seal had been ceremoniously made over to him he started checking up on the granaries in the districts and counties under his jurisdiction.
Most of his previous posts had been in the capital, and he thought all official tasks the same, for even when appointed as examiner outside he had had no dealings with the local administration.
And therefore, although he had heard of such abuses as appropriating a percentage of the grain collected and squeezing money out of the local people, he had no direct experience of such matters and was determined to be a good official.
So in discussions with his secretaries he issued stern prohibitions, threatening to report in detail any instances of corruption that were discovered.
At the start, his subordinates were apprehensive and tried in all manner of ways to ingratiate themselves with him.
However, Jia Zheng was inflexible.
There had been no perquisites for his servants in the capital working for such a master, and when he was posted here they had borrowed money and made new clothes to put up a better appearance, sure that once in the provinces they would make their fortunes, the money would just roll in.
But this master of theirs was so stubborn that he carried out serious investigations and refused all gifts sent by the local officials.
The yamen secretaries and scriveners made a mental calculation.
"Another fortnight like this," they said, "and we'll have to pawn all our clothes.
And when our creditors dun us, what shall we do?
There's all this glittering silver under our noses, but we can't lay hands on it."
The attendants and runners also complained, "You gentlemen at least didn't sink any capital into landing your posts.
We're the ones who've been sold out we spent pots of silver to get these jobs, but after more than a month here we haven't made a single cent!
If we stick to this master, we shall probably never recoup our capital..
Tomorrow we're going in a group to resign."
The following day they did this.
And Jia Zheng not knowing the reason said, "You wanted to work here now you want to leave.
Since you dislike these posts, do as you please."
The runners went off then, complaining loudly, leaving only some family stewards who talked the matter over.
"Those able to leave have gone," they said.
"But as we can't, we must think of some way out."
One of them, a gateman called Li Shier, scoffed, "What a useless lot you are, getting so het-up!
While those runners were around, I couldn't be bothered to give them a tip-off.
Now that they've been starved out, I'll show you what I can do.
Our master will have to listen to me!
If we just work together to make some money, we can enjoy ourselves when we get home.
If you won't do as I say, I shall wash my hands of you--I can get the better of you any day."
The master trusts you, Mr. Li," said the others.
"If you won't help, we're done for."
Well, after I've shown the way and we've got money, don't complain that I've taken the lion's share because if we fall out among ourselves it will go hard with us all."
Don't worry," the rest replied.
'Wed never do that.
However little we get, it will be better than dipping into our own pockets."
Just then a clerk from the granary office arrived, asking for Zhou Rui.
Li Shier sat down crossing his legs, his chest thrown out, and demanded "What do you want him for?"
Standing at respectful attention the clerk answered.
"The Grain Commissioner has been here for over a month, and in view of his strict orders the local magistrates know they can't ask for favours, so none of them has opened the granaries yet.
But once the time is up for grain to be shipped out, what will you gentlemen have come here for?"
"Don't talk nonsense," retorted Li.
"Our master is most systematic and always keeps his word.
These last two days he has been meaning to expedite the delivery.
Re only put it off because I asked for a few days' delay.
What do you want Mr. Zhou for anyway?"
"Just to ask about the order to expedite the delivery -- that's all."
"Stop talking rot!
You made that up because of what I just said.
Don't try any hanky-panky, or I'll get the commissioner to have you beaten and dismissed!"
"My family has worked in this yamen for three generations," said the clerk.
"We're respected hereabouts and not badly off so we can afford to serve this commissioner on the level until his promotion.
We're not like those waiting for rice to put in their pan."
This said, he added formally, "I'll take my leave of you now, sir."
Li Shier stood up then, smiling.
"Can't you take a joke?"
he chuckled.
"Don't be so thin-skinned."
"It's not that.
But if I say any more, won't I be damaging your good reputation?"
Li stepped over to take his hand and asked, "What's your honourable name?"
"Zhan Rui, sir.
In my young days I worked in the capital for a few years.
"Mr. Zhan!
I've long heard of you.
We brothers here are in accord.
If you have some proposal, come over this evening and we can talk it over.
"We all know how sharp you are, Mr. Li.
You had me scared stiff just now!"
They all laughed then and dispersed.
But that evening Li had a long talk with the clerk.
The next morning Li Shier made some suggestions to sound out Jia Zheng, who reprimanded him sternly.
The day after, Jia Zheng gave orders for attendants to escort him out to pay calls, and the servants outside assented.
Some time went by during which the gong sounded three times, but they had trouble finding a man to beat the drum in the hall, and when Jia Zheng stepped out of the vestibule, there was only one runner on duty to clear the way.
Letting this pass, he mounted his sedan-chair in the porch but again he had to wait quite a while for the bearers to assemble and when they carried him out of the yamen gate the gun fired only one salute, moreover on the bandstand there were only one drummer and one trumpeter.
At this Jia Zheng lost his temper.
"Things used to be orderly enough," he exclaimed.
"Why are there so many absentees today?"
He took a look at his retinue -- the men were slouching and straggling.
None the less he went through with his round of calls, on his return ordering the absentees to be summoned and given a beating.
Some pleaded that they had mislaid their hats, pawned their uniforms, or were too weak to carry his chair because they had eaten nothing for three days.
In anger he had one or two of them flogged, then let the matter drop.
A day later, when the steward in charge of the kitchen came with a request for money, Jia Zheng had to pay him out of his own pocket.
But after that things went from bad to worse -- compared with this, it had been plain sailing in the capital.
In desperation he summoned Li Shier.
"What's come over those servants who accompanied me here?"
he asked.
"It's your job to discipline them.
The silver we brought was spent days ago, and it's not yet time to draw the allowance from the provincial treasury.
We shall have to send to the capital for more.
"Not a day has passed without my pulling them up," replied Li.
"But somehow or other they're all so dispirited there's nothing I can do about it, sir.
How much money does Your Lordship want us to fetch from home?
I've heard that the governor will be celebrating his birthday in a few days, and all the other officials are sending him thousands of taels.
Row much shall we send?"
'Why didn't you tell me earlier?"
"You know how it is, sir.
We're new here and haven't had much to do with those other gentlemen so why should they send us word?
They're only hoping you won't call to congratulate him, sir so that when you're dismissed they can get your lucrative post."
'Nonsense!"
Jia Zheng retorted.
"I was appointed by His Majesty.
The governor can't dismiss me just because I fail to congratulate him on his birthday."
"You're right, of course, sir," replied Li with a smile.
"But the capital is far away, and it's the governor who reports on everything here.
If he commends you, you are a good official if he finds fault you're likely to lose your job.
By the time the court learns the truth, it is too late.
Our old lady and the other mistresses are all longing for you to have a magnificent success here."
Jia Zheng of course understood his drift.
"Why didn't you tell me earlier?"
he repeated.
"I dared not, sir.
Now that you ask me, it's my duty to speak but if I do, most likely you will be angry.
"Not if what you say makes sense."
"Those clerks and runners all bribed their way into this yamen so of course they all want to feather their nests," Li explained.
"They have families to support.
Since you came to this post, sir, and before you've achieved anything for the state, there's already been talk."
"What are people saying?"
"The common folk say, 'The stricter the orders a new official gives, the more grasping he will be.
The more frightened the county officials, the bigger the bribes they'll send in.
"When the time comes to levy grain, your yamen officials say they have orders from the new commissioner not to accept any money, and this makes it difficult for those country people who'd rather grease their palms and be done with it.
So instead of praising you, sir, they complain that you don't understand the situation.
But your close friend and kinsman has climbed to the top in just a few years, simply because he has the good sense to please both his superiors and his inferiors" "Rubbish," protested Jia Zheng.
"Are you implying that I lack sense?
As for pleasing both superiors and inferiors, do you want me to connive with rogues - to be 'a cat sleeping with rats'?"
"I spoke frankly, sir, out of concern for you, not wanting to keep anything back," Li answered.
"If you were to go on like this till you had no achievements to your credit and your reputation was damaged, you could accuse me of disloyalty for not putting the facts before you."
"What would you do in my place?"
"Just this, sir.
While you're in your prime, with friends at court and the old lady in good health, look after your own interests.
Otherwise, in less than a year you'll have spent all your family's money and made those above and below resent you too.
They'll all assume that in this provincial post Your Lordship must be salting money away.
So if some trouble crops up, who's going to help you?
By then it will be hard to clear yourself' and too late to regret!"
"Are you advising me to become a corrupt official?
Forfeiting my life would be of less consequence, but would you have my ancestors deprived of their noble titles?"
"A gentleman of your discernment, sir, must surely have noticed which officials have landed in trouble in recent years.
All old friends of your Lordship's they were, and you often remarked on their probity but now what has become of their good name?
On the other hand, some relatives whom you have always run down have been promoted.
It all depends on how well one handles things.
You must understand the need, sir, to care for the local officials as well as for the people.
Why, if you had your way, sir, and wouldn't let the local magistrates make a cent, who would handle all the work in the provinces?
All you need to do is keep up appearances, living up to your good name as an honest official, while in private we underlings get the job done and take whatever blame there may be without involving Your Lordship.
We have been so long in your service, sir, you can surely rest assured of our loyalty."
Jia Zheng did not know what rejoinder to make to this.
"I can't risk my life!"
he exclaimed.
"If you get into trouble, I won't be responsible."
Re then retired to his room.
After that Li Shier assumed great airs, conniving with others inside and outside the yamen to handle affairs unbeknown to Jia Zheng, who felt so satisfied that all was going smoothly that, far from suspecting Li, he trusted him completely.
Certain accusations were brought against his office, but in view of Jia Zheng's austerity and honesty his superiors made no investigations.
Only some of his secretaries who were well in-formed warned him what was happening and when he did not believe them some resigned while those on good terms with him remained to help out.
So the government grain was collected and shipped off without any scandal.
One day Jia Zheng was reading at leisure in his study when a clerk brought in a missive.
It bore an official seal and the inscription Urgent Despatch from the Garrison Command of Raimen to the Yamen of the Grain Commissioner of Jiangxi.
Jia Zheng opened it and read -720 Your old friend and fellow-provincial from Jinling, I was posted to the capital last year, delighted to be near you and you did me the honour, for which I shall ever be grateful, to agree to link our families by marriage.
But after my transfer to this coastal district I did not venture to pursue the matter, and with deep regret lamented my misfortune.
Now that you have luckily travelled all this distance, my lifelong wish is fulfilled.
I was about to send my congratulations when your gracious letter arrived, shedding lustre on our camp and on me, a mere soldier for though we are separated by the ocean I am still favoured by your protection.
Trusting that you will not spurn my low position, I aspire to connect myself with your family as you have looked upon my son with favour and we have always admired your refined daughter.
If you condescend to honour your earlier promise, I shall send the go-between immediately.
Though the journey is far, it can be made by boat and though we cannot welcome the bride with a hundred chariots, we have a barque ready for the fairy maid.
So I write this short letter to wish you further promotion and beg for your gracious consent.
Eagerly awaiting your reply!
-4214 Your younger brother Zhou Qiong.
Raving read this, Jia Zheng reflected, "One's children's marriages do seem to be fated.
I met him last year when he took up a metropolitan post, and as he took up a metropolitan post, and as he was a fellow-provincial and an old friend and I was struck by his son's handsome appearance I proposed this match at a feast, but said nothing about it to the family as it was not finally settled.
When he was transferred to the coast we let the matter drop.
Now I have been assigned here and he has sent this request.
I consider our families well matched and think this should be a good marriage for Tanchun.
However, since the family is not here I must write back to consult them."
As he was mulling this over, then gatekeeper brought him a summons to the provincial capital to discuss some business with the governor.
Re had to make ready at once and proceed to the city to await the governor's orders.
Resting in his hostel one day, Jia Zheng started reading through a pile of Court Gazettes on his desk and found a report from the Board of Punishments which dealt with "the merchant Xue Pan of Jinling."
"This is disastrous!"
he exclaimed.
"They've referred the matter up!"
Re read carefully through the account of how Xue Pan had killed Zhang San in a brawl, then bribed the witnesses to make it out a case of manslaughter.
"Re's done for!"
he cried, pounding the desk with his fist.
Re then read on as follows -747 The Garrison Commander of the capital reported "Xue Pan, a native of Jinling, while travelling through Taiping County put up in Li Family Hostel.
He had no previous acquaintance with the waiter Zhang San.
On the day in question, Xue Pan ordered the inn-keeper to prepare wine and invited Wu Liang of Taiping County to drink with him.
He sent Zhang San for the wine, but it was sour and he called for something better.
Zhang San said that once he had bought it they could not change it and, annoyed by his insolence, Xue Pan dashed the wine in the waiter's face so fiercely that his hand slipped and the bowl hit Zhang San's temple just as he was stooping to pick up some chopsticks.
The skin was broken, blood spurted out, and very soon he died.
When the innkeeper could not revive him, he informed Zhang San's mother, who finding her son dead called in the local bailiff and reported the matter to the county yamen.
The report of the post-mortem which they sent to the prefecture omitted to mention that the blow on the temple cracked the skull, making a gash one-third of an inch deep, and that there was another bruise in the small of his back.
Apparently Xue Pan's hand did slip when he threw the wine, and the blow from the bowl accidentally killed Zhang San.
So Xue Pan was convicted of manslaughter during a quarrel, and kept in custody until the payment of an indemnity."
-768 A careful study of all the statements made by the culprits, Witnesses and dead man's relatives reveals that they are full of discrepancies.
Furthermore, there is this proviso to the ruling on death through brawls When two men grapple together it is a brawl only when there is no brawl and the one killed is a stranger to his slayer can it be considered as manslaughter.
So we ordered the Garrison Commander to ascertain the true facts and report back.
Now we hear from the Garrison Commander that it was because Zhang San refused to change the wine that Xue Pan, who was tipsy, seized his right hand and struck him first in the small of the back.
When Zhang San cursed him for this, Xue Pan threw the bowl at him, gashing his temple and cracking his skull so that his brains spilled not and he died on the spot.
This means that Xue Pan killed Zhang San by striking him with the wine bowl and he should pay with his life.
For this crime, the law decrees death by strangulation, pending Imperial review.
Wu Liang should be flogged and sentenced to hard labour.
The prefectual and county magistrates who sent in false reports.... Below this was appended To be continued.
Since Aunt Xue had enlisted Jia Zheng's help and he had appealed to the magistrate, if the court was asked to punish these officials he might find himself involved.
He was very worried.
He picked up the next issue of the gazette, but it was not the right one and although he looked through the whole pile he could not find the sequel to this report.
His heart misgave him.
Re was brooding over this with growing apprehension when Li Shier entered.
'Will Your Lordship please go to the government office," he said.
"The drum has sounded twice in the governor's yamen.
As Jia Zheng was too lost in thought to hear him, Li had to repeat his message.
"What am I to do?"
muttered Jia Zheng.
''Have you something on your mind, sir?
Jia Zheng told him what he had read in the gazette.
"Don't worry, sir," Li rejoined.
"If this is how the Board's handled it, Master Xue has got off lightly!
Back in the capital, I heard that Master Xue fetched a lot of women to the inn, all drunk and disorderly, and he beat the waiter to death.
Not only was the magistrate bribed, they told me, but Master Lian had to spend a lot of money squaring the different yamens before the case was sent up.
I can't think why the Board didn't get it straight.
"But even if it's come out now, officials protect each other.
At most they'll admit that they didn't get the facts right, for which they will simply be dismissed or penalized.
They'll never own up to having taken bribes.
Don't let it weigh on your mind, sir.
I'll find out more for you presently, but don't keep the governor waiting."
"You don't understand," said Jia Zheng.
"It'll be too bad if the magistrate loses his post, and may even be otherwise penalized too, just for doing us a favour."
"Well, worrying won't help.
They've been waiting outside for a long time please go now, sir."
To know what the governor wanted with Jia Zheng, you must read the following chapter.
Chapter 100 By Frustrating Jingui Xiangling Makes a Worse Enemy of Her Baoyu Grieves Over Tanchun's Departure to Marry Far from Home Jia Zheng remained so long with the governor that the attendants outside started speculating what the reason could be and when Li Shier could get hold of no information, he remembered the ominous report in the Court Gazette and began to be really worried.
At last Jia Zheng emerged, and Li escorted him back.
On the way, when no one else was near, he asked "Was it urgent business that kept you there so long, sir?"
"Nothing of coil sequence," replied Jia Zheng with a smile.
"The garrison commander of Haimen is related to the governor and has written recommending me to him.
For this reason, the governor paid me some compliments and said, 'Now we are relatives too."'
Pleased and emboldened by this, Li urged him to agree to the garrison commander's proposal.
However, Jia Zheng was still afraid that he might be implicated in Xue Pan's case.
Being so far away, cut off from news and in no position to cope with emergencies, on his return to his office he lost no time in sending a servant to the capital to find out the situation and tell the Lady Dowager about the garrison commander's proposal.
If she agreed to it, Tanchun could be sent to him.
The servant travelled post-haste to the capital.
Having made his report to Lady Wang, he found out from the Ministry of Civil Affairs that Jia Zheng was in no trouble - only the magistrate of Taiping County had been dismissed from his post.
He sent word of this to Jia Zheng to relieve his mind, then stayed on to await further developments.
Now Aunt Xue had spent huge sums bribing the yamens dealing with Xue Pan's case to bring in a verdict of manslaughter, not murder.
She had planned to sell a pawnshop to raise the ransom for him but now that the Board of Punishments had unexpectedly reversed the verdict, she had to spend still more on bribes, all in vain - Xue Pan remained sentenced to death and immured in prison pending the Major Sessions in the autumn.
Aunt Xue wept day and night for rage and grief.
"Brother was born ill-fated," Baochai kept telling her to comfort her.
"Inheriting so much property, he should have lived quietly, minding his own business.
Instead he carried on scandalously down south, behaving so disgracefully over Xiangling.
It was only because of his powerful connections and money that he got away with killing that young gentleman.
He should have turned over a new leaf then, and taken good care of you but here in the capital he carried on just as before.
Goodness knows how often he's provoked you, mother, how many tears he's made you shed.
"Then you got him a wife, and we thought we could all live in peace but it was his fate to marry such a shrew that he left home to avoid her.
As the proverb says, 'Foes are fated to meet' - before very long he killed a man again!
"You and Cousin Ke have done all you could for him spending money and begging this one and that one to help.
But there's no escaping fate, and he brought this on himself.
People bring up children as props for their old age, and even the son of a poor family will work to support his mother.
What good is one who squanders his whole inheritance and breaks his old mother's heart?
"Maybe I shouldn't say this, but the way brother behaves he isn't your son but your enemy.
If you don't wake up to this, you'll keep crying from dawn till dusk, from dusk till dawn, and have more to put up with from sister-in-law as well.
As for me, I can't always be here to smooth things over, for though Baoyu's a simpleton he won't let me stay here.
But it makes me so worried seeing you like this!
"The other day the master sent to tell us how alarmed he was after reading the Court Gazette that's why he sent a servant to see to things.
I'm sure lots of people are anxious over this trouble brother's made.
I'm lucky to be so close to you still.
If I heard this news far away, I'd worry myself to death thinking about you!
So do calm down, mother, and while brother's still alive check up on the various accounts.
Get the old accountant to reckon up how much is owed to us and how much we owe, so as to see how much money there is left.
'These days weve been so upset about your brother," said Aunt Xue tearfully, whenever you came, if you weren't consoling me I was telling you what had happened in the yamen so I didn't let you know.
We've already lost the title of Court Purveyor in the capital, and we've sold two of our pawnshops -- the proceeds went long ago.
We still have one pawnshop left, but its manager has absconded with several thousand taels, for which we're sueing him.
Your Cousin Ke outside asks every day for more money, and we must have spent tens of thousands from our funds in the capital.
We can only make up the deficit by drawing silver from our clan funds down south and by selling our houses there.
But only the other day we heard a rumour that our clan pawnshop in Jinling has been confiscated too, because it went bankrupt.
If this is true, what's your poor mother to live on?"
She broke down and sobbed.
'It's no use worrying about money matters, mother," said Baochai, in tears herself.
"Cousin Ke will see to them for us.
But how hateful of those assistants!
When they see us come down in the world they strike out on their own and some of them, so I've heard, help other people to squeeze us.
This shows that all these years the only friends brother had made are wine-and-meat ones.
not one of whom stands by him in time of trouble.
"If you're fond of me, mother, take my advice and now that you're old take better care of your health.
I can't believe you'll ever go cold or hungry.
What little clothing and furniture there is here, you'll simply have to let sister-in-law do as she likes with.
I don't suppose the servants want to stay on, so if they ask to leave just let them go.
Poor Xiangling has had a hard life you'll have to keep her with you.
If you're short of anything.
I'll provide it if I can -- I dont imagine Baoyu will object.
Xiren is a good sort too.
When she heard of our family trouble she spoke of you with tears.
He's not upset, not knowing that anything's amiss.
If he knew, he would be frantic... "Don't tell him, there's a good child," Aunt Xue cut in.
"He nearly died because of Daiyu, and he's only just recovering.
If he's upset and anything happens to him, you'll have more to worry about and I shall have fewer people to whom to turn."
"That's what I think," answered Baochai.
"That's why I never told him."
Just then they heard Jingui storm into the outer room.
"I want to die and be done with it!"
she shrieked.
"My man's as good as dead!
We may as well make a scene, all going to the execution ground for a show-down!"
She banged her head on the partition until her hair was all tousled.
Aunt Xue could only glare in rage, unable to get a word out.
It was Baochai who begged Jingui to be reasonable.
"Dear sister-in-law!"
sneered Jingui.
"You're no longer part of this household.
You're living in comfort with that husband of yours, but I'm all on my own -- I needn't care about appearances!"
She threatened to rush out, back to her mother's home.
Fortunately there were enough of them there to restrain her and talk her round so that, eventually, she left off storming.
But Baoqin was so terrified that she kept out of her way.
Whenever Xue Ke was at home, Jingui would rouge and powder her face, paint her eyebrows, deck her hair and dress up like a vamp.
She kept passing his room, coughing deliberately and though well aware that he was inside, she would make a point of asking who was there.
When they met, she would ogle him and ask coyly after his health, simpering and pouting by turns.
The maids who saw her hastily scurried away.
But disregarding appearances, she set her whole heart on enticing Xue Ke, to carry out Baochan's plan.
Xue Ke did his best to avoid her, but when they happened to meet he made a show of cordiality for fear that otherwise she might make a scene.
And Jingui, besotted by her infatuation, indulged in the wildest fantasies which blinded her to his real attitude to her.
She noticed, though, that Xue Ke left his things in Xiangling's keeping and that she was the one who washed and made clothes for him while if Jingui chanced to find them talking together, they hastily parted company.
This made her jealous.
Not liking to vent her anger on Xue Ke she focused it on Xiangling.
But afraid to offend him by quarrelling openly with her, she hid her resentment.
One day Baochan came to her, smiling all over her face.
"Have you seen Master Ke, madam?"
she asked.
"No," said Jingui.
"I told you not to believe that strait-laced pose of his," chuckled Baochan.
"That time we sent him wine, he said he couldn't drink but just now I saw him going to see the mistress, red in the face and tipsy.
If you don't believe me, wait at our courtyard gate for him to come out.
You can intercept him then and challenge him to see what he has to say."
Provoked by this Jingui answered, "He won't be coming out yet a while and he's such a cold fish, why should I challenge him?"
"That's no way to look at it, madam.
If he's well-disposed, we'll know what to do.
If not, we'll make other plans."
Convinced by this, Jingui sent her off to keep watch till he came out, then opened her dressing-case and eyed herself in the mirror.
Having rouged her lips and selected a flowered silk handkerchief she left her room, rather flustered, as if she had overlooked something.
She heard Baochan outside saying, "You're in high spirits, Master Ke, today.
Where have you been drinking?"
Taking her cue, Jingui lifted the portiere and stepped out.
"Today is Mr. Zhang's birthday," Xue Ke was telling Baochan.
"They forced me to drink half a goblet.
Even now my face is still burning...." Jingui interposed, "Of course other people's wine tastes better than ours at home!"
At this taunt, Xue Ke blushed even redder.
Stepping over quickly he countered with a smile, "How can you say such a thing, sister-in-law!"
Seeing them talking together, Baochan slipped inside.
Jingui had meant to make a show of annoyance, but now his flushed cheeks, sparkling eyes and appealing expression had melted her anger away.
"You mean you were forced to drink?"
she asked with a smile.
"Of course.
I can't drink," he said.
"It's best not to drink -- much better than landing in trouble through drinking like your cousin, so that when you take a wife she becomes a lonely grass widow like me, poor thing!"
She shot him a sidelong glance, blushing as she spoke.
Shocked by these improper advances, Xue Ke decided to leave her but she forestalled him by seizing hold of him.
"Sister-in-law!"
he spluttered, trembling from head to foot.
"Remember who you are!"
"Just come on in," she answered brazenly.
"I've something important to tell you."
This clash was cut short by the announcement behind them "Madam!
xiangling is here."
With a start Jingui turned to see Baochan watching them from under the raised portiere.
She had called out this warning at sight of Xiangling.
The shock made Jingui let go of Xue Ke, who took this chance to escape.
Xiangling had not noticed them until Baochan called out.
Horrified by the sight of Jingui trying desperately to tug Xue Ke into her room, her heart went pit-a-pat and she wheeled away, leaving Jingui rooted to the spot in furious consternation as she stared after Xue Ke's retreating figure.
With a curse she went back to her room then in frustration, and from that day on she hated Xiangling to the marrow of her bones.
Xiangling had just passed the inner gate on her way to call on Baoqin when this sight frightened her away.
That same day Baochai, in the Lady Dowager's room, heard Lady Wang tell of Tanchun's marriage proposal.
"It's good that his family comes from our district," the old lady commented.
"But you say that boy visited our house -- why didn't your husband mention this before?"
"We didn't know it ourselves at the time," said Lady Wang.
"It's a good match but too far away.
Though the master is in the south now, if he gets transferred in future won't the child be lonely there all by herself?"
"We're both official families, with no knowing where the next post will be.
Their family may be transferred to the capital.
Anyway, 'Leaves that fall return to their root in the end.'
As the master's been posted there, and this was proposed by his superior, how can he refuse?
I think he must approve, but not presuming to make the decision himself he sent the servant to ask your consent, madam."
"It's all right if you're both willing.
But once Tanchun's gone who knows how long it'll be before she can come home.
Any later than two or three years and I may never see her again!"
She shed tears.
"When our girls grow up we have to marry them off," replied Lady Wang.
"Even if the other family's from our own district, we can't be sure of always being together -- unless they're not officials.
All we can hope for is that the girls will be happy.
Take Yingchun she's married into a family near by, yet we keep hearing how her husband ill-treats her-sometimes they even give her nothing to eat.
And anything we send never reaches her.
Recently, they say, it's gone from bad to worse and her in-laws won't let her come home.
When she and her husband have words, he jeers that we're in debt to his family.
Poor child, never able to hold up her head!
"The other day I was so worried about her, I sent some maids to see her.
Yingchun hid herself in a side-room and wouldn't come out.
When they insisted on going in they saw that, cold as it was, she was still wearing thin, shabby clothes.
With tears in her eyes she pleaded, 'When you go back, don't tell them what a wretched time I'm having this is my fate.
And don't send me clothes or things.
I wouldn't get them.
Instead, they'd accuse me of complaining and give me another beating.'
Just think, madam, because she's close enough for us to know what's going on, when she has a bad time we feel even worse.
Not that her mother pays any attention, and her father does nothing either, so poor Yingchun's worse off now than one of our third-grade maids.
"Though Tanchun's not my child, since the master's agreed to this match after seeing the boy, I feel sure it must be all right.
So please give your consent, madam, then we'll choose a good day to send her off, well escorted, to join her father.
He'll see that everything is done in style."
"Very well, as her father approves, get everything ready and choose a day for setting off on this long journey," said the old lady.
"That will be another business settled."
"Very good, madam."
Baochai who had heard all this did not say a word, although inwardly she was lamenting.
"Of all the girls in our family she's the best, yet now she's going so far away to get married -- there are fewer and fewer of us here every day."
When Lady Wang rose to leave, she went out with her.
Back in her room, she did not tell Baoyu this news but finding Xiren sewing alone she confided it to her, distressing her too.
But when word reached Concubine Zhao she started gloating.
"This daughter of mine has never shown me any respect in this household.
She treats me not like her mother but worse than her maids!
She sucks up to those who have influence and sides with others against me.
With her taking first place, Huan doesn't stand a chance.
Now that the master's fetching her away, I'll have a freer hand.
I can't expect her to look after me, but only hope she ends up like Yingchun - yes, that would please me.
With these thoughts in mind, she went over as fast as she could to congratulate Tanchun.
"You're going up in the world, miss," she said.
"You'll be better off in your husband's home than here so I've no doubt you're agreeable to this marriage.
Though I brought you up, you've not done me any favours.
But even if I'm seven-tenths bad, I'm still three-tenths good so don't forget all about me once you get there.'
Tanchun went on sewing with lowered head throughout this rigmarole, not saying a word.
Finding herself ignored, Concubine Zhao left in dudgeon.
Mixed anger, amusement and grief made Tanchun shed tears when she was alone again.
After a while she went off in low spirits to call on Baoyu.
"Third Sister," he said, "I heard that you were there when Cousin Lin died and that, far off in the distance, there was the sound of music.
For all we know, she may have been an immortal."
"You're imagining things!"
laughed Tanchun.
"But there was something strange about that evening, and it didn't sound like any mortal music.
Perhaps you're right."
This confirmed Baoyu's belief.
He recalled how, when he was out of his mind, an apparition had told him that Daiyu in life was no ordinary mortal, and after death no ordinary spirit.
She must have been a goddess come down to earth.
This reminded him of the Moon Goddess in an opera he had seen, so lovely, ethereal and charming!
After Tanchun had left, he insisted on having Zijuan to work for them and at once despatched a maid to ask the old lady to send her.
Zijuan was unwilling to come, but she could only comply with Their Ladyships' orders.
In Baoyu's presence, however, she did nothing but exclaim in dismay and sigh.
When he quietly took her hand and softly questioned her about Daiyu.
she gave him offhand answers.
But Baochai did not blame her for this, secretly approving her loyalty to her young mistress.
As for Daiyu's other maids, though Xueyan had helped out at Baoyu's wedding that night, thinking her rather stupid he had asked Their Ladyships to send her away, and she had been married off to one of the servants.
Nanny Wang had been kept on to escort Daiyu's coffin back south later on, while Yingge and the other young maids had gone back to work for the Lady Dowager.
Baoyu's grief for Daiyu deepened as it led him to reflect on the dispersal of all her attendants.
He brooded helplessly till the sudden recollection that she had died fully conscious convinced him that she had returned to the realm of immortal S. His spirits rose again.
Just at that moment, however, he heard Xiren and Baochai discussing Tanchun 5 marriage.
With a cry of dismay he threw himself on the kang, sobbing.
In alarm they helped him up and asked what was wrong, but he could not speak for tears.
Presently, when he was calmer, he blurted out, "I can't live on like this!
All my girl cousins and sisters are leaving one by one.
Cousin Lin has become an immortal.
First Sister's dead -- but I don't miss her so much, as we weren't always together.
Second Sister had married a scoundrel.
Now Third Sister is going to marry far from home, so we'll never meet again!
Where Xiangyun will be going I don't know.
And Baoqin is engaged to be married too.
Why shouldn't one of them at least stay here?
Why leave me all alone?"
Xiren started to reason with him, but Baochai waved her aside.
"It's no use trying to persuade him," she said.
"Let me ask him a few questions."
Turning to Baoyu she demanded, "Do you expect all these girls to keep you company here to the end of your life, and never to get married?
You may have something else in mind for some of them, but how about your own sisters?
Never mind whether they leave to marry far away or not once your father's made the decision, what can you do?
Are you the only one in the world who is fond of his cousins and sisters?
If everyone were like you, I wouldn't be able to keep you company either.
People study to increase their understanding how is it then that, with you, the more you study the more muddled you get?
You talk as if Xiren and I should both go away, so that you can invite all your sisters and cousins here to stay with you."
"I understand," he cried, clutching hold of them both.
"But why part so soon?
Why not wait till I've turned to ashes?"
Xiren put her hand over his mouth and scolded, "You're talking nonsense again.
The last two days you've just taken a turn for the better, and your young lady's eating a bit more too.
If you make another rum-pus, I'll wash my hands of you.
"I know, I know!"
cried Baoyu in desperation, aware that they were right.
"But my mind's in a ferment."
Baochai ignored him, secretly telling Xiren to give him a sedative and talk him round little by little.
Xiren for her part suggested telling Tanchun not to come to take leave of him.
"Why not?"
retorted Baochai.
"In a few days when his mind's clearer they should have a good talk.
After all, his third sister's very sensible, not one of those who just make a pretence of shrewdness.
She's bound to give him good advice, so that he doesn't behave like this again."
At this point Yuanyang arrived, sent by the old lady to say that she had heard of Baoyu's relapse and Xiren must comfort him and talk him round he must stop having foolish fancies.
Xiren agreed to this, and not long after that Yuanyang went back.
Soon Tanchun would be setting off on her long journey and, though they did not have to give her a complete dowry, the old lady felt they should provide her with all necessities.
She sent for Xifeng, told her the master's decision, and asked her to see to things.
Xifeng accepted this task.
But to know how she carried it out, read the next chapter.
Chapter 101 A Ghostly Warning Is Given One Moonlit Night in Grand View Garden A Fearful Omen Is issued by the Oracle in Scattering Flowers Temple On Xifeng's return home, because Jia Lian was still out, she assigned servants to prepare Tanchun's dowry and baggage.
After dusk, on the spur of the moment, she decided to call on her accompanied by Fenger and two other young maids, one going in front with a lantern.
But when they went out, as the moon had already risen and was casting a shimmering, liquid light, she sent the girl with the lantern back again.
As they passed the window of the boiler house, they heard the babble of voices inside and what sounded like a half tearful half laughing discussion.
In annoyance, Xifeng told Xiaohong to go in casually but keep her ears open to find out what the women in there were gossiping about.
The girl left them to do her bidding.
Then Xifeng went on with Fenger to the Garden.
The gate was closed but not yet locked.
They opened it and entered.
The moonlight here seemed brighter than outside, the ground was covered with the dark shadows of trees and not a voice could be heard in that lonely stillness.
As they made for the path to Autumn Freshness Studio, the soughing wind brought leaves rustling down from the trees on every side, while the creaking of their branches startled the chilly crows roosting there so that they winged off in alarm.
Xifeng had been drinking, and this wind made her shiver.
Fenger behind her hunched her shoulders too.
"My, it's cold!"
she exclaimed.
"Run back and fetch me that sleeveless ermine jacket.
I can't stand this," ordered Xifeng.
"I'll be waiting for you in Miss Tanchun's place."
The maid agreed with alacrity, eager to go back to put on more clothes herself.
She set off at a run.
Xifeng was just walking on when a snuffling and sniffing behind her made her hair stand on end.
She turned to look.
A creature black as coal was sniffing at her with out-stretched nose, its two eyes shining like lamps.
Scared out of her wits, she let out a little scream as she saw that it was a hound.
Trailing its bushy tail, the great dog bounded off up a hillock, where it turned and folded its front paws to salute her.
Trembling with fright she hurried on towards Autumn Freshness Studio, and was passing some rocks near its gate when a shadowy figure flitted in front of her.
She wondered which apartment this maid belonged to.
"Who's there?"
she called out.
No one answered even when she repeated the question, and she was frightened out of her wits.
Then, indistinctly, she heard a voice behind her "Aunty, don't you recognize me?"
She swung round to see a pretty, well-dressed young woman who looked extremely familiar, though she could not identify her.
"Aunty," the other continued, "you're so set on enjoying wealth and luxury, you've thrown to the winds my advice to you that year to lay a foundation that will last for ever.
Xifeng lowered her head to think, but could riot for the life of her place this young woman.
"Aunty, you used to be so fond of me, how is it that now you've forgotten me completely?"
the other asked her with a cynical laugh.
Only then did Xifeng realize that this was Jia Rong's first wife Qin Keqing.
"Mercy!"
she exclaimed.
"You're dead -- how did you get here?"
She spat at the apparition and turned to run, but tripped over a stone and fell down, drenched with sweat as if awakening from a nightmare.
Though convulsed with fear, she was clear enough in her mind to see the blurred figures of Fenger and Xiaohong approaching.
Not wanting to be laughed at, she scrambled up.
"What have you been doing that kept you so long?"
she asked.
"Hurry up and help me into that jacket."
Fenger came over to do this, after which Xiaohong took Xifeng's arm to help her forward.
"I've just been there and they're all asleep," Xifeng prevaricated.
"Let's go back."
With that she hurried home with her two maids.
By this time Jia Lian had returned, and she saw from his worried face that he was not his usual self.
Though tempted to ask what was wrong, knowing his temper she refrained and simply went to bed.
The next day Jia Lian rose at dawn, meaning to call on the chief eunuch Qiu Shian who was in charge of the Audience Hall, to find out what news there was.
As it was too early to leave, he picked up from the desk a copy of the Court Gazette delivered the previous day and started to read it.
The first item was a report from Wang Zhong, Governor of Yunnan, that eighteen felons had been apprehended in an attempt to smuggle muskets and gun-powder over the frontier.
The ringleader Bao Yin was a servant in the household of Jia Hua, Duke of Zhenguo and Senior Imperial Tutor.
He then read the second item.
Li Xiao, Prefect of Suzhou, had impeached a man for condoning the crimes of one of his stewards, who had bullied soldiers as well as civilians, and had killed a chaste wife and two others of the family after failing to rape her.
The culprit, Shi Fu, admitted that he served the family of Jia Fan who had a third-rank hereditary title.
These two items made Jia Lian uneasy.
He wanted to read on, but feared that might make him too late to see Qiu Shian so putting on formal clothes and not stopping for breakfast, he took two sips of the tea Pinger had just brought in, then went out, mounted his horse and rode off.
Pinger put away the clothes out of which he had changed.
Xifeng was still in bed, and Pinger suggested, "I heard you tossing and turning during the night.
Let me massage you now so that you can have a good nap."
Construing Xifeng's silence as consent, Pinger sat on the kang beside her and pummelled her gently.
Xifeng was dozing off when the cries of her small daughter in the next room made her open her eyes again.
Pinger called out, "Nanny Li, what are you doing?
If baby cries, you should pat her.
What a glutton for sleep you are!"
Nanny Li, waking up with a start, was annoyed by this scolding.
She gave Qiaojie several hard spanks.
"Die and be done with it, you little wretch!"
she grumbled.
"Why don't you sleep?
Is your mother dead that you're wailing like this in the middle of the night?"
Grinding her teeth, she pinched the child so that she burst out howling.
"This is the limit!"
cried Xifeng.
"Listen to the way she's taking it out on the child!
Go and wham that black-hearted bitch, and bring Qiaojie in here."
"Don't be angry, madam," said Pinger.
"She wouldn't dare.
I expect she bumped into her by accident.
If I were to give her a few whacks, they'd start accusing us behind our backs of beating people at midnight."
Xifeng was silent for some time, then she sighed, "Look what happens while I'm still alive and kicking.
If I die tomorrow what will become of this imp?"
"What a way to talk, madam!"
chuckled Pinger.
"First thing in the morning too."
"You don't understand."
Xifeng gave a cynical laugh.
"I know I shan't last very long.
Though I've lived only twenty-five years, I've seen and tasted things not given to others to see or taste, and had the best of food and clothing as well as of all the good things in this world.
I've vented my spite fully too, and done enough others down.
So if I'm a bit short on 'longevity' what does it matter?"
At this, Pinger's eyes brimmed with tears.
"Don't put on that soft-hearted act," scoffed Xifeng.
"Once I'm dead, the two of you will be only too pleased.
You can live in peace and harmony, without me as a thorn in your side.
All I ask of you, come what may, is to take good care of my child."
Pinger was weeping now.
"Don't be such a fool," jeered Xifeng.
"I'm not dying yet a while.
Why start mourning so early?
Are you trying to hasten my death with your wailing?"
Pinger hastily dried her eyes.
"It's the way you talk, madam, that upset me," she said, then went on massaging her until Xifeng dropped off.
Pinger had no sooner got down from the kang than she heard footsteps outside.
For Jia Lian had left too late to see the chief eunuch, who had gone to court.
And so he had come back in a bad temper.
"Are they still not up?"
he asked Pinger.
"Not yet," she said.
He came in, banging the portiere behind him.
"Fine!"
he swore.
"Not up at this hour, just to make things more difficult for me!"
He called for tea, and she promptly poured him a cup.
But the maids had gone back to bed after Jia Lian went out, not expecting him home so quickly, and had therefore not prepared tea so what Pinger brought him was not freshly brewed.
In a fury he raised the bowl and -- crash!
smashed it to smithereens.
Xifeng, startled from sleep, woke up in a cold sweat.
She opened her eyes and gave a cry of dismay at sight of her husband sitting there in a rage while Pinger stooped to pick up the broken pieces.
"Why are you back so soon?"
she asked.
She waited in vain for an answer and then repeated the question.
"Don't you want me back?"
he bellowed.
"Want me to die outside?"
"Why talk like that?"
she said gently.
"You don't usually come back so quickly, that's why I asked.
You've no call to lose your temper."
"Since I didn't find him, why shouldn't I come straight back?"
he bellowed again.
"If you didn't find him, you'll just have to be patient and go earlier tomorrow then he'll be in."
"Why should I run errands for other people?"
he roared.
"I've plenty of work of my own here, with no one lifting a finger to help yet for no reason at all I've had to run right and left for other people.
Why the hell should I?
The ones in hot water are taking it easy at home, not giving a -damn and I hear they're laying on feasts and operas to celebrate some birthday with gonging and drumming!
Why should I run these pointless errands for them?"
He spat in disgust and swore at Pinger again.
Xifeng swallowed her anger and, on second thoughts, refrained from arguing with him.
"Why get so worked up?"
she said, forcing a smile.
"Why yell at me like that first thing in the morning?
Who told you to take on jobs for other People?
Since you have, you must just have patience and do as they ask.
It's news to me that anyone in trouble should feel in the mood for feasts and operas.
That's what you say!
Tomorrow you can ask him."
"Ask whom?"
she exclaimed in surprise.
"Whom?
Your brother!"
"Is he the one you've been talking about?"
"Of course.
Who else?"
"What business is it that he wants you to see to for him?"
she demanded hastily.
"Are you still in the dark?"
"This is really very strange!
I haven't heard a word."
"How could you hear?
Even the mistress and Aunt Xue haven't heard.
Because I didn't want to worry them, and because you're always complaining of bad health, I hushed the business up outside and didn't let the family know either.
The mere mention of this really makes me livid!
If you hadn't asked me today, I couldn't very well have told you.
You may think that brother of yours a gentleman but do you know what people outside call him?"
"What do they call him?"
"Wang Ren -- forgetting humanity She burst out laughing.
"Of course, that's his name - Wang Ren .
"It's not the Wang Ren you think, but the Wang Ren meaning that he's lost all sense of decency and propriety."
"What backbiters have been slandering him like that?"
"It isn't slander.
I may as well tell you now, because you ought to know what your fine brother's like.
It's your second uncle's birthday he's celebrating - did you know that?"
Xifeng thought for a second, then exclaimed, "Oh!
But tell me -isn't his birthday in the winter?
I remember it was Baoyu who went every year.
When the master was promoted, second uncle sent an opera troupe to perform here, and I told the family in confidence, 'Second uncle's very tight-fisted, not like our elder uncle.
The two families keep bickering over money.
When our elder uncle died, didn't his younger brother try to grab his property?'
That's why I advised them, when his birthday came round, to pay back the opera so that we wouldn't be beholden to him.
But what's the idea, celebrating his birthday in advance this year?"
"You're still in the dark," said Jia Lian.
"As soon as your brother came to the capital, he held a requiem for your elder uncle.
For fear that we might stop him, he didn't tell us and he made thousands of taels out of the donations.
Later, your second uncle bawled him out for grabbing the whole lot.
Then, under pressure, he thought up another trick.
He's invited guests on the pretext that it's second uncle's birthday, fishing for more money from them to pacify him.
What does he care whether it's summer or winter, or whether relatives and friends know the date of the birthday or not?
That's how shameless he is!
"Do you know why I got up so early?
The censors have investigated the business by the coast and discovered a deficit during your elder uncle's term of office.
As he's dead, his younger brother Wang Zisheng and his nephew Wang Ren have to make it good.
In desperation, the two of them come to enlist my help and because they looked scared stiff, and because they're related to you and our mistress, I agreed.
I wanted to get Old Qiu who's in charge of the inner court to fix it up by transferring the deficit to some earlier or later account.
Unfortunately I got there too late, after he'd gone to the Palace.
So I went to all that trouble for nothing.
But your brother's still ordering operas and giving feasts.
Isn't that maddening?"
Although Xifeng knew that Wang Ren was in the wrong, it was not her way to admit it.
"Whatever he's like, he's your brother-in-law," she said.
"Besides, both the elder uncle who's dead and the second uncle who's alive should be grateful for what you're doing.
It goes without saying that as this is our Wang family business, I must beg you humbly to help otherwise other people will get blamed on my account and curse me behind my back."
In tears, she threw back her bedding and sat up, gathering her hair into a loose knot and slipping on some clothes.
"You don't have to take on like that," said Jia Lian.
"It's your brother who' 5 so disgusting.
I didn't blame you.
When I was out and you were poorly, these maids were still sleeping even after I was up -- since when has that been the rule in our family?
You let it go, to show how kindhearted you are.
When I say a word against someone, you get up.
If I find fault with them tomorrow, will you take all the blame on yourself?
This is so pointless!"
"It's high time for me to get up now," answered Xifeng, drying her eyes.
"If that's how you feel, I'll be grateful if you'll fix things up for them.
Not only for my sake either.
When the mistress hears about it, she'll be pleased too."
"All right.
I know.
You don't have to teach me that."
"Why get up so early, madam?"
asked Pinger.
"Don't you have a fixed time for getting up every day?
Master Lian's in a bad temper over something and taking it out on u That's just too bad!"
She turned to challenge him, "Madam's done enough for you, hasn't she, always bearing the brunt for you?
It's not my place to say this, sir, but you've taken advantage of her all this time, and it's not much you're doing for her now -- not just for her sake either yet you make such a song and dance about it.
Don't you mind hurting her feelings?
"Besides, you can't pin this on her.
If we get up late, you've a right to be angry with us -- after all, we're only slaves.
But madam's ruined her health by wearing herself out.
Why treat her so unkindly?"
She was on the verge of tears.
Jia Lian had been bursting with rage, but he was floored by these sharp yet gentle reproaches from his lovely wife and beautiful concubine.
"All right, all right!"
he laughed.
"She's quite enough for me to cope with, without your taking her side.
Anyway I'm not wanted here the sooner I die the better off you'll be."
"Don't talk like that," Xifeng retorted.
"Who knows what will happen?
I may die before you.
The earlier I do, the sooner I'll have some peace."
She wept again, and Pinger had to console her.
By now the sun was shining through the window and Jia Lian, having no more to say, rose and left.
Xifeng had just got up to make her toilet when a young maid came in with a message from Lady Wang "The mistress wants to know whether you're going to call on your uncle, madam.
If you are, she'd like you to take Madam Bao along."
Xifeng was depressed after her husband's disclosure and resented the way her family had let her down on top of which she really felt very limp after her fright the night before in the Garden.
"Tell Her Ladyship I still have one or two things to attend to, so I can't go today," was her answer.
"Besides, it isn't an important occasion.
If Madam Bao wants to go, she can go by herself."
The girl assented and went back to report this.
After Xifeng had finished her toilet, she reflected that even if she did not go she ought to send some message besides, Baochai, still a new bride, should be accompanied if she paid a visit.
So she went to see Lady Wang, then made some excuse to look in on Baoyu.
She found him lying fully dressed on the kang, raptly watching Baochai as she combed her hair.
Baochai was the first to see Xifeng in the doorway.
She hastily rose to offer her a seat, and Baoyu got down from the kang.
Xifeng seated herself with a smile.
"Why didn't you announce Madam Lian?"
Baochai scolded Sheyue.
"As soon as she came in, she signed to us to keep quiet," the maid replied with a smile.
Xifeng asked Baoyu, "Why are you still here?
You're grown up now, yet you still behave like a child.
Do you have to stick around watching her doing her hair?
Together all day long, don't you see enough of each other?
Aren't you afraid the maids will make fun of you?"
She laughed and smacked her lips.
Baoyu, though rather sheepish, paid no attention.
Baochai blushed all over her face, feeling she should not let this pass but not knowing what to say.
At this point Xiren brought in tea, and to hide her confusion Baochai passed their guest a tobacco-pipe, which Xifeng stood up to accept with a smile.
"Never mind us, sister," she said.
"Hurry up and get dressed."
Baoyu, too, tried to pass off his embarrassment by rummaging around.
"You go on ahead," Xifeng urged him.
"Who ever heard of gentlemen waiting to go with the ladies?"
"I just feel these clothes I'm wearing aren't very good, not up to that peacock-feather cape the old lady gave me that year."
"Why don't you wear it then?"
she asked mockingly.
"It's too early in the season.
Thus reminded, Xifeng regretted having spoken.
Luckily Baochai was related to the Wangs, still she felt rather put out in front of the maids.
But then Xiren interposed, "You don't realize, madam, that he wouldn't wear it even if the weather was cold."
"Why not?"
asked Xifeng.
"Because our young master's behaviour is really fantastic.
That year the old lady gave him this cape to wear on your second uncle's birthday, but that very same day he burnt it.
My mother was very ill, so I was away but Sister Qingwen was still here at the time.
Though she was unwell, I heard she sat up all night mending it for him, so that the next day the old lady didn't notice the burn.
One cold day last year when he was going to school, I told Beiming to take that cape for him, but the sight of it reminded him of Qingwen and he said he'd never wear it again.
He told me to keep it for him all his life...." "Speaking of Qingwen," Xifeng cut in, "it really was a shame!
She was a pretty child with clever hands, only rather sharp-tongued.
It was too bad that the mistress heard some rumour which cost the girl her life.
"That reminds me I noticed one day that Wuer, the daughter of Mrs. Liu in the kitchen, was the image of Qingwen, and I decided to take her on.
When I asked her mother she was only too willing.
Then it occurred to me that since Hongyu had left Baoyu service for mine, I ought to give him Wuer in exchange but Pinger told me the mistress had given orders that no girl looking like Qingwen was to work in Baoyu's place.
So I dropped the idea.
However, now that he's married what does it matter?
I'd better tell her to come -- that is, if Baoyu would like it.
If he misses Qingwen, he can look at this Wuer instead."
Baoyu who was on his way out stopped when he heard this.
Xiren answered for him, "Of course he would like it.
He wanted to get her here long ago, only the mistress was so strongly against it."
"In that case I'll send her over tomorrow," said Xifeng, "I can square it with the mistress."
Baoyu, delighted by this, went to call on his grandmother while Baochai got dressed.
Baoyu's obvious affection for Baochai upset Xifeng when she contrasted it with Jia Lian's behaviour to her earlier on.
Not wanting to stay there, she stood up and suggested to Baochai, "Let's go to see the mistress.
They went off cheerfully together to call on the old lady, and found Baoyu there explaining that he was going out to visit his uncle.
The old lady nodded.
"Go along then," she said.
"But don't drink too much, and come home early.
You're only just over your illness."
Baoyu assented and left, coming back again from the courtyard to whisper a few words in Baochai's ear.
"All right," she replied with a smile.
"Off you go now."
She urged him to hurry.
The old lady chatted with Xifeng and Baochai until, presently, Qiuwen came in to say, "Master Bao has sent Beiming back with a message for Madam Bao."
"Has he forgotten something again?"
Baochai wondered.
"Why send his page back?"
"I told one of the girls to ask Beiming," Qiuwen answered.
"He said, 'Master Bao forgot to tell Madam Bao this, so he sent me back with the message If she's going, she'd better go soon if not, she mustn't stand too long in a draught."
The old lady, Xifeng, the serving-women and maids all burst out laughing at this.
Baochai, flushing crimson, spat in disgust at Qiuwen.
"You silly creature!"
she scolded.
"Bursting in so wildly just to tell us this!"
Qiuwen went off, giggling, to tell the girl outside to curse Beiming.
He ran off, calling back over his shoulder, "Master Bao insisted that I must dismount and bring back this message.
If he found out I hadn't delivered it, he'd have sworn at me.
Now I've been sworn at all the same just for doing as I was told!"
The girl laughed and ran back to report this.
"Off you go then," said the old lady to Baochai.
"That'll stop him from worrying about you."
Baochai hardly knew which way to look, with Xifeng teasing her too.
She left in a fluster.
Just then, Abbess Daliao of Scattering Flowers Temple arrived.
Having paid her respects to the Lady Dowager and Xifeng, she sat down and had some tea.
Why haven't you been to see us for so long?"
the old lady asked her.
"These days we've been having sacrifices in our temple," said the abbess.
"We had visits too from several noble ladies, so I didn't find time before.
I've come today specially, Old Ancestress, to let you know that tomorrow we are holding another mass.
If you'd care to join us, it would be a little outing for you.
The old lady asked the nature of the mass.
"Last month evil spirits appeared in the Wang mansion, contaminating it," the abbess explained.
"One night Madam Wang saw the ghost of her dead husband so yesterday she came to our temple saying that she wanted to offer incense to the Flower-Scattering Saint and to have sacrifices made for forty-nine days to ensure the family peace, so that the dead may ascend to Heaven and the living enjoy good fortune.
This is what kept me from coming to pay my respects before."
Xifeng normally had no patience with such proceedings, but since seeing a ghost the night before she had been filled with misgivings.
This had changed her attitude, making her inclined to believe what the abbess said.
She asked, "Who is this Flower-Scattering Saint?
How can he ward off evil and exorcise devils?"
Seeing that she was open to conviction, the abbess said, "Since you ask, madam, let me tell you.
This saint's extraordinary powers are deep-founded.
He was born in the Country of Great Trees in the Western Paradise.
His parents were woodcutters.
He came into the world with three horns on his head and four eyes, eight feet in height, with arms reaching to the ground.
Because his parents thought he was a monster, they abandoned him behind the Icy Mountain.
But an old monkey there with magic powers, coming out in search of food, saw a white vapour rising from this saint's head and noticed that tigers and wolves kept away from him.
He knew then that this was no ordinary child, so carried him back to his cave and brought him up.
Now this saint had been born so quick of understanding, he was able to discuss the Way and Buddhism with the monkey.
They did this every day, until flowers rained down from the skies.
"A thousand years later the saint ascended to Heaven.
But even now on the mountain you can see the place where he expounded the canons, scattering flowers.
All prayers to him are granted, and he often manifests his divinity by saving those in distress.
That is why this temple was built and offerings are made to his image."
"What proof have you of this?"
Xifeng wanted to know.
"You're cavilling again, madam!
What proof is needed?
If this were false it could only fool one or two people.
How could so many people with good sense have been fooled from old times till now?
Just think, madam, the reason why Buddhist sacrifices have been made throughout the centuries is because they have proved efficacious in safeguarding the country and enriching the people -- that's why men believe in them."
Convinced by this reasoning, Xifeng replied, "In that case, I'll go tomorrow and try.
Do you have divination lots in your temple?
I'd like to draw one.
If it solves my problem, I shall become a believer!"
"Our lots are infallible," Daliao assured her.
"You'll know that when you draw one tomorrow, madam."
"Better wait till the day after that - the first of the month," said the old lady.
When Daliao had finished her tea, she went to pay her respects to Lady Wang and those in other apartments, after which she returned to the temple.
Xifeng bore up as best she could till the morning of the first then she ordered a carriage and horses to be made ready and, attended by many servants, went with Pinger to the temple.
Daliao came out at the head of all the nuns to welcome her and after tea had been served, Xifeng washed her hands and entered the main hall to offer incense.
In no mood to gaze at the image, she kowtowed devoutly and picked up the bamboo container holding the lots.
First she offered up a silent prayer about the apparition and her bad health, then she shook the container three times.
A bamboo slip shot out.
With another kowtow she picked it up and saw the inscription "Number 33.
Most auspicious."
Daliao looked up that number in the oracle book and found the entry 'Wang Xifeng returns home in splendour."
In amazement Xifeng asked her, "Was there another Wang Xifeng in olden times?"
Daliao answered with a smile, "Why, madam, with your broad knowledge of past and present, haven't you heard the story of how Wang Xifeng of the Han Dynasty found an official post?"
Zhou Rui's wife beside them chuckled, "The other year, we wouldn't let that story-teller, Mrs. Li, tell this story because that was your name, madam."
"That's right," agreed Xifeng.
"I had forgotten."
She then read the words below -774 The one who for a score of years left home Now in fine raiment will return again.
The honey culled from blossoms by the bee Is seized by others -- all its toil is vain.
-1520 The traveller arrives.
Word comes too late.
Settle the lawsuit.
Reconsider the match.
Xifeng could not make much of this, but the abbess cried, "Congratulations, madam!
What a coincidence!
You have been here since childhood, never going back to Nanjing.
Now that His Lordship has a provincial post he may send for his family, which will give you a chance to return in splendour' as the oracle says."
While speaking she had copied out the prediction and handed it to the maid.
Xifeng was still only half convinced.
When Daliao served her a meal, she simply toyed with the food then made ready to leave, first donating some silver for incense, and the abbess could not prevail on her to stay longer.
When she reached home, the old lady and Lady Wang asked what the oracle had said.
Once it had been explained to them they were delighted.
"The master may really have such a plan!"
they exclaimed.
"It would make a pleasant trip for us.
As one and all said this, Xifeng too accepted this interpretation.
When Baoyu woke from his siesta that day, Baochai was not in the room but before he could ask her whereabouts she came in.
Where have you been all this time?"
he wanted to know.
"I was explaining an oracle for Cousin Xifeng," she told him with a smile.
He asked her what it had been and she read it out to him.
"Everyone declares it's a good omen," she told him.
"But I think 'returns home in splendour may mean something else.
Well, time will show."
"You're too sceptical, trying to twist the saint's meaning," he protested.
"Everybody has always known that this is a good omen.
Why read some other meaning into it?
How else would you explain it anyway?"
Before Baochai could tell him, a maid came from Lady Wang to summon her and she had to go over at once.
To know the reason for this summons, read the next chapter.
Chapter 102 Powers of Darkness Derange the Inmates of the Ning Mansion Priests Exorcise Evil Spirits in Grand View Garden Summoned by Lady Wang, Baochai hurried over to pay her respects to her.
"Tanchun is going to be married," her mother-in-law said.
"As her sister-in-law, you should give her some good advice to show your affection.
After all, she's an intelligent child too, and I know how well both of you get on together.
But I hear the news of her marriage set Baoyu crying bitterly -- you should reason with him as well.
"These days I'm constantly ailing, and Xifeng is unwell three days out of five.
As you have good sense you ought to take things in hand, not holding back for fear of giving offence.
In future you'll be responsible for this whole household."
"Yes, madam."
"Another thing," continued Lady Wang.
"Your sister-in-law Xifeng brought Mrs. Liu's daughter here yesterday and said, as you're one maid short, the girl's to join your staff."
"Pinger brought her over just now, saying that both you and Xifeng had agreed to it, madam."
"Yes, Xifeng proposed it to me and I raised no objection -- I could hardly turn her down.
Only, judging by the look in that girl's eyes, she's not the kind to keep quiet.
I dismissed some of Baoyu's maids before because they were such vixens but of course you know that -- that was why you moved out of the Garden.
Now with you here things are different.
I'm telling you just so that you'll be on the look-out.
The only reliable girl in your place is Xiren."
Baochai expressed agreement and after a little more chat she took her leave.
After her meal, she called on Tanchun and they had a good heart-to-heart talk which we need not record in detail.
The next day before setting off on her journey, Tanchun came to say goodbye to Baoyu who was, of course, most reluctant to see her go.
She held forth, however, on the moral principles governing human relations and, though at first he hung his head in silence, he gradually brightened up and showed signs of seeing sense.
Then, relieved in her mind, she bade farewell to the whole household, mounted her sedan-chair and set off to journey south by boat and by carriage.
Formerly all the girls had stayed in Grand View Garden but after the Imperial Consort's death the place was not kept up.
By the time of Baoyu's marriage and Daiyu's death, as Xiangyun had also left and Baoqin had moved home very few people remained there.
Then, when the weather grew colder, Li Wan and her cousins as well as Tanchun and Xichun moved back to their former quarters, only returning sometimes by common consent to enjoy the flowers and moonlight.
Now that Tanchun had gone and Baoyu was staying indoors to recuperate, there were even fewer pleasure-seekers left.
So the Garden was very quiet, with only a few caretakers in residence.
After Madam You had gone over to see Tanchun off that day, as it was already dark and she did not want to take a carriage, she decided to walk through the side-gate which had been made in the Garden to give access to the Ning Mansion.
She found the place desolate, its pavilions and lodges deserted, with vegetables growing in the former flower-beds.
The sight filled her with nostalgia.
By the time she reached home she had a slight fever and, after bearing up for a couple of days, she had to take to her bed.
During the daytime she was not too feverish, but at night her temperature shot up and she became delirious.
The doctor summoned by Jia Zhen to attend her diagnosed a chill which had upset her digestion, making her delirious and subject to delusions.
A bowel movement should set her right.
However, two doses of medicine failed to cure her - she raved more wildly than ever.
In his anxiety Jia Zhen sent for Jia Rong.
"Find out what other good doctors there are outside and ask some of them here to see her," he ordered his son.
"This doctor we had is the best-known," was the answer.
"Maybe my mother's illness is one that medicine can't cure."
"Nonsense!
Stop giving her medicine, just leaving her to get over it herself?"
"That's not what I meant, sir.
But the other day, when she went to the West Mansion, she came back through the Garden and as soon as she got home she had this fever, so something there may have put a jinx on her.
There's a very good diviner here from the south, a man called Mao Banxian.
Why not ask him here to consult him?
If it seems that's what happened, we'll follow his advice.
If it doesn't work, we can look for other good doctors."
Jia Zhen immediately sent to invite this man.
He was offered a seat in his study and served with tea.
"You sent for me, sir," the diviner said to Jia Rong.
"What do you want me to prognosticate?"
"My mother is ill. We'd like you to divine the reason.
"In that case," said Mao, "bring me clean water to wash my hands and set incense on the table.
I'll see what I can do."
When the servants had done as he asked, he took out from his pocket a bamboo tube and, stepping forward, made a reverent bow.
He shook the tube, intoning, "The Yin and Yang of the Primal Order have interacted sacred symbols have appeared with infinite changes divine manifestations must answer the prayers of the pious.
"Now here is a devout gentleman named Jia whose mother is ill. We piously beseech the four great sages Fu Xi, King Wen, the Duke of Zhou and Confucius to hear our supplication, that manifestations may appear for the faithful and bad or good fortune be truthfully predicted.
First vouchsafe the three inner signs."
He emptied three coins from the tube on to a plate, then announced, "A true manifestation the first toss shows three obverses."
Then he picked up the coins and poured them out again.
The second toss was two obverses and one reverse, the third another three obverses.
Picking up these coins he intoned, "Now the inner signs have been revealed we vouchsafe the three outer signs to make up the answer."
These came out as two obverses and one reverse for the first toss, two reverses and one obverse for the second, while the third was the same as the first.
Thereupon Mao Banxian put away the tube and the coins and resumed his seat.
"Please sit down while I study this carefully," he said.
"This is an irrelevant diagram.
The third sign indicates plundering of brothers and certain misfortune.
But since you are asking about your honourable mother's illness, it is the first sign that counts and in that parents' sign there is a hostile ghost.
The fifth sign shows another ghost hence I fear your mother's illness is quite serious.
"However, there is a compensating factor, namely that the water element is now in the ascendant, and next comes wood which leads in turn to fire.
Then there is a progeny sign which subdues ghosts.
Besides, in another two days the water will subside and all will be well.
"But I fear from the ghost in the parents' sign that your father's health may be affected too.
The manifestations also show serious contradictions and destruction, and there will be trouble when water is in the ascendant and earth is weak."
With this he sat down, thrusting forward his goatee.
Jia Rong had at first been laughing up his sleeve at this rigmarole, but now he felt there might be something in it and in this prediction that his father would fall ill too.
"This is brilliantly divined, sir," he said.
"But what caused my mother's illness?"
"The signs indicate fire counteracted by water, therefore it must be a case of a cold congestion combined with a hot humour.
Even divination by milfoil would be unable to determine this more clearly -- for that you would need to resort to the method of the Duodecimal Cycle."
"Are you expert in that too, sir?"
"I know something about it."
Jia Rong asked him to demonstrate and gave him the two-hour period.
Then Mao Banxian drew a board, set the deities in due order and found that it was the hour of the White Tiger.
"This is called the 'dissolution of animal spirits,"' he said.
"White tigers are evil.
When controlled by a spirit in the ascendant they cannot run amok but now that disaster has befallen the house, at a time of misfortune and death, tigers grow ravenous and must prey on people.
The portent acquired this name because animal spirits dissipate when alarmed.
"This sign indicates the loss of animal spirits attended by deaths, sicknesses and alarms.
Since, according to the portent, tigers appear at dusk, she must have been taken ill in the evening.
It also says, 'All who cast this lot must have a tiger spirit lurking in an old house to cause trouble.
It may take form and utter sounds.'
You asked to have your parents' fortunes told, sir.
This coincides with the saying that a tiger appearing in the daytime harries men, seen at night it harries women.
This is very ominous!"
Before Jia Rong had heard him out he was pale with fright.
"No doubt, sir," he agreed.
"But this doesn't altogether accord with that other prediction.
Just how serious is it?"
"Don't panic.
Let me study it carefully again."
He lowered his head and muttered to himself for a while.
"Good!"
he cried presently.
"There is hope.
I have worked out that a noble spirit will come to the rescue.
This sign is known as the 'dissolution of the sentient soul with the return of the spiritual soul.'
Anxiety will be followed by joy.
All will be well, but you must take precautions."
Jia Rong presented him with his fee and saw him out.
He then reported to Jia Zhen, "Mother caught this illness in the old house at dusk, when she met a white tiger spirit."
"You told me that the other day your mother came back through the Garden she must have run into it there.
Remember how your aunt Xifeng fell ill after going to the Garden?
Though she didn't see anything herself, later on all the maids and nurses with her declared they had seen a furry creature on a rock with eyes as big as lanterns, and able to speak.
It drove her back, making her fall ill from fright."
"Yes, I remember," replied Jia Rong.
"I also heard from Uncle Bao's page Mingyan that Qingwen had become the Spirit of the Hibiscus in the Garden, and that after Miss Lin died music sounded high above, so she must have been put in charge of some flowers there too.
What a dreadful thing -- all those monsters in the Garden!
Before, with all those people coming and going and the place so full of life, it didn't matter.
But now it's very lonely, and when my mother went there she may have trodden on some flowers or had some jinx put on her.
So it seems the divination was correct."
"Did he say there was any danger?"
asked Jia Zhen.
'According to him, in another two days she'll be better -- but I hope it doesn't all happen as he predicted."
"What do you mean?"
"If that fortune-teller was right, sir, I'm afraid you'll be out of sorts too."
Just then, someone called out from the inner quarters, "The mistress wants to get up and go over to the Garden.
Her maids can't stop her!"
Her husband and son went in to pacify her.
"The one in red's calling me!
The one in green 's hurrying me!"
Madam You was raving.
All present were both frightened and amused.
Jia Zhen sent to buy paper money to burn in the Garden.
And, sure enough, that night she sweated and calmed down, while after another two days she gradually recovered.
This story spread until everyone was talking of the devils in the Garden, and the servants in charge there were too scared to cut flowers, prune tress or water the vegetables.
At first, they dared not venture out at night, so that birds and beasts ran wild then, even in the daytime, they would only go there in groups and armed with weapons.
Later, indeed, Jia Zhen also fell ill, but instead of consulting a doctor or taking medicine he made certain vows and had paper money burnt in the Garden and prayers offered to the stars.
No sooner had he recovered than Jia Rong and the others fell ill in turn.
This went on for several months, so that both households were appalled -- the sough of the wind and the cry of cranes caused panic, while people saw monsters in each tree or tuft of grass.
As all income from the Garden stopped, the monthly expenses of different compounds increased and the Rong Mansion was harder pressed for money.
The servants in the Garden, eager to leave the place, kept making up stories and stirring up trouble with their tales of flower spirits and tree monsters.
So finally the Garden gate was sealed up and no one dared to go there any more.
The fine towers, pavilions, lodges and terraces were each and all taken over by birds and beasts.
Now Qingwen's cousin Wu Gui lived just outside the Garden gate.
Since Qingwen's death and the story that she had turned into a flower spirit, his wife dared not go out at night.
One day she had a cold and took the wrong medicine while Wu Gui was out shopping, so that on his return late that evening he found her dead on the kang.
Outsiders, knowing her bad reputation, claimed that a monster had climbed over the wall to enjoy her until she died of exhaustion.
The old lady, scandalized by this talk, posted guards outside Baoyu's house who sounded the watch as they patrolled in turn.
And these young maids alleged that they had seen a red-faced figure as well as a ravishing beauty, raising such a ceaseless commotion that Baoyu went in terror every day.
Luckily, Baochai had sense and she managed to curb these rumours to some extent by threatening to beat any maids whom she heard talking wildly.
Still, all who lived there were so apprehensive that they hired extra watchmen, adding to the household's expenses.
Jia She alone was sceptical.
"How could there be monsters in such a fine garden?"
he scoffed.
Choosing a fine sunny day and ignoring the others' warnings, he led a troop of armed servants to investigate.
Inside the Garden there was indeed a sinister atmosphere.
Jia She braced himself to proceed, while his followers flinched with fear.
One young servant, already afraid, heard a whizzing noise and looked round to see a gaudy creature fly past.
With a cry of terror, his legs gave way and he fell down.
Jia She turned to ask what had happened.
"I saw a monster!"
gasped the boy. "
Yellow in the face with a red beard, dressed in green.
It flew into a cave behind the trees."
Shaken by this, Jia She asked, "Did the rest of you see it?"
Some servants seized this chance to chime in, "Yes, we did, sir.
But as you were ahead, we didn't like to alarm you.
So we kept quiet about it.
We slaves can control ourselves."
Afraid to go any further, Jia She beat a hasty retreat, instructing the servants not to mention this but to say that a thorough search of the Garden had revealed nothing amiss.
At heart, however, he believed the boy's story and decided to go to the Taoist Patriarch to invite some priests to exorcise evil spirits.
And when they saw his fear, those servants who never let slip a chance to make trouble not only did not hush it up but embroidered on the story, so that all who heard it gaped in consternation.
Jia She felt he had no choice but to call in Taoists to exorcise the spirits haunting the Garden.
An auspicious day was selected, and on the altar set up in the Hall of Reunion were placed the images of the Three Taoist Gods with, beside them, the Twenty-eight Constellations, the Four Great Generals Ma, Zhao, Wen and Zhou and, below these, the Thirty-six Heavenly Officers.
Incense, flowers, lamps and candles filled the hall, on either side of which were ranged bells, drums and other scared vessels, as well as five flags denoting north, south, east, west and centre.
The Board of Taoist Sacrifices sent forty-nine attendants who spent a whole day purifying the altar.
Then three high priests offered incense and sprinkled water, after which the sacred drum was beaten.
The priests wore seven-star chaplets, nine-coloured robes with Eight Diagrams designs, and cloud-ascending sandals.
Holding ivory wands, they presented a memorial begging the gods to descend.
Then for a whole day they chanted the Primal Void Canon to wipe out evil spirits and bring good fortune.
This done, they issued the order to summon the heavenly generals.
On it was written in large characters, "The Grand Monad, using the holy signs of the Three Sacred Realms, convokes all the deities of these realms to the altar for service.
The masters and the men-servants of both mansions had gone to the Garden that day to watch the priests catch monsters.
"What an impressive order!"
they commented.
"This commotion to summon heavenly generals here should frighten any number of monsters away."
They crowded round the altar to watch the acolytes raising flags and taking up their positions north, south, east, west and centre to await orders.
Next, the three high priests took their places before the altar, the first holding a sword and pitcher of holy water, the second the seven-starred black flag, and the third the peach-wood rod for beating monsters.
As soon as the music stopped, the magic tablet was rapped three times and they chanted incantations while the acolytes with their flags circled round them.
Then the high priests, leaving the altar, made members of the family lead them to the various pavilions, lodges, rocks and streams so that they could sprinkle them with holy water and brandish the sword at each.
Returning, they rapped the tablet again several times and raised high the seven-starred flag.
Next, the priests held the flags together and the rod beat the air three times.
The onlookers, sure that by now the monsters must have been caught, pressed forward to see them but there was no sign of them.
They saw nothing but the high priests sending for a bottle in which to imprison the monsters, and when this had been sealed up they wrote a charm in vermilion on the seal, then put the bottle away with instructions that later it should be taken back and kept securely under their temple pagoda.
Finally, the altar having been cleared, they offered up thanks to the heavenly generals.
Jia She expressed respectful gratitude to the priests, but Jia Rong and some other younger men of the family were secretly most amused.
"What a great to-do!"
they scoffed.
"We expected them to show us the monsters they'd caught, to let us see what they were really like after all that hunting round.
Heaven knows whether they caught anything or not!"
"You fools!"
swore Jia Zhen.
"Monsters take shape or vanish into thin air just as they please.
With all the heavenly generals here, how dare they show themselves?
Now that the evil has been exorcised, they'll have to stop making trouble -- such is the power of the sacred doctrine."
The young men waited sceptically to watch for further developments.
The servants, however, did not question the claim that the monsters had been captured.
They stopped panicking and let the matter drop.
The re-co very of Jia Zhen and the other invalids was also attributed to the Taoists' magic.
Only one page chortled, "I don't know what happened earlier on, but I went to the Garden that day with Lord She, and it was a big pheasant that flew past -- that was plain as daylight.
But Shuaner took fright, thought he'd seen an apparition and described it to the life!
We all backed him up by fibbing, so Lord She took his story seriously.
That's why we had this grand show to watch today!"
But none of his hearers believed him, and still no one had the courage to live in the Garden.
One day, when Jia She was at leisure, he thought of ordering some servants to move into the Garden as caretakers to prevent bad characters from hiding there at night.
Before he could give this order, Jia Lian came in and paid his respects.
"Today, in Uncle Wang's place, I heard that Second Uncle has been impeached by the governor," he announced.
"He's accused of not keeping a check on his subordinates and of levying too much grain.
The court has been petitioned to dismiss him."
It must surely be a rumour!"
replied Jia She, very shocked.
"Only the other day, he wrote to tell us the date of Tanchun's arrival and the auspicious day chosen for seeing her off to the coast.
She'd had a smooth journey, he said, so the family need not worry.
He also wrote that the governor was treating him as a relative and had given him a congratulatory feast.
How could anyone related to him impeach him?
But let's not waste time talking.
Go straight to the Ministry of Civil Affairs to find out the facts, then come and let me know."
Jia Lian left at once.
On his return a few hours later he said, "I've just heard in the minis-try that he has been impeached.
A report has been sent to the court, but thanks to His Majesty's clemency it hasn't been referred to the ministry.
It has been decreed 'Since he failed to keep his subordinates in check and levied too heavy a grain tax, cruelly exploiting the people, he should be dismissed.
But in view of the fact that he was new to this provincial post and inexperienced in administration, enabling his subordinates to deceive him, he is to be demoted three ranks and, by the gracious favour of the Emperor, can still serve as assistant minister of the Ministry of Works.
He is to return forthwith to the capital.
"This news is reliable.
We were just discussing it in the ministry when a magistrate from Jiangxi, newly summoned to court, arrived.
He has a high opinion of Second Uncle.
Says he's a good official but doesn't know how to handle subordinates, so those servants of his made trouble outside, bullying and cheating people and spoiling his reputation.
The governor, knowing this all along, also thinks well of Second Uncle.
It's puzzling that he should have impeached him now.
Maybe things were getting so out of hand he was afraid there might be some big scandal and therefore accused him of negligence to get him off more lightly."
Cutting him short, Jia She instructed him, "Go and tell your aunt about this, but don't let the old lady know."
Jia Lian went to report this news to Lady Wang.
To know her reactions you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 103 Jingui Plots Murder and Destroys Herself Jia Yucun, Blind to the Truth, Meets an Old Friend in Vain Jia Lian went to tell Lady Wang all that had happened.
The next day he returned to the Ministry of Civil Affairs for fuller information, then reported back to her.
"Is this news reliable?"
she asked.
"If so, the master will be pleased and our minds will be set at rest too.
Those provincial posts are too risky.
If he hadn't been recalled like this, those scoundrels might have been the death of him!"
"How did you know that, madam?"
he inquired.
"Since your Second Uncle went to this provincial post, instead of sending home a single cent he's spent a whole lot of the family's money.
And look at those men who went with him They hadn't been gone long before their wives started dolling themselves up with gold and silver trinkets.
Obviously they've been raking in money outside without the master knowing.
And he's let them get away with such goings-on.
If there'd been a scandal, not only would he be dismissed -- our ancestors might even be deprived of their titles!"
"You're quite right, madam.
When I first heard he'd been impeached I had the fright of my life, but after I got the facts clear I felt relieved.
I hope he'll pass some years quietly as an official in the capital, keeping his good reputation as long as he lives.
Even if the old lady hears this she needn't worry, provided you reassure her."
"I know what to say.
But go and see what more you can find out."
Jia Lian assented and was on the point of leaving when in hurried one of Aunt Xue's old serving-women in a fluster.
Not stopping to pay her respects she blurted out "Our mistress has sent me, madam, to tell you that another dreadful thing has happened in our family!"
"What is it?"
"Something too awful for words!"
"You silly creature!"
scolded Lady Wang.
"If it's so serious, tell me properly."
"Master Ke is away, we've no man in the house so how are we to cope?
She wants you, madam, to send some gentlemen over to help us out."
"But what do you want them for?"
asked Lady Wang impatiently, having no idea what she was talking about.
"Madam Pan is dead!"
"Pah!
Good riddance to bad rubbish!
Why get so worked up?"
"It wasn't a natural death - there's been foul play.
Please, madam, send someone over at once to cope!"
With that she turned to go back.
Both angry and amused Lady Wang exclaimed, "What a fool this old woman is!
You'd better go and see what's happened, Lian.
Pay no attention to that stupid creature."
Not catching the instruction to him to go over, all the old woman heard was "pay no attention."
She hurried off in a huff.
Aunt Xue was waiting anxiously for her return.
When at last the servant came back she asked her, "Well, whom is she sending?"
"It's no use!"
The old woman sighed.
"When you're in a fix, the kindest of kin will do nothing.
Her Ladyship not only refuses to help us, she swore I was a fool!"
"If she won't help," cried Aunt Xue in exasperation, "What did the young mistress say?"
"If Her Ladyship won't lift a finger, how can her daughter-in-law do anything?
I didn't go to tell her."
"Her Ladyship isn't one of our family, but how can the daughter whom I brought up ignore me?"
demanded Aunt Xue irately.
"Of course!"
exclaimed the old woman, catching on.
"Well then, I'll go again."
But just then ha Lian arrived.
Having paid his respects to Aunt Xue and offered his condolences he said, "My aunt has heard that Pan's wife is dead, but she couldn't get any sense out of your servant and so she's very worried.
She's sent me to find out what's happened and told me to help.
What can I do for you, aunt?"
Aunt Xue had been sobbing with rage, but on hearing this she said quickly, "I'm sorry to put you out, Master Lian.
I know how good my sister is to me, but this old creature can't give a message clearly and nearly held matters up.
Please take a seat and I'll tell you all about it.
The thing is - she didn't die a natural death."
"Did she kill herself in a pique because of Pan's trouble?"
"I only wish she had!
These last few months she made scenes every day, going barefoot with tousled hair like a crazy creature.
Although at the news of Pan's death sentence she did cry, she soon started making up again with rouge and powder and had I protested she would have made a big row, so I ignored her.
Then one day, for some reason, she came and asked to have Xiangling to keep her company.
I told her, 'You have Baochan, so what do you want Xiangling for?
It's not as if you liked her why let her provoke you?
As she insisted, however, I had to tell Xiangling to move in with her.
The poor girl dared not disobey me and, had as her health was, she went there.
I was pleasantly surprised when Jingui treated her very well, but when Baochai knew she said, 'Do you suppose Jingui is plotting something?'
I paid no attention, though.
"A few days ago Xiangling fell ill, and Jingui made some soup for her herself.
But Xiangling was out of luck as Jingui took it to her she scalded her own hand and the bowl was smashed.
I'd have expected her to blame it on Xiangling, but instead of losing her temper she swept up the pieces herself then mopped the floor, and they remained on good terms.
"Last night, she told Baochan to make two more bowls of soup for her to drink with Xiangling.
After a while, I heard a great commotion in her room first Baochan was screaming like mad, then Xiangling joined in and staggered out, leaning against the wall, to call for help.
"I hurried in and found my daughter-in-law thrashing about on the floor.
Blood was gushing from her nose and eyes, and she was clawing with both hands at her stomach.
I was frightened to death!
When I asked what had happened she couldn't speak, and presently she died in agony.
It looked to me as if she had taken poison.
"Then Baochan tearfully seized hold of Xi angling, accusing her of Poisoning her mistress.
I don't believe Xiangling would do such a thing.
In any case, confined to her bed, how could she?
But Baochan insisted she'd done it.
So what could I do, Lian?
I had to harden my heart to tell the matrons to tie Xiangling up and leave her in Baochan's charge.
Then we locked them into the room, and I sat up all night with your cousin Baoqin waiting for your gate to open so that we could send you word.
You have good sense, Lian.
Tell me, how should we handle this?"
"Does the Xia family know about it?"
he asked.
"No.
We must clear up the business before we tell them."
"I think we'll have to go through official channels to get the matter settled.
Naturally it's Baochan whom we suspect, but other people will ask what reason she had to poison her own mistress.
To them, Xiangling would seem more likely to do it."
As they were talking, maids from the Rong Mansion came in to announce their young mistress.
Although Jia Lian was Baochai's elder cousin-in-law, as they had known each other since childhood he did not withdraw when she entered.
Baochai paid her respects to her mother and him, then went into the inner room to sit with Baoqin.
Aunt Xue followed her in and told her what had happened.
Baochai pointed out, "If we have Xiangling bound, it will look as if we too believe she was the poisoner.
You say the soup was prepared by Baochan, mother.
In that case, you should tie her up and question her, at the same time sending to tell the Xia family and to report this to the authorities."
Aunt Xue thought this reasonable and consulted Jia Lian.
"Baochai is quite right," he agreed.
"When we have reported this, I must also go and ask some men in the Board of Punishments to help see to things at the inquest and interrogation.
But I think it may make things awkward if we tie up Baochan and set Xiangling loose."
"I didn't want to tie up Xiangling," Aunt Xue told him.
"But I was afraid that, ill as she is, this false accusation might make her so desperate she'd try to kill herself -- then we'd have another death on our hands.
That's why I decided to have her tied up and put in Baochan's charge."
"Still, this is strengthening Baochan's case," he objected.
"They should either both be set free or both bound up, as the three of them were together.
Well, just get somebody to comfort Xiangling."
Aunt Xue ordered the door to be opened and went in, while Baochai sent the maids she had brought with her to help tie up Baochan, who had been gloating over the sight of Xiangling crying her heart out.
When Baochan saw them coming with ropes to bind her she screamed, but the maids from the Rong Mansion silenced her and trussed her up.
The door was left open with people on watch outside.
By then they had sent to inform the Xia family which had only recently moved to the capital, as in the last few years they had gone bankrupt and Mrs. Xia, a widow, missed her daughter.
She had an adopted son, a scoundrel who had squandered all their money and who often called on the Xue family.
Jingui was too amorous to live without a man and had long been hankering after Xue Ke, but hers was a case of "beggars can't be choosers."
However, this foster-brother of hers was dense.
Though he knew pretty well what she wanted he had not yet made love to her and so Jingui, on her frequent visits home, would help him out with money.
Today he was looking forward to a visit from her, when the arrival of a Xue family servant convinced him that here was another gift for him.
At the news that she had died of poison, he set up an angry outcry.
His mother raised an even bigger uproar.
"My daughter was doing all right there!"
she screamed.
"Why should she poison herself?"
Weeping and wailing, she set off on foot with her son without waiting for a carriage, for the Xias being bankrupt tradesmen did not trouble to keep up appearances.
The son walked on ahead while his mother, accompanied by an old slattern, sobbed and snivelled in the street as she hired a carriage.
As soon as she entered the Xues' gate, without greeting anyone she started loudly bewailing her "darling daughter," and clamouring for revenge.
Jia Lian had gone to the Board of Punishments to enlist help, leaving only Aunt Xue, Baochai and Baoqin at home.
They had never seen such goings-on before and were too frightened to speak.
Indeed, even had they reasoned with her, Mrs. Xia would not have listened.
"What good treatment did my daughter ever get in your family?"
she ranted.
"Her husband beat and cursed her all the time then you wouldn't let the young couple stay together.
You plotted to have my son-in-law imprisoned, so that she'd never set eyes on him again.
Mother and daughter, you enjoy yourselves with your fine relatives' backing, but you still couldn't bear the sight of Jingui and got someone to poison her, then accused her of killing herself!
Why should she take poison?"
She charged at Aunt Xue, who fell back protesting, "Madam!
First go and look at your daughter and question Baochan, before making such allegations."
As Mrs. Xia's adopted son was there, Baochai and Baoqin were unable to come to Aunt Xue's rescue.
They could only wring their hands in the inner room.
Then, as luck would have it, Lady Wang sent Zhou Rui's wife to help out.
She came in to see an old woman wagging a finger at Aunt Xue and screaming at her.
She knew this must be Jingul's mother.
"Are you Mrs. Xia, madam?"
asked Mrs. Zhou stepping forward.
"The young mistress has poisoned herself.
It wasn't Madam Xue's doing.
How can you abuse her like this?"
"And who may you be?"
Mrs. Xia retorted.
This reinforcement emboldened Aunt Xue to say, "She is one of the household of our Jia relatives."
"We all know you have powerful relatives," sneered Mrs. Xia.
"That's why you can keep my son-in-law in jail.
But does that mean that my child's death can go unavenged?"
Seizing hold of Aunt Xue she demanded, "Just how did you murder my daughter anyway?
Show me!"
Mrs. Zhou interposed, "Just go and see for yourself.
Stop tugging at other people."
She gave her a shove.
The adopted son ran over to protest, "Are you banking on your masters' power to beat up my mother?"
He threw a chair at Mrs. Zhou, but missed her.
Baochai's maids inside on hearing this commotion hurried out, afraid Mrs. Zhou might get hurt.
They crowded forward to intervene, expostulating and warning the fellow off.
But that only made Mrs. Xia and her son set up a still greater clamour.
"We know how powerful your Rong Mansion is!"
they yelled.
"Now Our girl has been killed, you may as well kill us too!"
Again they charged Aunt Xue.
The maids, for all there were so many of them, were powerless to stop them for as the saying goes, "Ten thousand men are no match for one desperado."
Things had just taken this ugly turn when Jia Lian arrived with seven or eight men-servants.
Sizing up the situation, he ordered his men to drag Mrs. Xia's son away.
"Stop this brawling and talk reasonably," he said.
"This place must be straightened up at once.
Officers from the Board of Punishments are corning to hold an inquest."
The arrival of this gentleman with attendants before him to clear the way made all the servants present stand at attention, and Jingui's mother realized that this must be one of the Jia family.
Then her son was seized and she heard there was to be an official inquest.
She had been meaning to raise a great ballyhoo over her daughter's corpse, then appeal to the court for justice, little thinking that the others would inform the authorities first.
This took the wind out of her sails.
Aunt Xue was still too stunned to speak, and it was Mrs. Zhou who reported to Jia Lian "This woman came here not to look at her daughter but to abuse Madam Xue.
We were remonstrating with her when a wild man burst in to raise pandemonium.
In the presence of ladies too -- it was simply outrageous!"
"We needn't argue with them now," said Jia Lian.
"Later we can have him beaten and interrogated.
Men should keep to themselves and not intrude on ladies.
His mother could surely have seen her daughter by herself.
Why should he rush in if not to loot the place?"
Meanwhile his servants had secured the young man.
"What a way to behave, Mrs.
Xia!"
cried Zhou Rui's wife now that she had more support.
"Since you came, you should have asked the facts of the matter.
Either your daughter committed suicide, or Baochan poisoned her.
Why try to blackmail people before finding out the facts and seeing the corpse?
Would Madam Xue let her daughter-in-law die and do nothing about it?
We've tied Baochan up.
Because your daughter was always making trouble, she asked Xiangling to keep her company and they slept in the same room.
That's why both she and Baochan are under guard there.
We were waiting for you to come and attend the inquest, at which we'll find out just what happened."
Aware that her position was weak, Mrs. Xia had to go with Zhou Rui's wife to her daughter's room.
The sight of Jingui lying stark on the kang, her face covered with clotted blood, set her wailing aloud.
When Baochan saw Mrs. Xia she sobbed, "Our young lady was kind to xiangling, getting her to move in with her, yet Xiangling seized this chance to poison her!"
By now the whole Xue household had gathered there.
"Nonsense!"
they protested.
"She died after drinking that soup yesterday.
Weren't you the one who prepared it?"
"Yes, I was.
But after bringing it in I went out to see to something else.
Then Xiangling must have put some poison in it."
Before she had finished speaking, Jingui's mother dashed towards Xiangling, but the others barred her way.
Aunt Xue said, "It looks as if she was poisoned by arsenic.
We certainly have none here.
No matter whether it was Xiangling or Baochan, someone must have bought it for her.
After investigation the authorities are sure to find out.
The culprit can't get away.
Now let's lay her out properly ready for the inquest."
As the women-servants set about doing this, Baochai proposed, "You should clear away those feminine articles - there will be men coming in.
Then, under the mattress on the kang, they discovered a crumpled paper packet.
Jingui's mother pounced on this and opened it, but finding nothing in it threw it away.
"There's the evidence all right!"
exclaimed Baochan.
"I recognize this packet.
A few days ago, when we were plagued by rats, my mistress went to ask her brother for some arsenic and on her return put it in her jewel case.
XiangLing must have seen it and used it to poison her.
If you don't believe me, look in the jewel case.
Jingui's mother did so, but found nothing there except a few silver hairpins.
"Where have all her trinkets gone to?"
wondered Aunt Xue.
Baochai made servants open the cases and cabinets, but all were empty.
"Who took my sister-in-law's things?"
she asked.
"Baochan must answer for this."
"How should she know?"
asked Jingui's mother uneasily.
"Don't say that, madam," put in Mrs. Zhou.
"I know Baochan was with her all the time.
Of course she must know."
Under such pressure, Baochan could not deny it and had to confess, "My mistress always took something each time she went home.
How could I stop her?"
"A fine mother you are!"
the rest jeered at Mrs. Xia.
"Squeezing your daughter till she had nothing left, then making her kill herself so that you could blackmail us!
Very well, we'll report this at the inquest."
Baochai ordered a maid, "Go and ask Master Lian outside not to let any of the Xia household get away.
In the inner room Mrs. Xia was on pins and needles.
"You bitch!"
she swore at Baochan.
"Stop blabbing!
When did my daughter ever take things home?"
"The things don't matter," countered Baochan.
"What's important is to find out who murdered her."
"Once we've found those things, we shall know who murdered her," Baoqin declared.
"Hurry up and ask Cousin Lian to check up on the arsenic her son bought, then report it to the authorities."
"This Baochan must have lost her mind, talking such rubbish," protested Jingui's mother frantically.
"My daughter never bought any arsenic.
If Baochan says this, she must have poisoned her!"
In desperation Baochan started shouting, "Other people may accuse me falsely, but how can you?
Many's the time I heard you tell your daughter not to take things lying down but to raise a rumpus and ruin their family, then move out bag and baggage and marry a better man.
Did you tell her that or not?"
Before Mrs. Xia could speak Zhou Rui's wife chimed in, "When one of your own servants bears witness against you, how can you deny it?"
Gnashing her teeth Mrs. Xia swore at Baochan, "I never treated you badly!
Do you want to be the death of me talking that way?
When the officers come, I'll tell them you were the one who poisoned my daughter!"
Baochan's eyes nearly started out of her head for fury.
"Madam," she begged Aunt Xue, "please let Xiangling go.
We shouldn't wrong innocent people.
I know what to say when I'm interrogated."
Hearing this, Baochai told them to untie Baochan instead.
"An easygoing girl like you, why get yourself involved needlessly?"
she asked.
"If you know something, speak out and be done with it so that we can get this straight."
Afraid that if it came to an interrogation she might be tortured, Baochan told them, "My mistress was forever complaining, 'With my looks, why did I have to have such a senseless mother, who instead of marrying me to Master Ke gave me to that stupid ruffian!
If I could spend a day with Master Ke, I'd die content!'
That's what made her hate Xiangling.
At first I didn't realize this, and later when she was good to Xiangling I supposed it was because Xiangling had won her round.
I thought she ordered that soup out of kindness.... "This is even greater nonsense!"
fumed Jingui's mother.
"If she wanted to poison Xiangling, why should she get poisoned herself?"
Baochai asked, "Xiangling, did you drink that soup yesterday?"
"A few days ago I was too ill even to raise my head," Xiangling replied.
"When the mistress told me to drink I dared not refuse but before I could struggle up the soup was spilt and she had to clean up the mess -- I felt very bad about it.
Yesterday, again, she told me to drink some soup.
I didn't want to, but I had to.
Before I could start on it, though, I came over dizzy and to my relief Sister Baochan took the bowl away.
I was dozing off when the mistress drank her own soup and told me to try mine, so I forced myself to take a couple of sips...." Baochan broke in, "That's it!
I'll tell you the truth.
Yesterday the mistress told me to make two bowls of soup for her to drink with Xiangling.
I was furious!
I thought Who is Xiangling that I should make soup for her?
So, on purpose, I put an extra handful of salt in one of the bowls and marked it secretly, meaning that one for Xiangling.
But as I carried it in the mistress stopped me and sent me to tell a page to order a carriage, as she wanted to go home.
When I came back from this errand, I saw the bowl I'd marked in front of the mistress.
I was afraid she'd scold me for over-salting it, and didn't know what to do but then she moved to the hack of the room, and while she wasn't looking I changed the bowls round.
Well, it served her right!
She came back and carried the soup to Xiangling's bed, saying while she drank her bowl, 'You must at least taste this.'
Xiangling didn't seem to find it too salty, and they both finished their bowls while I laughed up my sleeve at Xiangling for not noticing the salt.
How was I to know that my devilish mistress wanted to poison her?
She must have put in the arsenic while I was out, then didn't know that I'd changed the bowls around.
Truly, 'Heaven is just, and each reaps as he has sown.
The others thought over the sequence of events and could find no flaw in her story.
They untied Xiangling too and made her lie down in bed.
But in spite of these incriminating facts Jingui's mother went on protesting, whereupon Aunt Xue and the others, all talking together, insisted that her son must pay with his life for the murder.
Jia Lian called from outside, "There's no need to argue.
Get everything cleared up quickly.
The officers from the Board of Punishments are coming."
This flustered Mrs. Xia and her son, who foresaw dire consequences.
"It's all the fault of my dead daughter," Mrs. Xia had to plead with Aunt Xue.
"She brought this on herself.
If we let them hold an inquest, it will reflect badly on your family too.
Do hush the business up, madam!"
"That's impossible," said Baochai.
"We've already reported it how can it be hushed up?"
Zhou Rui's wife intervened, "The only way to hush the matter up is for Mrs. Xia herself to call off the inquest, in which case we shall say no more about it."
Jia Lian outside had also intimidated the son so that he was only too willing to go to the Board of Punishments to sign a statement that no inquest was needed as the cause of death was clear and to promise not to bring any suit later on.
And to this the others agreed.
Aunt Xue sent to buy a coffin for Jingui -- but no more of this.
Let us return to Jia Yucun, who had now been promoted to be prefect of the capital in charge of taxation.
One day he went out of the city to check on the acreage of arable land, and passing through the County of Esoteric Understanding he reached the ford in the Stream of Rapid Reversal.
He made his chair-bearers stop there to wait for his retinue.
And seeing a small temple by the village, its crumbling walls revealing some hoary pines, he sauntered towards it.
The gold had flaked off the images inside, and the hall was rickety.
On one side was a broken tablet, but he could not decipher the half-obliterated inscription on it.
He decided to stroll to the back.
In the shade of a green cypress there he saw a thatched hut in which a Taoist priest was sitting cross-legged, his eyes closed in meditation.
As Yucun went closer, the man's face struck him as familiar and he suspected that they had met before, though he could not remember where.
His attendants wanted to rouse the priest by shouting, but he stopped them.
Walking slowly towards him he called out a greeting.
The Taoist opened his eyes a crack and asked with a smile, "What brings you here, Your Honour?"
"I have come from the capital on a tour of inspection, and happened to pass this way.
Seeing you meditating so tranquilly, I felt sure you must have a profound understanding of the Way and would therefore like to make so bold as to ask for your instructions."
"Our coming and our going -- each has its predestined place," was the Taoist's reply.
Sensing that this was no ordinary priest, Yucun bowed low and asked, "Where have you been practising virtue, venerable master?
And why are you staying here?
What is the name of this temple?
How many inmates has it?
Are there not holy mountains where you could cultivate Truth?
Or if you want to do virtuous deeds, why not choose somewhere more accessible?"
The Taoist replied, "A gourd is shelter enough for me, I need no holy mountains.
The name of this temple has long been lost, but the broken tablet remains and since the shadow follows the form, why should I ask for alms to have the temple repaired?
'The jade in the box hopes to fetch a good price the pin in the casket longs to soar on high' -- that doesn't apply to me."
Yucun was quick-witted.
The mention of "gourd," 'lade" and "pin" at once reminded him of Zhen Shiyin, and looking more intently at the Taoist he recognized him.
"Aren't you old Mr. Zhen, sir?"
he asked, after motioning his attendants to withdraw.
With a faint smile the Taoist answered, "Why talk about zhen true and jia false?
They are the same."
The word jia, a homonym for Yucun's surname, confirmed his conjecture.
He bowed again and said, "Since you generously helped me to go to the capital, I was lucky enough to pass the examination and was assigned to your honourable district.
Only then did I learn that you, venerable sir, had left the dusty world and become an immortal.
Although I longed to trace you, I feared that as a mundane, vulgar official I would never see your saintly countenance again.
I am overjoyed at this encounter here!
I beg you, venerable saint, to instruct the ignorant.
If you do not spurn me, my house in the capital is near at hand and I would count it an honour to entertain you there so that I can hear your instructions every day."
The Taoist rose to return his bow and replied, "I know of nothing in this world but my hassock.
What Your Honour just said completely passes this poor priest's understanding."
With that he sat down again.
Yucun thought dubiously, "If he isn't Zhen Shiyin how is it that he looks and talks just like him?
We haven't met for nineteen years, yet he appears unchanged.
It must be because he has achieved immortality that he's unwilling to disclose his past.
But now that I have found my benefactor, I can't let slip this opportunity.
Evidently he's not to be tempted by wealth or rank, much less by mention of his wife and daughter."
"How can I bear it, saintly teacher," he said, "if you draw a veil over your past?"
He was about to bow again when one of his servants came to report, "It is growing dark, sir, high time to cross the ford."
As Yucun hesitated the Taoist said, "Pray lose no time in crossing, Your Honour.
We shall meet again.
If you delay, a storm may spring up.
If you really wish to see me, I shall wait for you some other day at he ford."
With that he sat down again and closed his eyes.
Jia Yucun had no choice but to say goodbye to the priest and leave the temple.
He was about to cross the ford when someone came rushing towards him.
If you want to know who it was, read the next chapter.
Chapter 104 The Drunken Diamond Brags That Small Fry Can Stir Up Big Billows A Crazy Lordling Grieves over the Past As Jia Yucun was about to cross the ford someone rushed up to him.
"Your Honour!"
this man, one of his runners, exclaimed.
"That temple you just visited is on fire!"
Yucun turned to see flames leaping skyward and the sun blotted out by smoke and dust.
"How extraordinary!"
he thought.
"I've barely left the place, How could this blaze have started?
I hope this hasn't done for Zhen Shiyin!"
He felt an urge to go back but did not want to delay his tour of inspection yet he could not set his mind at rest without investigating.
After a moment's reflection he asked, "Did you see that old Taoist leave the temple?"
'I followed you out, Your Honour, "said the man.
"Then I had the gripes and had to relieve myself.
When I turned I saw flames - the temple had caught fire-so I hurried here to report it.
I didn't see anybody leaving the place.
Although Yucun was worried, his own career was his first concern and he did not want to turn back.
"You stay here till the fire burns out," he ordered.
"Then go in to see whether the old priest was trapped or not, and come back to report to me."
The man assented and remained behind while Yucun crossed the river to carry on with his inspection.
After checking up on a few districts, he put up in a hostel for the night.
The following day he journeyed another stage and re-entered the capital, runners before him clearing the way while others of his attendants followed behind.
Then, seated in his sedan-chair, he heard the men in front shouting angrily and asked them what had happened.
One of the runners dragged over a man and made him kneel down before the prefect's chair.
"This drunkard didn't get out of the way but came charging at us, he reported.
"When ordered to stop, he put on a drunken act and flopped down in the middle of the road, then accused me of knocking him down."
"I am in charge of this district," Yucun announced.
"All citizens here come under my jurisdiction.
When you saw your prefect coming, you were too drunk to make way yet had the nerve to make false accusations!"
'I buy drink with my own money," retorted the fellow.
"When I'm tipsy it's the Emperor's land I lie down on.
Not even high officials can interfere."
"Lawless scoundrel!"
Yucun fumed.
"Ask him his name."
"I am Ni Er the Drunken Diamond."
Yucun was furious.
"Have this wretch beaten," he ordered.
"We'll soon see whether he's hard as a diamond!"
The runners pinned Ni Er down and gave him some hard lashes till, sobered up by the pain, he begged for mercy.
Yucun from his chair scoffed, "So that's the rough diamond you are!
I won't have you beaten now but taken to the yamen for a thorough interrogation."
The runners shouted assent, tied Ni Er up and dragged him oft, ignoring his entreaties.
Yucun went to court to make his report, and by the time he returned to his office this incident had slipped his mind completely.
But men in the street who had witnessed it commented to one another, "Ni Er, in his cups, counts on his strength to throw his weight about but now he's fallen into Prefect Ji a's clutches he's not likely to get off lightly!"
This talk reached the ears of Ni Er's wife and daughter, who waited in vain that night for him to come home.
The girl went to search different gambling-houses for him, and when everyone there confirmed the report she wept.
"Don't worry, "they said.
"Prefect Jia is connected with the Rong Mansion, and a certain Second Master Jia of that family is one of your father's friends.
If you and your mother ask him to put in a word, your father will be let off."
Ni Er's daughter thought, "Yes, I've often heard father say that Mr. Jia Yun next door is his friend, so why not get him to help?"
She hurried home to propose this to her mother, and together they called on Jia Yun.
He happened to be in that day and promptly offered them seats while his mother ordered tea.
Then Ni Er's wife and daughter told him their story.
"We've come to beg you to put in a word, Second Master, to get him set free," they entreated.
"That's easy," Jia Yun bragged.
"As soon as I mention this to the West Mansion he'll be released.
This Mr. Jia Yucun owes his high post to the help of the Rong Mansion, so once they send him a message the thing will be settled."
Mother and daughter went joyfully home, then took word to Ni Er in the lock-up that he need not fret because Jia Yun had promised to see about his release.
Ni Er's spirits rose again.
However, since the embarrassing occasion when Xifeng had declined his presents, Jia Yun had seldom called at the Rong Mansion.
For the gatemen there watched their masters' behaviour to visitors and acted accordingly.
Welcome guests who were treated with favour they announced but those who were cold-shouldered they turned away, even if they were relatives, fobbing them off with excuses.
Today Jia Yun went to the gate saying that he had come to pay his respects to Jia Lian.
"The Second Master is out," the gatemen told him.
"We'll tell him when he comes back that you called."
Jia Yun thought of asking to see Xifeng instead, but for fear of another snub he refrained and went home, where Ni Er's wife and daughter importuned him again.
"You always said that not a single yamen, no matter which, dared disobey your family, " they said.
"Now this prefect is one of your clan, and it's not a big favour to ask.
If you can't even do this, you're one of the Jias in vain!"
"Yesterday I was too busy to send a message, but today I'll tell them and he'll be released," he boasted to cover up his discomfiture.
"You've nothing to worry about!"
So mother and daughter waited again for news.
As for Jia Yun, unable to gain admission through the main gate, this time he went round to the back, meaning to go through the Garden to find Baoyu.
But the back gate was locked.
He retraced his steps dejectedly, telling himself, "I wangled a treeplanting job from her that year because Ni Er lent me money and I sent in that gift of aromatics.
Now that I've no money for gifts she won't let me in.
It's not as if she's a decent sort.
She simply loans out the family's funds left by our ancestors at exorbitant interest, but won't let us poor relations have even one ounce of silver!
Can they count on remaining rich all their lives?
Why, their name stinks outside!
I'm not one to blab -- if I were, they would be involved in plenty of murder cases!"
Occupied by these reflections he reached home, where Ni Er's wife and daughter were waiting for him.
Unable to put them off again he told them, "The West Mansion sent a message but Prefect Jia has ignored it.
You had better get Leng Zixing, who's related to their steward Zhou Rui, to put in a word."
Mother and daughter objected, "If a gentleman like you failed, how could a servant succeed?"
"You don't understand," he blurted out in embarrassed exasperation.
"Nowadays servants have much more say than their masters."
Seeing that he was unable to help, Mrs. Ni laughed sarcastically.
"Sorry to have troubled you for nothing these days," she said.
"We shall thank you again when that man of mine comes out."
They left to ask others to intercede, and finally Ni Er was let off with only a few strokes, not convicted of any crime.
On his return, his wife and daughter told him how the Jia family had refused to help.
Ni Er, who was drinking, flared up and wanted to seek Jia Yun out.
"The bastard, the ungrateful beast!"
he fumed.
"When he was starving and wanted to worm his way into that house to wangle a job, I was the one who helped him.
Now when I land in trouble he leaves me in the lurch.
Fine!
If Ni Er raises a row, both the Jia Mansions will be dragged through the mud!"
"Ai!
You're drunk again, talking so wildly, "they objected.
"Weren't you beaten the other day for making a drunken scene?
Before you've got over it, here you are starting again!"
"Do you think a beating makes me afraid of them?
I was only afraid of not finding a handle against them.
In jail, I palled up with quite a few decent fellows.
According to them, apart from all these Jias here in the city there are plenty of others in the provinces too, and not long ago a number of their servants were put in clink.
I'd always known the younger Jia men and their servants here were a bad lot but thought the older generation all right, so I was surprised to hear they'd landed in trouble.
After asking around I heard that those in trouble belong to branches of the clan in other provinces.
Now they are on trial, brought here to wait for the verdict.
So I no longer need worry.
"As this puppy Jia Yun has let me down for all I was so good to him, my friends and I can spread word that their family's ridden roughshod over people, practised usury and abducted other men's wives.
When the scandal spreads and reaches the censor's ears they'll catch it!
Then they'll get to know Ni Er the Diamond!"
"Go to bed and sleep it off," urged his wife.
"Whose wives have they abducted?
You're making it up.
You mustn't talk such nonsense.
"Staying at home, what do you know about what goes on outside?
The year before last I met a young fellow called Zhang in a gambling-den, and he told me that his betrothed had been bagged by the Jias.
He asked my advice, and I stopped him from making a row.
I don't know where he is now, I haven't seen him for the last couple of years.
If I knock into him, I'll fix up a plan to do in that young bastard Jia Yun!
I won't let him off unless he offers me rich gifts!
How dare he refuse to help me?"
He lay down, muttered for a while to himself, then dozed off.
His wife and daughter paid no attention, considering these threats mere drunken talk.
The next morning Ni Er went back to his gambling-house, and there we can leave him.
Upon Jia Yucun's return home, after a night's rest he told his wife of his encounter with Zhen Shiyin.
"Why didn't you go back to have a look?"
she asked reproachfully, shedding tears.
"If he got burnt to death, won't we seem too heartless?"
"He's outside the mundane world now and wouldn't have anything to do with us," Yucun assured her.
Just then a servant outside announced, "The man Your Honour left at the temple after the fire the other day has come back."
Yucun went out and that runner, having paid his respects, reported, "After going back on Your Honour's order, I didn't wait for the fire to burn out but went in through the flames to look for the priest.
The fire had burnt the place where he had been sitting and the back wall had collapsed, so I expected to find him dead, but there was no sign of him, although a hassock and gourd there were undamaged.
I looked everywhere for his corpse, yet found not a single bone.
For fear that you might not believe me, I decided to bring back the hassock and gourd as evidence but when I touched them they both turned to ashes!"
Yucun realized that Zhen Shiyin had vanished by magic, being an immortal.
He dismissed the runner and went back to his room but did not repeat this message to his wife for fear that she as an ignorant woman might grieve, simply telling her that there was no trace of the priest so most likely he had escaped.
Then he went out and sat alone in his study to mull over Zhen Shiyin's conversation with him, when a servant suddenly brought him a summons to court to read some edicts.
He hastily mounted his chair to go to the Palace, where he heard that Jia Zheng, recalled from his post as Grain Commissioner of Jiangxi, was to acknowledge his fault today at court.
He hurried to the cabinet and found the ministers assembled there reading an Imperial edict deploring the maladministration of the coastal provinces.
Coming out, he went at once to find Jia Zheng, expressed his sympathy over his impeachment, then congratulated him on his return and asked about his journey.
Jia Zheng described his experiences since last they met.
"Have you sent in your acknowledgement of culpability?"
asked Yucun.
"Yes.
After lunch I shall learn the Emperor's will."
That very moment he was summoned to an audience and hurried in, while the ministers concerned for him waited there.
It was some time before Jia Zheng emerged, his face streaming with sweat.
The others crowded round to ask what had happened.
He stuck out his tongue in dismay.
"I had the fright of my life!"
he gasped.
"Thank you, gentlemen, for your concern.
Luckily nothing serious has happened."
They asked him what the Emperor had said.
"His Majesty wanted to know about the smuggling of firearms in Yunnan," Jia Zheng told them.
"It was reported that the culprit was a servant of the former Senior Imperial Tutor Jia Hua, which reminded His Majesty of my ancestor's name, and he asked me what it was.
At once I kowtowed and replied that it was Jia Daihua.
Then the Emperor asked with a smile, 'Wasn't that former Minister of War who was later demoted to be prefect of the capital also called Jia Hua?"'
Yucun beside him gave a start.
"What was your reply, sir?"
he asked.
"I explained distinctly that the former Senior Imperial Tutor Jia Hua came from Yunnan, the present prefect from Huzhou in Zhejiang.
Then His Majesty asked, 'Is that Jia Fan impeached by the prefect of Suzhou one of your family?'
Kowtowing again I said, 'Yes, sir.'
Then the Emperor demanded angrily, 'How can your family allow your servants to abduct a good citizen's wife?'
I dared say nothing.
'What is Jia Fan's relation to you?'
was the next question.
'He's a distant kinsman,' I said.
The Emperor snorted at that and dismissed me.
It was touch-and-go!"
"Quite a coincidence that," they commented, "these two cases one after the other."
"That's not so strange," said Jia Zheng.
"What's bad is both men being Jias.
Our poor clan is such a large one that after all these years we have relatives everywhere.
Though no trouble came of it this time, the name Jia will stick in the Emperor's mind -- and that's bad."
"Truth will always prevail," they assured him.
"You've nothing to fear."
"I would give anything not to be an official, but I dare not retire.
Besides, our family has two hereditary titles.
This is something that can't be helped."
"You are still in the Ministry of Works, sir," pointed out Yucun.
"A metropolitan post should be quite safe."
"Even so, that's hard to say after two provincial appointments."
'We admire your character and your conduct, sir," the other officials told him.
"Your brother is a man of honour too.
All you need do is control your nephews more strictly."
"I am seldom at home to check up on them and can't be too easy in my mind about them.
Since you've brought this up and we are close friends, please tell me -- have my nephews in the East Mansion been misconducting themselves?"
"Not really, but a few vice-ministers - some Imperial eunuchs too - are not on very good terms with them.
It's nothing to worry about if you just warn them to be more circumspect in future."
They saluted him and left, and Jia Zheng went home.
All his nephews and sons had turned out to welcome him, and when he had asked after the old lady's health and the young men had paid their respects, together they entered the house.
Lady Wang and the other womenfolk had assembled in the Hall of Glorious Felicity to meet him, but first he went to the old lady's apartments to pay her his respects and report to her all that had happened since his departure.
Asked for news of Tanchun, he described the marriage arrangements.
"I had to leave in too much of a hurry to wait for the Double Ninth Festival," he explained.
"But though I didn't see her, I heard from the other family that everything went very well.
Her father- and mother-in-law send their regards to you, madam.
They hope, this winter or next spring, to be transferred to the capital, which would of course be still better.
But I hear there is trouble in the coastal regions, so the transfer may be delayed."
The old lady had been depressed by Jia Zheng's demotion and Tanchun's marrying so far from home but his explanation of his recall and the good news of Tanchun cheered her up again and with a smile she urged him to go and rest.
Jia Zheng saw his brother, sons and nephews next, and when the younger ones had paid their respects he informed them that the next morning he would sacrifice in the ancestral temple.
After Jia Zheng's return to his quarters, when Lady Wang and others had greeted him, Baoyu and Jia Lian paid their respects again.
Jia Zheng was relieved to see Baoyu looking better than at the time of his departure and, knowing nothing of his son's mental illness, he did not regret his demotion but was pleased to think how well the old lady had managed things.
When, moreover, he observed that Baochai appeared still more quiet and composed and Lan quite cultured and handsome, he fairly beamed.
Only Huan was unchanged, and his father could feel no real affection for him.
After a short rest, however, he asked abruptly, "Isn't there someone missing?"
Lady Wang knew he had noticed Daiyu's absence.
As they had not written to him about her death and he was only just home and in high spirits, she did not like to break the news at once.
She just said that Daiyu was unwell.
Baoyu felt as if his heart had been pierced by a dagger, but as his father was back he had to repress his grief and wait on him.
Lady Wang ordered a feast of welcome at which Jia Zheng's sons and grandsons poured him wine and though Xifeng was the wife of a nephew, since she was running the household she joined Baochai and the others in passing the wine.
After one round of toasts, Jia Zheng sent them away to rest and dismissed the servants too with instructions that the domestics could come to meet him after the ancestral sacrifice the next day.
When the others had gone, he and his wife talked of the happenings since their separation.
Certain subjects Lady Wang did not venture to broach, and when he brought up the death of her brother Wang Ziteng she dared not show her grief.
When he mentioned Xue Pan, she said simply that he had brought this trouble on himself, then she took this occasion to tell him about Daiyu's death.
In consternation, Jia Zheng shed tears and sighed.
Then Lady Wang gave way to weeping too until Caiyun who was attending her tugged her sleeve.
She controlled herself then and talked of more cheerful topics, after which they retired for the night.
The next morning Jia Zheng worshipped in the ancestral temple, accompanied by all the younger male members of the family.
This done, he took a seat in the temple annex and called Jia Zhen and Jia Lian in to ask about family affairs.
Jia Zhen gave him a carefully edited account.
"Since I've just come home I can't make a detailed check-up," Jia Zheng told him.
"But I've heard outside that your household isn't doing as well as before.
You must be more circumspect in everything.
You are no longer young, and you should discipline those youngsters so that they don't offend people outside.
You take this to heart too, Lian.
It's not that I want to find fault as soon as I get back, but I've heard talk.
You must take extra care.
Jia Zhen and Jia Lian flushed red, not venturing to answer more than "Yes, sir."
Then Jia Zheng dismissed them and went back to the West Mansion.
After all the men-servants had kowtowed to him he entered the inner quarters where the women-servants paid their respects in turn - we need not dwell on this.
Jia Zheng's question about Daiyu the previous day and Lady Wang's reply that she was unwell had set Baoyu brooding again.
After his father dismissed him he went back, shedding tears all the way.
As Baochai was chatting in his room with Xiren and others, he sat gloomily by himself in the outer room.
Baochai told Xiren to take him tea then came out to cheer him up, imagining that he was worried that his father might question him about his studies.
"You go to bed first," said Baoyu.
"I want to collect my thoughts a bit.
My memory's not what it was, and if I keep forgetting what to say it'll make a bad impression on my father.
If you go to sleep first, Xiren can keep me company here."
Baochai could not refuse and nodded agreement.
In the outer room, Baoyu softly begged Xiren to fetch Zijuan.
"I've something to ask her," he said.
"But as she always looks so angry and cold-shoulders me when she sees me, you must do some explaining for me before she'll come."
Xiren answered, "I was pleased to hear that you wanted to collect Your thoughts, but what's this you're thinking about?
If you've some-thing on your mind, why not ask her tomorrow?"
"I'm only free this evening.
Tomorrow the master may give me some-thing to do and keep me busy.
Dear sister, please fetch her quickly!"
"She won't come unless Madam Bao sends for her."
"That's why I want you to go and persuade her."
"What should I say?"
"You understand how I feel and how she feels -- both of us because of Miss Lin.
Tell her that I wasn't faithless to her.
It was you people who made me look faithless."
He glanced towards the inner room and pointing at it continued, "I never wanted to marry her, but they tricked me into it - the old lady and others - and that was the death of poor Cousin Lin.
But even so, they should have let me see her and clear myself -then she wouldn't have died with such a sense of grievance!
You must have heard from Miss Tanchun and the others that, at the last, she reproached me angrily.
And Zijuan hates me like poison because of her."
"But how can you think me so heartless?
Qingwen was only a maid who didn't mean so much to me, yet the truth is that when she died I wrote an elegy for her and sacrificed to her.
Miss Lin saw that for herself.
Now that Miss Lin is dead, would I treat her worse than Qingwen?
But I can't even sacrifice to her.
Besides, her spirit is living on so when she thinks about this won't she blame me still more?"
'You can sacrifice to her if you like," said Xiren.
"What do you want of me?"
"Since my health started improving I've been wanting to write an elegy but somehow I've grown dim-witted.
I can sacrifice any old way to other people, but there mustn't be anything the least bit crude about a sacrifice to her.
So I want to find out from Zijuan what her mistress was thinking and how she detected it.
Before my illness I could have figured it out, but now I can't remember a thing.
You told me that Miss Lin was getting better how did she come to die so suddenly?
What did she say when she was well and I didn't go to see her?
She didn't call when I was ill, and how did she explain that?
And why is it your mistress never lets me touch those things of hers which I managed to get hold of?"
"She's afraid they might upset you, that's all."
"I don't believe it.
If Miss Lin felt for me, why did she burn her poems before she died instead of leaving them to me as a memento?
I heard tell that music sounded in the sky, so she must have become a goddess or an immortal.
I saw her coffin, it's true, but who knows whether she was in it or not?"
"You're talking more and more nonsensically.
How could anyone announce a death simply by displaying an empty coffin?"
"I didn't mean that!"
he cried.
"But when people become immortals, some retain their bodily form, others shed their mortal frame.
Good sister, please fetch Zijuan for me!"
"You'll have to wait till I've explained to her just how you feel.
If she's willing to come, all right if she refuses it may take time to talk her round.
But even if she comes, at sight of you she's bound to hold certain things back.
It seems to me I'd better question her tomorrow after Madam Bao had gone to see the old lady.
That way I may find out more.
Then when there's time to spare, I'll tell you about it."
"That's all very well, but I'm too impatient to wait!"
At this point Sheyue came out.
"The young mistress says it's already the fourth watch and she wants the young master to go to bed," she announced.
"And Sister Xiren must have been enjoying her chat so much that she lost track of the time."
"That's right!"
exclaimed Xiren.
"It's time to go to bed.
We can talk again tomorrow."
Though distressed, Baoyu had to comply, but as he was leaving he whispered, "Mind you don't forget tomorrow!"
Xiren smiled and said, "All right."
"You two are up to some tricks again," Sheyue teased.
"Why not ask the mistress to let you sleep with Xiren, then you can talk all night for all we care."
Baoyu waved his hand saying, "There's no need for that."
"You bitch, talking such rot!"
scolded Xiren.
"Tomorrow I'll pinch your lips."
She turned to Baoyu.
"Look at all the trouble you've caused.
Sitting up so late talking but without so much as a word about this."
They escorted him to the inner room then went to bed themselves.
Baoyu could not sleep that night, and he was still thinking of Daiyu the next day when a servant brought in the message, "Relatives and friends have offered to send over operas and feasts to celebrate the master's return but the master has declined.
He says there's no need for operas, but we'll have a simple meal at home to invite them all for a chat.
The date fixed is the day after tomorrow, so I've come to notify you.
To know what visitors came, turn to the next chapter.
Chapter 105 Imperial Guards Raid the Ning Mansion A Censor Brings a Charge Against the Prefect of Pingan Jia Zheng was entertaining his guests in the Hall of Glorious Felicity when in burst Lai Da.
"Commissioner Zhao of the Imperial Guards and several of his officers are here to see you, sir," he announced.
"When I asked for their cards the commissioner said, 'No need we are old friends.'
He dismounted from his carriage and came straight in.
Please make haste to meet them, sir, with the young gentlemen."
Jia Zheng, who had had no dealings with Commissioner Zhao, could not understand why he should have come uninvited.
As he had guests he could hardly entertain him, yet not to ask him in would be discourteous.
He was thinking it over when Jia Lian urged, "Better go at once, uncle, before they all come in."
That same moment a servant from the inner gate announced, "Commissioner Zhao has entered the inner gate."
Jia Zheng and others hastily went to meet him.
The commissioner, smiling, said not a word as he walked straight into the hall.
Behind him were five or six of his officers, only a few of whom they recognized, but none of these answered their greetings.
At a loss, Jia Zheng had to offer them seats.
Certain of the guests knew Commissioner Zhao, yet with his head in the air he ignored them all, simply taking Jia Zheng's hand as he made a few conventional remarks.
This looked so ominous that some of the guests ipped into the inner room while all the rest stood at respectful attention.
Jia Zheng, forcing a smile, was about to make conversation when a flustered servant announced the Prince of Xiping.
Before he could hasten to meet him the prince had entered.
Commissioner Zhao stepped forward at once to salute him, then or- dered his officers, "Since His Highness has arrived, you gentlemen can take runners to guard the front and back gates."
His officers assented and went out.
Jia Zheng, knowing that this spelt trouble, fell on his knees to welcome the prince, who helped him to his feet with a smile.
"We wouldn't presume to intrude without special reason, "he said.
"We have come to announce an Imperial decree to Lord She.
You have many feasters here, which is somewhat inopportune, so T'll ask your relatives and friends to disperse, leaving only your own household to hear the decree."
Commissioner Zhao put in, "Your Highness is very gracious, but the prince officiating at the East Mansion takes his duties so seriously that the gates are doubtless already sealed up."
Hearing that both mansions were involved, the guests were desperate to extricate themselves.
"These gentlemen are free to go," the prince said affably.
"Have attendants see them out and notify your guards that there is no need to search them as they are all guests.
Let them leave at once.
Then those relatives and friends streaked off like lightning, leaving Jia Zheng, Jia She and their households livid and trembling with fear.
Meanwhile runners had swarmed in to guard all the doors, so that no one whether master or man could stir a foot from his place.
Commissioner Zhao turned to request the prince.
"Please read the decree, Your Highness, then we can start the search."
The runners hitched up their tunics and rolled up their sleeves, ready to go into action.
The Prince of Xiping proclairned slowly, "His Majesty has ordered me to bring Zhao Quan of the Imperiai Guards to search Jia She's property."
Jia She and the rest prostrated themselves on the ground.
The prince, standing on the dais.
continued.
"Hear the Imperiai decree Jia She has intrigued with provincial officiais and abused his power to molest the weak, showing himself unworthy of Our favour and sullying his ancestors' good name.
His hereditary rank is hereby abolished."
Commissioner Zhao thundered, "Arrest Jia She!
Keep guard over the others."
At that time, all the men of both Jia Mansions were in the hall except for Baoyu, who had slipped off to join the old lady on the pretext of indisposition, and Jia Huan who was seldom presented to guests.
So all the rest were now under surveillance.
Commissioner Zhao told his men to dispatch officers and runners to search the different apartments and draw up an inventory.
This order made Jia Zheng's household exchange consternated glances, while the runners gleefully rubbed their hands, eager to ransack the place.
The prince interposed, "We hear that Lord She and Lord Zheng keep separate accounts, and according to the decree we are to search the former's property.
The rest is to be sealed up pending further orders."
Commissioner Zhao rose to his feet.
"May it please Your Highness," he said, "Jia She and Jia Zheng have not divided the family property, and we hear that Jia Zheng has put his nephew Jia Lian in charge of his household affairs.
We shall therefore have to search the whole premises."
When the prince made no comment he added, "I must go in person with my officers to search the houses of Jia She and Jia Lian."
"There is no hurry," demurred the prince.
"Send word first so that the ladies inside may withdraw before you start to search."
But already the commissioner's attendants and runners, making the Jias' servants show them the way, had set off in different directions to ransack both mansions.
"No disorder now!"
called the prince sternly.
"I shall come in person to supervise the search!"
Then getting up slowly he ordered, "None of those who came with me are to move.
Wait here.
Later we shall check up on the property and make an inventory."
Just then a guard came in and knelt to report, "In the inner apartments we have found some clothes from the Palace and other forbidden things which we haven't presumed to touch.
I have come, Your Highness, to ask for your orders."
Presently another group gathered round the prince to report, "In Jia Lian's house we have found two cases of title-deeds and one of promissory notes all at illegally exorbitant rates of interest."
"Good!"
cried Commissioner Zhao.
"So they are usurers too.
All their property should certainly be confiscated!
Please rest here, Your ighness, while I supervise the search before coming back for your instructions."
Just then, however, the prince's steward announced, "The guards at the gate say that His Majesty has sent the Prince of Beijing to proclaim another decree and they ask the commissioner to receive him."
As Commissioner Zhao started out to meet the Prince of Beijing he told himself, "I was out of luck having that crabbed prince foisted on me.
Now, with this other one here, I should be able to crack down on them hard!"
The Prince of Beijing had already entered the hall.
Standing facing the doorway he announced, "Here is a decree.
Let Zhao Quan, Commissioner of the Imperial Guards, pay heed."
He then proclaimed, "The commissioner's sole task is to arrest Jia She for trial.
The Prince of Xiping will deterrnine what other measures to take according to the earlier decree."
Elated by this, the Prince of Xiping seated himself beside the Prince of Beijing and sent the commissioner back to his yamen with Jia She.
This development disappointed all his officers and runners, who had come out on hearing of the second prince's arrival.
They had to stand there awaiting Their Highnesses' orders.
The Prince of Beijing selected two honest officers and a dozen of the older runners, sending away the rest.
The Prince of Xiping told him, "I was just losing patience with Old Zhao.
If you hadn't brought that decree in the nick of time, sir, they'd have been really hard hit here."
"When I heard at court that Your Highness had been sent to search the Jia Mansions I was relieved, knowing you would let them off more lightly, "the Prince of Beijing replied.
"I never thought Old Zhao was such a scoundrel.
But where are Jia Zheng and Baoyu now?
And how much damage has been done inside?"
His men reported, "Jia Zheng and the rest are under guard in the servants' quarters, and the whole place has been turned upside down."
At the Prince of Beijing's orders, the officers fetched Jia Zheng for questioning.
He fell on his knees before Their Highnesses and with tears in his eyes begged for mercy.
The prince helped him up and urged him not to worry, then informed him of the terms of the new decree.
With tears of gratitude, Jia Zheng kowtowed towards the north to thank the Emperor then turned back for further instructions.
The prince said, "When Old Zhao was here just now, Your Lordship, his runners reported finding various articles for Imperial use and some promissory notes for usurious loans this we cannot cover up.
Regarding those forbidden articles, as they were for Her Imperial Highness' use it will do no harm to report them.
But we must find some way to explain those IOU's.
Now I want you, sir, to take the officers and honestly hand over to them all your brother's property, to end the matter.
Don't on any account conceal anything, or you will be asking for trouble."
"I would never dare," answered Jia Zheng.
"But we never divided up our ancestral estate, simply considering the things in our two houses as our own property."
"Very well," they said.
"Just hand over everything in Lord She's house."
They sent the two officers off with orders to attend only to this and nothing else.
Let us return now to the ladies' feast in the Lady Dowager's quarters.
Lady Wang had just warned Baoyu that unless he went out to join the gentlemen his father might be angry.
Xifeng, still unwell, said faintly, "I don't think Baoyu's afraid of meeting them, but he knows there are plenty of people there to entertain the guests, so he's waiting on us here instead.
If it occurs to the master that they need more people there to look after the guests, you can trot out Baoyu, madam.
How about that?"
"This minx Xifeng!"
the old lady chuckled.
"She still has the gift of the gab for all she's so ill!"
The fun was at its height when one of Lady Xing's maids came rushing in crying, "Your Ladyships!
We're done for!
A whole lot of robbers have come, all in boots and official caps...
They'er opening cases, overturning crates, ransacking the whole place' The old lady and the others had not recovered from this shock when Pinger, her hair hanging loose, dashed in with Qiaojie.
"We're ruined!"
she wailed.
"I was having lunch with Qiaojie when Lai Wang appeared in chains, and told me to lose no time in warning you ladies to keep out of the way, as some prince has come to raid our house!
I nearly died of fright!
Before I could go in to fetch any valuables, a band of men drove me out.
You'd better make haste to get together the clothes and things you need."
Lady Xing and Lady Wang were completely flummoxed, frightened out of their wits.
Xifeng who had listened wide-eyed now collapsed in a faint.
The old lady was crying with terror, unable to utter a word.
Pandemonium reigned as the maids tried to attend to their mistresses.
Then they heard shouts, "The women inside must make themselves scarce!
The prince is coming!"
Baochai and Baoyu looked on helplessly as the maids and nurses attempted desperately to hustle the ladies out.
Then in ran Jia Lian.
"It's all right now!"
he panted.
"Thank goodness the prince has come to our rescue!"
Before they could question him, he saw Xifeng lying as if dead on the floor and gave a cry of alarm.
Then the sight of the old lady, terror-stricken and gasping for breath, made him even more frantic.
LuckHy Pinger and others managed to revive Xifeng and help her up.
The old lady recovered consciousness too, but lay back dizzily on the couch sobbing and choking for breath, while Li Wan did her best to soothe her.
Taking a grip on himself, Jia Lian explained to them how kindly the two princes had intervened.
But fearing that the news of Jia She's arrest might make the old lady and Lady Xing die of fright, he withheld it for the time being and went back to his own quarter.
Once over the threshold, he saw that all their cases and wardrobes had been opened and rifled.
He stood speechless in consternation, shed-ding tears, till he heard his name called and had to go out.
Jia Zheng was there with two officers drawing up an inventory, which one of the officers read out as follows -720 One hundred and twenty-three gold tnnkets set with jewels thirteen strings of pearls two pale gold plates two pairs of gold bowls two gilded bowls forty gold spoons eighty big silver bowls and twenty silver plates two pairs of ivory chopsticks inlaid with gold four gilded pots three pairs of gilded cups two tea-trays seventy-six silver saucers thirty-six silver cups eighteen black fox furs six deep-grey fox furs thirty-six -694 sable furs thirty yellow fox furs twelve ermine furs three grey fox furs sixty marten furs forty grey fox-leg furs twenty brown sheep-skins two raccoon furs two bundles of yellow fox-leg furs twenty pieces of white fox fur thirty lengths of Western worsted twenty-three lengths of serge twelve lengths of velveteen twenty musk-rat furs four pieces of spotted squirrel fur one bolt of velvet one piece of plum-deer skin two fox furs with ornamental cloud patterns a roll of badgercub skin seven bundles of platypus fur a hundred and sixty squirrel furs eight male wolf-skins six tiger-skins three seal-skins sixteen otter furs forty bundles of grey sheep-skins sixty-three black sheep-skins ten sets of red fox-fur hat material twelve sets of black fox-fur hat material two sets of sable-fur hat material sixteen small fox furs two beaver-skins two otter-skins thirty-five civet-cat furs twelve lengths of Japanese silk one hundred and thirty bolts of satin one hundred and eighty-one bolts of gauze thirty-two bolts of crepe thirty bolts of Tibetan serge eigbt bolts of satin with serpent designs three hales of hemp-cloth three bales of different kinds of cloth one hundred fur coats thirty-two Tibetan serge garments three hundred and forty padded and unpadded garments thirty-two jade articles nine jade buckles over five hundred utensils of copper and tin eighteen clocks and watches nine chaplets thirty-two lengths of different kinds of satin with serpent designs three satin cushions with serpent designs for Imperial use eight costumes for Palace ladies one white jade belt twelve bolts of yellow satin seven thousand and two hundred taels of silver fifty taels of gold seven thousand strings of cash.
Separate lists were made of all the furnishings and the mansions conferred on the Duke of Rongguo.
The title-deeds of houses and land and the bonds of the family slaves were also sealed up.
Jia Lian, listening at one side, was puzzled not to hear his own property listed.
Then the two princes said, "Among the property confiscated are some 10 U's which are definitely usurious.
Whose are they?
Your Lordship must tell the truth."
Jia Zheng knelt down and kowtowed.
"I am guilty of never having managed the household affairs and that is the truth," he said.
"I know nothing about such transactions.
Your Highnesses will have to ask my nephew Jia Lian."
Jia Lian hastily stepped forward and knelt to report, "Since those documents were found in my humble house, how can I deny knowledge of them?
I only beg Your Highnesses to be lenient to my uncle who knew nothing about this."
The two princes said, "As your father has already been found guilty, your cases can be dealt with together.
You did right to admit this.
Very well then, let a guard be kept over ha Lian the rest of the household can return to their different quarters.
Lord Zheng, you must wait prudently for a further decree.
We shall go now to report to His Majesty, leaving officers and runners here to keep watch."
They mounted their sedan-chairs, Jia Zheng and the others kneeling at the inner gate to see them off.
The Prince of Beijing, on leaving, stretched out one hand with a look of compassion and said, "Please set your minds at rest."
By now Jia Zheng felt slightly calmer, although still dazed.
Jia Lan suggested, "Grandfather, won't you go in to see the old lady first?
Then we can send for news of the East Mansion."
Jia Zheng hastily did so, and found serving-women from different apartments all milling about in confusion.
In no mood to check what they were doing he entered his mother's room, where one and all were in tears.
Lady Wang, Baoyu and others had gathered silently around the old lady, tears streaming down their cheeks.
Lady Xing was shaken by sobs.
At his arrival they exclaimed in relief.
"The master has come back safely," they told the old lady.
"Don't worry any more, madam."
The Lady Dowager, apparently at her last gasp, feebly opened her eyes and quavered, "My son, I never thought to see you again!"
She burst out weeping and all the others joined in until Jia Zheng, fearing these transports of grief might be too much for his mother, held back his tears.
"Set your heart at rest, madam," he urged.
"It is a serious matter, but His Gracious Majesty and the two princes have shown us the kindest consideration.
The Elder Master has been taken into custody for the time being but once the matter is cleared up the Emperor will show more clemency.
And our property is not being confiscated."
Jia She's arrest distressed the old lady anew, and Jia Zheng did his best to comfort her.
-384 Lady Xing was the only one who ventured to leave, going back to her apartments.
She found the doors sealed up and locked, the serving-women confined in a few rooms.
Unable to get in she burst out wailing, then made her way back to Xifeng's apartments.
The side-gate there was also sealed, but Xifeng's room was open and from it came the sound of continuous sobbing.
Entering, she saw Xifeng lying with closed eyes, her face ashen-pale, while Pinger wept beside her.
Thinking her dead, Lady Xing started sobbing too.
"Don't cry, madam," said Pinger, stepping forward to greet her.
"We carried her back just now in a dead faint, but presently she came to and cried a little.
Now she is quieter.
Please calm down, madam.
How is the old lady now?"
Lady Xing made no answer but went to rejoin the Lady Dowager.
The only people there were members of Jia Zheng's household, and she could not hold back her grief at the thought that both her husband and son had been arrested, her daughter-in-law was at death's door, and her daughter was ill-treated by her husband, so that she had nowhere to turn.
The others tried to console her.
Li Wan told servants to clear out some rooms for her for the time being, and Lady Wang assigned maids to look after her.
-384 Jia Zheng outside was on tenterhooks, tweaking his beard and wringing his hands as he waited for the Emperor's next decree.
"Which house do you belong to anyway?"
he heard the guards outside shouting.
"As you've come butting in here, we'll put you down on our list and chain you up to hand over to the officers inside."
Jia Zheng went out and saw it was Jiao Da.
"Why did you come here?"
he asked.
Jiao Da stamped his foot and wailed, "I warned those degenerate masters of ours all along, but they treated me as their sworn enemy' Even you don't know, sir, what hardships I endured serving the old duke.
Now things have come to a pretty pass with Sir Zhen and Rong arrested by some princes' officers!
The ladies' trinkets were looted by the officers and runners and they were shut up in an empty room!
And those .t t t .t t t useless slaves cooped up like pigs and dogs!
Everything has been confiscated, furniture broken in pieces, porcelain smashed they even want to put me in chains too!
I've lived eighty to ninety years and trussed people up for the old duke how can I let myself be trussed up instead?
I told them I belonged to the West Mansion and broke out, but those fellows wouldn't let me go.
They hauled me here, where I find things are just as bad.
I'm sick of life I'll have it out with them!"
With that he butted the runners.
As he was so old and their orders were not to make trouble, the runners simply said, "Pipe down, old man.
This is done by Imperial decree.
You'd better take it easy and wait for news.
Although Jia Zheng tried to ignore this, he felt as if a knife had been plunged in his heart.
"We're done for, done for!"
he sighed.
"To think that we should be reduced to this!"
As he was waiting impatiently for news from court, Xue Ke came running in.
"What a time I had getting in here!"
he panted.
"Where is uncle?"
"Thank Heaven you've come!"
Jia Zheng exclaimed.
"How did you gain admittance?"
"By pleading hard and promising them money.
Jia Zheng described the raid to him and asked him to make inquiries.
"I can't very well send messages to other relatives and friends now that we're under fire," he explained.
"But you can deliver messages for me."
"It never occurred to me that you'd have trouble here, sir but I've heard something about the East Mansion's business."
"What exactly are the charges against them?"
"Today I went to the yamen to find out what Cousin Pan's sentence is, and I heard that two censors have accused Cousin Zhen of corrupting young nobles by getting them to gamble that isn't so serious.
The more serious charge is of abducting the wife of an honest citizen, who Was forced to kill herself rather than submit.
To bring this charge home, the censors got our man Bao Er and a fellow called Zhang as witnesses.
Thi 5 may involve the Court of Censors too, as that fellow Zhang had brought a suit before."
Jia zheng stamped his foot.
"Terrible!
We're done for!"
he sighed, tears 5 eaming down his cheeks.
Xue Ke tried to reassure him then went off to find out more news, returning a few hours later.
"It looks bad," he informed him.
"When I asked at the Board of Punishments, I didn't hear the result of the two princes' report but was told that this morning Censor Li brought another charge against the prefect of Pingan, accusing him of pandering to an official in the capital and oppressing the people to please his superior there were several serious charges."
"Never mind about other people," said Jia Zheng impatiently.
"What did you hear about us?"
"That charge against the prefect of Ping an involves us too, sir.
The official in the capital referred to by the censor was Lord She, who's accused of tampering with lawsuits.
This adds fuel to the flames!
All your colleagues are trying hard to keep out of this, so who would send you word?
Even those relatives and friends at your feast either went home or are keeping well away until they know the upshot.
Some clansmen of yours confound them!
- have been saying openly, "Their ancestors left them property and titles.
Now that they're in trouble who knows whom the title may go to.
We all ought to take steps....
Without hearing him out Jia Zheng stamped his foot again.
"What a fool my brother is!"
he groaned.
"It's a scandal, too, the way they've carried on in the East Mansion!
For all we know this may be the death of the old lady and Lian's wife!
Go and see what more you can find out while I look in on the old lady.
If there's any news, the sooner we know it the better."
Just then a great commotion broke out inside and they heard cries of "The old lady's dying!"
Jia Zheng hurried anxiously in.
To know whether she lived or died, you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 106 Xifeng Is Conscience-Smitten at Causing Calamity The Lady Dowager Prays to Heaven to Avert Disaster The cry that the Lady Dowager was dying made Jia Zheng speed over to see her.
She had in fact fainted from shock, but Lady Wang, Yuanyang and the rest had revived her and given her a sedative which had gradually restored her, though she was still crying for grief.
In the hope of soothing her he said, "Your unfilial sons have brought this trouble upon our family, alarrning you, madam.
If you will take comfort, we can still handle the situation outside but if you fall ill our guilt will be even greater!"
"I'm four score years and more," was her reply.
"Ever since my gidhood when I married your father, thanks to our ancestors I've lived in the lap of luxury and never even heard tell of a nightmare like this.
Now, in my old age, seeing you come to grief it's too bad!
I wish I could die and be done with worrying about you!"
She broke down again.
Jia Zheng was at his wit's end when a servant outside announced a messenger from the court.
He went out at once and saw that it was the Prince of Beijing's chamberlain.
"Good news, sir!"
were the chamberlain's first words.
Jia Zheng thanked him and offered him a seat.
"What instructions has His Highness for me?"
he asked.
"Our master and the Prince of Xiping reported to the Emperor your trepidation, sir, and your gratitude for His Majesty's magnanimity.
As it is not long since the Imperial Consort's passing, His Majesty, being most merciful, cannot bring himself to condemn you.
You are to retain your Post in the Ministry of Works.
Regarding the family property, only Jia She's share is to be confiscated the rest will be restored to you and you are enjoined to work well.
As for those promissory notes, our master has been ordered to examine them.
All those at usurious, illegal rates of inter est are to be confiscated according to regulations.
Those on which the standard rates are charged are to be returned to you, together with your title-deeds.
Jia Lian is dismissed from his post, but will be released with-out further punishment."
Jia Zheng rose to kowtow his thanks to the Emperor, then bowed his thanks to the prince.
I beg you, sir, to report my gratitude now," he said.
"Tomorrow I shall go to court to express my thanks, then go to your mansion to kowtow to His Highness."
Soon after the chamberlain had left the Imperial edict arrived and was put into force by the officers in charge, who confiscated certain things, returning the rest.
Jia Lian was released, while all ha She's men and women bondservants were registered and sequestrated.
Unhappy Jia Lian had lost virtually all his possessions apart from some furnishings and those legitimate promissory notes which were returned to him.
For though the rest of his property was not confiscated, the runners during their raid had carried it off.
He had dreaded being punished and rejoiced at his release, but the loss overnight of all his savings as well as Xifeng's money seventy or eighty thousand taels at least was naturally galling on top of which he was afflicted by his father's imprisonment by the Imperial Guards and Xifeng's critical condition.
And now Jia Zheng reproached him with tears in his eyes.
"Because of my official duties, I turned over the supervision of our family affairs to you and your wife," he said.
"Of course you could hardly keep a check on your father, but who is responsible for this usury?
Such conduct is most unbefitting a family like ours.
Now that those notes of yours have been confiscated, the financial loss is of secondary importance, but think of the damage to our reputation!"
Jia Lian fell on his knees to reply, "In running the household I never presumed to act on selfish interests.
All our income and expenditure were entered in the accounts by Lai Da, Wu Xindeng and Dai Liang, and you can check on them by asking them, sir.
In the last few years, our expenditure has exceeded our income and as I haven't made good the difference there are certain deficits in the accounts.
If you ask the mistress, sir, she will confirrn this.
As for those loans, I myself have no idea where the money came from.
We shall have to find out from Zhou Rui and Lai Wang."
"According to you, you don't know even what is going on in your own apartments, to say nothing about family affairs!
Well, I won't cross-examine you now.
You've got off lightly yourself, but shouldn't you go to find out about the cases of your father and Cousin Zhen?"
Wronged as he felt, Jia Lian assented with tears and went away.
Heaving sigh after sigh Jia Zheng thought, "My ancestors spared no pains in his sovereign's service, winning fame and two hereditary titles but now that both our houses have got into trouble these titles have been lost.
As far as I can see, none of our sons or nephews amounts to anything.
Merciful Heaven!
Why should our Jia family be ruined like this?
Though His Gracious Majesty has shown extraordinary compassion by restoring my property, how am I alone to meet our two households' expenses?
Jia Lian's admission just now was even more shocking it seems that not only is our treasury empty but there are deficits in the accounts, so we've made a mere show of affluence all these years, and I can only blame myself for being such a fool!
If my son Zhu were alive he would have been my right hand.
Baoyu, though he's grown up, is a useless creature."
By now tears had stained his clothes, and he reflected, "My mother is so old yet not for a single day have we, her sons, provided for her out of our own earnings.
Instead of that we've made her faint for terror.
How can I shirk the blame for all these misdeeds?"
He was sunk in self-abasement when a servant announced some relatives and friends who had called to condole with him.
Jia Zheng thanked each in turn.
"I am to blame for this family disaster," he said.
"I failed to bring up my sons and nephews well."
One of them replied, "I have long known of your brother Lord She's unseemly conduct, and Master Zhen of that mansion was even more profligate.
If they are blamed for their malpractices, it is no more than they deserve.
Unfortunately, this scandal they've created has involved you as well, sir."
Another said, "Plenty of others kick over the traces without being impeached by the censors.
This must be because Master Zhen offended some of his friends."
"It's not the censors' fault," put in another.
"We heard that one of your servants connived with some rogues outside to raise a hue and cry against your house.
Then for fear there wasn't sufficient evidence, the censors tricked others of your men into talking.
I always had the impression that your family treated its servants most generously, so why should such a thing happen?"
"No slaves are any good," someone else declared.
"We're all relatives and friends here and can speak frankly.
Even at that post in the provinces, sir, scrupulous as you are yourself, I suspect that those grasping servants of yours damaged your reputation so you had better watch out.
Though your property hasn't been touched, if the Emperor's suspicions are aroused it may be troublesome."
In consternation Jia Zheng asked, "What talk against me have you gentlemen heard?"
"There's no evidence of this, but it was said that when you served as Grain Commissioner you allowed your subordinates to feather their nests."
"I swear to Heaven I never dared to think of such a thing!"
Jia Zheng protested.
"But if those slaves of mine fleeced and swindled people, and trouble comes of it, I shall be done for!"
"It's no use panicking," they said.
"You must make a serious checkup of your stewards, and if you find any of them insubordinate you should crack down on them hard."
Jia Zheng nodded.
Then a gateman came in to report, "The Elder Master's son-in-law Young Master Sun has sent word that he is too busy to call in person and so has sent a messenger instead.
He says that the Elder Master owed him money and wants you to pay him back, sir."
"Very well."
answered Jia Zheng with a sinking heart.
The others sneered, "No wonder your kinsman Sun Shaozu is said to be a scoundrel.
Now that his father-in-law's house has been raided, instead of coming to help out he loses no time in demanding his money back.
This is truly fantastic!"
"Let's not talk about him," said Jia Zheng.
"My brother should never have agreed to that match.
My niece has already paid dearly for his stake, and now her husband has started dunning me!"
As they were talking Xue Ke brought back the news, "Commissioner Zhao of the Imperial Guards insists on pressing the charges made by the censors.
I'm afraid things look black for the Elder Master and for Master Zhen."
"You must go and beg the princes to intervene, sir," Jia Zheng's friends urged hirn.
"Otherwise both your families will be ruined."
He agreed and thanked them, after which they dispersed.
It was already time to light the lamps.
Jia Zheng went inside to pay his respects to his mother and found her better.
Returning to his own quarters, he brooded resentfully over the folly of Jia Lian and his wife, whose usury now that it had come to light had landed the whole family in trouble.
He was most put out by this disclosure of Xifeng's misdoings.
But ince she was so ill and must be distraught too by the loss of all her possesions, he could hardly reprimand them for the time being.
Thus the night passed without further incident.
The next morning Jia Zheng went to court to express his gratitude for the Imperial favour, then called on both princes to kowtow his thanks and beg them to intervene on behalf of his brother and nephew.
After they had agreed to do this, he went to enlist the help of other colleagues.
Let us returil to Jia Lian.
Unable to extricate his father and cousin from the straits they were in, he returned home.
He found Pinger sitting weeping by Xifeng, who was being abused by Qiutong in the side-room.
ha Lian walked over to Xifeng, but as she seemed at her last gasp he had to hold back his reproaches.
"What's done is done," sobbed Pinger.
"We can't get back what we've lost.
But the mistress is so ill, you must send for a doctor for her."
"Pah!"
spat out Jia Lian.
"My own life is still at stake why should I care about her?"
At this Xifeng opened her eyes and, without a word, shed tears.
As Soon as Jia Lia had left she said to Pinger, "Stop being so dense.
Now that things have come to this pass, why worry about me?
I only wish I could die this very minute!
If you have any feeling for me, just bring up Qiaojier after my death and I shall be grateful to you in the nether regions!"
This only made Pinger sob more bitterly.
"You've sense enough to see," Xifeng continued, "that even if they haven't come to complain he must hold me to blame.
Though the trouble was sparked off outside, if I hadn't been greedy for money I'd have been in the clear.
Now after scheming so hard arid trying all my life to get ahead, I've ended up worse off than anyone else!
If only I hadn't trusted the wrong people!
I heard something vaguely too about Master Zhen's trouble and how he abducted the wife of an honest citizen named Zhang to be his concubine, forcing her to kill herself rather than submit.
Well, we know, don't we, who that fellow Zhang was?
If that business comes out, Master Lian will be involved too and I shall lose face completely.
I'd like to die this instant, but I haven't the courage to swallow gold or take poison.
And here you are talking of getting a doctor for me!
That's not doing me a kindness but a bad turn."
This upset Pinger even more.
She was at her wit's end.
For fear that Xifeng might try to take her own life, she kept a close watch over her.
Luckily the Lady Dowager was ignorant of these developments.
Now that her health was improving, she was relieved that Jia Zheng had kept out of trouble and Baoyu and Baochai stayed by her side every day.
As Xifeng had been her favourite she told Yuanyang, "Give some of my things to Xifeng, and take Pinger some money so that she can look after her well.
Once she's better I'll see what else can be done for her."
She also told Lady Wang to help Lady Xing.
Since the whole estate of the Ning Mansion had been confiscated, all its bondservants registered and taken away, the Lady Dowager sent carriages to fetch Madam You and her daughter-in-law over.
Alas for the Ning Mansion, once so grand!
All that remained of it was these two ladies and the concubines Peifeng and Xieluan, without a single servant.
The old lady placed at their disposal a house next to Xichun's, sent four women-servants and two maids to wait on them, had food prepared for them by the main kitchen, and provided them with clothing and other necessities.
She also allotted them the sanrie monthly allowances as were issued by the accountants' office to members of the Rong Mansion.
As for the expenses incurred by Jia She, Jia Zhen and Jia Rong in prison, the accountants' office was quite unable to meet them.
Xifeng had no property left Jia Lian was heavily in debt while Jia Zheng who had no head for affairs simply said "I have asked friends to see that they are looked after."
Jia Lian in desperation thought of appealing to their relatives, but Aunt Xue's family was bankrupt, Wang Ziteng was dead, and none of the rest was in a position to help.
All he could do was send some stewards in secret to raise a few thousand taels by selling certain country estates to defray the prison expenses.
As soon as he did this, however, the servants realized that the family was on the rocks and seized this chance for hanky-panky, filching money from the rents of the eastern manors too.
But this is anticipating.
To revert to the old lady, she had not a moment's peace of mind but kept weeping as she wondered what was to become of them all.
Their hereditary titles had been abolished, one of her sons and two younger kinsmen were in jail awaiting trial, Lady Xing and Madam You were disconsolate, and Xifeng was at death's door.
Though Baoyu and Baochai kept her company to console her, they could not share her worries.
One evening, after sending Baoyu away, she struggled to sit up and told Yuanyang and the other maids to burn incense in the various shrines and then to light a censerful in her courtyard.
Leaning on her cane she went out there.
Hupo, knowing that she meant to worship Buddha, had placed a red felt cushion on the ground.
The old lady offered incense and knelt down to kowtow and invoke Buddha several times.
She prayed to Heaven then with tears in her eyes, "Born a Shi, I married into the Jia family, and I earnestly implore holy Buddha in Heaven to have mercy on us!
For generations our Jia family has never dared transgress or abuse our power.
A devoted wife and mother, though unable to do much good I have never done anything wicked.
But some of the Jia descendants must have offended Heaven by their arrogance and dissipation thus our family has been raided, its property confiscated.
Now my son and grandsons are in jail and fortune is frowning on them.
I alone am responsible for these misfortunes because I failed to give them the proper training.
Now I entreat Heaven to save us, turning the sorrow of those in jail to joy, and curing those who are ill.
Even if the whole family has sinned, let me alone take the blame!
Spare my sons and grandsons!
Have pity, Heaven, on a pious woman!
Grant me an early death, but spare my children and grandchildren!"
Her voice faltered here from distress and she burst out sobbing.
Yuanyang and Zhenzhu as they helped her back inside did their best to comfort her.
Lady Wang had just brought Baoyu and Baochai to pay their evening respects.
The old lady's grief set the three of them crying too.
The saddest of all was Baochai as she reflected that her brother was imprisoned in the provinces, with no knowing whether his death sentence would be commuted or not and though her father-in-law was not in trouble, the Jia family was declining, while Baoyu was still deranged and showed no sign of trying to make good.
Anxiety over her future made her weep still more bitterly than Their Ladyships.
And her grief infected Baoyu.
He mused, "My grandmother can't be at peace in her old age, and that naturally upsets my father and mother.
All the girls have scattered like clouds before the wind, with fewer left every day.
How jolly it was, I remember, when we started that poetry club in the Garden but ever since Cousin Lin's death I've felt gloomy, yet with Baochai by me I can't cry too often.
And now she's so worried about her brother and mother, she hardly smiles all day."
The sight of her now so overcome with grief was more than he could bear.
He broke down and sobbed.
At this, Yuanyang, Caiyun, Yinger and Xiren, each of whom had her own cares, started sobbing too.
This moved the other maids to tears as well, and nobody restrained them.
So the wailing in the room grew louder and louder till the womenservants keeping watch outside hurried off in alarm to report this to the master.
Jia Zheng was sitting gloomily in his study when this message from his mother's servants was announced.
He hurried over frantically and while still at a distance heard the whole household crying, which convinced him that the old lady must be dying.
Running distractedly in, he was relieved to see her sitting there sobbing.
"When the old lady is upset, the rest of you should comfort her," he chided the others.
"Why are you all weeping too?"
They hastily dried their tears and stared blankly around.
Jia Zheng stepped forward to console his mother, then once more briefly reprimanded the rest, all of whom were wondering how they could have forgotten themselves and broken down when they had come meaning to soothe the old lady.
Just then a serving-woman brought in two maids from Marquis Shi's family.
They paid their respects to the Lady Dowager and the rest of the company.
'We've been sent by our master, mistress and young mistress," they announced.
"They've heard that your trouble here isn't serious, nothing more than a passing alarm.
For fear Your Lordship and Ladyships might be worried, they sent us to say that the Second Master here has nothing to fear.
Our young mistress wanted to come herself but couldn't because soon she'll be getting married."
"Give them our regards when you go back," responded the old lady, as it was inappropriate to thank these underlings.
"This misfortune must have been fated.
It was kind of your master and mistress to think of us, and another day we'll go over to express our gratitude.
I take it they've found your young lady a good husband what's his family's position?"
"They are not too well-off," the maids answered.
"But he's a handsome young man, and, from what we've seen of him, very easy-going.
He looks rather like your Master Bao, and is said to have literary talents too."
"That's good," said the old lady cheerfully.
"Being southerners, though we've lived here so long we abide by the customs of the south, so we haven't seen him yet.
The other day I was thinking of my old family, and your young mistress is the one I love most I used to have her here for the best part of the year.
When she was old enough I meant to find a suitable huaband for her, but because her uncle was away I couldn't arrange a match.
If she's lucky enough to have found a good young man, that sets my mind at rest.
I'd wanted to attend the wedding feast this month, but my heart is burning over this terrible upset here, so how can I Possibly go?
When you get back, give them my best regards.
All of us here send our greetings.
And tell your young lady not to worry about me.
1 'm more than eighty years old, and even if I die today I shall have had a good life.
I just hope that she and her husband will live happily together till old age then I'll rest content in my grave."
By now she was weeping again.
"Don't grieve, madam," said the maids.
"Nine days after the wedding you may be sure she'll come here with her husband to pay her respects.
Then how pleased you'll be to see them!"
The old lady nodded and the two maids left.
Others dismissed this from their minds, but Baoyu started brooding, 'What a life, with things going from bad to worse every day!
Why must a girl marry into another family when she grows up?
Marriage seems to change her into a different person.
Now our dear Cousin Shi is being forced by her uncle to get married, so when next she sees me she's bound to keep at a distance.
What is there to live for if everybody shuns you?"
His heart ached again, but since his grandmother was just calming down he'dared not weep and simply sat brooding instead.
Presently Jia Zheng returned, as he still had misgivings about the old lady.
Finding her better, he went back and sent orders to Lai Da to bring him the register of the servants in charge of the various household tasks.
He checked the names.
There were more than thirty families left two hundred and twelve men and women in all not counting Jia She's hondservants who had been sequestrated.
Jia Zheng summoned the twenty-one men-servants then working in the mansion to question them about the family's income and expenditure in the past.
When the stewards in charge presented the accounts for recent years, he saw that their expenditure had exceeded their income, in addition to which there had been yearly expenses in the Palace, and there were many entries of sums borrowed from outside too.
He then looked into their land rents in the east province, which of late amounted to less than half the rent delivered to their ancestors, whereas the family expenses had increased tenfold.
This discovery made him stamp in desperation.
"This is scandalous!"
he exclaimed.
"I put Lian in charge to keep a check on things but it seems that for years we've been spending our rents a year in advance, yet insisted on keeping up appearances!
Setting no store by our hereditary titles and emoluments, how could we fail to be ruined?
Even if I retrench now it will be too late."
He paced up and down, hands clasped behind his back, unable to hit on any way out.
The stewards knew that their master was worrying to no purpose, as he had no idea how to manage the household.
"Don't worry, sir," they said.
"This happens to every family.
Why, even the princes, if you work out their expenses, don't have enough to live on.
They just keep up appearances and get by for as long as they can.
You at least have this small property thanks to the Emperor's favour, sir but even if it had been confiscated too, wouldn't you still manage somehow?"
"You're farting!"
swore Jia Zheng.
"You slaves have no conscience!
When your masters prosper you throw money around when they're done for you take off, leaving them to their fate.
You say it's good that our property hasn't been confiscated, but with a grand reputation while unable to hold on to our capital, how can we stand your putting on airs outside, boasting and cheating people?
And when trouble comes of it, you shift the blame to your masters!
This charge against the Elder Master and Master Zhen is said to have come of our servant Bao Er blabbing but this register lists no Bao Er why is that?"
"This Bao Er was not on our roster.
His name used to be on the Ning Mansion register.
Because Master Lian thought him an honest fellow he had him and his wife transferred here.
When later his wife died, Bao Er went back to the Ning Mansion.
Then when you were busy in your yamen, sir, and Their Ladyships and the young gentlemen were away mourning for the Imperial Consort, Master Zhen took over the management of the house and reinstated Bao Er.
But afterwards he left.
Since you haven't run the household all these years, sir, how could you know such things?
You may think this is the only name not on the roster, but actually each steward has quite a few of his relatives under him as under-servants."
'Disgraceful!"
was Jia Zheng's comment, and with that he dismissed them.
Aware that he could not set his house in order overnight, he postponed taking action until Jia She's case was settled.
One day he was thinking things over in his study when one of his men rushed in.
"Your Lordship, you are wanted at once at court for questioning!"
he announced.
With some trepidation Jia Zheng obeyed this summons.
To know whether it boded well or not, read the next chapter.
Chapter 107 The Lady Dowager Impartially Shares Out Her Savings Jia Zheng's Hereditary Title Is Restored by Imperial Favour Jia Zheng found the whole Privy Council as well as the princes assembled in the Palace.
The Prince of Beijing announced, 'We have summoned you today on His Majesty's orders for an interrogation."
Jia Zheng at once fell on his knees.
'Your elder brother connived with provincial officials to oppress the weak, and allowed his son to organize gambling parties and abduct another man's wife, who took her own life rather than submit.
Were you cognizant of these facts?"
the ministers asked him.
"After my term of office as Chief Examiner by His Majesty's favour, I inspected famine relie" replied ha Zheng.
"I returned home at the end of winter the year before last and was sent to inspect some works, after which I served as Grain Commissioner of Jiangxi until I was impeached and came back to the capital to my old post in the Ministry of Works.
Never, day or night, did I neglect my duties.
But in my folly I paid insufficient attention to household affairs and failed to train my sons and nephews correctly.
I have proved unworthy of the Imperial favour and beg His Majesty for severe punishment."
The Prince of Beijing reported this to the Emperor, who soon issued an edict which the prince proclaimed -768 We have ordered a strict investigation of Jia She, who has been impeached by the censors for conniving with locM officials to oppress the weak and, in league with the prefect of Pingan, subverting the law.
Jia She admits that he and the prefect were connected by marriage hut denies intervening in a lawsuit, and the censors have no evidence of this.
It is true that he took advantage of his power to extort antique fans from the Stone Idiot but fans are mere trifles and this offence is less serious than -720 robbery with violence.
Though the Stone Idiot conntnitted suicide, it was because he was deranged, not because he was hounded to death.
ha She is to be shown lenity and sent to the frontier to expiate his crime.
-768 As for the charge that Jia Zhen abducted another man's wife and she killed herself rather than be his concubine, a study of the censorate's original report reveals that Second Sister You was betrothed to Zhang Rua but he, being poor, consented to break the engagement, and her mother agreed to marry her to Jia Zhen's younger cousin as his concubine.
This was not a case of abduction.
Regarding the charge that Third Sister You's suicide and burial were not reported to the authorities, it transpires that she was the sister of Jia Zhen's wife and they engaged her to a man who demanded the betrothal gifts back because of talk of her loose morals.
She killed herself for shame Jia Zhen did not hound her to death.
However, Jia Zhen deserves harsh punishment because, although he inherited a title, he flouted the law by a clandestine burial but in view of his descent from a meritorious minister we will forbear from inflicting punishment and in our clemency will revoke his hereditary title and send him to serve at the coast to expiate his crime.
Jia Rong, being young and not involved, is to be released.
Since Jia Zheng has undeniably worked diligently and prudently for many years outside ffie capital, his reprehensible mismanagement of his household is condoned.
Jia Zheng, moved to tears of gratitude, had kowtowed repeatedly while listening to this edict.
He now begged the Prince of Beijing to petition the Emperor for him.
"You should kowtow your thanks for the Imperial favour," replied the prince.
"What other petition have you?"
"Although I am guilty, His Majesty in His great favour has not punished me severely and my property has been returned to me.
Overwhelmed with shame as I am, I would like to make over to the state my ancestral estate, emoluments and savings."
"His Majesty, ever merciful to His subjects, disciplines them with Perspicacity, meting out unerring rewards and punishments," replied the Prince.
"Since you have been shown such clemency and had your property restored, it would be inappropriate to present any further petition."
The other ministers also dissuaded him.
Then Jia Zheng kowtowed his gratitud and having thanked Their Highnesses withdrew, hurrying home to reassure his mother.
All the men and women, high and low, in the Rong Mansion had been wondering what this summons to the Palace meant and had sent out for news.
Jia Zheng's return relieved them but none dared question him.
He hastened to the old lady's side to explain to her all the details of his pardon but although this set her mind ar rest, she could not help grieving over the loss of the two hereditary titles and the banishment of Jia She and Jia Zhen to such distant regions.
As for Lady Xing and Madam You, this news reduced them to tears.
"Don't worry, madam," said Jia Zheng, hoping to comfort his mother.
"Though Elder Brother is going to serve at the frontier, he will be working for the government too and isn't likely to undergo any hardships.
Provided he handles matters well, he may be reinstated.
Zhen is young, it is only right for him to work hard otherwise he won't be able for long to enjoy the fortune left us by our ancestors.
The old lady had never been too fond of Jia She, while Jia Zhen being of the East Mansion was not one of her descendants.
Only Lady Xing and Madam You were sobbing as if they would never stop.
Lady Xing was thinking.
"We've lost everything and my husband is going so far away in his old age.
Though I still have my son Lian, he always listens to his Second Uncle, and now that we have to live on him naturally Lian and his wife will take their side.
What's to become of me left all on my own?"
Madam You had been in sole charge of household affairs in the Ning Mansion, second only to Jia Zhen, and they were a well-matched couple.
Now he was to be banished in disgrace, all their property had been confiscated, and she would have to live in the Rong Mansion where, though the old lady was fond of her, she would be a poor dependent saddled with Peifeng and Xieluan into the bargain for her son Rong and his wife were in no position to restore the family's fortunes.
She thought, "Lian was the one to blame for my two sisters' deaths yet he's in no trouble now, not parted from his own wife, while we're left stranded.
How are we to cope?"
These reflections made her sob.
The old lady's heart ached for them.
She asked Jia Zheng, "Can't your elder brother and Zhen come home now that they've been sen- tenced?
And as Rong is not involved, shouldn't he be released as well?"
'According to the rules, elder brother can't come home," he told her.
'But I've asked people to put in a word so that he and Zhen can come back to get their luggage together, and the ministry has agreed.
I expect Rong will return with his grand-uncle and father.
Please don't worry, madam.
I shall see to this."
"These years I've grown so old and useless that I haven't checked up on our family affairs," she said.
"Now the East Mansion has been confiscated.
Not only the house either, but your elder brother and Lian have lost all their property too.
Do you know how much is left in our West Mansion's treasury?
And how much land in our eastern estates?
You must give them a few thousand taels for their journeys."
Jia Zheng was in a dilemma.
He reflected, "If I tell her the truth she may be very worried but if I don't, how am I to manage now to say nothing of the future?"
Accordingly he answered, "If you hadn't questioned me, madam, I wouldn't have ventured to report this.
But since you ask and Lian is here too I must tell you that yesterday I investigated.
Our treasury is empty.
Not only is all the silver gone but we have debts outside too.
Now that elder brother is in this predicament, if we don't bribe people to help, then in spite of His Majesty's kindness they may be hard put to it.
But I can't think where the money is to come from.
We've already used up next year's rent from our eastern estates, so can't raise any sums there for the time being.
We shall just have to sell those clothes and trinkets which thanks to Imperial favour weren't confiscated, to cover the travelling expenses of elder brother and Zhen.
As to what to live on ourselves, we can worry about that later."
The old lady shed tears in her consternation.
"Is our family reduced to this?"
she exclaimed.
"I didn't see it for myself, but in the old days my family was ten times richer than this one, yet after a few years of keeping up appearances - though we were never raided like this - it went downhill and in less than two years was done for!
Do you mean to say we shan't be able to manage even for a couple of years?"
"If we'd kept those two hereditary stipends we could still manoeu vre outside.
But whom can we expect to help us now?"
In tears he continued, "All those relatives whom we helped before are poor, and the others we didn't help won't be willing to come to our rescue.
I didn't investigate too carefully yesterday, but simply looked at the register of our servants.
Quite apart from the fact that we can't meet our own expenses, we can't afford to feed such a large staff."
The old lady was distraught with anxiety when Jia She, Jia Zhen and Jia Rong came in together to pay their respects to her.
At sight of them she clasped Jia She with one hand, Jia Zhen with the other, and sobbed.
Her grief made them blush for shame and fall to their knees.
"We are reprobates who have forfeited the honours accorded to our ancestors and brought you grief, madam," they said tearfully.
"We don't even deserve a piece of ground in which to bury our bones after death!"
All present seeing this gave way to weeping.
Jia Zheng interposed, "The first thing to do is make ready for their journey.
The authorities will probably not agree to their staying at home for more than a couple of days."
Holding back her tears the old lady dismissed Jia She and Jia Zhen to see their wives.
Then she told Jia Zheng, "There's no time to be lost!
I'm afraid it's no use trying to raise money outside, and it will be bad if they fail to leave by the appointed time.
So I had better settle this for you.
But the household is topsy-turvy - this won't do!"
She sent Yuanyang off to restore order.
After Jia She and Jia Zhen had withdrawn with Jia Zheng, weeping again they deplored their past excesses and spoke of their grief at parting.
Then they went to lament with their wives.
Jia She being old did not mind leaving Lady Xing but Jia Zhen and Madam You could not bear to be parted, and Jia Lian and Jia Rong wept beside their fathers.
For though their banishment was less harsh than service in the army, the exiles might never again see their families.
However, since things had come to such a pass they had to make the best of the situation.
The old lady made Lady Xing, Lady Wang, Yuanyang and the others open up her cases and take out all the things she had stored away since coming here as a bride.
Then she summoned Jia She, Jia Zheng and Jia Zhen to share out her belongings.
Jia She received three thousand taels of silver with the instructions, "Take two thousand for your journey and leave your wife one thousand."
"This three thousand is for Zhen," the old lady continued.
"You are only to take one thousand, leaving your wife two thousand.
She and your concubines can go on as before, sharing the same house but eating separately and I shall see to Xichun's marriage in future.
Poor Xifeng had put herself out for us all these years yet now she has nothing left so I shall give her three thousand too, on condition that she keeps it herself and doesn't let Lian use it.
As she's still only half-conscious, tell Pinger to come and take it.
And here are clothes left by your grandfather and costumes and trinkets I wore when I was young, which I have no further use for.
The Elder Master, Zhen, Lian and Rong can divide his clothes between them the rest are to be shared out by the Elder Mistress, Zhen's wife and Xifeng.
This five hundred taels of silver is for Li an, for when he takes Daiyu's coffin back south next year.
Having made this apportionment she told Jia Zheng, "You spoke of debts outside well, they must be cleared.
Take this gold to settle them.
It's the others' fault that I have to part with all my possessions like this but you're my son too, and I can't show favouritism.
Baoyu is already married.
The gold, silver and other things which I have left must be worth a few thousand taels, and that will go to him.
Zhu's wife has always been dutiful to me, and Lan's a good lad, so I'll give them something too.
This is all that I can do."
Impressed by her sound judgement and fair treatment, Jia Zheng and the rest knelt down and said with tears, "You are so advanced in years, Old Ancestress, and your sons and grandsons have failed in their duty to you.
Your goodness to us makes us doubly ashamed!"
"Stop talking nonsense," she answered.
"If not for this trouble I'd have kept everything to myself.
But or household is too large now, with only the Second Master holding a post, so we can manage with just a few servants.
Tell the stewards to summon them all and make the necessary retrenchment.
Provided each house had someone, that's enough.
What should we have done, anyway, if they'd all been sequestrated?
The maids should be re-assigned too, and some of them married off, some given their freedom.
And though this mansion of ours wasn't taken over by the authorities, you should at least give up the Garden.
As for our other estates, let Lian investigate to see which should be sold and which kept up.
We must stop putting on an empty show.
I can speak bluntly the Zhen family down south still has some money in the Elder Mistress' keeping, which she should send back.
Because if any other trouble should happen to us in future, wouldn't they be 'out of the frying-pan into the fire?'"
Jia Zheng had no head for family affairs and readily agreed to all her proposals.
"The old lady certainly is a good manager!"
he reflected.
"It's her worthless sons who have ruined the family."
Then, as his mother looked tired, he urged her to go and rest.
"I haven't much else," she continued.
"What there is can be spent on my funeral, and anything left over can go to my maids."
Distressed to hear her talk like this, Jia Zheng and the others knelt down again and pleaded, "Don't take it so hard, madam!
Sharing in your good fortune, we can hope later on for more marks of Imperial favour and then we shall exert our selves to set our house in order, and atone for our faults by caring for you until you are a hundred."
"I certainly hope it turns out like that, so that I can face our ancestors after death.
But you mustn't imagine I'm someone who enjoys riches and rank and can't endure poverty.
These last few years you seemed to be doing fine, so I didn't interfere, content to laugh and chat and nurse my health, never dreaming that our family was doomed to ruin like this!
I knew all along that we were putting on an empty show, but everyone in the household was so used to luxury that we couldn't cut down expenses all of a sudden.
Well, here's a good chance to retrench, to keep the family going, if we don't want to become a laughing-stock.
You expected me to be worried to death on hearing that we're bankrupt.
But in fact I was upset because, recalling the honours conferred on our ancestors for their splendid services to the state, I kept wishing that you might do even better, or at least manage to keep what you'd inherited.
Who knows what dirty business they got up to, uncle and nephew!"
As she was haranguing them like this, a flustered Fenger ran in to tell Lady Wang, "This morning our mistress cried and cried when she learned about our trouble.
Now she's at her last gasp.
Pinger sent me to report this to you, madam."
-480 Before she could finish the old lady asked, "Just how is she?"
"Not too well, they say," Lady Wang replied for Fenger, "Ah!"
exclaimed the old lady rising to her feet.
"These wretched children won't give me a moment's peace!"
She told maids to help her over to see Xifeng, but Jia Zheng barred the way.
"Madam, you've been so upset and attended to so much business, you ought to rest now.
If your grandson's wife is unwell, your daughter-in-law can go and see to her there's no need to go yourself.
If you were to be upset again and fall ill, how could your sons bear it?"
"You're all to leave now and come back presently - I've more to say to you.
Not venturing to raise any further objections, Jia Zheng went to help prepare for his brother's and nephew's journeys, instructing Jia Lian to choose servants to accompany them.
Meanwhile the old lady made Yuanyang and the others go over with her to see Xifeng, taking her gifts for her.
Xifeng's breath was coming in gasps, and Pinger's eyes and cheeks were red from weeping.
When Their Lady ships were announced, Pinger hurried out to meet them.
"How is she now?
"asked the old lady.
Not wanting to alarm her Pinger said, "She's a little better Since you're here, madam, please step in and see for yourself."
She followed them inside, then darted over and quietly raised the bed-curtains.
Xifeng, opening her eyes, was overcome with shame at sight of the old lady, for she had assumed that the Lady Dowager must be angry with her erstwhile favourite and would leave her to die - she had never expected this visit.
Relief eased her choking sensation and she struggled to sit up but the old lady made Pinger hold her down.
"Don't move," she said.
"Are you feeling a bit better?"
"Yes, madam," answered Xifeng with tears in her eyes.
"Since I came here as a girl, Your Ladyships have been so good to me!
But it was my misfortune to be driven out of my mind by evil spirits so that I couldn't serve you dutifully and win my father- and mother-in-law's approval.
You treated me so well, letting me help run the household and after turning everything upside-down how can I look you in the face again?"
Here she broke down and sobbed, "Now Your Ladyships have come in person to see me, quite overwhelming me!
Even if I had another three days to live, I deserve to have two days docked!"
'That trouble started outside," said the old lady.
"It had nothing to do with you.
And even though you were robbed it doesn't matter.
I've brought you a whole lot of things, to do just as you like with."
She told the maids to show Xifeng her gifts.
Xifeng was insatiably acquisitive.
The loss of all her possessions had naturally cut her to the quick, in addition to which she had dreaded being held to blame and felt life was not worth living.
Now it seemed she was still in the old lady's good books, and Lady Wang instead of reproaching her had come to comfort her, while she knew that Jia Lian had kept out of trouble too.
In relief she kowtowed to the old lady from her pillow.
'Please dont worry, madam," she said.
"If I recover thanks to your good fortune, I'll gladly be your menial and serve Your Ladyships with all my heart!
Her obvious distress made the Lady Dowager give way to tears.
Baoyu was accustomed to comfort and enjoyment, and had never known genuine anxiety.
This was his first experience of disaster.
Now that sobbing and wailing assailed him wherever he turned, his mind became more unhinged and when others wept he joined in.
All of them seemed so upset that Xifeng raised her head from the pillow and made an effort to comfort the old lady.
"Please go back, Your Ladyships," she urged.
"When I'm a bit better I'll come to kowtow my thanks."
The old lady told Pinger, "Mind you look after her well.
If you're short of anything, come to me for it."
On her way back with Lady Wang, they heard weeping in several apartments.
Once home, unable to check her grief any longer, the old lady dismissed Lady Wang and sent Baoyu to see off his uncle and cousin.
She then lay down on her couch and burst into tears.
Luckily Yuanyang and the other maids finally succeeded in consoling her, so that she fell asleep.
Jia She and Jia Zhen were by no means the only ones to be distressed at leaving.
None of the servants escorting them wanted to go.
Simmering with resentment they cursed their fate, for separation in life is harder to bear than separation by death, and saddest of all were the people seeing them off.
The once splendid Rong Mansion resounded with lamentations.
Jia Zheng, a model of propriety with a strong sense of moral obligation, clasped his brother's hand in farewell then rode ahead out of the city to offer them wine at the Pavilion of Parting and wish them a good journey.
He reminded them of the government's concern for meritorious ministers, and exhorted them to work hard to repay this compassion.
Shedding tears then, Jia She and Jia Zhen went their different ways.
When Jia Zheng returned with Baoyu, they found messengers outside their gate clamouring that an Imperial edict had just been issued bestowing the title of Duke of Rongguo on Jia Zheng.
These men wanted largesse for bringing such good tidings.
The gatemen argued, "This is a hereditary title which our master already possesses so how can you claim to be bringing us good tidings?"
The messengers retorted, "Hereditary titles are a great honour, harder to come by than an official appointment.
Your Elder Master has lost his and will never get it back.
But now His Sagacious Majesty has shown kindness greater than Heaven and restored this title to your Second Master such a thing only happens once in a thousand years.
So why don't you tip us for bringing the good news?"
Jia Zheng arrived in the middle of this dispute.
When the gatemen reported the news to him he was pleased, although this reminded him of his brother's offence.
Shedding tears of gratitude he hurried in to report this to the old lady.
She was naturally delighted and, taking him by the hand, urged him to work diligently to repay the Emperor's kindness.
Lady Wang, arrtving just then to comfort the old lady, rejoiced too at this news.
Lady Xing and Madam You, the only ones sick at heart, had to hide their feelings.
Those relatives and friends outside who had fawned on the Jias when they Were powerful had steered clear of them since hearing of their disgrace.
Now that Jia Zheng had inherited the title and apparently still enjoyed the Emperor's favour, they hurried over to offer congratulations.
To their surprise, Jia Zheng felt genuine embarrassment at inheriting his brother's title, despite his gratitude to the Emperor.
The next day he went to court to offer thanks, and asked permission to make over to the state the houses and Garden which had been returned to him.
When an edict declared this petition unwarranted, he went home in relief and continued to work steadily at his post.
But the family was now impoverished, its income falling short of its expenditure, and Jia Zheng was unable to take advantage of his social connections.
The servants knew that though he was a worthy man, while Xifeng was too ill to run the household Jia Lian was piling up debts from day to day which forced him to mortgage houses and sell land.
The wealthier of the stewards were afraid Jia Lian might appeal to them for help, and therefore made a pretence of poverty or kept out of his way.
Some even asked for leave and did not return, for each was looking around for a new master.
The sole exception was Bao Yong, who had only recently come to the Rong Mansion just as disaster struck it.
This honest fellow was filled with indignation by the way the rest cheated their masters but being a newcomer his words carried no weight, so in anger he just went to sleep after supper each day.
The other servants resented his lack of compliance, and slandered him to Jia Zheng as a drunken trouble-maker and a slacker.
"Let him be," said Jia Zheng.
"He was recommended by the Zhen family we can hardly send him away.
We may be in difficulties, but feeding one extra mouth won't make any difference."
As he would not dismiss Bao Yong, the servants complained about him to Jia Lian but the latter no longer dared act high handedly and took no action either.
One day, feeling disgruntled, Bao Yong had a few drinks then strolled out to the road outside the Rong Mansion, where he saw two fellows talking.
"See there!"
said one.
"That fine mansion was raided the other day.
I wonder what's become of its owners."
"How could a family like theirs be ruined?"
the other said.
"I heard that one of their daughters was an Imperial Consort, and even though she's dead they should be well entrenched.
I've seen them hobnobbing with princes and nobles too, so they must have plenty of backing.
Why, even the present prefect, the last War Minister, is related to them.
Couldn't these people have protected them?"
"You live here but don't know the first thing about it!
The others weren't so bad, but that Prefect Jia was the limit!
I've often seen him calling on both mansions, and after the censors impeached them the Emperor ordered him to investigate before any decision was made.
What do you think he did?
Because he'd been helped by both mansions, for fear of being accused of shielding them he gave them a vicious kick -that's why they were raided.
Friendship doesn't mean a thing nowadays."
Bao Yong beside them overheard this idle gossip.
"Are there such people in the world with no sense of gratitude?"
he thought.
"I wonder what relation he is to our master.
If I meet the scoundrel I'll knock him off-- and to hell with the consequences!"
He was letting his drunken fancy run wild when he heard runners shouting, "Clear the way!"
Although some distance off, he stood still and heard one fellow whisper, "It's Prefect Jia coming."
Bao Yong was furious.
Emboldened by drink he yelled, "Heartless slave!
How could you forget our Jia family's goodness to you?"
Jia Yucun peered out from his chair at the sound of the name Jia, but seeing a drunkard he ignored him and went on.
Bao Yong, being drunk and reckless, swaggered back to the house to question his fellow servants, who confirmed that Jia Yucun owed his promotion to the ha family.
"Instead of remembering their kindness, he kicked them down," Bao Yong fumed.
"When I cursed him just now he dared not answer back."
The servants in the Rong Mansion had always disliked Bao Yong, but their masters would not take any action against him.
Now that he had made this row outside, they seized the chance when Jia Zheng was free to report that Bao Yong had been drunk and disorderly.
This news angered Jia Zheng, who was afraid of fresh trouble.
He summoned Bao Yong and reprimanded him but not liking to punish him ordered him to keep watch in the Garden and not to leave the place.
Bao Yong was a loyal, straightforward fellow who safeguarded his master's interests.
Jia Zheng had berated him on the basis of hearsay, but not venturing to justify himself he packed up his things and moved into the Garden to keep watch there and water the plants.
To know what happened later, read the next chapter.
Chapter 108 Baochai's Birthday Is Celebrated with Forced Mirth Baoyu, Longing for the Dead, Hears Ghosts Weeping in Bamboo Lodge When Jia Zheng's petition to make over to the state his mansion and Grand View Garden was rejected by the court, as there was no one staying in the Garden he had the place locked up.
Later, as it adjoined the quarters of Madam You and Xichun and its vast grounds were deserted, to punish Bao Yong he sent him there to keep watch.
ha Zheng was regulating the household now in accordance with his mother's instructions, gradually cutting down the staff and economizing in all possible ways but still he could not manage.
Luckily for him, xifeng was the old lady's favourite although no love was lost between her and Lady Wang and the rest and as she was an able manager the household affairs were once more entrusted to her.
Since the raid, however, for lack of funds she had no scope to manoeuvre and because the mistresses and maids of the different apartments were used to luxury, with their income less than a third of what it had been she found it impossible to satisfy them.
Inevitably there were endless complaints.
But Xifeng, in spite of her illness, dared not relinquish her task and did her best to please the Lady Dowager.
After Jia She and Jia Zhen reached their destinations, having money they settled down there for the time being, writing home that they were COrnfortably off and the family need not worry.
This relieved the old lady's mind, and Lady Xing and Madam You took comfort too.
One day, Shi Xiangyun arrived on her first visit after her marriage.
The old lady, to whom she paid her respects, complimented her on her husband and Xiangyun told her that her whole family was well and she need have no anxiety on that score.
Then, speaking of Daiyu's death, they both shed tears and the thought of Yingchun's hard lot made the old lady even sadder.
After trying to console her, Xiangyun paid a round of calls on the others, returning to rest in the old lady's room.
And now they spoke of the Xue family and how it had been ruined by Xue Pan for though this year he had been granted a reprieve, there was no knowing whether his sentence would be commuted next year or not.
"You haven't heard the latest," said the old lady.
"The other day Pan's wife died in mysterious circumstances, nearly causing another scandal Thanks to the mercy of Buddha, the maid she had brought with her made a clean breast of the business, so that old Mrs. Xia couldn't raise a row and stopped them from holding an inquest.
The trouble your aunt had getting rid of the Xi as!
So you see the truth of the saying 'All kinsmen share the same fate.'
The Xues are in a bad way.
Now the only one she has staying with her is Ke.
He's a good-hearted lad who says he won't marry while Pan is still in jail, his case not settled that's why your Cousin Xiuyan is staying with the Elder Mistress and having a thin time.
Baoqin hasn't married yet either, because Academician Mei's son is still in mourning for him.
The Second Mistress' elder brother has died, Xifeng's elder brother is a nincompoop, and that niggardly Second Uncle of theirs has embezzled public funds so they're in hot water as well.
As for the Zhen family, we've had no news of them since their house was raided."
"Has Cousin Tanchun written home since she left?"
asked Xiangyun.
"After her marriage your uncle came back with the news that she was happily settled at the coast.
We've had no letter from her, though, and I miss her the whole time but what with all the troubles our family's had, there's nothing I can do.
Now Xichun's marriage still has to be fixed.
As for Huan, who has time for him?
We're harder up now than we used to be when you stayed here.
Poor Baochai hasn't passed a single day in comfort since she came to our family.
And your Cousin Bao's still so crazy what can we do?"
"I grew up here so I know all my cousins we," Xiangyun replied.
"They've all changed since last I was here.
I thought at first they were holding aloof because I'd stayed away so long but on thinking it over I realize it isn't that.
When we met, I could see they meant to be as freeandeasy as in the old days but, somehow, once we got talking they grew depressed.
That's why after sitting with them for a bit I came back here to you, madam."
"The way we're living now is all right with me, but how can those young people stand it?
I've been wondering how to give them a day's fun, but I haven't the energy for it."
"I have an idea!"
cried Xiangyun.
"It's Baochai's birthday, isn't it, the day after tomorrow?
I can stay an extra day to congratulate her, and we'll all have a day's fun.
What do you think, madam?"
"Anger must have addled my wits.
If you hadn't reminded me, I'd have forgotten.
Of course, the day after tomorrow is her birthday.
I'll get out some money to celebrate it tomorrow.
We had several parties for her in the past, but not since she married into the family.
Baoyu used to be such a clever, mischievous boy, but our family misfortunes have left him speechless.
Zhu's wife is still a good daughter-in-law, quietly bringing Lan up and behaving the same whether things go well or badly it's hard on her."
"The one who's changed most is Cousin Xifeng," put in Xiangyun.
"She's lost her good looks and her old gift of the gab.
Wait till I tease them tomorrow and see how they react.
But I'm afraid, though they won't say so, they'll secretly resent the fact that now I have... " She broke off at this point blushing.
"Don't worry," said the old lady seeing her embarrassment.
"You and your cousins used to have a good time chaffing each other.
You mustn't have such scruples.
People should make the best of what they've got, able to enjoy rank and riches or to put up with poverty.
Your Cousin Baochai has always been broadminded.
When her family was well-off she wasn't the least bit conceited later, when they got into trouble, she kept cheerful.
Now that she's one of our family, when Baoyu treats her well she takes it calmly, and if he's bad to her it doesn't provoke her.
I think that's her good fortune.
Your Cousin Daiyu, on the other hand, was narrow-minded and hyper-sensitive that's why she didn't live long.
Xifeng, being more experienced, shouldn't let upsets influence her behaviour.
If she's so foolish, that's rather petty too.
Well, as the day after tomorrow is Baochai's birthday, I'll get out some silver for a lively celebration, to give her a happy day."
"You're quite right, madam.
And while you're about it, why not invite all her girl cousins too?
Then we can have a good chat."
"I certainly will."
More cheerful now, the old lady told Yuanyang to get out a hundred taels and order the servants to prepare two days' feasts, starting from the next day.
Yuanyang sent one of the matrons off with the money, after which the night passed uneventfully.
The next day, servants were sent to fetch Yingchun home.
Aunt Xue and Baoqin were invited too, and asked to bring Xiangling.
Aunt Li was also invited, and Li Wen and Li Qi with her.
Baochai was still in the dark when one of the old lady's maids arrived with the message, Aunt Xue has come, and you're asked to go over, madam."
Without stopping to change her clothes, she went over happily to see her mother.
She found assembled there her cousin Baoqin and Xiangling, as well as Aunt Li and others.
Ascribing their visit to the news that the Jia family was no longer in trouble, she paid her respects to Aunt Li and to the old lady, said a few words to her mother, then greeted the Li sisters.
"Please take seats, ladies," urged Xiangyun, "while we girls wish Cousin Baochai a long life."
Baochai stood amazed, then thought, "Yes, of course tomorrow is my birthday."
"Jt's right and proper for you girls to come and see the old lady," she protested.
"I can't have you saying that it's on my account."
Baoyu, come to greet Aunt Xue and Aunt Li, arrived in time to hear her modest rejoinder.
He had been wanting to celebrate his wife's birthday, but had not ventured to suggest it to his grandmother because the household was at sixes and sevens.
Now that Xiangyun and the rest were about to congratulate Baochai, he was delighted.
"It's tomorrow, her birthday," he said.
"I was meaning to remind the old lady."
"For shame!"
retorted Xiangyun playfully.
"The old lady doesn't need any reminding.
Do you suppose these visitors would have come if she hadn't invited them?"
aochai could hardly believe this, but now she heard the old lady tell her mother, "Poor Baochai has been married for a year, but with one thing after another cropping up here we've not celebrated her birthday.
I'm giving this party for her today, and have asked you ladies over for a good chat."
"You shouldn't have put yourself out, madam," said Aunt Xue.
"You've been having such an anxious time, and the child hasn't been dutiful enough."
"The old lady's favourite grandchild is Cousin Bao," quipped Xiangyun.
"So why shouldn't his wife be a favourite too?
Besides, Baochai deserves a birthday party."
Baochai lowered her head and said nothing.
Baoyu told himself, "I thought marriage was bound to turn Cousin Shi into a different person, so I was afraid to approach her and she ignored me too but it seems from the way she talks that she hasn't changed.
In that case, why has Baochai grown so bashful since we married?
She can hardly get a word out."
As he was wondering about this, a young maid came in to report Yingchun's return.
Then Li Wan and Xifeng arrived too, and greetings were exchanged.
Yingchun mentioned that at the time of her father's departure she had wanted to see him of but her husband had forbidden her.
"He said that our family was having a run of bad luck and I mustn't be tainted by it," she explained.
"I couldn't talk him round so I didn't come, just cried for days on end."
"Then why did he let you come today?"
asked Xifeng.
"He says it's all right to keep up the connection now that our Second Master has inherited the title."
She wept again.
"I was feeling very depressed," complaind the old lady.
"That's why I invited you all here today to celebrate my granddaughter-in-law's birthday.
I thought some fun and laughter would cheer us up, but here you are provoking me by bringing up those tiresome things again."
Then Yingchun and the others dropped the subject.
Though Xifeng forced herseJf to crack a joke or two, she was less Witty and amusing than before but the old lady egged her on, in the hope of diverting Baochai.
And Xifeng, understanding this, did her best.
She said, "Today the old lady's feeling more cheerful.
And look at all these people who haven't foregathered for so long, here today all to-gether."
There she broke off for, glancing round, she realized that her motherin-law and Madam You were absent.
The two words "all together" reminded the old lady of them too, and she sent to invite them.
Lady Xing, Madam You and Xichun had perforce to come, although much against their wishes, reflecting that if the Lady Dowager was in the mood to celebrate Baochai's birthday with the family half ruined - it showed her favouritism.
Hence they arrived looking listless and apathetic.
When asked about Xiuyan, Lady Xing made the excuse that she was unwell and the old lady said no more, knowing that Aunt Xue's presence made it embarrassing for Xiuyan to come.
Soon sweetmeats and wine were served.
"We won't send any to the gentlemen outside," said the Lady Dowager.
"Today's party is just for us womenfolk."
Baoyu, though a married man now, still had the freedom of the inner quarters because he was his grandmother's favourite.
Being unable to sit with Xiangyun and Baoqin, he took a seat by the old lady and started toasting the guests one by one on Baochai's behalf.
"Sit down now and let's all drink," proposed the old lady.
"You can go round and pay your respects to them later.
If you do that now, everyone will be formal and that would spoil my fun."
Baochai complied and sat down.
"Today we may as well let ourselves go," continued the old lady.
"We'll just keep one or two maids to wait on us, and I'll tell Yuanyang to take Caiyun, Yinger, Xiren and Pinger to the back to drink by themselves."
The maids protested, "We haven't yet kowtowed to Madam Bao.
How can we go off to drink?"
"Just do as I say," she answered.
"We'll call you when we need You."
After Yuanyang had gone off with the other maids, the old lady urged Aunt Xue and the others to drink.
But none of them behaved as they had the old days.
"What's wrong with you?"
she demanded frantically.
'q want every- -1152 one to have fun!"
"We're eating and drinking what more should we do?"
asked xiangyun.
They used to be young and gay," explained Xifeng.
"Now they're standing too much on their dignity to talk wildly that's why you find them rather quiet, madam."
Baoyu whispered, "There's nothing we can talk about, madam, because any talk's bound to lead to something depressing.
Why don't you get them to play a drinking game?"
The old lady had inclined her head to listen.
Now she remarked with a smile, "If we're to play drinking games we must call Yuanyang back."
Needing no further instrnctions, Baoyu went to the back to give her this message.
"Won't you let us drink a cup in peace, young master?"
she protested.
"Why come and disturb us?"
"It's trne," he insisted.
"The old lady wants you there.
This isn't my doing."
Yuanyang had to tell the others, "Just go on drinking, I'll be back before long."
With that she rejoined the old lady.
'So here you are, eb?"
said the Lady Dowager.
"We want to play drinking games."
"I came because Master Bao told me you wanted me, madam.
What game would you like to play?"
"Those literary games are terribly dull, but rowdy ones are no good either.
You must think of something fresh."
After a moments reflection Yuanyang said, "Aunt Xue at her age doesn't like to cudgel her brains, so why don't we fetch the dice-pot and toss for the names of melodies, making the losers drink?"
"Very well."
The old lady sent for the dice-pot and had it put on the table.
"We'll throw four dice," Yuanyang announced, "Anyone who fails to produce a name must drink one cup as forfeit.
If a name is thrown, the others will have to drink according to the pips."
"That sounds simple," said the rest.
"We'll do as you say."
They made Yuanyang drink a cup and toss to see who should start, -1152 counting from herself - and it happened to be Aunt Xue, who threw four ones.
"The name for this," said Yuanyang, "is 'The Four Elders of Shangshan.'
Those getting on in years should drink."
This meant the old lady, Aunt Li, Lady Xing and Lady Wang.
But as the old lady raised her cup Yuanyang continued, "Since Aunt Xue threw this, she must give the name of a melody corresponding to it, and the one whose turn is next must follow with a Line of poetry.
The forfeit if either of them fails is one cup.
You're having me on!"
objected Aunt Xue.
"How can I possibly answer?"
"It's too tame if you don't," said the Lady Dowager.
"so better make a try.
It's my turn next, and if I can't think of a line I'll drink with you.
Then Aunt Xue said, "The melody's called Retreating into Flowers as Old Age Approaches."
The old lady nodded and quoted -827 "Men may say that in idle moments I ape children."
Then the dice-pot was passed to Li Wen, who tossed two fours and two twos.
Yuanyang said, "This has a name too.
It's 'Liu Zhen and Yuan Zhao Go to Mount Tiantai.'
Li Wen named the melody Two Scholars Go to Peach-blossom Stream, and Li Wan who was next to her quoted -827 "Finding Peach-blossom Stream to escape from Qin."
All took a sip of wine, after which the dice-pot went to the old lady, who tossed two twos and two threes.
"I suppose I shall have to drink," she said.
But Yuanyang told her, "There's a name for this 'The Swallow on the River Leads Its Fledgelings.'
Everybody has to drink."
"Many of the fledgelings have flown," began Xifeng, when glances from the others silenced her.
"Well, what shall I say?"
the old lady went on.
"The Grandfather Leads His Grandchildren."
Li Qi, the next, quoted -827 "Idly watching children catching willow-catkins."
And this won general approval.
Baoyu was eager to try his hand but had to wait for his turn.
While he was thinking the pot was set before him and he threw one two, two threes and a single one.
He asked, "What is this called?"
Yuanyang smiled and replied, "It's no good.
Drink up and throw again."
This time he threw two threes and two fours.
"This is called 'Zhang Chang Paints His Wife's Eyebrows,"' Yuanyang announced.
Baoyu knew that she was teasing, and Baochai blushed scarlet.
But Xifeng, not catching on, urged him, "Answer quickly, Cousin Bao, so that we can pass on to the next."
He gave up then, saying sheepishly, "I'll pay the forfeit.
There's no one after me either."
Then the dice-pot went to Li Wan who made her toss.
Yuanyang said, "You've thrown 'The Twelve Girls with Golden Hairpins."
Baoyu at once hurried over to have a look and saw that half the pips were red, half green.
"Very pretty!"
he exclaimed.
Suddenly recalling his dream of twelve girls he went back to his seat in a daze.
"Those twelve girls were supposed to be from Jinling," he mused.
"How is it that of all those in our family only these few are left?"
Seeing Xiangyun and Baochai there but not Daiyu, he t tears well up in his eyes and, to escape detection, excused himself on the pretext that he was hot and wanted to take off some clothes.
Xiangyun, who noticed him slip away, supposed that he was sulking because he had tossed less successfully than the rest.
She was rather vexed herself too because the game was so dull.
Then Li Wan said, "I'm stumped.
There are people missing too.
I'd better pay the forfeit."
"This game isn't much fun, let's give it up," suggested the old lady.
"Let Yuanyang have a try.
See what she gets."
A young maid put the dice-pot before Yuanyang, who did as she was told, throwing two twos and one five.
While the fourth dice was still rolling in the pot she cried.
"Not a five!"
But a five it was.
"Too bad!"
she exclaimed.
"I've lost."
"Doesn't this count as anything?"
asked the old lady.
-480 "Well, it has a name, but I can't think what melody goes with it."
"Tell me its name and I'll think up something for you."
"It's 'Water-weeds Swept by Waves.'
"That's not difficult.
Here you are Autumn Fish Amid Caltrops."
Xiangyun who came next recited -827 "I sang white water-weeds on the southern river in autumn."
-480 "Very apt," approved the others.
"This game's finished.
Let's drink a few cups, then have rice," proposed the Lady Dowager, then noticed that the place beside her was empty.
"Where has Baoyu gone?
Why isn't he back yet?"
she asked.
Yuanyang told her he had gone to change his clothes.
"Who went with him?"
Yinger stepped forward to report, "When I saw Master Bao going out I told Sister Xiren to go with him."
Their Ladyships felt reassured, but after waiting for a while Lady Wang sent a young maid in search of him.
She went to the bridal chamber where Wuer was setting out candles.
"Where is Master Bao?"
asked the maid.
"Over with the old lady, drinking."
"I've just come from there, sent by Her Ladyship to find him.
If he were there, why should she send me?"
"In that case I don't know where he is," said Wuer.
"You'd better try somewhere else."
On her way back the maid met Qiuwen.
"Have you seen Master Bao?"
she asked her.
"I'm looking for him too," was the reply.
"The mistresses are waiting for him to start dinner.
Wherever can he have got to?
Hurry back and tell the old lady, not that he's not at home but that he's feeling out of Sorts after drinking and doesn't want any food.
After resting for a little he'll rejoin them.
He hopes Their Ladyships will start without him."
The young maid ran meekly off to give this message to Zhenzhu, who reported it to the Lady Dowager.
"He never eats much," the old lady said.
"So missing a meal doesn't matter.
Tell him to have a good rest and not to trouble to come back today as we have his wife here instead."
Zhenzhu asked the younger maid, "Did you hear that?"
Replying in the affirmative and not liking to tell them the truth, the girl went out for a stroll then came back to report that she had delivered this message.
The others paid no attention and after their meal broke up into groups to chat.
But enough of this.
Baoyu who had left the feast in a fit of distress was at a loss what to do.
Xiren overtook him to ask what was amiss.
"Nothing," he answered.
"I'm just bored.
While they're drinking, suppose we stroll over to Madam You's place."
"She's with the old lady," Xiren pointed out.
"How can you call on her?"
"I'm not thinking of calling on anyone, just of seeing what her place is like."
Xiren had to follow him, chatting as they made their way to Madam You's lodge, near which they saw a small gate left ajar.
Instead of going in, Baoyu accosted two matrons in charge of the Garden who were sitting on the threshold gossiping.
"Is this small gate always open?"
he asked.
"No, it's usually kept shut," they answered.
"Today, hearing that the old lady might be wanting fruit from the Garden, we opened it in readiness."
He strolled over and looked at the half open gate.
Before he could step through it Xiren stopped him.
"Don't go in there," she warned.
"The Garden's unclean after being deserted for so long, and you might see another apparition."
Rather tipsily he boasted, "I'm not afraid of such things!"
Xiren tried hard to restrain him, but the old women butted in, "This Garden's been quiet ever since the priests haled off the evil spirits that day, and we often go in alone to pick flowers or fruit.
If Master Bao wants to go in we'll keep him company.
There's safety in numbers!"
Baoyu was pleased and Xiren, unable to stop him, had to go along with them.
When Baoyu stepped into the Garden, it struck him as a scene of desolation.
The plants were withering, and the paint was flaking off the lodges in various places.
In the distance, however, he saw a clump of bamboo which was still luxuriant.
After a second's thought he said, "Since moving out of the Garden because of my illness, I've been living in the hack and haven't been allowed to come here for months.
How quickly the place has run wild!
Look, the only green things left are those bamboos.
Isn't that Bamboo Lodge?"
"After a few months away, you've even lost your bearings," Xiren told him.
"We were so busy chatting, you didn't notice passing Happy Red Court."
She turned and pointed behind.
"Bamboo Lodge is over there."
He looked in the direction in which she was pointing.
"Have we really passed it?"
he asked dubiously.
"Let's go back and have a look."
"It's getting late, time to go home.
The old lady must be waiting for you to start dinner."
Baoyu made no answer but found the path and walked on.
You may wonder, Reader, how he could possibly have forgotten the way, even after an absence of nearly a year.
The fact is that Xiren had tried to fob him off for fear that the sight of Bamboo Lodge, reminding him of Daiyu, would distress him again.
When she saw him heading straight there and was afraid that he might be bewitched, she had pretended that they had passed the place.
But Baoyu had set his heart on visiting Barnboo Lodge.
He strode swiftly ahead and she had to follow him, till he froze in his tracks as if watching or listening to something.
"Do you hear anything?"
she asked.
"Is there anybody staying in Bamboo Lodge?"
"I shouldn't think so."
"I distinctly heard sobbing inside, so there must be someone."
"That's just your imagination.
Because you often used to come here before and find Miss Lin weeping."
Baoyu did not believe her and wanted to go closer to hear better.
The matrons overtaking them urged, "Better go back, Master Bao.
It's growing dark.
Other places aren't scary, but this is out of the way and they say that since Miss Lin's death weeping has often been heard here, so everybody gives the place a wide berth."
Baoyu and Xiren were startled.
"So it's true!"
he exclaimed, shedding tears.
"Cousin Lin!
Cousin Lin!
There was nothing the matter with you, but I killed you!
Don't hold it against me my parents made the decision.
It's not that I was untrue!"
Feeling broken-hearted he burst into loud sobbing.
Xiren was at her wit's end when Qiuwen and some others hurried towards them.
"Whatever possessed you?"
Qiuwen asked Xiren.
"Why bring Master Bao here of all places?
Their Ladyships are so frantic, they've sent out search parties.
Just now someone at the side-gate said the two of you had come here, so frightening Their Lady ships that they lashed out at me and ordered me to bring people here at once.
Hurry up and go back!"
Baoyu was still weeping bitterly.
Ignoring his sobs, Xiren and Qiuwen dragged him off, wiping his tears as they told him how wonried his grandmother was.
He had no choice but to go back.
To allay the old lady's anxiety Xiren took him straight to her room, where the others were still waiting.
"Xiren!"
stormed the Lady Dowager.
"I entrusted Baoyu to you thinking you had some sense.
How could you take him to the Garden today, with him just over his illness?
If something had given him a turn and brought on another fit, what should we have done?"
Not venturing to justify herself, the maid hung her head in silence.
Baochai was appalled too by Baoyu's unhealthy colour, thus it was left to him to exonerate Xiren.
"What does it matter in broad daylight?"
he asked.
"It's so long since I've had a stroll in the Garden that I went there after drinking to clear my head.
How could anything there possibly give me a turn?"
Xifeng, who had been so terrified in the Garden, shivered with fright at this.
"Cousin Bao's too reckless!"
she cried.
"Not reckless but loyal," put in Xiangyun.
"He must have gone to find the Hibiscus Spirit, or in search of some other goddess!"
Baoyu made no reply, and Lady Wang was too worried to get a word out.
"Did anything frighten you in the Garden?"
the old lady asked him.
"Well, don't talk about it now.
If you want to stroll there in future, you must take more people with you.
If not for this rumpus you made, our party would have broken up long ago.
Go and have a good night's sleep now, everyone, and mind you come early tomorrow.
I want to make it up to you all by giving you another day of fun.
Don't let this rumpus he kicked up upset you.
Then they all took their leave, Aunt Xue going to spend the night with Lady Wang while Xiangyun stayed with the Lady Dowager, and Yingchun went with Xichun.
The others all returned to their own quarters.
Baoyu, back in his room, heaved sigh after sigh but Baochai, knowing the reason for this, ignored him.
However, for fear that his grief might bring back his old illness, she called Xiren into the inner room to ask her just what had happened in the Garden.
If you want to know Xiren's answer, read the next chapter.
Chapter 109 Baoyu Waits for a Fragrant Spirit and Wuer Is Loved by Default Yingchun Pays Her Mortal Debt and Returns to the Primal Void After Baochai had heard Xiren's story, for fear lest Baoyu should fall ill from grief she spoke to her, as if casually, of Daiyu's death.
'People feel for each other while on earth," she said.
"But after death they go their separate ways, no longer the same as in life.
Even if the one still living remains fond, the one who is dead can't know it.
Besides, Miss Lin is said to have become an immortal, so to her all men on earth must be unbearably vulgar and she'd never stoop to coming back.
To imagine otherwise is to invite evil spirits to take possession of you."
Aware that these remarks were intended for Baoyu's ears, Xiren chimed in, "That's true, her corning back is out of the question.
I was on good terms with her too, so if her spirit were still in the Garden how is it I've never seen her once in my dreams?"
Baoyu eavesdropping outside thought to himself, "Yes, this is strange!
Though I've thought of her time and again each day since her death, why has she never appeared to me in dreams?
She must have gone up to Heaven, I suppose, and because I'm too vulgar to have any communication with the divine I've not once dreamed of her.
Well, tonight I'll sleep in the outer room and maybe, now that I've visited the Garden, she'll know my heart and et me dream of her.
I must ask her where she's actually gone and offer regular sacrifices to her.
If she'll really have nothing to do with a lout like me and won't let me dream of her, then I'll stop thinking about her."
His mind made up, he announced, "Tonight I'm going to sleep in the outer room, and you can just let me be."
Baochai made no attempt to dissuade him, only saying, "Don't go imagining all sorts of things.
Didn't you see how worried your mother was too worried to speak because you went to the Garden?
If you don't look after your health and the old lady hears of it, she'll blame us for not taking better care of you.
"I just said that for fun," he answered.
"I'll join you after sitting here awhile.
You must be tired you'd better turn in first."
Believing him, Baochai prevaricated, "I'll go to bed and let Xiren wait on you.
This was just what Baoyu wanted.
After Baochai had retired he told Xiren and Sheyue to make up a bed for him outside, then sent them in several times to see whether she was sleeping yet or not.
She pretended that she was, but in fact stayed awake all night.
When he thought Baochai was asleep he told Xiren, "I want you all to turn in.
I've stopped feeling upset.
If you don't believe me you can wait till I've dropped off before going inside, but mind you don't disturb me.
Xiren helped him to bed, made his tea then went inside, closing the door behind her, to attend to other things, after which she lay down fully dressed, ready to go out if summoned.
As soon as she had gone, Baoyu dismissed the two matrons who were sitting up to keep watch.
Then he quietly sat up to pray below his breath before lying down once more.
At first he could not sleep but once he had calmed himself he dozed off and slept soundly all night, not waking until dawn.
He sat up, rubbing his eyes, and thought back - no, he'd had no dream.
With a sigh he recited the lines -827 One living and one dead, sundered for years, Her spirit never appeared to him in his dreams.
1 Baochai who had passed a sleepless night herself heard this from the inner room.
"That's a wild way to talk!"
she called out.
"If Cousin Lin were alive she'd take offence again."
Baoyu got up in embarrassment and went sheepishly in to tell her, "I meant to come in but somehow or other I happened to fall asleep."
"What's it to me whether you come in or not?"
she retorted.
Xiren had not slept either.
At the sound of their voices she promptly came in to pour tea.
Then a young maid arrived, sent by the old lady, to inquire whether Baoyu had passed a good night or not and to tell him that, -1344 if he had, he should go over with Madam Bao as soon as they were dressed.
Xiren sent her back with the message that Baoyu had slept well and would soon be going over.
After a hasty toilet, Baochai went ahead with Yinger and Xiren to pay her respects to the Lady Dowager, then to Lady Wang and Xifeng.
By the time she rejoined the old lady Aunt Xue had arrived.
When asked if Baoyu had slept well, Baochai told them, "He's quite all right.
He went to sleep as soon as we got back."
Then, their minds relieved, they chatted.
And now a young maid came in to report, "Miss Yingchun has to go home.
They say Mr. Sun sent servants to complain to the Elder Mistress, who sent word to Miss Xifeng to let her go back.
Miss Yingchun's weeping in the Elder Mistress' room.
She should be coming soon to say goodbye."
The others, sad to hear this, deplored Yingchun's fate.
"Such a brute of a husband has ruined her life," the old lady sighed.
Then Yingchun, her face tear-stained, came in to take her leave.
As this was Baochai's birthday she had to choke back her grief, and knowing how strictly she was controlled her grandmother could not detain her.
"All right, you'd better go back," she said.
"But don't be so upset.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
I'll send for you again in a few days' time."
"You've always been goodness itself to me, madam," sobbed Yingchun.
"But now there's nothing you can do.
And I'm afraid this is the last time I shall see you!"
"What's to stop you from coming again?"
the others remonstrated.
"Your third sister's worse off, so far away that she's hardly any chance of coming home."
The thought of Tanchun reduced them all to tears.
But as this was Baochai's birthday, the old lady tried to strike a more cheerful note.
"It's not impossible," she said.
"Once peace is restored along the coast and her father-in-law is transferred to the capital, we shall see each other again."
"That's true," the rest agreed.
Then Yingchun had to leave disconsolately.
Having seen her out the others rejoined the old lady, who entertained them till the evening when as she looked tired they dispersed.
Aunt Xue went back with Baochai to whom she said, "Your brother's got by this year.
When there's an Imperial amnesty and his sentence is commuted, we can try to ransom him.
But how am I to manage these next few years on my own?
I'd like to get Xue Ke married.
Do you think that a good idea?"
"You had doubts about it before, mother, because you were horrified by my sister-in-law," Baochai answered.
"I think it's high time that you saw to this.
You know Xiuyan and what a thin time she's having here.
Once she marries into our family, though we're poor, at least she'll be much better off than staying here as a dependent."
"Then find a chance to mention it to the old lady.
Tell her I need someone to help out, and so I want to fix the wedding day."
"Why not just discuss it with Cousin Ke?
When you've chosen a good day you can come and tell the old lady and Elder Mistress, then take her over and be done with it.
The Elder Mistress here is eager to get her married off."
"I heard today that your Cousin Shi's going back too.
The old lady wanted to keep Baoqin for a few days and she's staying.
As I think that sooner or later she'll be leaving home to get married, you'd better take this chance to have some good talks."
"Yes, mother, I will."
After sitting there for a while Aunt Xue said goodbye to the others and went home.
When Baoyu returned to his quarters that evening he thought, "The fact that I didn't dream of Daiyu last night may be because she has become an immortal and doesn't want to meet vulgar oafs like me or it may be because I'm too impatient."
That gave him an idea and he told Baochai, "Last night I happened to doze off outside, and slept so much more soundly than in here that I woke up this morning feeling refreshed.
So if you've no objection I'd like to sleep outside for a couple more nights."
Baochai knew from the poetry he had recited that morning that he was thinking of Daiyu, and that there was no reasoning with such a simpleton.
She decided she might as well let him have his own way until he himself lost hope, especially as he had slept well the previous night.
"What's that got to do with me?"
she asked.
"You can sleep wherever you like why should we stop you?
But don't let your fancy run wild or put a jinx on yourself."
"What an idea!"
he chuckled.
"Take my advice, Master Bao, and sleep inside," put in Xiren.
"If you're not well looked after outside and catch cold, that will be bad."
Before he could answer, Baochai tipped Xiren a wink and she continued, "Very well then.
We'll get somebody to keep you company, to pour you tea during the night."
"In that case, you stay with me," he said with a smile.
Xiren flushed crimson with embarrassment and did not answer him.
Knowing how staid she was Baochai proposed, "She's used to staying with me, so let her do that.
Sheyue and Wuer can look after you.
Besides, she's tired out after dancing attendance on me all day we should let her have a good rest."
Baoyu went out gleefully.
Baochai told Sheyue and Wuer to make a bed for him in the outer room and to sleep lightly themselves and see to his tea.
Assenting to this, they went out and found Baoyu seated bolt upright on the bed, his eyes closed and his hands folded just like a monk.
Not daring to speak, they stared at him in amusement.
Xiren, sent out by Baochai to see that he had all he wanted, was amused by this sight too.
"It's time to sleep," she said softly.
"Why are you practising yoga?"
Baoyu opened his eyes and seeing who it was replied, "You all go to bed.
I'll sit here a bit then sleep."
"The way you behaved yesterday kept Madam Bao awake all night.
Are you starting all over again?"
Knowing that none of them would sleep if he stayed up, Baoyu lay down.
Xiren gave the two other girls some final instructions then went inside, closing the door, and retired for the night.
Sheyue and Wuer spread out their quilts too, and when Baoyu had lain down they went to bed.
But Baoyu could not sleep.
As he watched them unfolding their quilts he had recalled the time during Xiren's absence when Qingwen and Sheyue had waited on him.
Sheyue had gone out in the night and Qingwen, to frighten her, had slipped out in her night clothes and caught cold it was that illness that later carried her off.
At this memory his heart went out to Qingwen.
And mindful, suddenly, of Xifeng describing Wuer as the image of her, he shifted his longing for Qingwen to her double.
While shamming sleep he peeped at Wuer, and more and more she looked to him like Qingwen, making him quite enraptured.
There was no sound now from the inner room and he assumed that the occupants were asleep.
Not knowing whether Sheyue was awake or not, he called her a couple of times but received no answer.
Wuer hearing him asked, "Do you want something, Master Bao?"
'I want to rinse my mouth."
Since Sheyue was asleep, Wuer had to get up.
Having trimmed the cane she poured him a cup of tea, holding ready the spittoon in her other hand.
She had got up in a hurry wearing only a peach-red silk shift, her hair loosely knotted.
To Baoyu she appeared the reincarnation of Qingwen.
He bethought himself abruptly of Qingwen's saying, "If I'd known I was going to get a bad name, I'd have committed myself."
He gaped at Wuer, neglecting to take the cup.
Now after Fangguan's dismissal, Wuer had lost interest in coming into service here.
But when later she heard that Xifeng was sending her to work for Baoyu, she was more eager for this than Baoyu himself.
After her arrival, however, she was overawed by Baochai and Xiren and found Baoyu deranged and less handsome than before moreover she heard that Lady Wang had dismissed certain maids for playing around with him, and so she gave up her girlish infatuation.
Yet tonight her witless master, taking her for Qingwen, was attracted to her.
Wuer blushed all over her face.
Not venturing to raise her voice she said softly "Rinse your mouth, Master Bao."
He took the tea with a smile, but forgetting to rinse his mouth asked with a grin, "You and Sister Qingwen were on good terms, weren't you?"
In bewilderment she answered, "We were like sisters of course we were on good terms."
"When Qingwen was dying and I went to see her, weren't you there too?"
he asked softly.
She smiled and nodded.
"Did you hear her say anything?"
"No."
She shook her head.
Forgetting himself, he took her hand.
Wuer blushed furiously, her heart beating fast.
"Master Bao!"
she whispered.
"Say what you have to say, but keep your hands to yourself."
He dropped her hand then and told her, "She said to me, 'If I'd known I was going to get a bad name, I'd have committed myself.'
Did you hear that?"
Wuer felt this was a challenge, yet dared not rise to it.
"That was a shameless thing to say," she answered.
"How can young girls talk like that?"
"Are you such a moralist?"
he cried frantically.
"It's because you look just like her that I confided this to you.
Why run her down in that way?"
Not knowing what was in his mind she said, "It's late.
You'd better sleep, Master Bao.
If you keep sitting up you may catch cold.
What did Madam Bao and Sister Xiren tell you?"
"I'm not cold."
Suddenly remembering that she was in her night clothes, he was afraid she might catch cold like Qingwen.
"Why didn't you put more on before bringing my tea?"
he asked.
"You sounded in such a hurry, what time did I have for that?
If I'd known you'd keep talking so long, I'd have put on something warmer.
At once he offered her the pale grey silk padded jacket which was lying over his quilt, and urged her to put it on.
She refused, saying, "Keep it yourself, Master Bao.
I'm not cold.
Anyway, I have clothes of my own.
She went back to her bed and slipped into a long gown, listening to make sure that Sheyue was still sound asleep, then came back slowly and asked, "Don't you want to have a good rest tonight, Master Bao?"
"Not a bit of it!"
he answered with a smile.
"To tell you the truth, I'm hoping to meet a goddess."
"What goddess?"
she asked, even more bewildered.
'If you want to know, it's a long story.
Sit down next to me and I'll tell you.
'How can I sit down with you lying there?"
she asked blushing.
"Why shouldn't you?
It was very cold that year when Qingwen played a trick on Sheyue, and for fear she might catch cold I tucked her under my quilt.
What does it matter?
It's hypocritical to be so prudish."
It sounded to Wuer as if he were flirting with her.
Little did she know that this foolish master of hers was speaking from his heart.
She was at a loss, equally averse to leaving, standing there or sitting down.
"Don't talk such nonsense," she said playfully.
"Suppose someone was to hear?
No wonder people say you waste all your time on girls!
You have Madam Bao and Sister Xiren, both as prey as goddesses, yet you insist on fooling around with others.
If you go on talking that way I'll report it to Madam Bao then what face will you have left?"
Just then they were startled by a sound outside.
Baochai in the inner room coughed.
Baoyu at once pursed his lips, and at this signal Wuer put out the light and tiptoed back to bed.
Actually, because Baochai and Xiren had not slept the night before and today had been a busy day for them both, they had slept through the conversation.
The sound in the courtyard made them wake with a start and prick up their ears, but nothing more could they hear.
Baoyu in bed wondered, "Could Cousin Lin have come?
Maybe hearing me talk she decided to give us a fright."
He tossed and turned, giving way to foolish fancies, not falling into a troubled sleep till dawn.
Because Baoyu had fooled about with her half the night and then Baochai had coughed, Wuer had a guilty conscience and was afraid her mistress had overheard them.
Filled with misgivings she could not sleep all night.
When she got up the next morning, as Baoyu was still dead to the world she tidied the room.
"Why get up so early?"
Sheyue asked.
"Couldn't you sleep last night?"
Suspecting from this that Sheyue knew what had happened, Wuer 5 miled sheepishly and made no reply.
I'resently Baochai and Xiren got up too.
When they opened the door and saw Baoyu still slumbering, they Wondered how he had managed to sleep so soundly the last two nights outside.
Baoyu woke to find them all up.
He sat up quickly, rubbing his eyes, and thought back.
No, he had not drearned last night either.
So it must be tiue that "The ways of immortals and mortals never meet."
Getting slowly out of bed he recalled Wuer's remark during the night that both Baochai and Xiren were as pretty as goddesses.
Indeed they were!
He stared at Baochai as if stunned.
She assumed he was thinking of Daiyu, but could not tell whether he had dreamed of her or not.
Put out by his stare she asked "Did you meet a goddess last night?"
Imagining that she must have overheard them he faltered, "What do you mean?"
Wuer, too conscience-stricken to speak, waited for Baochai to go on.
"Did you hear Master Bao talk with someone in his sleep?"
Baochai asked her with a smile, making Baoyu beat a discomfited retreat.
Red in the face, Wuer mumbled, "He did say something I couldn't catch it clearly in the first part of the night.
Something about 'getting a bad name' and 'not committing herself.'
I couldn't made it out and begged Master Bao to sleep.
Then I fell asleep myself, so I don't know whether he said anything more.
Baochai lowered her head and thought, "He obviously had Daiyu in mind.
If we let him stay outside, he may get more deranged and some flower fairy or tree spirit may take possession of him.
Besides, his illness was brought on by his strong feeling for her.
If only there were some way to divert his affection to me, he'd get over it."
At this idea, she blushed up to her ears and went sheepishly back to her room to do her hair.
The old lady's improved spirits these last two days had made her overeat, and that evening she was out of sorts.
The next day her chest felt constricted however, she would not let Yuanyang report this to Jia Zheng.
"I've been rather greedy these two days and had too much to eat," she said.
"Missing a meal will set me right.
Don't make a fuss about it."
So Yuanyang and the others kept quiet.
When Baoyu went home that evening, Baochai had just come back from paying her respects to the old lady and Lady Wang.
The sight of her reminded him of her remarks that morning, making him rather ashamed.
Seeing how put out he looked and knowing what a sentimentalist he was, she decided to use his infatuation to cure him.
"Are you going to sleep outside again tonight?"
she asked.
"Outside or inside it's all the same to me," he answered glumly.
She wanted to say more but could not get the words out.
"Well, just what does that mean?"
asked Xiren.
"I don't believe you slept so well outside."
Wuer seized this chance to add, "When Master Bao sleeps outside, the only snag is that he talks in his sleep in a way we can't understand, yet we dare not talk back."
"I'll move my bed outside tonight to see whether I talk in my sleep or not," said Xiren.
"You two move Master Bao's bedding back to the inner room."
Baochai said nothing.
Baoyu, too ashamed to argue, let them move his bedding inside.
Now Baoyu in his contrition wanted to set Baochai's mind at rest, while she, for fear lest longing might drive him distracted, thought it best to show affection to win him over to take Daiyu's place in his heart.
So that evening when Xiren moved out, he made abject advances which Baochai naturally did not reject.
And thus that night at last their marriage was consummated.
Later she conceived, but that need not concern us now.
When next day husband and wife had got up together, after Baoyu had dressed he set off first to see his grandmother.
As she was so fond of him and thought Baochai dutiful too, it suddenly occurred to her to make Yuanyang open a case and get out a Han-Dynasty jade, an heirloom of hers.
Though less precious than Baoyu's jade, it was a rare pendant.
Yuanyang found the jade and handing it over remarked, "I don't believe I've ever seen this before.
Fancy you remembering so clearly, madam, the exact case and box it was in after all these years!
By looking Where you told me I found it in a jiffy.
But what do you want this for, madam?"
'I'll tell you.
This jade was given by my great-grandfather to my father.
Since I was my father's favourite, just before I married he sent for me and gave me this himself, saying, 'This jade is a pendant of the kind worn in the Han Dynasty it's very precious.
Keep it to remind you of me.'
I was young at the time I took it and didn't set much store by it, so I left it in the case.
And after I came to this house and saw how many knick-knacks we had here, this seemed nothing special so I never wore it, and there it's lain for more than sixty years.
Now seeing how dutiful Baoyu is to me, as he's lost his own jade I decided to get this out and give it to him, just as my father gave it to me."
Just then Baoyu arrived to pay his respects.
The old lady said gaily, "Come here, I've something to show you.
He walked up to her bed and she handed him the Han jade.
A close scrutiny revealed that it was some three inches square, shaped like a musk-melon, pink ish, and very well carved.
Baoyu was loud in his praise.
"You like it?"
asked the old lady.
"This was given me by my great-grandfather.
Now I'm passing it on to you."
Smilingly Baoyu bowed his thanks and wanted to take the jade to show his mother.
"If your mother sees it," the old lady said, "She'll tell your father and he'll say that I love my grandson more than my son!
They've never even seen this."
Baoyu went off cheerfully, leaving Baochai and the others to talk a little longer before taking their leave.
After this the Lady Dowager fasted for two days, yet the congestion of her chest persisted and she had dizzy spells and fits of coughing.
When Lady Xing, Lady Wang and Xifeng came to pay their respects and saw that she looked quite cheerful, they simply sent to notify Jia Zheng, who imniediately came over.
On leaving, he sent for a doctor to examine her.
Before long the doctor arrived and felt her pulses.
He diagnosed that the old lady had caught a chill as a result of not eating regularly, but some edicine to help the digestion and expel the cold would cure her.
He Wrote out a prescription.
Jia Zheng, noting that the ingredients were ordinary medicines, told servants to prepare this for his mother.
He himself came each morning and evening to inquire afrer her health.
When three days had passed and there was no improvement, he told Jia Lian to make haste to find some better doctor.
'I don't think those doctors we usually have are much good," he explained.
"That's why I want you to find one to diagnose her illness correctly."
Jia Lian reflected and said, "I remember that year when Cousin Bao fell ill, we got a man who wasn't a professional to cure him.
We'd better call him in again."
"Medicine is abstruse, and the least celebrated physicians are often the best," Jia Zheng agreed.
"Send to ask him over."
Jia Lian assented and left, returning to report, "That Doctor Liu has recently left town to teach.
He only comes back every ten days or so.
As we can't wait, I've invited another man who should be here presently."
Then they had to wait.
All the ladies of the house called daily to ask after the old lady's illness.
They were all assembled there one day when in came the old woman in charge of the Garden's side-gate.
She announced, 'Sister Miaoyu of Green Lattice Nunnery has heard of the old lady's illness and come to pay her respects."
"She's a rare visitor," they said.
"Since she's called today, hurry up and show her in."
Xifeng went to the old lady's bedside to tell her this, while Xiuyan Miaoyu's old friend went out to meet her.
Miaoyu was wearing a nun's cap, a pale grey plain silk tunic under a long, sleeveless checked jacket with dark silk borders, a yellow silk sash and a white skirt with dark designs.
Holding a whisk and her beads she swept gracefully in, attended by a maid.
Having greeted her Xiuyan said, "When I stayed in the Garden 1 could often drop in to see you but now that it's so deserted I don't like to go in on my own, and the side-gate is usually closed, so I haven't seen you for ages.
I'm so glad you've come!"
"You were all of you so lively in the old days that even when you were living in the Garden I didn't feel it appropriate to call too often," Miaoyu replied.
"Now I know their family isn't doing too well and I hear the old lady is ill so I've been thinking of you and would like to see Baochai too.
What do I care whether you lock the gate or not?
I come and go as I please.
If I didn't want to come, you couldn't get me here even by invitation."
'I see you haven't changed in the least," Xiuyan chuckled.
Chatting together they entered the old ladys room.
When the others had greeted Miaoyu, she approached the old lady's bed to ask after her health and exchange civilities.
Can you, who are saintly, tell me whether I shall get over this illness or not?"
asked the Lady Dowager.
"A kindly old lady like you is bound to live to a great age," Miaoyu assured her.
"You've just caught cold, and a few doses of medicine should set you right.
Old people shouldn't worry."
'I'm not the worrying sort," replied the old lady.
"I always try to have fun.
And I'm not feeling too bad, simply rather bloated.
Just now the doctor said it's because I was vexed, but you know very well that nobody here would dare vex me.
He can't be much good at diagnosis, can he?
As I told Lian, the first doctor was right when he diagnosed a chill and indigestion.
Tomorrow we're going to ask him over again."
She told Yuanyang to order the kitchen to prepare Miaoyu some vegetarian dishes.
"I've had my lunch," said the nun.
"I won't eat anything, thank you."
"That's all right," said Lady Wang.
"But stay a little longer to chat."
"Yes, I haven't seen you all for so long, today I had to come.
They talked for a while until Miaoyu rose to leave.
Turning round she saw Xichun standing there and asked, "Why are you so thin, Fourth Sister?
Don't let your fondness for painting wear you out!"
"I haven't painted for ages," Xichun told her.
"I don't feel like it because my present rooms aren't as light as those in the Garden."
"Where are you living?"
"In that house east of the gate you came through.
It's very close if you care to drop in."
"I'll call when I'm in the mood," Miaoyu promised her.
Then Xichun and the others saw her out.
On their return, hearing that the doctor had arrived they dispersed.
The Lady Dowager's illness grew daily worse, no medicine proving effective, and later she developed diarrhoea too.
Worried because she was not likely to recover, Jia Zheng sent to ask leave from his yamen and be and his wife attended her day and night.
One day she took some nourishment, and they were feeling relieved when they saw an old woman peeping through the door.
Caiyun, told by Lady Wang to see who she was, recognized her as one of the serving-women who had accompanied Yingchun to the Sun family.
"What brings you here?"
she asked.
"I've been waiting outside for sorne time but couldn't find a soul, and I dared not burst in I was frantic!"
"Why, what's wrong?
Has Mr. Sun been bullying your young lady again?"
"My young lady's dying!
The day before yesterday they had a row and she cried all night long.
Yesterday she was choking, her throat blocked up with phlegm, yet they wouldn't get a doctor.
Today she's worse!"
"The old lady's ill don't kick up such a shindy."
Lady Wang inside had heard their conversation.
Fearing that the old lady would be upset if she knew this, she ordered Caiyun to take the woman away.
But the Lady Dowager lying there quietly had overheard them too.
"Is Yingchun dying?"
she asked.
"No, madam," said Lady Wang.
"These women are all alarmists.
She says Yingchun hasn't been well the last couple of days and may take Some time to recover.
They want us to get her a doctor."
"My doctor's a good one.
Have him fetched at once."
Lady Wang told Caiyun to send the woman to report this to Lady Xing.
When the woman had left, the old lady lamented, "Of my three granddaughter 5 , one died after enjoying great good fortune the third has married so far from home that I shan't be able to see her again Yingchun a hard time but I thought she might pull through, never dreaming 'd die so young!
What is there for an old woman like me to live for?"
Lady Wang, Yuanyang and the rest consoled her at length.
Baochai and Li Wan were absent at the time and Xifeng had recently fallen ill again.
Now Lady Wang sent for them to keep the old lady company, for fear lest grief should aggravate her illness.
Returning then to her own quarters, she sent for Caiyun.
"What a fool that woman is!"
she scolded.
"In future when I'm with the old lady and you have something to report, it can wait."
The maids agreed to this.
Just as the serving-woman reached Lady Xing's apartments, word came that Yingchun was dead.
Her mother wept.
In Jia She's absence, she had to send Jia Lian to the Sun family to find out the situation.
Since the old lady was so ill, nobody dared tell her the news.
Alas, that this girl fair as a flower or the moon should be hounded to death by the Sun family after little more than a year of marriage!
As the old lady was at death's door the others could not leave her, but had to let the Sun family arrange the funeral in perfunctory fashion.
The Lady Dowager, failing from day to day, longed to see her granddaughters and nieces.
Her thoughts turned to Xiangyun and she sent to fetch her.
The servant on her return slipped in to find Yuanyang, but could not enter the old lady's room where Yuanyang happened to be with Lady Wang and others.
Instead she went to the back where she found Hupo.
"The old lady wanted to see Miss Shi and sent us to ask her to come, she told her.
"But we found her crying her heart out, because her husband's desperately ill, and the doctors say he's not likely to recover unless it turns into consumption in which case he may drag on for another four or five years.
So Miss Shi is frantic.
She knows the old lady is ill, but she can't come.
She told me, too, not to mention this to her grand-aunt.
If the old lady asks, she hopes you'll make up some excuse for her."
Hupo exclaimed in dismay but did not answer.
After some time she told the other to go.
Not liking to report this, she decided to tell Yuanyang and ask her to make up some story.
She went to the old lady's bedside then and found her in a critical condition.
As there were many people standing round murmuring that it seemed there was no hope, Hupo had to hold her tongue -768 Jia Zheng quietly drew Jia Lian aside and whispered some instruc0 which he assented softly.
He then went out to summon all the tions t stewards at home.
"The old lady's sinking fast," be said.
"You're to send at once to make the necessary preparations.
First, get out the coffin and have it lined.
Then get the measurements of the whole household and order tailors to make mourning for them.
The funeral retinue must be arranged too, and more hands will be needed to help in the kitchen."
Lai Da told him, "You needn't worry, Second Master.
We've got it all figured out.
But where is the money to come from?"
You needn't raise money outside," replied Jia Lian.
"The old lady has kept a sum in readiness.
Just now the master told me that it must be handsomely done we want a good show."
The stewards assented and went off to see to these matters while he returned to his own quarters.
"How is your mistress today?"
he asked Pinger.
Pinger pouted towards the inner room.
"Go in and see her."
He did so and found Xifeng, exhausted by dressing, leaning against the small table on the kang.
"I'm afraid you can't rest now," he told her.
"The old lady will be gone by tomorrow at the latest, so you can't keep out of it.
Hurry up and get somebody to clear up here, then make the effort to go over there.
If it comes to the worst, we shan't be able to come back today."
"What is there here to clear up?"
retorted Xifeng.
"We've only these few things left, so what does it matter?
You go first the master may want you.
I'll come when I've changed my clothes."
Jia Lian went ahead to the old lady's place and whispered to Jia Zheng that all the preparations had been made.
Jia Zheng nodded.
Then the doctor was announced.
Jia Lian invited him in to feel the old lady's pulse.
After some time he withdrew and quietly told Jia Lian, "The old lady's pulse is very weak.
Be prepared...." Jia Lian understood and told Lady Wang, who signalled to Yuanyang and, when she came over, sent her off to make ready the garments in which to lay out the old lady.
At this point the Lady Dowager opened her eyes and asked for some tea.
Lady Xing gave her a cup of ginseng broth but after tasting it she said "Not this.
Give me a cup of tea."
Forced to humour her, they brought it immediately.
She took two sips, then said, "I want to sit up."
"If you want something, madam, just tell us," urged Jia Zheng.
"There is no need to sit up."
"After a little drink I feel better," she answered.
"Prop me up on the pillow so that I can talk to you."
-768 Zhenzhu gently propped her up, and they saw that she did look better.
To know whether she lived or died, read the next chapter.
Chapter 110 The Lady Dowager Passes Away Peacefully Xifeng Is Powerless and Loses Support Sitting up the old lady said, "I've lived in your family sixty years and more, from girlhood to old age, and had more than my share of good fortune.
Reckoning from your father down, all my sons and grandsons are good.
But Baoyu whom I've been so fond of..." She broke off here and looked round.
Lady Wang pushed Baoyu to her bedside and the old lady reaching out one hand from the quilt took his hand.
"You must make good, child!
"she exhorted him.
"Yes, madam."
He felt a pang but dared not cry, simply standing there while his grandmother continued, "I shall be content if I can see another great-grandson born.
Where is my Lan?"
As Li Wan pushed him forward, the old lady let go of Baoyu and took Lan's hand.
"You must be a dutiful son," she said.
"Make your mother feel proud of you when you grow up!
Where is Xifeng?"
Xifeng, standing near the bed, stepped forward saying, "Here I am."
"You're too clever, child you must do more good works.
I haven't done many myself, simply letting others take advantage of me.
I never went in much for fasting or chanting Buddhist scriptures, except that year when I had all those copies of the Diamond Sutra made.
Have they all been distributed?"
"Not yet," was Xifeng's reply.
"Then hurry up and have them all given away.
Our Elder Master and Zhen are enjoying themselves outside, but the most heartless one of all is that little wretch Xiangyun who still hasn't come to see me!"
Yuanyang and those who knew the reason said nothing.
Next the old lady looked at Baochai and sighed.
Her face was flushed now, a sign as Jia Zheng knew that the end was near.
He offered her some ginseng broth, but already her jaws were locked and her eyes closed.
She opened them, however, for a last look round the room.
Lady Wang and Baochai stepped forward and gently propped her up, while Lady Xing and Xifeng changed her clothes.
Meanwhile serving-women had prepared the bier and spread bedding over it.
Now they heard a rattling in her throat, and a smile overspread her face as she breathed her last at the age of eighty-three.
The women hastily laid her on the bier.
Jia Theng and the other men knelt down in the outer room, Lady Xing and the other ladies inside, and together they lamented.
The stewards' preparations outside were complete.
As soon as they heard the news, all the gates of the Rong Mansion were thrown wide open and pasted with white paper.
Funeral sheds were erected as well as an archway in front of the main gate.
The family and the domestics lost no time in putting on mourning.
Jia Zheng reported his mother's death, and the Ministry of Rites petitioned the Emperor for leave for him.
The Most High in deep compassion, in view of he Jia family's past achievements and the fact that the old lady was the Imperial Consort's grandmother, bestowed on Jia Zheng one thousand taels of silver and ordered the Ministry of Rites to take charge of the sacrifice.
The stewards spread word of the old lady's death and, though ihe Jia family had declined, when their relatives and friends saw the favour shown them by the Emperor they all came to offer their condolences.
An auspicious day was chosen for coffining the dead and the coffin was deposited in the hall.
In the absence of ha She, Jia Zheng was the head of the house.
Baoyu, Jia Huan and Jia Lan, as young descendants, had to keep watch by the coffin.
Jia Lan, though a grandson too, undertook with Jia Rong's assistance to assign the menservants' tasks.
Certain kinsmen were also invited to help out.
As for the ladies, Lady Xing, Lady Wang, Li Wan, Xifeng and Baochal were to lament by the coffin.
Madam You should by rights have helped organize the household, as since Jia Zhen's departure she had been staying in the Rong Mansion but she had never shown any initiative and had little knowledge of its management.
Jia Rong's wife, it goes without saying, was even less competent while young Xichun although she had grown up in the Rong Mansion knew nothing about its domestic affairs.
So none of these could take charge.
Xifeng was the only one capable of undertaking the task, and indeed with Jia Lian in charge outside it seemed appropriate to have her helping him inside.
Emboldened by her previous experience of superintending Qin Keqing's funeral, she was confident that here was another chance to display her ability and Their Ladyships both thought her the best choice.
When, therefore, she was asked to superintend, she accepted readily.
"I ran this household before and the staff here obey me," she thought.
"The servants of Lady Xing and Madam You used to be troublesome, but now they've gone.
Though we haven't used a tally to get money from the treasury, we have ready cash in hand for this purpose which is even better and my husband is in charge of affairs outside.
So even if my health isn't what it was, I don't think I'll fall down on the job as it's bound to be simpler than that time in the Ning Mansion."
She decided to wait another day till the first three days had passeed, then assign the servants tasks first thing in the morning.
She told Zhou Rui's wife to announce this to the staff and to bring her the register.
Looking through this she found twenty one men-servants in all and only nineteen women, not counting the maids in the various apartments.
As this made a total of barely forty people, they were going to be shorthanded.
"We've fewer hands now for the old lady's funeral than that time in the East Mansion," she reflected.
Even if she transferred a few servants from their farm, they still would not have enough.
As she was mulling this over a young maid came to report, "Sister Yuanyang would like you to go over, madam."
Xifeng went and found Yuanyang weeping bitterly.
She caught hold of Xifeng and cried, "Please sit down, madam, and let me kowtow to you.
Mourners can dispense with ceremony, they say, but I must kowtow to you now!"
She fell on her knees.
Xifeng hastily stopped her.
"What does this mean?
Just tell me what you want," she said, pulling her up.
"All the arrangements, inside and outside, for the old lady's funeral are being made by Msater Lian and you, madam.
The silver for this was put aside by the old lady, who never squandered money in her whole life SO now I beg you, madam, to give her a fine, handsome send-off.
Just now I heard the master quote a classical tag I didn't understand it something like 'In mourning, grief counts for more than appearances.'
I asked Madam Bao, who told me he meant that the most filial way to mourn the oLd lady is to show our grief, instead of wasting money to make a good show.
But it seems to me that surely things should be done more impressively for someone like the old lady.
I'm only a slave, though, so what can I say?
But the old lady was so good to us both, wont you do the thing handsomely?
I know you're an able organizer, madam that's why I asked you here to decide.
I've served the old lady all my life, and now that she's dead I mean to follow her still.
If I don't see her given a good funeral, how shall I be able to face her?"
Puzzled by this outburst Xifeng replied, 'Don't worry.
It's not difficult to prepare a fine funeral.
Though the master wants us to economize, we've a position to keep up.
Even if we spend the whole sum on this, that's only right."
'he old lady's last words were that anything she had left was for us.
If you don't have enough, madam, just use this to make up the deficit.
Whatever the master says.
he can't go against her last wishes.
Besides, he was there, wasn't he, and heard how the old lady shared things out."
"You've always been a sensible girl.
Why are you carrying on like this now?"
Xifeng asked.
"I can't help worrying, because the Elder Mistress lets things slide and the master's afraid of being ostentatious.
If you share his view, madam, that for a family that's been raided to have a splendid funeral may lead to another raid, and dont care about the old lady, what's to be done?
I'm just a boudmaid and this doesn't concern me but our family's reputation is at stake!"
"I understand.
Don't worry.
I' see to it."
Then Yuanyang thanked Xifeng profusely for her goodness.
Xifeng left thinking, "What an odd creature Yuanyang is!
I wonder what's on her mind?
By rights the old lady should have a handsome funeral.
Well, never mind her.
We'll do it according to our family tradition."
She sent for Lai Wang's wife to ask Master Lian to come in.
"What do you want me for?"
inquired Jia Lian when presently he entered.
"Just look after your end of things inside the house.
All deci -400 sions will be made anyway by the Second Master.
It's up to us to do whatever we're told."
'So you take that line too?"
said Xifeng.
"Apparently Yuanyang guessed right."
'What did she say?"
Xifeng described how Yuanyang had asked her over and what she had said.
'What they say doesn't count," scoffed ha Lian.
"Just now the Second Master sent for me and said, 'Of course we must do things in style for the old lady.
People in the know are aware that she provided for her own funeral those not in the know may think that we kept some money tucked away and are still well-off.
But if this silver of hers isn't used, who wants it?
It should still all be spent on her.
The old lady's from the south, where there is a graveyard but no houses for offering sacrifices.
As her coffin's to go back to the south, we should keep some money to build houses in the ancestral graveyard and use the remainder to buy a few acres of fields to provide for sacrifices.
Even if we don't return south ourselves we can let some poor relations live there, to sacrifice to her during festivals and to see to the upkeep of the grave.'
Don't you agree that that's a sound idea?
So how can we spend the whole sum on the funeral?"
"Have they issued the silver yet?"
'Who's seen any silver?
All I know is that after my mother heard this she thoroughly approved, telling the Second Master and Mistress that it was a good idea.
So what can I do?
Now the men putting up the funeral sheds outside want several hundred taels, but no silver has been issued.
When I went to draw some, they said they had the money but we should get the workmen to finish the job before settling accounts with them.
Just think, all those servants with money have skedaddled.
When we call the roll, some are said to be on sick leave, others 10 have gone to the farm.
Those few left here, unable to leave, are just out to make money.
Who's going to advance us any?"
Xifeng was struck speechless.
Eventually she asked, "Then how are We to manage?"
Just then a maid came in and said, "The Elder Mistress wants to ask you, madam, why everything's still topsy-turvy though today is the third day.
After the sacrifice, why keep relatives waiting around?
She called several times for the meal before the dishes came without any rice.
What way is this to manage?"
Xifeng at once went to expedite the servants and manage to get a meal of sorts served to the guests.
As ill luck would have it, many guests had come, but all the servants were so apathetic that Xifeng had to see to things herself.
Then in her concern she burned out and made Lai Wang's wife summon all the serving-women to assign them different tasks.
The women accepted these but made no move.
"What time is it?"
Xifeng demanded.
"Why haven't you prepared the sacrificial offerings?"
"That's easily done," they answered.
"But first we have to be issued with supplies."
"You stupid creatures!"
fumed Xifeng.
"Of course you'll get what you need for the jobs you're given."
The women went off then reluctantly, while Xifeng hurried to the main apartment to ask Their Ladyships' permission to fetch what would be needed.
She could hardly do this, however, in front of so many guests.
As it was nearing sunset, she had to find Yuanyang and tell her which of the old lady's things she wanted.
"Why ask me?"
replied Yuanyang.
"Didn't Master Lian pawn them that year?
Has he ever redeemed them?"
"We don't need gold or silver, just an ordinary dinner service."
"Hasn't that gone to Lady Xing and Madam You?"
Xifeng realized that this was so and went to Lady Wang's quarters to find Yuchuan and Caiyun.
Having got what she required from them she hastily made Caiming list these things, then handed them over to the serving-women.
Xifeng had looked so flustered that Yuanyang did not like to call her back.
She wondered, "Why is she bungling things like this now when she used to be such a good manager?
In the last few days things have been at Sixes and sevens.
The old lady's love for her was thrown away!"
She was unaware that Lady Xing had concurred with Jia Zheng's proposal because she had been worrying about her family's future and was eager to put something by.
Besides, as the old lady's funeral should have been superintended by the senior branch of the family, although Jia She was away, each time there was some decision to make punctilious Jia Zheng would say, "Ask the Elder Mistress."
Lady Xing had always considered Xifeng extravagant and Jia Lian unreliable and would therefore not let any money out of her hands.
Yuanyang, assuming that the funeral expenses had already been issued, suspected Xifeng of floundering because she did not take the business seriously.
Accordingly she kept weeping and wailing before the old lady's coffin.
When Lady Xing heard these implied reproaches, instead of blaming herself for not facilitating Xifeng's work she said, "It's true, Xifeng isn't putting herself out."
That evening Lady Wang summoned Xifeng and told her, "Though our family's in these straits, we must keep up appearances.
I've noticed that in the last few days our visitors haven't been properly looked after.
I suppose you didn't give instructions for this.
You must bestir yourself a bit more for us!"
Xifeng was at a loss for words.
She wanted to explain that there was no silver to meet their expenses, but the silver was not her concern while this charge against her was one of negligence.
Not venturing to defend herself she remained silent.
Lady Xing put in from the side, "By rights we daughters-in-law, not you young people, should see to these things.
But as we can't leave the coffin we entrusted them to you.
You mustn't trifle with your task."
Xifeng flushed crimson and was about to answer when music struck up outside it was time for the dusk burning of sacrificial paper.
As everyone had to mourn now she could say nothing and later, when she came back to explain the real situation to them, Lady Wang urged her to go and see to things.
"We'll hold the fort here," she said.
"Run along to make preparations for tomorrow."
Xifeng had to withdraw then, bottling up her resentment, and summoned all the matrons to give them instructions.
"Take pity on me, nannies!"
she pleaded.
"I've been scolded by their Ladyships because you've not pulled together, making our family look ridiculous.
You must try a bit harder tomorrow!"
This isn't the first time you've run things, madam," they said.
"We wouldn't dream of disobeying you.
But this time our mistresses are too pernickety!
Just take the question of meals some want to eat here, others in their own quarters when we fetch in one lady, another refuses to come.
What with all this, how can we see to everything?
Do persuade those ladies' maids, madam, not to pick so many faults."
The most troublesome are the old lady's maids," said Xifeng.
"Their Ladyships' are a difficult lot too how can I tell them off?"
'When you took charge in the East Mansion, madam, you beat or cursed anyone you pleased," they countered.
"You were so sharp, who dared to disobey you?
Can't you control these minxes today?"
Xifeng sighed, "When I was given that East Mansion job, though the mistress was there she didn't like to find fault.
Now this business concerns the others as well as ourselves, so everyone feels free to criticize.
Besides, the money outside isn't issued promptly.
When something's needed, for example, for the funeral sheds and we send out for it, it isn't forthcoming what can I do about it?"
"Isn't Master Lian in charge outside?"
they countered.
"Can't he attend to such things?"
"Don't tell me he's in charge!
He's in a fix too.
In the first place, the silver isn't in his hands and he has to put in a request for every purchase.
Re has no ready money."
"Isn't the sum the old lady left in his hands?"
"Go and ask the stewards presently they'll tell you."
"No wonder then!"
they said.
"We've heard the men outside complain, 'A big do like this, yet there's nothing in it for us except hard work!'
So how can you expect people to pull together?"
"Never mind that now but concentrate on the work in hand.
Any more complaints from above and I shan't let you off!"
"How dare anyone grumble, whatever you want done, madam?
But it's really hard for us to please everyone with each of the mistresses giving different orders."
At a loss, Xifeng pleaded, "Good nannies, at least help me out tomor row!
We'll talk things over again after I've made the ladies' maids see sense.
Then the serving-women left.
Xifeng, seethig with resentment, brooded with mounting anger till dawn, when she wanted to discipline the maids of the various apartments, yet feared that might offend Lady Xing and she could not complain to Lady Wang, whom Lady Xing had turned against her.
When the maids saw that Their Ladyships were not backing Xifeng up, they treated her with even less respect.
Pinger alone spoke up for her, explaining, "Of course Madam Lian wants to do things in style, but the master and Their Ladyships have forbidden any extravagance, which makes her unable to satisfy everybody."
By stressing this she calmed them down a little.
Now they had Buddhists chanting sutras and Taoists saying masses, with endless mourning, sacrifices and meals for guests but they were so niggardly that no one would buckle to and the service was slipshod.
Although titled ladies kept arriving, Xifeng had no time to attend to them, so busy was she supervising the servants.
As soon as she summoned one, another slipped away.
She would first fume at them then appeal to their better nature and in this way she managed to send off batch after batch of guests after entertaining them all anyhow.
Of course Yuanyang and the others thought it disgraceful, and even Xifeng herself was mortified.
Though Lady Xing was the elder daughter-in-law, she turned a blind eye to everything else, simply displaying her fiLial piety by an appearance of overwhelming grief.
Lady Wang had to follow suit, and naturally so did the rest.
Li Wan, the only one to appreciate Xifeng's dilemma, dared not speak up for her.
She just sighed to herself, "As the saying goes, though the peony is lovely it needs the support of green leaves.
With Their Lady ships letting her down, who else is going to help poor Xifeng?
If Tanchun were here it wouldn't be so bad.
Now she has only a few of her own servants to make shift as best they can, and they keep complaining behind her back that they're not making a cent or getting any credit!
The master harps on filial piety but doesn't know much about management.
How can a big affair like this be properly conducted without a certain outlay?
Poor Xifeng!
She's been to such pains these few years to win a reputation, and now it looks as if she's going to lose it over this funeral!"
She made time to summon her own maids and told them, 'Don't follow the example of those others and start plaguing Madam Lian too.
You mustn't think you can get by by wearing mourning and keeping watch by the coffin for a few days.
If you see them unable to cope, you should lend a hand.
This is the affair of us all it's everybody's duty to help out."
Some of the servants who had genuine respect for Li Wan agreed, "You're quite right, madam, and we'd never dream of making trouble.
But Sister Yuanyang and the others seem to hold Madam Lian to blame."
"I've spoken to Yuanyang too," replied Li Wan.
"I've explained to her that it's not that Madam Lian doesn't take the old lady's funeral seriously, but she doesn't control the money, and how can the smartest daughter-in-law make gruel without rice?
Now that Yuanyang understands she's stopped blaming her.
Still, it's extraordinary the way Yuanyang has altered.
When she was the old lady's favourite, she didn't try to take advantage of it now that the old lady's gone and she has no backing, she seems to have changed for the worse.
I used to worry what would become of her.
Luckily the Elder Master isn't at home now, so she's escaped his clutches.
Otherwise, what could she have done?"
At this point Jia Lan came up and said, "Mother, it's time to go to bed.
So many visitors all day long must have tired you do have a rest now.
I haven't touched my books these days, so I'm very glad that today grandfather told me to sleep at home I must review one or two books, so as not to have forgotten everything by the time the mourning is over.
'Good child!"
said Li Wan.
"Of course it's good to study, but today you'd better rest.
Wait till after the funeral."
"If you're going to sleep, mother, I'll curl up in my quilt too and think over my lessons."
The others all approved, "There's a good boy!
Such a little lad, yet When he's a moment to spare he thinks of his books.
How different from Master Bao who's still so childish even after his marriage.
How uneasy he looks these days kneeling by his father and the moment the master leaves he rushes offto find Madam Bao and whisper some nonsense to -400 her.
When she ignores him he looks for Miss Baoqin, who tries to steer clear of him too.
Miss Xing hardly ever talks to him either.
The only ones nice to him are his cousins Xiluan and Sijie, for ever calling him 'cousin' this and 'cousin' that.
We don't believe Master Bao thinks of anything except fooling about with young ladies.
He hadn'tlived up to the old lady's expectations.
She always doted on him, yet he can't hold a candle to our Master Lan.
You won't haveto worry about his future, madam!"
"It's too early to say," replied Li Wan.
"And who knows what will have become of our family by the time he grows up?
But what's your opinion of young Master Huan?"
"That one's even worse!"
they exclaimed.
"He has eyes like a real monkey, darting shiftily this way and that.
Though he's supposed to wail by the coffin, when the ladies come he spends all his time peeping at them round the curtain before it."
"Actually he's no longer a child," she said.
"The other day I heard they were thinking of finding him a wife, but now that will have to wait.
Still, our family's too big for us to sort Out everyone's problems, so let's not gossip about them.
And there's something else I meant to ask.
The funeral procession is to be the day after tomorrow.
Are carriages ready for all the different households?"
"Madam Lian seems so distracted these days that we haven't seen her issuing instructions.
Yesterday we heard from the men outside that Master Lian told Master Qiang to see to this.
As our family doesn't have enough carriages or drivers, he says we'll have to borrow some from relatives."
"Can carriages be borrowed?"
asked Li Wan with a smile.
"You must be joking, madam!
Of course they can.
But that day all our relatives will be using theirs, so borrowing may be hard and we'll probably have to hire some."
"We shall have to hire some for the servants, but how can the ladies take hired mourning carriages?"
"The Elder Mistress has no carriage now.
Neither have Madam You and Master Rong's wife from the East Mansion," they reminded her.
"What can they do but hire some?"
Li Wan sighed, "In the old days, when female relatives called on us in hired carriages, we all thought it scandalous.
Now it's our turn.
Tell your husbands tomorrow to get our carriages and horses ready as early as possible, to avoid ajam."
The serving-women assented and withdrew.
Since Shi Xiangyun's husband was ill, she had called only once after the old lady's death but she felt she must attend the funeral which she reckoned would be held in two days' time.
In any case, her husband's illness had proved to be consumption, so that he was in no immediate danger.
She therefore came over the day before the wake, when she recalled the old lady's goodness to her, then thought of her own wretched fate.
She had only just married a talented, handsome husband with a cheerful disposition, but then he had contracted this fatal illness which might any day carry him off.
In distress she wept half the night, despite the attempts of Yuanyang and the others to console her.
Baoyu, seeing this, grieved for her too but was in no position to comfort her.
He noticed that in her white mourning, her face bare of rouge and powder, she looked even lovelier than before her marriage.
He turned then to eye Baoqin and the other girls in white and found them all very charming.
Baochai, who was in deep mourning, had an air of greater distinction than in the coloured clothes she normally wore.
Baoyu told himsell, "The men of old said that of all flowers the plum-blossom ranks first.
That must be not only because it's the first to bloom, but because its pure white and its fine fragrance are matchless.
If only Cousin Lin were here now, dressed like this, how beautiful she would be!"
At this thought, he felt a pang and could not hold back his tears and as they were mourning the Lady Dowager he did not restrain himself but sobbed aloud.
The others were trying to make Xiangyun stop crying when Baoyu suddenly burst out sobbing too.
They assumed that he was upset by the memory of the old lady's kindness to him, little knowing that he and Xiangyun were weeping for different reasons.
Their storm of grief brought te 5 to the eyes of all.
It was Aunt Xue and Aunt Li who finally stopped them.
The next day, the day of the wake, was still more strenuous.
Xifeng felt too exhausted to bear up, yet she had no choice but to exert herself until she was hoarse from shouting.
That morning she managed to cope.
By the afternoon, however, more relatives and friends arrived, entailing even more work, and she could not see to everything at once.
She was frantic when a young maid ran up to her.
"So here you are, madam!"
she cried.
"No wonder our Elder Mistress says, 'There are too many visitors for me to look after, but Madam Lian has sneaked off to take it easy.'
-768 At this, Xifeng thought she would burst with anger.
She held back her rage, but tears welled up in her eyes, everything turned dark and she tasted something sweet.
Then red blood spurted from her mouth, her lnees buckled and she collapsed.
Pinger ran to support her as she went on vomiting whole mouthfuls of blood.
To know what became of her, read the following chapter.
Chapter 111 Yuanyang Dies for Her Mistress and Ascends to the Great Void A Despicable Slave Leads Robbers into the Mansion The young maid's taunt so enraged and wounded Xifeng that she vonuted blood and fainted.
Pinger heTd her up and called for help to carry her back to her room, where they laid her gently on her bed and ordered Hongyu to give her a drink of warm water.
After one sip, however, Xifeng relapsed into unconsciousness.
Qiutong came over to glance at her then went off, and Pinger did not cail her back.
Instead she told Fenger who was standing near by to take word of this at once to Their Lady ships.
When Fenger explained Xifeng's inability to entertain the guests, Lady Xing suspected her of shamming and shirking, but did not like to say this in the presence of so many relatives.
She simply replied, 'All right, let her take a rest."
And the others made no comment.
That evening, naturally, they had a stream of visitors.
It was lucky that certain close relatives helped entertain them, for some of the staff took advantage of Xifeng's absence to play truant or slack and pandemonium reigned it was most unseemly.
After the second watch, when the guests living at a distance had left, they prepared to farewell the dead and the women behind the mourning curtain began to wail.
Yuanyang wept so bitterly that she fainted away.
They raised her up and massaged her till she came round.
"The old lady was so good to me, I must follow her!"
she cried.
Thinking her beside herself with grief, the others paid no attention.
When the ceremony started, there were over a hundred mourners high and low present, but Yuanyang had disappeared.
In the general confusion her absence passed unnoticed until it was time for Hupo and the Other maids to kowtow to the dead however, supposing that Yuanyang worn out by weeping must be resting somewhere, they let it go at that.
The ceremony at an end, Jia Zheng called Jia Lian outside to ask about the cortege the next day and whom he meant to leave in charge at home.
"Of the masters, I've told Jia Yun to stay behind," Jia Lian reported.
'Of the servants, I've ordered Lin Zhixiao's family to see to the dismantling of the sheds.
But which of the ladies should stay to keep an eye on the inner apartments?"
"I hear from your mother that your wife is too unwell to go.
She can stay at home.
And your Sister-in-law You suggests that since she is so ill, Xichun should keep her company and get a few maids to look after the mistresses' quarters."
Jia Lian knew that Madam You had made this proposal because she was not on good terms with Xichun, who could not take effective charge and Xifeng was too ill to cope.
After some consideration he replied, "Please have a rest, sir, while I go in to settle it with them before reporting back."
Jia Zheng nodded and ha Lian went to the inner quarters.
Now Yuanyang after a bout of weeping thought, "I've been with the old lady all my life, and I've found no niche for myself.
Although the Elder Master isn't at home now, I don't think much of the Elder Mistress either.
And with the Second Master letting things slide, there'll be such chaos in future that there's no knowing who else may take over.
Then we shall be at their mercy, whether they decide to make us concubines or marry us off to some servants.
I couldn't stand that.
Better die and be done with it!
But how shall I kill myself?"
By now she had entered the old lady's annex.
As she stepped over the threshold in the dim lamplight, she saw the shadowy figure of a woman who appeared to be about to hang herself with the scarf in her hand.
Yuanyang felt no fear but wondered, "Who is she?
She has the same idea as mine, but is a step ahead of me."
"Who are you?"
she asked.
"Since we're both of the same mind, let's die together."
The other made no reply, and Yuanyang approaching her saw that it Was not one of their household.
When she tried to look closer, the air struck chill and the apparition vanished.
In stupefaction she left the room and sat down on the kang.
"Ah, I know," she murmured after a moment's reflection.
"That was Master Rong's first wife from the East Mansion.
She died so long ago, what brought her here?
She must have come to summon me.
But why should she hang herself?"
She thought it over and decided, "That's it.
She's showing me the way."
This train of thought enabled an evil spirit to take possession of her and standing up, weeping, she opened her dressing-case to take out the lock of hair which she had cut off when she swore never to leave the old lady's service.
Having tucked it inside her tunic, she undid her sash and looped it over the beam indicated by Qin Keqing.
Then she wept again until the sound of guests dispersing outside made her afraid that someone might come in.
She made haste to close ffie door, moved over a footstool and stood on it, tied the sash into a noose, slipped it round her throat and kicked the stool away.
Then, alas, strangled to death, her sweet spirit took flight!
Her wraith was wondering where to go when she saw Qin Keqing's shadowy form in front.
She overtook her crying, "Wait for me, Madam Rong!"
"I am not Madam Rong," was the reply, "but the sister of the Goddess of Disenchantment."
"I can see quite clearly that you're Madam Rong why should you deny it?"
"Let me tell you the reason, then you'll understand.
I was the Arbiter of True Love in the palace of the goddess, and all romantic affairs were in my charge then I descended to the dusty world as the most amorous of mortals, to lead all lovesick maidens back betimes to the Board of Love.
This is why it was my Tot to hang myself.
Now that I have seen through earthly love, passed over the sea of love and returned to heaven, there is no one in charge of the Board of Infatuation in the Illusory Land of Great Void.
The Goddess of Disenchantment has appointed you in my Place to head this Board, and has therefore ordered me to lead you there."
"I have never known passion," replied Yuanyang's spirit.
"How can I count as amorous?"
"You don't understand.
Mortals mistake carnal appetite for love, and at at at at at at at at justify their immorality by calling themselves romantics and passing it off lightly.
In fact, before the expression of joy or anger, grief or happiness, love is latent in each one's nature once these feelings are expressed then we have passion.
Our love is as yet unexpressed like a flower in bud.
If once expressed, it would cease to be true love."
Yuanyang's wraith nodded agreement, then followed Keqing's spirit.
After Hupo had bid farewell to the dead and heard Their Ladyships designate caretakers, she decided to go and ask Yuanyang what carriage they would be taking the next day.
Unable to find her in the old lady's room, she approached the smaller room which opened off it.
The door was closed, but peeping through a crack she was startled by the dim lamplight and flickering shadows, though she could hear not a sound.
She went away exclaiming, "Where can the wretch have run off to?"
Bumping into Zhenzhu she asked, "Have you seen Sister Yuanyang?"
"I'm looking for her too," was the answer.
"Their Ladyships want her.
Is she asleep in the annex?"
"I had a peep and didn't see anyone.
The lamp hasn't been trimmed, and it was too dark and scary to go in.
But now we can go in together, to make sure there's no one inside."
As they went in to trim the lamp Zhenzhu exclaimed, "Who put the stool here?
It nearly tripped me up!"
Happening to look up, she let out a little scream and fell backward, knocking hard against Hupo, who by then had also seen the fearful sight.
She shrieked, rooted to the spot.
People outside hearing their cries rushed in and, after exclaiming in horror, went to report this to Their Ladyships.
At this news, Lady Wang, Baochai and the rest shed tears and went to take a look.
Lady Xing remarked, "I never imagined Yuanyang had it in her!
We must send word of this at once to the master."
Baoyu kept silent, gaping in consternation, till Xiren anxiously took his arm and urged him, "Cry if you want to, but don't suppress your feelings."
Then Baoyu burst out wailing.
"Only someone like Yuanyang would Choose this way to die!"
he thought.
"The subtlest elements in the uni verse are truly concentrated in such girls!
She died a splendid death.
Which of the old lady's sons or grandsons can compare with her, filthy creatures that we are?"
This reflection raised his spirits.
Baochai had heard Baoyu wailing, but by the time she reached his side he was smiling.
'This is a bad sign!"
cried Xiren.
"He's losing his mind again."
"Don't worry," said Baochai.
"He has his reason."
This delighted Baoyu, who thought, "After all she understands me.
The others don't."
As Baoyu was letting his fancy run wild, Jia Zheng and some others came in.
"What a good girl!"
declared Jia Zheng approvingly.
"The old lady's love for her wasn't thrown away."
He told Jia Lian, "Go and send to buy a coffin immediately and give her a good funeral.
Tomorrow her coffin can go in the old lady's cortege and be left in the temple behind the old lady's coffin.
This is what she wished for."
Jia Lian withdrew to attend to this, while orders were given to cut down Yuanyang's corpse and lay it out in the inner room.
Word of this brought Pinger, Xiren, Yinger and the other maids to the scene, where they mourned bitterly.
Zijuan, who could see no future for herself, wished she had followed Daiyu to her grave to repay her mistress' kindness, thinking that would have been a good death.
As it was, she was hanging about for nothing in Baoyu's quarters for though he treated her affectionately, nothing would come of it.
So she wept even more heart-rendingTy than the rest.
Lady Wang now summoned Yuanyang's sister-in-law to attend to the coffining.
After some discussion with Lady Xing, she also presented her with a hundred taels of the old lady's money, promising to give her all Yuanyang's belongings later.
The sister-in-law kowtowed her thanks and withdrew.
"She really had spirit, the lucky girl!"
she exulted.
"Winning herself a good name like this and a fine send-off!"
"What a way to talk!
"said a matron standing nearby.
"You're so tickled at selling her life for a hundred taels, you'd have been even better pleased that year to have given her to the Elder Master for a still bigger sum.
This home-thrust made the sister-in-law blush.
She had just reached the inner gate when Lin Zhixiao led in men carrying the coffin, obliging her to return to help lay out the corpse and make a pretence of wailing.
Because Yuanyang had died for the Lady Dowager, Jia Zheng called for incense, lighted three sticks, and bowed before her coffin.
'Since she immolated herself she can't be treated as a bondmaid," he said.
"All you youngsters should pay homage to her."
Baoyu, only too glad to comply, came over and kowtowed respectfuUy.
Jia Lian, mindful of her past goodness to him, wanted to follow suit but Lady Xing stopped him.
"It's enough for one of the masters to kowtow to her," she reasoned.
"If we overdo it she'll lose her chance of reincarnation."
Then Jia Lian desisted.
Baochai put out by this officiousness said, "By rights I shouldn't pay homage to her, but after the old lady's death we dared do nothing rash because of all the business we had to attend to and as she showed true filial piety in our place, we should entrust to her the task of serving the old lady in our stead when she enters paradise.
So it's only right for us to express our thanks."
Then leaning on Yinger's arm she went up to the coffin and poured a libation of wine, tears flowing down her cheeks.
After that she bowed several times with clasped hands and wept bitterly.
Some of those present thought Baoyu and his wife both rather crazed, others that they were compassionate yet others that they understood etiquette and Jia Zheng approved of their conduct.
They agreed to leave Xifeng and Xichun in charge of the house while the rest joined the funeral cortege.
There was little sleep for anyone that night.
At the fifth watch the cortege could be heard assembling outside.
At seven it set off, headed by Jia Zheng in deep mourning and weeping as befitted a filial son.
Then the coffin was borne out of the gate and sacrifices were offered at the roadside by different families - we need not go into detail.
Eventually they reached Iron Threshold Temple, where both coffins were deposited and all the men were required to stay.
But no more of this.
Meanwhile in the Rong Mansion Lin Zhixiao supervised the dismantling of the sheds, refitted the doors and windows, had the courtyards swept clean and then assigned nightwatchmen.
According to the rules of the house, after the second watch the three gates were closed and no man was permitted to enter the inner apartments, where only women kept watch.
Xifeng felt a little clearer in her mind after a night's rest, although too limp to get up.
So Pinger and Xichun inspected the various apartments, then issued instructions to the women on watch and retired to their own quarters.
Let us turn back now to Zhou Rui's godson He San.
The previous year when Jia Zhen was in charge, he had been thrashed and driven out because of his brawl with Bao Er, and he spent most of his time in a gambling-den.
Recently, hearing of the old lady's death and assuming that there must be odd jobs going, he had gone there to make inquiries day after day but all to no effect.
He went back grumbling to the gambling-house and sat down dejectedly.
His cronies asked, "Why not play to recoup your losses?"
"I would if I could," said He San, "but I've no money."
"You' ve been with your godfather for several days and must have got pots of money from the Rong Mansion.
Don't go telling us you're broke."
"Shut up!"
he snapped.
"They've got millions all right, but they're hanging on to it.
It'll serve them right if one of these days there's a fire or thieves break in."
"You're lying again," said the others.
"After their place was raided they can't have much left."
"A fat lot you know.
It was only things from the palace that got confiscated.
The old lady left masses of gold and silver, but they won't touch it it's all tucked away in her room waiting to be shared out after the funeral."
One of the gamesters made a note of this and after a few more throws remarked, "I've lost quite a bit but won't try to win it back now.
I'm for bed."
As he left he pulled He San out too.
"Come on," he said, "I want a word with you."
He San went out with him.
'You're a smart fellow yet now you're broke," said the man.
"I think it'S a shame.'
'It's my fate to be poor.
What can I do about it?"
You just said there's pots of silver in the Rong Mansion.
Why don't you get hold of some?"
"Brother, they may be rolling in gold and silver, yet when the likes of us ask for a cent or two will they part with it for nothing?"
"If they won't, what's to stop us from helping ourselves?"
Catching his implication He San demanded, "Then what do you suggest?"
"I call you pretty dumb.
If I were you I'd have taken it long ago.
"How would you go about it?"
"If you want to make a pile," the other whispered, "all you need do is act as guide.
I have plenty of friends who are dabs at this.
Not to say the Jias are away at the funeral, with only a few women left in the house no matter how rnany men were there we wouldn't be afraid!
All I'm afraid of is that you haven't the guts."
"Of course I have!
Do you think I'm scared of that godfather of mine?
I only put up with him for my godmother's sake.
He doesn't count.
As for your idea, I'm afraid it may be a flop and land us in trouble instead.
They have connections, you know, in all the yamens.
So quite apart from the fact that we may not pull it off, even if we do they'll raise a hullabaloo."
"If that's all that's worrying you, you're in luck!
I've palled up with some men from the coast, who are on the look-out here for some opening.
If we get the loot, there's no point in staying here we'd better go to sea to have a good time, eh?
If you don't want to ditch your godmother, we can take her along as well to share the fun.
How about it?"
"You must be drunk, old man, to talk such rubbish!"
With that He San pulled him to a quiet spot to discuss the matter further.
Then they went their different ways, and there we will leave them.
Let us now revert to Bao Yong, who had been berated by Jia Zheng and sent to keep watch in the Garden.
After the Lady Dowager's death, although the whole household was busy while he was assigned no job that did not disturb him.
He cooked his own meals, went to sleep when bored, and in his waking hours would exercise with a sword or staff in the Garden, left to his own devices.
That morning he knew that the funeral cortege had left, but as no assignment had been given him he rambled round as his custom was till he saw a nun with an old deaconess go up to the side-gate and start knocking on it.
Bao Yong went over and asked, "Where are you going, reverend sister?"
The deaconess said, "We heard today that the services for the old lady have ended, but didn't see Miss Xichun with the cortege, so we think she must be at home minding the house.
For fear she may feel lonely, my mistress has come to call on her."
"The family are all away and I'm the gateman here," was Bao Yong's reply.
"I must ask you to go back.
If you want to call, wait till the masters are back."
"What upstart scavenger are you," she asked, "that you try to interfere with our coming or going?"
"I've no use for the likes of you," was his retort.
"I won't let you in, so you'll just have to lump it."
"The impertinence!"
she screeched.
"Even when the old lady was alive, no one ever stopped us from coming.
Who are you, you lawless brigand?
We're going this way, so there!"
With that she beat a tattoo with the door-rapper.
Miaoyu, speechless with anger, was about to turn back when the woman in charge of the inner gate heard them quarrelling and hastily opened the gate.
Seeing Miaoyu turning away, she guessed that Bao Yong must have offended her.
As all the women-servants knew how fond their mistresses and Xichun were of Miaoyu, she feared that if they came to learn that she had been refused admittance there would be trouble.
She hurried over calling, "We didn't know you were here, sister, and were late in opening the gate.
Miss Xichun is at home, longing to see you.
Please come back.
This caretaker is new here and doesn't know our ways.
We'll report him later to Her Ladyship and see that he's given a whipping and thrown out."
When Miaoyu pretended not to hear, the woman chased after her and pleaded with her.
Finally she voiced her own fear of punishment, all but going down on her knees, she was so frantic.
So Miaoyu had to follow her through the gate.
BaoYong glared but, unable to bar the way, went off fuming.
Miaoyu, attended by the old deaconess, called on Xichun and after expressing her condolences they started chatting.
Xichun told her, "I'm to stay and look after the house, and shall have to manage as best I can for a few nights but Madam Lian is ill and I find it boring and scaring all on my own.
If I had company I'd feel easier, for there isn't a single man in the house now.
As you've done me the honour of calling today, won't you spend the night with me?
We can play draughts and chat."
Miaoyu had no wish to stay but gave her consent because Xichun looked so pathetic, and a game of draughts appealed to her too.
When she had sent back the deaconess to get her maid to bring over her tea things, night-clothes and bedding, they settled down for a good talk and Xichun in her delight told Caiping to fetch some rain water kept from the previous year to brew some choice tea.
Miaoyu would not drink out of any cups but her own however, before long her maid brought over her things and Xichun herself made the tea.
They chatted happily until the first watch, when Caiping got out the draughts board and they played draughts.
Xichun lost twice in succession, then managed to win the third game by half a point only because Miaoyu ceded her four pieces.
In no time it was the fourth watch.
The night was still, with not a sound outside.
"I must meditate at the fifth watch," Miaoyu remarked.
"My maid will look after me.
You'd better rest."
Xichun felt reluctant to part with her, but could hardly interfere with her devotions.
She was about to go to bed when the women keeping watch in the Lady Dowager's quarters on the east side set up a sudden commotion.
At once the matrons attending Xichun joined in.
"Help!"
they screamed.
"Men have broken in!"
In a panic, Xichun and Caiping heard the night-watch outside shouting too.
"Mercy!"
gasped Miaoyu.
"They must be robbers!"
She promptly locked the door, shrouded the lamp and peeped out through the window.
There were men standing in the yard.
Too terrified to utter a sound, she turned, signalling for silence, then crept back and whispered, "What shall we do?
There are some rough fellows outside."
That same instant they heard a great clattering on the roo and watchmen came running to their compound to catch the thieves.
One called, "The old lady's room has been ransacked, but there's nobody there.
We have men at the east side let's search the west ourselves."
When Xichun's serving-women heard that these were their own family retainers, they called out, "There are lots of them on our roof!"
The watchmen yelled, "Look!
There they are!"
and raised a clamour but as tiles were raining down from the roof they dared not clamber up.
Just as they were at a loss, the side-gate of the Garden banged and through it rushed a hefty fellow wielding a staff.
At sight of him they took cover in alarm.
"Don't let one of them get away!"
the newcomer yelled.
"All follow me!"
The servants were too consternated to move their bones seemed turned to water.
They stared at that fellow standing there bellowing till the most keen-sighted among them identified him as Bao Yong, recommended to their house by the Zhen family.
That reassured them.
"One has gone," they faltered.
"Some others are up on the roof."
Bao Yong ran and vaulted on to the roof to give chase.
The thieves had known that there were no men in the house.
While in Xichun's courtyard they had peeped through the window and been in-flamed by the sight of a ravishing nun.
As there were only terrified women inside, they were about to kick down the door when they heard the nightwatch rushing in after them and promptly climbed up the roof.
When they Saw that their pursuers were few they thought of putting up a fight, but just then someone leapt on to the roof and charged them.
As he was alone the thieves were not alarmed and went for him with knives but When Bao Yong with his staff knocked one of them off the roof, the rest tied over the Garden wall with him in hot pursuit.
Accomplices hidden in the Garden to receive the loot had already carried most of it off.
When they saw the thieves fleeing they drew weapons to defend them, and as Bao Yong was one against many they swarmed round him.
'You bandits!"
he swore.
"Dare you take me on?"
One thief reminded the rest, "He knocked down one of our mates whom, dead or alive, we'd better carry off."
Bao Yong hit out and four or five of the ruffians, all armed, surrounded him and fought back wildly.
But now the nightwatchmen plucked up courage to join in, and seeing that they could not get the upper hand the thieves had to run for it.
Bao Yong, pursuing them, tripped over a case.
When he regained his balance he thought If the things are still here and the thieves have got away, there's no point in chasing them.
He told the other servants to search with their lanterns, but all they found on the ground were a few empty cases which he asked them to put away while he himself went to the mistresses' quarters.
As he did not know the way, he arrived first at Xifeng's house which was lit up.
"Do you have thieves here?"
he asked.
Pinger inside quavered, "We haven't opened the gate.
We only heard them shouting that there were thieves in the old lady's rooms.
You'd better go there."
Bao Yong was wondering what path to take when some watchmen turned up and led the way.
They found all the doors open and the women on night duty weeping and wailing.
Presently ha Yun and Lin Zhixiao arrived, frantic at having learned of the robbery.
They went in to investigate.
The door to the old lady's room was wide open, and they saw by their lanterns that the lock was broken.
Going in, they found all the chests and cases empty.
They swore at the women who had been on duty, "Are you all dead?
Didn't you know when thieves broke in?"
The women sobbed, "We took turns keeping watch, and our shifts were before midnight.
We never stopped making our rounds from front to back.
Those thieves came well after midnight when we'd gone, so we just heard shouting but didn't see anybody.
You must ask the women in charge of the later shifts, sir."
"You all deserve to die!"
fumed Lin Zhixiao.
"We'll deal with you later.
Let's go first to the different quarters to have a look."
The watchmen took them to where Madam You lived.
The gate was locked, but some women inside called out, "Oh, what a fright we had!"
"Did you lose anything here?"
asked Lin Zhixiao.
They opened the door saying, "Nothing."
Next Lin Zhixiao led the way to Xichun's quarters.
"Mercy on us!"
they heard a woman inside exclaiming.
"Our young lady's fainted for fright.
Quick, bring her round!"
He told them to open the door and asked what had happened.
The woman who admitted them reported, "Thieves were fighting here, and our young lady passed out for terror.
Luckily Sister Miaoyu was here, and she and Caiping revived her.
We haven't lost anything."
"What were the thieves fighting over?"
A watchman told him, "We have to thank Bao Yong for jumping on the roof to chase them away.
We heard that he knocked down one of the thieves too."
"He's by the Garden gate," volunteered Bao Yong.
"You'd better go quickly to have a look at him."
Jia Yun and the others did so.
They found a man lying there dead.
Looking at him closely, to their surprise they recognized Zhou Rui's godson.
They assigned one man to guard the corpse and two others to watch the front and back gates, both still locked.
Lin Zhixiao told men to open the gate and report this robbery to the police.
At once an investigation was made, and it was discovered that the thieves had climbed up to the roof from the back passage.
Following their tracks to the roof of the west courtyard, they found many broken tiles and other tracks leading to the back and the Garden.
The watchmen insisted, "They were brigands, not thieves."
The constable protested, "If they didn't break in openly with torches and clubs, how can you call them brigands?"
"When we gave chase, they pelted us with tiles from the roof so that we couldn't get near them.
Then one of our household, a man called '3ao, managed to get on the roof and beat them off.
When he chased them to the Garden, a whole bunch of them attacked him.
They only ran away after they started getting the worst of it."
"That proves it," the constable said.
"If they'd been brigands, couldn't they have beaten you people?
Never mind that now.
Quickly check on what has been stolen and send in a list so that we can report it to our superiors."
Jia Yun and the others went back to the main apartments, where Xifeng had come, ill as she was, and Xichun.
Jia Yun paid his respects to Xifeng and greeted Xichun, then together they tried to find out what was missing.
But as Yuanyang was dead and Hupo and the old lady's other maids had gone to the funeral, no one knew exactly how many things she had had, since they had been kept locked up.
So how could they make a check?
They said, "There were many things in these cases and chests, and now they're all empty.
It must have taken quite a time to ransack them.
What were those women on night duty doing?
And the thief killed was Zhou Rui's godson.
So it must have been partly an inside job."
"Have all those women locked up," ordered Xifeng, glaring at them furiously.
"Then take them to the police to be cross-examined!"
-768 The women fell on their knees, wailing, to beg for mercy.
How they were dealt with and whether or not the lost property was recovered is recorded in the next chapter.
Chapter 112 A Terrible Disaster Befalls Miaoyu Nursing Enmity Concubine Zhao Is Haled Off to Hell When Xifeng ordered the women on night duty to be bound and sent to the police for interrogation, they threw themselves on their knees to beg for mercy.
'It's no use pleading," said Lin Zhixiao and Jia Yun.
"The master left us in charge here.
If nothing had happened, well and good as it is, high and low alike we're all in trouble so who can get you off?
If the dead man is Zhou Rui's godson, then from Her Ladyship down the whole household is involved."
"This is our fate," gasped Xifeng.
"Why talk to them?
Just turn them in.
As for what was stolen, assure the police that it was the old lady's property and we must find out from the masters just what she had.
After this is reported to them and they come back, we shall certainly send in the list of stolen goods and notify the civil authorities too."
ha Yun and the steward assented and withdrew.
Xichun, who had given no orders simply lamented, "I've never heard of such a thing before!
Why did this have to happen to us of all people?
How can I face the master and mistress when they come back?
They'll say We entrusted the house to you, and you let this dreadful thing hap-pen.
How can I live on?"
"We didn't wish it on ourselves, did we?"
said Xifeng.
"Anyway, it's the nightwatch 5 who are responsible."
"You have some justification because you're ill but I have no excuse.
It's my elder sister-in-law who did for me by getting the mistress to make me mind the house!
How can I look anyone in the face again?"
he broke down anew and wept.
"Don't take it so hard," said Xifeng.
"We've all lost face equally.
If You take this silly attitude I shall feel worse."
Just then someone in the yard started bellowing, "I've always said those nuns, bawds, go-betweens and the like are no good!
Our Zhen family never let such creatures cross our threshold.
Who would have thought this house would put up with them?
Yesterday, the moment the old lady's cortege left, that nun from some small temple was dead set on coming over here.
When I refused to admit her, the old woman aL the side-gate bawled me out and fairly grovelled to invite her in.
The side-gate kept opening and shutting heaven knows what they were up to!
I was too worried to sleep, and at the fourth watch bedlam broke loose inside.
They wouldn't let me in when I saw a fellow standing in the west courtyard I charged over and killed him.
Today I've discovered that this is where Miss Xichun lives, and where that nun came.
She sneaked off this morning before it was light.
Stands to reason it was the nun who led the thieves in!"
"Who is this mannerless wretch?"
demanded Pinger.
"How dare he shout so wildly outside when there are ladies in here?"
'Didn't you hear him talk of the Zhen family?"
Xifeng said.
"He must be that pesky creature they recommended."
She asked Xichun, now even more upset by Bao Yong's diatribe, "What nun was he ranting about?
Did you have some nun staying with you?"
Xichun explained how Miaoyu had called and how she had kept her for the night to play draughts.
"So that's who it was.
And she was willing?
Well, wonders will never cease!
But if this tiresome wretch keeps yelling about it and the master bears, there may be trouble."
Nervous about the possible consequences, Xichun stood up to leave.
Xifeng urged her to stay for, although she could hardly bear up, she was afraid that xichun in her alarm might do something desperate.
"Wait till we've seen them put away the things left by the thieves and assigned people to keep an eye on the place," she said.
"Then we can go.
Pinger interposed, "How can we put anything away till officers have come to investigate?
We'll just have to stay and keep watch here.
But has anyone gone to report this to the master?"
Xifeng told her to send a matron to find out, and the latter came back to announce, "Lin Zhixiao can't get away, and some servants will have to stay to wait on the officers while the others can't take a clear message.
So young Master Yun has gone."
Xifeng nodded and, with Xichun, went on sitting there anxiously.
To return to the gang of thieves roped in by He San, after they had carried off the old lady's gold, silver and other valuables and seen how feeble their pursuers were, they decided to rob the houses on the west side.
Looking through a lighted window there they saw two beauties a young lady and a nun.
Then these wicked desperadoes would have broken in had not Bao Yong's arrival made them run off with their loot, although He San was missing.
They hid for the time being with their fence, and the next day learned that He San had been killed and the theft reported to the authorities which meant they could not stay in the capital.
They decided to make haste to join some pirates at sea, for if they delayed until warrants were out against them they would be unable to pass the customs stations.
"Of course we must clear out," said the boldest among them.
"But I can't bear to leave that nun behind.
She's certainly a beauty!
I wonder from which nunnery this chick comes."
"I know!"
exclaimed another.
"She must be from that Green Lattice Nunnery in the Jia Mansion.
Wasn't there talk some years ago of an affair between her and their Master Bao?
She was said to be so lovesick that a doctor was called in to give her some potion."
Thereupon the other proposed, "Let's lie low for one more day while our chief buys what we need for the journey.
Tomorrow when the dawn bell strikes, you can leave the city gate separately and wait for me at Twentyi Slope outside."
Having agreed to this, the thieves divided out the loot and dispersed.
Meanwhile Jia Zheng and the others had escorted the coffin to Iron Threshold Temple and deposited it there, after which the relatives and friends went back.
Jia Zheng kept vigil in the outer hall of the temple, Lady Xing and Lady Wang within, lamenting the whole night long.
The next day another sacrifice was to be held and the offerings were being set out when Jia Yun arrived.
Having kowtowed before the Lady Dowager's coffin he ran over to kneel to Jia Zheng and pay his respects, then blurted out the news of last night's robbery how everything in the old lady's rooms had been stolen, how Bao Yong had given chase and killed one of the thieves, and how they had reported this to the authorities.
Jia Zheng listened dumbfounded.
Their Ladyships overhearing this inside were frightened out of their wits.
Speechless, they could only sob.
After a while Jia Zheng asked, "How did you draw up the list of stolen property?"
'As no one at home knew what was there, we haven't drawn it up yet," was Jia Yun's reply.
"So much the better.
As our house was searched, to list any valuables would be reprehensible.
Tell Lian to come here at once."
He sent for Jia Lian, who had taken Baoyu and some others to sacrifice elsewhere.
And Jia Lian was so frantic when he heard the news that, regardless of Jia Zheng's presence, he cursed Jia Yun.
"You worthless wretch!"
he fumed.
"When I trusted you with such an important job, you should have seen to it that the place was patrolled at night.
What are you a zombie?
I wonder you have the nerve to come and report it."
He spat repeatedly in Jia Yun's face while the young man stood at respectful attention, not daring to say a word.
"It's no use swearing at him."
objected Jia Zheng.
Then Jia Lian knelt to ask him, "What shall we do, sir?"
"All we can do is report this to the authorities and hope they will apprehend the thieves.
The trouble is that we didn't touch the old lady's legacy.
When you asked for money I thought it wrong to use her silver so SOOn after her death, meaning to settle accounts and pay the workmen after the funeral.
I intended to use what was left to buy land here and in the south near the ancestral graveyard to provide for sacrificial expenses.
I don't really know how much she had left.
Now that the authorities want a list of what's lost, it may cause further trouble to mention valuables.
In any case, we don't know the exact amount of her gold and silver or her clothes and trinkets, and we can't fake it up.
It's ridiculous, I must say, the way you've bungled affairs.
What's come over you?
What use is it kneeling there?"
Not venturing to answer, Jia Lian stood up to leave.
"Where are you going?"
snapped Jia Zheng.
He turned back to reply, "I'm going to hurry home to straighten things out, sir."
When Jia Zheng simply snorted, Jia Lian hung his head again.
'Go in and te'll your mother first," ordered Jia Zheng.
"Take one or two of the old lady's maids with you.
Tell them to think carefully then make out a list."
Jia Lian knew perfectly well that all the old lady's things had been in the charge of Yuanyang who was dead so to whom could he apply for information?
Zhenzhu and the others would certainly not know.
However, afraid to argue, he assented.
Then he went inside where he was taken to task again by Their Ladyships, who told him to hurry back and ask the caretakers, "How will you have the face to meet us tomorrow?"
Jia Lian agreed and withdrew to order a carriage for Hupo and the maids.
Mounting a mule himself he galloped home accompanied by a few pages.
Jia Yun, too cowed to say any more to Jia Zheng, withdrew slowly with lowered head to mount his horse and follow.
We can pass over their journey.
When Jia Lian reached home, Lin Zhixiao paid his respects and followed him in to the old lady's quarters where Xifeng and Xichun were.
Though seething with anger Jia Lian could not vent it on them.
He asked Lin Zhixiao, "Have officers been sent to investigate?"
With a guilty conscience the steward knelt down and reported, "The civil authorities have investigated the tracks made by the thieves, and also examined the corpse, sir."
"What corpse!?"
Told how Bao Yong had killed one of the thieves who looked liike Zhou Rui's godson, Jia Lian immediately summoned Jia Yun, who came in and knelt down too to hear his orders.
"Why didn't you report to the master that Zhou Rui's godson was one of the thieves and he was killed by Bao Yong?"
Jia Lian demanded.
"The night-watchmen th6ught it looked like him, but as we couldn't be sure I didn't report it."
'You idiot!"
swore Jia Lian.
"If you'd reported it, I would have brought Zhou Rui back to identify him, to clear the matter up."
Lin Zhixiao informed him, "The police have taken the corpse to the market-place to see who claims it."
"Then they're idiots too!"
cried Jia Lian.
"Who's going to ask to have justice done if one of his family has been killed as a robber?"
"Actually, they don't have to identify him," said the steward.
"I recognized him all right."
Jia Lian replied thoughtfully, "Yes, wasn't it Zhou Rui's godson whom Master Zhen wanted to punish that year?"
"He had a fight with Bao Er, and you saw him yourself, sir."
This made Jia Lian more furious.
He wanted to have all the night-watchmen beaten.
The steward begged him, "Please don't be angry, sir.
Which of those watchmen would dare shirk his duty?
But the rule of our house is that none of them can enter the inner gate even we don't go in unless sent for.
Master Yun and I kept a careful check outside and saw that the inner gate was firmly locked.
None of the outer gates was opened either.
The thieves came from the back passage."
"Then how about those women inside who were watching during the night?"
He was told that on Xifeng's orders they had been bound to await his questioning.
"Where is Bao Yong now?"
he asked.
"He has gone back to the Garden."
"Bring him here."
When servants had fetched him Jia Lian said, 'It's a good thing you were here otherwise most likely they'd have robbed all our houses."
Bao Yong said nothing to this, while Xichun was on tenterhooks for fear lest he mention Miaoyu.
Xifeng did not dare to speak either.
Then someone outside announced the return of Hupo and the other aids When they came in all wept together again.
Ordered by Jia Lian to ascertain what had been left by the thieves, all they could find were Some clothes, some lengths of silk and a money-box everything else had gone.
He thought with desperation of the workmen and the cooks who had not been paid - how to settle with them all tomorrow?
He was bemused.
After Hupo and the others had had their cry and discovered all the chests and cases open, unable to remember what they had contained they made up a list at random to send in to the authorities.
Then Jia Lian reassigned the night-watch and Xifeng and Xichun retired to their own quarters.
Jia Lian could not presume to rest at home and had no time to remonstrate with Xifeng.
He mounted a horse and rode back out of the city while she, afraid Xichun might commit suicide, sent Fenger to comfort her.
At the second watch that night, all the inmates of the house were on their guard, too scared to sleep, locking the stable door after the horse had been stolen.
But the thieves were set on kidnapping Miaoyu, knowing that there were only weak women in the nunnery.
By the third watch when all was still, armed with daggers and narcotic incense they climbed on to the high wall and saw from the distance that there were still lights in Green Lattice Nunnery.
One of them slithered down and hid himself beside it.
He waited till the fourth watch, when there was only one lamp left burning inside, and saw Miaoyu on her hassock sitting cross-legged in meditation.
After a while she sighed, "I came from Yuanmu to the capital hoping to make a name but then 1 was invited here and couldn't go anywhere else.
Yesterday out of kindness I called on Xichun only to be abused by that lout, and during the night I had another bad fright.
Coming back today I still feel on tenterhooks, unable to concentrate."
As a rule she meditated in solitude and she was therefore reluctant to call in someone today to keep her company.
But by the fifth watch, shivering with cold, she had just decided to summon her maid when a sound outside the window startled her, recalling what had happened the previous night.
She called for her women, but not one of them answered.
As she sat there, she smelt a whiff of scent which seemed to seep into her brain and a numbness overcame her, making her unable to move or utter a sound.
Panic-stricken then, she saw a man climb in with a gleaming dagger.
Although still conscious she could not stir and thinking that he must be going to kill her, she resigned herself to her fate and her fear left her.
However, the intruder tucked his knife in the back of his belt to free his hands, then quietly took her in his arms and trifled with her a while.
He then picked her up and slung her on to his back.
Miaoyu felt as if drunk or deranged.
So, alas, this pure-minded girl was drugged by the robber and ravi shed!
Carrying Miaoyu to the back wall of the Garden, this thief fixed up a rope-ladder and climbed over to where his mates had a carriage waiting.
They laid Miaoyu inside it, then carrying lanterns inscribed with official titles called upon the guards to open the street gates and hurried to the city gate just as it was due to open.
The officers there, assurning that they were going out on official business, did not even challenge them.
They whipped their horses on to Twenty-li Slope to join the rest of their gang, then made their way by different routes to the south coast.
Whether Miaoyu lived on in shame after being kidnapped, or whether she resisted and was killed we cannot venture to say, not knowing the sequel.
Another of Miaoyu's attendants in Green Lattice Nunnery had been sleeping in the back room at the fifth watch when she heard a call from in front and supposed that her mistress was too restless to meditate.
Next, she heard what sounded like a man's footsteps and a window being opened.
She wanted to get up and investigate, but felt too listless even to call out.
Hearing no summons from Miaoyu she waited till dawn by which time her head had cleared.
Throwing on some clothes she got up then and called the deaconess to prepare tea and water.
When she went to the front, however, Miaoyu had vanished without a trace and the window was wide open.
Remembering the noises during the night, she had misgivings and wondered, "Where can she have gone so early?"
Going out of the courtyard to have a look, she found a rope-ladder by the wall and on the ground a pouch and dagger sheath.
"Mercy on us!"
she cried.
"Some thief must have drugged us last night!"
She frantically called to the others to get up and make a search.
The gate of the nunnery was still locked.
"We must have been overcome by charcoal fumes so that none of us could get up," said the serving-women.
'But what do you want us for so early in the morning?"
"Our mistress has disappeared."
"She'll be meditating in the hall."
'You're still dreaming!
Come and look!"
In bewilderment they opened the nunnery gate and made a search of the whole Garden.
Drawing a blank and assuming that Miaoyu had gone to see Xichun, they knocked at the inner gate and were once more roundly abused by Bao Yong.
They explained, "Sister Miaoyu disappeared last night so we've come looking for her.
Please be good enough to open the gate to let us ask whether she's here or not."
"That mistress of yours brought in thieves to rob our family," he swore.
"Now she's gone off with them to enjoy the loot."
"Amida Buddha!
What a thing to say!
Aren't you afraid of going to the Hell Where Tongues Are Cut Out?"
'Shut up!"
he fumed.
"If you go on making a row I'll beat you up."
"Please tell them to open the gate," they begged, "We just want to have a look.
If she isn't there we won't trouble you again, sir."
"If you don't believe me, go ahead and look.
But if you don't find her you'll have to answer for it."
With that he called people to open the gate and Miaoyu's attendants trooped into Xichun's compound.
Xichun was feeling anxious and depressed.
She wondered, "After Miaoyu left so early, can she have heard what that fellow Bao said?
If she's offended she may never come back, and I shall be left friendless.
I'm really in a fix now, with my parents dead and my sister-in-law against me.
The old lady used to be good to me but now she's gone too, leaving me all alone.
What's to become of me?"
She mused, "Cousin Yingchun died through cruel treatment Cousin Xiangyun' 5 husband is dying of consumption and Cousin Tanchun has gone so far away.
This was their fate, they had no say in the matter.
Miaoyu' 5 the only one who's completely free, free as a cloud or wild crane.
How I do envy her!
But how can the daughter of an official family do as she pleases?
I'm in disgrace now because of this robbery.
How -400 can I look people in the face again?
And I doubt whether Their Ladyships understand me, so I've no idea what the future holds for me."
She decided to cut off her hair and become a nun.
When Caiping and the others saw what she was doing they hastily intervened, but not before half of it had been snipped off.
"Before one trouble ends, another starts!"
exclaimed Caiping frantically.
"What shall we do?"
As they were crying out in consternation, Miaoyu's attendants arrived in search of her.
When Caiping knew their errand she gave a start.
"She left first thing yesterday morning and hasn't been back," she told them.
Xichun inside asked hastily, "Where has she gone?"
Then the women described the noises during the night, the charcoal fumes which had overcome them and Miaoyu's disappearance this morning, as well as the sheath and rope-ladder they had found.
Xichun was alarmed, not knowing what to make of this.
Recalling what Bao Yong had said, she felt sure the thieves had seen Miaoyu and returned last night to kidnap her.
If that were so, proud and chaste as she was, she would surely take her own life.
"Did none of you hear anything else?"
she asked.
"We did.
But though we were awake we couldn't utter a sound.
Those thieves must have drugged us with narcotic incense.
Most likely Sister Miaoyu was drugged too and unable to cry out.
In any case, with all those thieves threatening her with swords and clubs, she wouldn't dare make a sound."
At this point Bao Yong bawled from the inner gate, "Hey, you there!
Drive out those dirty nuns, quick!
Hurry up and lock the gate."
Caiping, afraid she might be blamed for admitting them, urged the women to leave and ordered servants to lock the inner gate.
By now Xichun was feeling more wretched than ever.
However.
Caiping and the rest reasoned with her and persuaded her to dress her half-shorn hair.
They agreed to keep this to themselves and feign ignorance of Miaoyu's kidnapping, not taking any action till the return of the masters and mistresses.
Xichun was even more determined now to enter a convent, but no more of this for the moment.
Jia Lian on his return to Iron Threshold Temple reported how he had cross-examined the night-watch, made out a list of the lost property and notified the police.
"What did you list?"
asked Jia Zheng.
Jia Lian showed him a copy of the list of things which Hupo remembered.
"Regarding the gifts from the Imperial Consort, we have noted them," he said.
"We left out certain other things which ordinary families are not supposed to have.
As soon as it's time for me to stop wearing mourning I shall go and get people to make a careful search, and we should be able to recover them."
Jia Zheng nodded his approval but said nothing.
Jia Lian went in then to see Their Ladyships.
"Better urge the master to go home early," he suggested.
"Or everything will be at sixes and sevens."
"That's right," agreed Lady Xing.
"Staying here we're on tenterhooks."
"We juniors can't propose this," he added.
"But if you do, madam, the Second Master is bound to fall in with your wishes."
Lady Xing and Lady Wang talked it over and decided to go back.
The next morning Jia Zheng, who was also worried, sent Baoyu to request Their Ladyships to go home that day and return a few days later.
He had assigned stewards to take charge in the temple and hoped they would assign their serving women different duties.
Then Lady Xing instructed Yingge and some other maids to keep watch by the coffin, and put Zhou Rui's wife and some matrons in overall charge.
All the rest of the servants were to accompany them home.
Carriages and horses were hastily made ready while Jia Zheng and the others bid farewell with lamentations to the old lady's coffin.
As they rose to leave, Concubine Zhao remained prostrate.
Thinking she was still mourning, Concubine Zhou went to help her up and found that she was foaming at the mouth, her eyes staring blankly, her tongue lolling out.
They were staggered by the sight and Huan started howling.
Concubine Zhao regaining consciousness cried, "I'm not going home!
-400 I'm going south with the old lady."
"There's no need for that," the others expostulated.
"I've served the old lady all my life," she said.
"The Elder Master wouldn't take no for an answer, and tried all sorts of tricks to get hold of me.
So I asked the sorceress Ma to help me get my own back, spending all that silver for nothing neither of them was killed.
Now I'm going back, I don't know who'll plot against me again!"
All knew that Yuanyang's spirit must have taken possession of her.
Their Ladyships stared at her speechlessly.
It was Caiyun who interceded, "Sister Yuanyang, you died of your own accord and Concubine Zhao had nothing to do with it.
Please let her be."
In Lady Xing's presence she dared not say any more.
'I'm not Yuanyang," protested Concubine Zhao.
"She's long since gone to the immortals' realm.
The King of Hell has sent to arrest me, to try me for practising witchcraft with that priestess Ma."
Then she screamed, "Good Madam Lian!
Don't denounce me to the King of Hell!
Bad as I was I must have done a bit of good as well.
Dear madam, kind madam!
I didn't mean to kill you.
I was muddled for a while and did what that old bitch said."
While she was raving like this, Jia Zheng sent for Jia Huan.
Serving-women reported to him, "Concubine Zhao is bewitched and Master Huan is looking after her."
"What nonsense!"
scoffed Jia Zheng.
'We shall go first then."
So the gentlemen set off.
Concubine Zhao went on raving in the temple and they did not know how to bring her to her senses.
For fear of further disclosures Lady Xing said, "Leave some people here to look after her.
We'll go back first.
When we reach the city we'll send a doctor to see her."
Lady Wang who had never liked Concubine Zhao also washed her hands of her.
But Baochai was too kind-hearted to do this, despite the attempt on Baoyu's life which she remembered, and so she secretly told Concubine Zhou to stay and look after her.
The latter, being a good soul, agreed.
Li Wan volunteered to stay too but Lady Wang overrode her.
"Do I have to stay here?"
asked Jia Huan in desperation as they were leaving.
'Stupid creature!"
snapped Lady Wang.
"Your mother may be dymg.
How can you leave?"
This silenced Jia Huan, and Baoyu told him, "Good brother, you mustn't leave.
When I get back to town I'll send people to see you."
Then they all went home by carriage, leaving only Concubines Zhao and Zhou, Jia Huan, Yingge and a few others in the temple.
After Jia Zheng, Lady Xing and the others reached home, they went to the old lady's room and wept.
Lin Zhixiao led in the servants to kneel and pay their respects.
'Get out!"
ordered Jia Zheng sternly.
"We'll question you tomorrow.
Xifeng had been feeling too faint that day to come out to welcome them.
Xichun met them blushing with shame.
Lady Xing ignored her, while Lady Wang treated her as if nothing had happened and Li Wan and Baochai took her hand and said a few words to her.
Only Madam You sneered, "Thank you, miss, for looking after the house the last few days."
Xichun made no answer, her face flushing crimson as Baochai pulled Madam You's sleeve and shot her a glance.
Then they all dispersed to their own quarters.
Jia Zheng after a cursory look round heaved a sigh but made no comment.
He went to sit in his study and summoned Jia Lian, Jia Rong and Jia Yun to give them certain instructions.
Baoyu's offer to keep him company there he declined and Lan remained with his mother.
After an uneventful night, Lin Zhixiao came to the study first thing in the morning to kneel before his master.
Questioned about the theft, he mentioned Zhou Rui's involvement.
"The police have arrested Bao Er," he said.
"They found on him Some of the things listed as stolen.
Now they are interrogating him to find out the whereabouts of that gang of thieves."
"What ingratitude!"
thundered Jia Zheng.
'Family slaves bringing thieves to rob their masters!
Outrageous!"
He at once sent men out of the city to tie up Zhou Rui and take him to the police to be cross-examined.
Lin Zhixiao remained kneeling before him in trepidation.
"Why are you still kneeling there?"
Jia Zheng demanded.
"I deserve death.
I beg you, sir, to be merciful!"
Just then Lai Da and other senior servants came in to pay their respects and present the accounts for the funeral.
"Give those to Master Lian to check and report back to me."
This order given, Jia Zheng dismissed the stewards.
ha Lian going down on one knee whispered something to him.
"Rubbish!"
replied ha Zheng sternly.
"Though the money for the old lady's funeral has been stolen, how can we punish our slaves by making them pay instead?"
ha Lian flushed but dared not argue, and stood up but dared not leave.
"How is your wife?"
Jia Zheng asked.
Jia Lian knelt again to reply, "It looks as if she's past saving."
"I never guessed our family could go downhill so fast!"
Jia Zheng sighed.
"Huan's mother has fallen ill too in the temple, and we have no idea what the trouble is.
Do you know?"
ha Lian did not venture to answer.
"Go and send servants to take a doctor to attend her."
-768 ha Lian promptly assented and went off to see that a doctor was despatched to Iron Threshold Temple.
To know whether Concubine Zhao lived or died, you must read the chapter which follows.
Chapter 113 Repenting Her Sins Xifeng Seeks Help from a Village Woman Relinquishing Her Resentment ZUuan Is Touched by Her Besotted Master Concubine Zhao, throwing a fit in the temple, babbled even more wildly once the main party had left, to the consternation of the few who remained there.
When two serving-women tried to lift her up she insisted on kneeling, raving and weeping by turns.
Then, grovelling, she begged for mercy.
"You're beating me to death, Master Red Beard!"
she cried.
"I shall never dare do such a thing again!"
Presently, wringing her hands, she shrieked with pain, her eyes nearly starting from her head, blood trickling from her mouth, her hair dishevelled.
The attendants were afraid to go near her.
By nightfall her voice was so hoarse that she sounded like a ghost wailing.
The women, not daring to stay with her, called in a few bold men to keep her company.
Sometimes she fainted away then after a while came round, keeping up a commotion all night.
The next day she was speechless but with her face contorted kept tearing her clothes and baring her breasts, as if someone were stripping her.
Though unable to utter a sound, the poor creature's agony was painful to witness.
At this critical juncture a doctor arrived.
He dared not go near her to feel her pulse but warned them to prepare for the funeral.
As he rose to leave, the steward who had brought him pleaded, "Please examine her pulse, sir, so that I can report it to our master."
When the doctor complied the pulse had already stopped beating.
Jia Huan hearing this burst out howling, and the others turned all their attention to him, ignoring Concubine Zhao as she lay there dead.
Only kindly Concubine Zhou thought to herself, "So this is the end of a concubine!
Though she at least had a son.
Heaven knows what it will be like when I die!"
This reflection pained her.
The steward hurried back to inform Jia Zheng, who sent people to attend to Concubine Zhao's funeral and keep Huan company there for three days before bringing him back.
After the steward's return the news spread like wildfire that Concubine Zhao had been tortured to death by the King of Hell because she had plotted murder.
Some predicted, "Madam Lian must be done for too, if Concubine Zhao said it was she who denounced her."
This talk reached Pinger's ears, increasing her worry, for she saw that Xifeng's illness really looked fatal.
And Jia Lian had recently lost his affection for her busy as he was, he might at least have shown some concern for her health.
Pinger tried to comfort her mistress but Their Ladyships, though they had been back several days now, merely sent servants to ask after her instead of coming themselves, adding to Xifeng's wretchedness.
And ha Lian, when he came home, never had a kind word for her.
By now Xifeng's sole wish was to die and be done with it, and in this state of mind she was assailed by spectres - she saw Second Sister You walking over from the back of the room towards her kang.
"How long it's been since last I saw you, Sister!"
said Second Sister You.
"I missed you badly but was unable to see you.
Now that you've worn yourself out by all your scheming, my chance has come at last.
Our husband's too foolish to feel obliged to you and blames you instead for stinginess and for ruining his career, so that now he can't hold up his head.
This is so unfair that my heart bleeds for you!"
In a daze Xifeng replied, "And I'm sorry now that I was so narrow-minded.
Yet instead of bearing a grudge you come to see me!"
Pinger beside her heard this and asked, "What's that you're saying, madam?"
Then Xifeng woke up and remembered that Second Sister You was dead and must have come to demand her life.
She felt afraid but, not liking to disclose this, forced herself to say, "My mind was wandering.
I must have been talking in my sleep.
Massage my back for me."
As Pinger was doing this a young maid came in to announce the ar-rival of Granny Liu, whom a serving-woman had brought to pay her re- -400 spects.
Pinger immediately left the kang asking, "Where is she?"
"She won't presume to come in unless madam sends for her."
Pinger nodded.
Thinking Xifeng too ill to receive visitors she said, "Madam is resting.
Tell her to wait outside.
Did you ask her business?"
'The others did," answered the maid.
"She's not here for anything special.
She says she only heard the other day about the old lady's death, or she'd have come earlier."
Xifeng overhearing them called, "Pinger, come here!
Since she's kind enough to call we mustn't cold-shoulder her.
Go and ask Granny Liu in.
I want to chat with her."
While Pinger went off on this errand Xifeng was about to close her eyes when she saw a man and a woman approaching as if they meant to get on to her kang.
At once she called out to Pinger, "Where has this man burst in from?"
She called twice, and Fenger and Hongyu came running in.
"Do you want something, madam?"
they inquired.
Opening her eyes she saw no strangers there and realized what had happened, though unwilling to admit it.
She asked Fenger, "Where is Pinger?"
"Didn't you tell her to go and fetch Granny Liu, madam?"
Xifeng forced herself to keep calm and said nothing as Pinger and Granny Liu came in with a little girl.
"Where is Madam Lian?"
asked the old woman.
And when Pinger led her to the kang she announced, "I've come to pay my respects, madam."
Xifeng opened her eyes and felt a pang of distress.
"How are you, granny?"
she responded.
"Why haven't you been to see us for so long?
How big your granddaughter's grown!"
Granny Liu was grieved to see how wasted Xifeng had become, and how unclear in her mind.
"Madam!"
she exclaimed.
"It's only a few months since last I saw you, and now you look so ill!
It was very bad of me not to call earlier to pay my respects."
She told Qinger to curtsey, but she simply giggled.
Xifeng took a fancy to the little girl and handed her over to the charge of Hongyu.
"We villagers don't fall ill," said Granny Liu.
"When we feel poorly we just pray and make pledges to the gods - we never take medicine.
I daresay, madam, this illness of yours was brought on by evil spirits."
At this tactless remark Pinger nudged her secretly.
Granny Liu took the hint and said no more however, this coineLded with Xifeng's own view.
Granny," she said with an effort.
"You're old and experienced.
What you said is quite true.
Did you hear of the death of Concubine Zhao whom you met here?"
'Amida Buddha!"
exclaimed Granny Liu in surprise.
"She was in good health - what did she die of?
I remember she had a young son.
What will happen to him?"
"He'll be all right," said Pinger.
"The master and mistress will take care of him."
'Well, miss, you never know.
However bad your child may be, he's your own flesh and blood it's different if he's a stepson!"
This touched Xifeng on the raw and set her sobbing.
They all tried to comfort her.
Qiaojie came to the kang when she heard her mother weeping and took her hand, shedding tears too.
'Have you greeted granny?"
sobbed Xifeng.
"Not yet," said the child.
"She's the one who gave you your name, so she's your godmother in a way.
You should pay your respects to her."
Qiaojie went over to do this but the old woman hastily stopped her.
"Amida Buddha!"
she cried.
"You mustn't do that to the likes of me!
I haven't been here for over a year, Miss Qiaojie.
Do you still remember me?"
"Of course I do.
When I saw you that year in the Garden I was still small.
The year before that when you came, I asked you for some green crickets but you didn't bring me any.
You must have forgotten."
"Ah, miss, I'm in my dotage.
If it's green crickets you want, our village is swarming with them, but you never go there.
If you did, you could easily get a whole cartful."
Xifeng suggested, "Well, take her back with you."
Granny Liu chuckled, "A delicate young lady dressed in silks and brought up on the fat of the land, how could I amuse her in our place?
And what could I give her to eat?
Do you want to ruin me?"
Laughing at the idea she went on, "I know what I can arrange a match for her.
Though we live in the country, we have big money-bags there too who own thousands of acres of land and hundreds of cattle, not to mention pots of silver.
They just don't have gold and jade knick-knacks like yours.
Of course, madam, you look down on such families.
But to us farming folk they seem to be living in heaven!"
'Go and fix a match then," said Xifeng.
"I'll agree to it."
'You must be joking!
Why, a lady like you would most likely turn down even big official families how could you agree to marry her to country folk?
Even if you did, the mistresses wouldn't agree."
Qiaojie, not liking this talk, went off to chat with Qinger.
Finding each other's company congenial, they soon became good friends.
Fearful that Granny Lin might tire Xifeng out with her loquacity, Pinger tugged at her sleeve and said, "You mentioned Her Ladyship whom you haven't seen yet.
I'll go and find someone to take you there, to make your trip here more worthwhile."
As the old woman rose to leave.
Xifeng asked, "What's the hurry?
Sit down.
Let me ask you how are you making out these days?"
Her heart brimming over with gratitude Granny Liu answered, "If not for you, madam... "She pointed at her granddaughter then went on, "Her dad and mum would have starved.
Now, though life on a farm is hard, we've bought quite a few mu of land and sunk a well.
We grow vegetables and fruit too, and make enough from them to feed ourselves.
The last couple of years, besides, you've given us clothes and material from time to time so that in our village we count as quite well-off.
Amida Buddha!
The other day when her dad came to town and heard that your family here had been raided, I nearly died of fright!
Luckily others told me it wasn't this house, and that set my mind at rest.
We learned later that the master had been promoted, and I was so pleased I wanted to come to offer congratulations, but what with all the field work I couldn't get away.
"Then yesterday we heard that the old lady had passed away.
I was getting in beans when they brought me word, and it shocked me too much to go on.
I broke down there in the field and cried my heart out!
I told my son-in-law, 'I shall have to leave you to your own devices.
Whether it's true or not, I must go to town to have a look.'
My daughter and son-in-law aren't lacking in gratitude either.
They both cried over the news, and this morning before dawn they sped me on my way.
I didn't know anyone in town to ask, so came straight to your back gate and saw that even the door gods were pasted over.
That gave me another fright!
When I came in and looked for Zhou Rui's wife she was nowhere to be found, and a little girl told me she'd been driven out for doing something wrong.
I had to wait around till I met someone who knew me before I could get in.
I'd no idea that you were so ill too, madam."
By now she was shedding tears.
Pinger, concerned for her mistress, pulled Granny Liu to her feet before she could finish.
"After talking so long you must be parched," she said.
"Let's go and have some tea."
She took her to the maids' quarters leaving Qinger with Qiaojie.
"I don't need any tea," Granny Lin assured her.
"But please, miss, get someone to take me to pay my respects to Her Ladyship and to weep at the old lady's shrine."
"There's no hurry," Pinger replied.
"You can't leave town today anyway.
Just now I was afraid you might say something tactless and set our mistress weeping again that's why I hustled you out.
I hope you don't mind."
"Amida Buddha!
I know how thoughtful you are, miss.
But what's to be done about madam's illness?"
"Does it look serious to you?"
"Maybe it's wrong to say so, but it does."
Just then they heard Xifeng calling, yet when Pinger went to her bed- side she remained silent.
As Pinger was questioning Fenger, Jia Lian came in.
After a cursory glance at the kang he entered the inner room without a word and plumped himself down, glowering.
Qiutong alone went in to serve him tea and wait on him, but the others could not hear what they were saying.
Then Jia Lian called for Pinger.
"Isn't your mistress taking medicine?"
he asked.
-384 "What if she isn't?"
"How should I know?"
he retorted.
"Bring me the key of the chest."
As he was in a temper she did not venture to question him but went out and whispered something to Xifeng.
When the latter said nothing, Pinger brought in a casket and put it before Jia Lian, then turned to go.
"What the devil's your hurry?"
he demanded.
"Who's going to give me the key?"
Suppressing her annoyance she took it out of the casket and opened the chest.
"What do you want taken out?"
she asked.
'What is there?"
'Say plainly what you want," she sobbed angrily.
"Then we can die content!"
"What is there to say?
You were the ones who brought all the trouble on us.
Now we're four or five thousand taels short for the old lady's funeral, and the master told me to raise some money from the title-deeds of the family land but what is there left?
Do you want us to default?
I should never have taken on this job!
All I can do is sell the things the old lady left me.
Are you against that?"
Pinger was sulkily turning out the chest when Hongyn darted in.
"Quick, sister!"
she cried.
"Madam's in a bad way!"
Ignoring Jia Lian, Pinger burned out to discover Xifeng clawing the air with both hands.
Restraining her, she wept and cried for help.
Jia Lian coming out to have a look stamped his foot.
"Now this!"
he groaned with tears.
"I'm finished!"
Just then Fenger announced, "They're asking for you outside, sir."
And Jia Lian had to leave.
Xifeng was now so delirious that her maids set up a great wailing which drew Qiaojie to the room.
Granny Liu also hastened to the kang, to invoke Buddha and mutter incantations till Xifeng grew slightly calmer.
Then Lady Wang arrived, alerted by one of the maids, and was relieved -384 to find Xifeng quieter.
Greeting Granny Liu, she asked when she had come but after paying her respects the old woman could talk of nothing except Xifeng's illness.
-384 Then Caiyun came in to report, "The master wants you, madam."
So after giving Pinger a few instructions Lady Wang went away.
Xifeng had come to her senses now.
At the sight of Granny Liu, whose prayers she had faith in, she sent her maids away and asked the old woman to sit beside her.
Told of her qualms and the ghosts she had seen, Granny Liu assured her that the Buddhist deities in her village temple could work miracles.
'Please offer prayers for me!"
begged Xifeng.
"If you need money for a sacrifice, I have some."
She slipped off a golden bracelet and held it out to her.
'There's no call for this, madam.
When we villagers recover after making pledges, we just spend a few hundred coppers.
What need is there for all this?
I shall pray for you and make some pledge, and once you're better you can spend as much as you like."
Aware that she was in earnest, Xifeng could not insist.
"Granny, my life is in your hands!"
she said.
"And my little Qiaojie is always ailing too I entrust her to you as well."
Granny Liu assented readily and proposed, "In this case, as it's still early, I'll go back now.
When you recover, madam, you can go to thank the gods."
Haunted by the ghosts of those she had wronged, Xifeng in her terror was eager for her to set off.
"If you'll do this for me so that I can have a good night's sleep, I'll be very grateful," she said.
"You can leave your grand-daughter here."
"She's a country girl with no manners, and may make trouble.
I'd better take her back with me."
"Don't worry about that.
We're all one family, so what does it matter?
Though we're poor now, one extra mouth to feed is nothing."
Seeing that Xifeng meant this, Granny Liu wanted to leave Qinger for a few days to save them food at home but she did not know whether the child would be willing.
She decided to sound her out and questioned her.
Qinger was now on such good terms with Qiaojie that they were reluc-tan?
to part so Granny Liu, having given her some instructions, said goodbye to Pinger and went with all speed out of town.
Enough of this.
Now Green Lattice Nunnery belonged to the Jia family but had been incoorated into the Garden built for the Imperial Consort's visit home.
Ilowever, it had its own income and needed no allowance from the Jia Mansion.
After the nuns had notified the police of Miaoyu's abduction, they did not like to leave until the thieves were arrested and they knew what had happened to their mistress.
They simply reported the business to the Jia Mansion.
But though the Jia family stewards all knew of the kidnapping, they thought it too trifling a matter with which to trouble Jia Zheng now that he was in mourning and disturbed in his mind.
Xichun was the only one who fretted day and night because of this.
Before long, however, the news reached Baoyu's ears and it was insinuated that, tempted by desire, Miaoyu had run off with some man.
"She must have been kidnapped," he told himself.
"As it wasn't in her nature to submit, she must have died resisting."
In the absence of news of Miaoyu he kept brooding.
"She used to call herself the 'one outside the threshold.'
How could a chaste girl like that come to such an end?"
he wondered.
"How lively we were in the old days in the Garden!
After my second sister's marriage, though, all the girls died or were married off.
I thought she at least, unsullied by dust, would stay here yet this sudden storm carried her off even more unexpectedly than Cousin Lin."
His thoughts wandering, he recalled Zhuang Zi's saying about the illusory nature of life and felt that men were born to drift with the wind and scatter like clouds.
He burst out weeping.
Xiren and the rest thought he was deranged again and tried in every way to comfort him.
At first Baochai reasoned with him too, not understanding his distress.
But Baoyu went on moping, his mind wandering.
In her perplexity she made inquiries, and when she heard that Miaoyu had been kidnapped and vanished without a trace that upset her too.
Still, to counteract Baoyu's depression she lectured him, "Though Lan hasn't gone back to school I hear he's studying hard day and night.
He's the old lady's greatgrandson.
The old lady always hoped that you, her grandson, would do well and the master worries about you all the time.
If because of some whimsy you ruin your health, what's to become of us all?"
Baoyu did not know how to answer.
After a while he said, "Why should I worry about other people?
What upsets me is the decline in our family fortune."
"There you are!"
she cried.
"Your parents want you to do well so as to carry on the family line.
If you stick to your silly ways what good will come of it?"
Put out by this, Baoyu laid his head on his desk as if to sleep.
Ignoring his sulkiness, Baochai told Sheyue and the other maids to keep an eye on him while she went to bed.
When he was alone in the room it occurred to Baoyu, "I've never had a heart-to-heart talk with Zijuan since she came here and feel bad the way I've cold-shouldered her, especially as she's not like Sheyue and Qiuwen whom I can keep in their place.
I remember how she kept me company all that time while I was ill, and I still have that little mirror of hers she was really good to me then.
But now for some reason or other she's treating me coldly.
It can hardly be because of Baochai, who was good friends with Cousin Lin and who isn't bad to Zijuan either.
When I'm out, Zijuan chats quite happily with her but as soon as I come in she goes away.
I suppose it must be because after Cousin Lin died I got married.
Ah, Zijuan, Zijuan!
Can't an intelligent girl like you understand how wretched I am?
"It struck him then, "They're sleeping or doing needlework this evening here's my chance to go and find her.
I'll sound her out.
If I've offended her I'll beg her pardon."
His mind made up, he slipped out to look for Zijuan.
Zij nan's room was on the west side of the courtyard.
Tiptoeing up to her window, Baoyu saw that there was still a light inside.
He licked the windowpaper and, peeping through the hole made in this way, saw Zijuan sitting all alone in the lamplight.
She was doing nothing, lost in thought.
"Sister Zijuan," he called softly.
"Aren't you asleep yet?"
Zijuan gave a start then sat as if stunned.
'Who is it?"
she finally asked.
"It's me."
"Is it Master Bao?"
she asked, recognizing his voice.
"Yes," he answered softly.
"What do you want?"
"I've something to tell you in private.
Please let me in."
After a pause she replied, "If you've something to tell me, young master, please wait until tomorrow.
It's late now you'd better go back."
This sent a chill down Baoyu's spine.
He knew Zijuan was unlikely to let him in, yet if he were to go back now he would feel even worse after her rebuff.
"I haven't much to say," he faltered.
"I just want to ask you one question."
"Well then, out with it."
But for a long time he said nothing.
When he remained silent, Zijuan inside was afraid that by snubbing him she had unhinged him again.
She stood up and listened carefully, then asked, "Have you gone or are you standing stupidly there?
If you've something to say, fire away.
You've already goaded one to death is it my turn now?
Isn't this futile?"
She peeped through the hole he had made in the window-paper and saw Baoyu standing there woodenly listening.
In silence then she turned to trim the lamp.
Baoyu sighed, "Sister Zijuan!
You used not to be so hard-hearted.
How is it that nowadays you won't even say a single kind word to me?
Of course I'm a lout, beneath your notice but I do wish you'd tell me what I've done wrong so that even if you ignore me from now on I shall at least die knowing why."
"Is that all, young master?"
she asked sarcastically.
"Have you nothing else to say?
If this is all, I tired of hearing it when my young lady was alive.
If we do anything wrong, I was sent here by Her Ladyship and you can report me to her.
What are we bondmaids anyway but slaves?"
She broke off, choking, here and blew her nose.
Baoyu outside realized that she was weeping and stamped in desperation.
"How can you say such things!"
he cried.
"After all these months here, surely you understand me?
If no one else will tell you how I feel, won't you let me explain?
Do you want me to die of frustration?"
He started sobbing too.
As Baoyu was blubbering, someone behind him remarked, "Who do you want to tell her for you?
Whose slaves are we anyway?
If you've offended her, it's up to you to apologize.
Whether she'll accept your apologies or not is up to her.
Why shift the blame to people like us who aren't involved?"
The two of them, one inside one outside, started.
It was Sheyue.
Her intervention embarrassed Baoyu.
Well, what's going on?"
Sheyue continued.
"Here's one making apologies and one ignoring him.
Hurry up and plead with her!
Ai!
Our sister Zijuan is too cruel.
It's freezing outside, and he's begged you so long, yet you show no sign of relenting."
Then she told Baoyu, 'Just now our mistress remarked that it's rather late and she wondered where you were.
Why are you standing here all alone under the eaves?"
"Yes, what's the idea?"
called Zijuan from her room.
"I asked the young master to go back.
If he has something to say it can wait till tomorrow.
This is so pointless!"
Baoyu still wanted to speak, but not in front of Sheyue.
So he had to go back with her, telling himsel "Confound it!
I shall never as long as I live be able to bare my heart.
Only Old Man Heaven understands me!"
His tears fell like rain.
"Take my advice, young master, and give up," Sheyue said.
"You're crying for nothing."
Baoyu did not answer but went into his room where he saw that Baochai was pretending to be asleep.
Xiren however scolded, "If you have something to say, can't you wait till tomorrow?
Why rush there to make such a scene?
What if... She left this sentence unfinished.
Presently she asked, "Are you feeling all right?"
When Baoyu said nothing and simply shook his head, she helped him to bed.
But naturally he passed a sleepless night.
After being provoked and further upset by Baoyu, Zijuan wept the whole night long.
She thought, "It's common knowledge that Baoyu got married when he was out of his mind, and they tricked him into it.
Later he came to his senses but then fell ill again and often wept with longing it's not as if he were heartless.
The feeling he showed today was really touching.
What a pity our Miss Lin didn't have the good fortune to marry him!
This shows that everybody's fate is predestined.
Right up to the end they cherish foolish fancies then when the blow strikes and there's no help for it, blockheads let it go at that while sensitive souls can only shed tears and lament to the breeze or moon.
The dead may have no -400 consciousness but, alas, there is truly no end to the anguish of the living.
So it seems we are worse off than rocks or plants which can rest at peace, having no knowledge or feeling."
This reflection eased her, chilling her fevered passions, and she was getting ready to sleep when a clamour broke out in the eastern courtyard.
To know its cause, read the next chapter.
Chapter 114 Xifeng Has Hallucinations and Goes Back to Jinling Zhen Yingjia, Pardoned by the Emperor, Returns to Court When Baoyu and Baochai heard that Xifeng was mortally ill, they hastily got up and the maids brought in candles to wait on them.
They were on the point of leaving when some of Lady Wang's servants arrived to report, "Madam Lian is in a bad way, but not yet at her last gasp.
The second master and mistress had better not go there just yet.
"There is something very strange about her illness, for she has been delirious since midnight, calling for a boat and sedan-chair so that she can hurry back to Jinling to fill in some register.
Nobody knows what she means, and she keeps on crying and waiTing.
So Master Lian has had to order a paper boat and paper chair for her.
They haven't been delivered yet, and Madam Lian is still waiting, panting for breath.
Her Ladyship sent us to tell you not to go over till she has passed away."
"That's odd!"
exclaimed Baoyu.
"Why should she go to Jinling?"
Xiren reminded him softly, "I seem to remember you had a dream one year about some registers, didn't you?
Perhaps that's where she's going."
He nodded.
"That's right.
It's a pity I can't remember what was written there.
It goes to show that all mortals' fates are predestined.
But where can Cousin Lin have gone, I wonder?
Now that you've reminded me, I feel I have an inkling.
If I ever have that dream again I must read those registers carefully so as to be able to foretell the future."
"You're impossible to talk to!"
protested Xiren.
"How can you take a casual remark of mine so seriously?
Even if you were able to foresee the future, what could you do about it?"
"I'm afraid it's out of the question.
But if I knew in advance I wouldn't have to worry about you all."
Baochai came over at this point to ask, "What are you two discuss mg?"
Not wanting her to question him Baoyu said, "We were talking about Cousin Xifeng."
"Why gossip about somebody who's dying?
In the past you blamed me for putting a jinx on people, but that prediction came true, didn't it?"
Recalling the incident Baoyu clapped his hands.
"Quite right, quite right!"
he exclaimed.
"So you can predict the future.
In that case let me ask you to tell my fortune."
"What nonsense!"
Baochai laughed.
"I simply guessed at what the oracle meant.
How can you take it seriously?
You're as bad as my second sister-in-law.
When you lost your jade, she asked Miaoyu to consult the planchette and when nobody could understand what it wrote she assured me secretly that Maioyu could foretell the future and had attained enlightenment.
How is it, then, that Miaoyu didn't know of the terrible thing that has happened to her now?
Can this count as foretelling the future?
Even if I hit upon the truth about Xifeng, I didn't really know what was going to happen to her.
I don't even know what's going to happen to me, so how can I tell about you?
All such auguries are bogus.
How can you believe in them?"
"Never mind her.
Let's talk about Cousin Xing," he said.
"What with one trouble after another here, we've forgotten about her marriage.
It was such an important event in your family, how could you handle it so sloppily, not even inviting relatives and fiiends?"
"You're wide of the mark again.
Our closest relatives are your family and the Wangs.
There are no respectable Wangs left now, and we couldn't invite people from this house just after the old lady's funeral so only cousin Lian helped out a little.
Of course a few other relatives attended, but since you didn't go you didn't know that.
My second sister-in-law's fate seems rather like mine.
When she was betrothed to my cousin Ke, mother meant to hold the wedding in style but with Pan in Prison Ke didn't want a big show, and then there was that trouble in our house.
However, Cousin Xing was having a thin time of it with the Elder Mistress, the more so as their property had been confiscated and she found it hard to put up with Lady Xing's harshness.
That's why I asked other to hold the wedding -but to do it quietly.
Now she seems quite contented and very dutiful to my mother too, ten times better than her real daughter-in-law ever was.
She makes an excellent wife for Cousin Ke and is good to Xiangling as well.
When he's away the two of them get on famously together.
So though our family is poorer now, mother feels quite comfortable these days and only grieves whenever she thinks of Pan.
Besides, he keeps sending home for money, and it's Ke who copes by raising cash outside.
I hear that all but one of our houses in towns are mortgaged, and they're planning to move over there."
'Why move house?"
asked Baoyu.
"With them here, it's more convenient for you to drop in.
If she moves far away a visit will take a whole day."
"Even though we are mother and daughter, it's still better for each to have her own establishment.
How can she stay with relatives all her life?'
Baoyu was about to dispute this when Lady Wang sent a maid to announce, "Madam Lian has breathed her last and everyone's gone over there.
Her Ladyship wants the young master and young mistress to go too now."
Hearing this Baoyu stamped his foot, on the verge of tears.
Baochai although upset too tried to restrain him.
'Why mourn here?"
she demurred.
"We'd better go over."
They went straight to Xifeng's quarters, and found many mourners assembled there.
When Baochai saw Xifeng already laid out, she gave way to loud weeping.
Baoyu, taking Jia Lian's hand, sobbed bitterly and Jia Lian too wailed again.
As there was no one else present to remonstrate, Pinger stepped forward sadly to urge them to desist but still they went on lamenting.
Jia Lian, unable to cope, summoned Lai Da and told him to see to the funeral, then reported this to Jia Zheng and obtained his approval.
But having little money in hand, he was hard put to i.
The thought of Xifeng's help in the past increased his wretchedness and the sight of Qiaojie beside herself with grief made his heart ache even more.
He wept till dawn, then sent to ask Xifeng's brother Wang Ren to come over.
Since the death of Wang Ziteng, as Wang Zisheng was so incompetent Wang Ren had done as he pleased and alienated all his relatives.
When he heard of his younger sister's death he had to come and mourn but the shabby way things were being done provoked him.
"My sister worked hard for years running your household, and did nothing wrong," he said.
"So your family ought to take her funeral seriously.
Why is nothing ready yet?"
Jia Lian who had never liked him ignored this foolish, injudicious talk.
Then Wang Ren called Qiaojie over.
"When your mother was alive," he said, "she neglected some of her duties and was so set on pleasing the old lady that she paid very little attention to us.
Now, niece, you are growing up.
Have you ever seen me take any advantage of your family?
Now that your mother's dead you must be guided in everything by your second grand-uncle and me we' re your only kinsmen left in her family.
I know what your father is like all he cares about is other people.
That year his concubine You died, although I wasn't in the capital I heard you spent pots of money yet now that your mother's dead he's skimping things like this.
Why don't you protest?"
'My father would be only too glad to do things handsomely," Qiaojie replied.
"But we're not as well-off as before.
Having no money in hand, we have to economize wherever we can.
"Haven't you plenty of valuables?"
he asked.
"How could we after that raid?"
"So you take that line too?
I heard that the old lady gave you lots of things.
Now is the time too use them."
Not liking to say that her father had already sold those heirlooms, Qiaojie denied any knowledge of the matter.
"Ha, I know!"
he sneered.
"You want to keep them all for your dowry!"
Qiaojie dared not retort and could only sob with rage.
But Pinger remonstrated angrily, "If you have any complalnts, sir, wait till our master comes back.
What does the child understand?"
"You were looking forward to your mistress' death so that you could take her place!"
he retorted.
"I don't want anything for myself but you owe it to yourselves to keep up appearances."
He sat down glowering.
Seething with resentment Qiaojie told herself, "It's not that my father is heartless.
When mama was alive, uncle made off with ever so many of our things but now he talks as if he had clean hands!"
He went down in her estimation.
Wang Ren for his part was convinced that his sister must have sizable savings, so that even after the raid they could hardly be short of silver.
He thought, "My niece must be afraid I'll cadge on them that's why she's taking her father's side.
This minx is no good either!"
This made him take a dislike to Qiaojie too.
Jia Lian, unaware of this, was preoccupied with raising money.
He had put Lai Da in charge of outside business but their home expenses were going to be heavy too, and he had no idea where the money was to come from.
Pinger appreciated his anxiety.
"Don't ruin your health by worrying too much," she urged him.
"To hell with my health!"
he exploded.
"I haven't even the money for daily expenses.
What's to be done?
And to make matters worse, this fool has come butting in.
What do you expect me to do?"
"Dont worry, Second Master.
If you're short of money, I still have some things which luckily weren't confiscated.
Take them, sir, to be going on with."
Jia Lian was most relieved.
"That's splendid," he answered with a smile.
"It'll save me the trouble of borrowing right and left.
I'll pay you back when I'm in funds again" "All I have was given me by the mistress, so why talk about paying me back?
I just want this funer to be properly managed."
Feeling immensely grateful, Jia Lian raised money on these things of Pinger's, and thereafter he consulted her on all matters, much to Qiutong's annoyance "Now that the mistress is gone, Pinger wants to take her place," she kept complaining.
"I was the Elder Master's maid, so how can she outrank me?"
Pinger paid no attention to such remarks, but when Jia Lian learned of them he was disgusted and each time he lost his temper would swear at Qiutong.
But when Lady Xing knew this she took Qiutong's side, and he had to control his anger.
No more of this.
After the corpse had been laid out for more than ten days, the funeral took place.
All this time Jia Zheng, still in mourning for his mother, was staying in the outer study.
By now all his proteges and secretaries had left with the exception of Cheng Rixing who often kept him company.
Jia Zheng told him, "Our family's gone downhill with so many dying one after the other, and the Elder Master and Master Zhen away.
We are more hard pressed every day, and I don't know what's become of our farm at East Village.
All in all, we're in a bad way!"
"Yes, after all these years here I know the situation," said Cheng Rixing.
"Which of your servants hasn't been battening on you by filching things from your mansion year after year?
Naturally you're runing shorter every year.
On top of that you have to meet the expenses of the Elder Master and Master Zhen, not to mention your debts outside besides, recently you were robbed, and the police aren't likely to catch the thieves or recover your stolen property.
If you want to set your house in order, sir, you will have to summon your stewards and send one whom you trust to check up everywhere.
Some servants should be dismissed and if there is a deficit anywhere, make the one responsible pay for it.
Then you will know where you are.
As for that big Garden of yours, no one would dare sell it but you haven't put anyone in charge of all its produce.
During those years when you were away, these people got up to their tricks pretending the place was haunted so that everybody was afraid to go there.
Better check up on your staff and keep on only the servants loyal to you, sending the rest away."
Jia Zheng nodded.
"I don't mind telling you, sir," he said, "that quite apart from the servants even my own nephews aren't to be relied on!
If I start investigating, how am I to see to everything myself?
Besides, being still in mourning, I can't attend to these things.
And never having paid much attention to family affairs, I'm not clear what the situation is."
"You are the soul of goodness, sir.
If other families owned such a property and fell on hard times, they would be able to get by for five or ten years by applying to these stewards.
Some of them, I hear, have had themselves made magistrates."
"It's unthinkable to ask one's servants for money," objected Jia Zheng.
"We shall just have to be more frugal.
If the properties entered in our books really exist, then we should be all right.
I only fear they may be empty names.
"Quite true, sir.
That's why I humbly suggest a check-up."
"I suppose you have heard some talk?"
"Though I have an idea what these stewards are capable of, sir, I wouldn't dare voice my suspicions."
Aware that there was something behind this, Jia Zheng sighed, "Since our grandfather's time we have always been kind masters, never treating our underlings harshly.
But they seem to be getting more out of hand every day.
If I try to act the stem master now, people will laugh at me!"
Just then one of the gatekeepers announced, "Master Zhen from the Yangtze Vley has arrived."
"What brings him to the capital?"
ha Zheng asked.
"I inquired, sir, and they say he has been reinstated through the Emperor's favour."
"Very well, then.
Invite him in at once!"
The man went off to usher in Zhen Yingjia, whose secondary name was Youzhong, the father of Zhen Baoyu.
He too was a native of Jinling of noble ancestry and related to the ha family, with whom he had been on close terms.
Two years before this, having committed a fault, he had been degraded, his property confiscated.
Now the Emperor, out of concern for subjects who had peiformed meritorious service, had restored his hereditary title and summoned him to the capital for an audience.
Learning of the Lady Dowager's recent death, he had prepared sacrificial gifts and come today to pay his respects at her shrine, first calling on Jia Zheng.
Jia Zheng, still in mourning, could not go ou to meet him but waited by his study door.
Their reunion filled Mr. Zhen with mixed joy and sorrow.
As they could not greet each other formally while Jia Zheng was in mourning, they took hands and exchanged a few civilities, then sat down as host and guest and while tea was served described their experiences since their last meeting.
"When did you go to court, sir?"
Jia Zheng asked.
"The day before yesterday."
"I presume the Most High must have given you certain instructions since he was gracious enough to summon you.
"Yes, the Sovereign's kindness surpasses heaven.
He issued several decrees."
"What is your good news?"
"Recently pirates have been raiding the southeast coast, giving the people no rest, and the Duke of Anguo is being sent to wipe them out.
Since our Sovereign knows that I am familiar with that locality, he has ordered me to pacify the people and to set off straight away.
Yesterday I heard of the old laldy's passing, so to express my condolences I have brought incense to pay my respects at her shrine."
Jia Zheng bowed his thanks and rejoined, "By going on this mission, sir, you will certainly relieve the Emperor's anxiety and bring peace to the people.
You are bound to achieve great deeds.
As I shall be unable to witness them, I can only wait far off for news of your triumph.
The garrison commander there happens to be related to me I hope you will think well of him when you meet."
"What is your relationship, sir?"
'When serving as Grain Corninissioner in Jiangxi, I betrothed my young daughter to his son.
They've been married for three years now.
But as pirates have been raiding the coast and some cases there are still under litigation, I have had no news of them.
My daughter is much in my thoughts.
After your work of pacification, sir, I hope you will spare time to see them.
I shall write a few lines to her, and if I may trouble you to pass on my letter I shall be extremely grateful!"
"Who doesn't feel for his children?"
replied Zhen Yingjia.
"That reminds me of a favour I'd like to ask of you.
When His Majesty graciously summoned me to court, because my son is young and there is no one in charge at home I decided to bring my whole household here as well.
But having to travel post-haste I came on ahead, leaving them to follow more slowly, and they have not yet arrived.
I have orders to go straight to my post and dare not procrastinate.
When my worthless son arrives, I shall certainly leave word for him to come and pay his respects to you, sir.
I hope you will give him good advice, and if there is a chance to arrange a suitable match I would be most grateful if you would keep him in mind."
Jia Zheng assented to these requests, and after a little more talk Zhen Yingjia rose to leave.
"I'll see you tomorrow outside the city," he said.
Since he was in too much of a hurry to stay, Jia Zheng saw him out of his study.
Jia Lian and Baoyu were waiting outside to see the guest off for him, not having presumed to enter as they had not been summoned.
They both stepped forward now to pay their respects.
The sight of Baoyu astounded Zhen Yingjia, who thought, "Why, he's the image of my Baoyu, except that he's in mourning!"
He greeted them and said, "Though we are close relatives, young gentlemen, we haven't met for so long that we don't recognize each other."
ha Zheng indicated ha Lian and said, "This is my elder brother She's son, my second nephew Lian."
Then he pointed at Baoyu.
"This is my second son, Baoyu."
Zhen Yingjia clapped his hands in amazement.
"How extraordinary !"
he exclaimed.
"I heard at home that you had a son born with a piece of jade in his mouth, whose name was Baoyu.
And I was amazed because he had the same name as my son.
Later it seemed nothing unusual, so I thought no more about it.
Now that I see him, though, they look exactly alike and bear themselves in the same way as well.
This is most extraordinary!"
He inquired Baoyu's age and remarked, "My boy is one year younger."
Jia Zheng thanked him then for recommending Bao Yong, and referred back to how he had asked the servant about his young master having the same name as his son.
Since Zhen Yingjia was so struck by Baoyu, he did not ask about Bao Yong but kept exclaiming "Truly extraordinary!"
He took Baoyu attentively by the hand.
However, as the Duke of Anguo was about to set out on his journey, he had to go at once to get ready himself and reluctantly took his leave.
He asked Baoyu many questio 5 as the two young men saw him out, then left in his carriage.
When Jia Lian and Baoyu came back, they reported what the guest had said to Jia Zheng, who then dismissed them.
Jia Lian went off to work out the accounts for Xifeng's funeral.
When Baoyu returned to his own quarters he told Baochai, "I've never had a chance to meet that Zhen Baoyu whom they're always talking about, but today I've seen his father.
He says Baoyu will be jving here any day now and wants to call on my father.
He also says his son looks exactly like me, but I can hardly believe it.
If he does come, you must all take a look at him to see whether he's really my double or not."
"Oh!"
scoffed Baochai.
"What nonsense you talk!
Claiming that some manis your double and even asking us to look at him!"
Aware of his gaffe Baoyu blushed, wanting to explain.
To know how he justified himself, read the next chapter.
Chapter 115 Personal Prejudice Strengthens Xichun's Conviction Baoyu Fails to Find a True Friend in His Double Baoyu, challenged by Baochai because of his gaffe, was trying to cover it up when Qiuwen came in to announce that the master wanted him in his study.
He went there, glad of this chance to slip away.
"I'll tell you why I sent for you," said Jia Zheng.
"You can't go to school as long as you are in mourning, but while staying at home you must review those essays you studied before.
I am fairly free at present, so I want you to write a few essays to show me a couple of days from now, to see what progress if any you've made recently."
When Baoyu had assented he went on, "I have told your brother Ruan and your nephew Lan to do some revision too.
If your essays are poor, not even up to theirs, that will be disgraceful."
Not daring to protest Baoyu answered, "Yes sir," and stood there motionless till his father dismissed him.
On his way out he met Lai Da and other stewards coming in with ledgers.
Re streaked back to his room.
When Baochai ascertained that he had been told to write essays she was delighted and, though reluctant himself, he could not refuse this assignment.
As he was sitting down to collect his thoughts, two nuns arrived from Ksitigarbha Nunnery and paid their respects to Baochai, who greeted them coldly then told maids to serve tea.
Baoyu would have liked to chat with the nuns but refrained in view of her evident aversion to them.
And they, aware that they were being cold-shouldered, very soon took their leave.
"Won't you stay?"
said Baochai.
"We have been chanting sutras in Iron Threshold Temple," they replied.
"That's why we've not come for some time to pay our respects.
Today, after calling on Their ladyships, we want to see Miss Xichun too."
Then she nodded and let ffiem go.
Proceeding to Xichun's quarters the nuns asked Caiping, "Where is your young lady?"
"You may well ask," Caiping answered.
"These days she won't eat a thing, just curls up on the kang."
'What's the matter?"
"That's a long story.
When you see her, she'll probably tell you."
Xichun who had overheard them promptly sat up.
"How are you?"
she cried.
"When our family's hard up you don't come near us!"
"Amida Buddha!"
they exclaimed.
"Whether well or badly off you're still our patrons, not to say that our nunnery belongs to your family and the old lady was always so good to us.
During her funeral we saw all the mistresses except you.
It's because we missed you that we've come today especially to see you, miss."
Xichun inquired after the nuns in Water Moon Convent.
"There was some scandal there so now your gatemen won't let them in," they told her.
"Is it true, as we heard the other day, that sister Miaoyu of Green Lattice Nunnery ran off with someone too?"
"What nonsense!
Whoever gossips like that should have her tongue cut off!
She was kidnapped by bandits.
Why spread such wicked rumours?"
"That crankiness of hers was she putting on an act?
Mind, we don't want to run her down to you, miss.
She's not like us rough creatures who can only chant Buddhist canons or masses for others, and pray to come to a good end ourselves."
"What do you mean by a good end?"
"Of course a virtuous family like yours has nothing to worry about but ladies of other houses, however noble, can't be sure of living in luxury all their lives.
When trouble comes, they've no way to save themselves.
But the Bodhisattva Avalokitesvara is most kind and compassionate when she sees anyone in distress she takes pity on her and finds a way to save her.
That's why we all say, 'All-merciful Avalokitesvara saves souls in distress !'
Those of us in holy orders, though we have a much harder life than ladies, are not in any danger.
Even if we can't attain sainthood, we can at least hope for a better future by being reincarnated as men.
Then we shan't have to suffer in silence as we do now, born as women.
You don't realize it, miss, but if you get married you'll be tied to your husband all your life, worse off than at present.
But you have to be in earnest about renouncing the world.
Sister Miaoyu, now, with her intelligence, thought herself a cut above us and looked down on us as vulgar.
Little did she know that we vulgar ones would come to a good end while she met with such a fearful calamity."
As these words uched the right chord, ignoring the presence of her maids Xichun told them how Madam You had treated her and how she had been left to watch the house.
Pointing at her shorn head she asked, "Do you think me so weak-willed as to hanker after this wretched life?
I made up my mind long ago to renounce the world, but just didn't know how to do it."
In simulated alarm the nuns demurred, "You mustn't talk like that, miss.
If Madam You heard, she'd drive us away from our nunnery with curses!
A lovely young lady like you, from such a fine family too, is bound to make a good match and enjoy a life of luxury and splendour.... Flushing crimson Xichun cut them short.
"If Madam You can drive you away, can't I?"
Knowing then that she was in earnest, they deliberately goaded her on by saying, "Don't be angry, miss, if we speak out of turn.
But the mistresses would never let you, would they?
It wouldn't be good if trouble came of this.
It's you we're thinking of, miss."
"Just wait and see.
This sounded so ominous that Caiping signalled to the nuns to go.
They took the hint, being afraid to incite Xichun any further.
When they took their leave she did not try to detain them, simply saying sarcastically, "Do you think your nunnery is the only one in the world?"
Without venturing to answer, the nuns left.
As this development looked serious and Caiping feared she would be held to blame, she quietly went and reported it to Madam You.
"Our young lady still wants to cut off her hair," she said.
"These last few days she's been unwell or else lamenting her fate.
You'd better be careful, madam, that she doesn't make away with herself or we shall get the blame."
"She doesn't want to be a nun!"
scoffed Madam You.
"She just likes to provoke me while the master's away.
Well, let her."
Then Caiping could only try to talk Xichun round but her young mistress went on fasting every day and remained set on cutting off her hair.
Her maids, unable to cope, reported this to the other mistresses.
Their Lady shlps did their best to dissuade Xichun, but she was adamant.
They were thinking of telling ha Zheng when the arrival of Lady Zhen and her son Baoyu was announced.
All hurried out to welcome her, then ushered her into Lady Wang's room to sit down.
After an exchange of amenities Lady Wang sent to invite Zhen Baoyu in too, having heard that he was the image of he Baoyu.
The messenger came back to report, "Master Zhen is talking with the master in the study.
His Lordship is so struck by him that he's sent for our Master Bao and Master Huan and wants Master Lan to have his meal there too.
They'll come over after they've eaten."
By this time dinner had also been served inside.
When ha Zheng saw that Zhen Baoyu did indeed look exactly like his son, he tested his literary talents and was so impressed by the youth's fluent answers that he sent for his sons and grandson to meet this prodigy, also meaning Baoyu to compare himself with him.
Thus summoned, Baoyu came out in mourning with his younger brother and nephew.
At sight of Zhen Baoyu he felt as if they were old acquaintances, while young Zhen too had the impression that they had met before.
After they had greeted each other, Huan and Lan stepped forward in turn to pay their respects.
ha Zheng, being in mourning, had been sitting on the floor.
When he offered Zhen Baoyu a seat the lad felt it would be presumptuous to take it as he belonged to the younger generation.
He placed a mattress on the floor and sat on that.
Baoyu and the two other boys could not sit with Jia Zheng on the other hand, since the visitor belonged to their generation, Jia Zheng could hardly make his sons stand in his presense.
In this dilemma he rose after a few remarks and ordered the meal to be served.
"Please excuse me," he said.
"My sons will keep you company.
They can profit by your edifying conversation."
"Don't let me keep you, sir," rejoined Zhen Baoyu politely.
"I am the One hoping to learn from them."
After a few further words Jia Zheng went to his inner study, not let- ting young Zhen escort him.
Baoyu, Huan and Lan, who had left the room first, stood respectfully outside the door until Jia Zheng had gone before returning to ask the guest to sit down.
Then they told each other how long they had been looking forward to this meeting no need to record their conversation in detail.
Now the sight of Zhen Baoyu had reminded Baoyu of his dream.
Sure that they must share the same views, he felt he had found a friend after his own heart but since this was their first meeting he had to hold himself in check, the more so as Jia Huan and Jia Lan were present.
He complimented the visitor by saying, "I have long known of your fine reputation, but never had the chance to meet you in person.
Now that I see you, sir, you truly seem an immortal descended from heaven!"
Zhen Baoyu had also heard of Baoyu, and felt that he lived up to his reputation.
"We can study together, but we may not be travelling the same road," ' he thought.
"Since we have the same name and look alike, we must be predestined to be kindred spirits.
Now that I am beginning to know what is right, why shouldn't I pass my knowledge on to him?
But as we've only just met, I don't know whether we are of the same mind.
I mustn't be too hasty."
So he said, "I have long known of your talents.
You are one in ten thousand so pure and refined.
Being nothing but a vulgar fool myself, I am well aware that I disgrace the name which we both share."
Hearing this Baoyu thought, "He really does think as I do.
But as both of us are men who can't compare with chaste girls, how can he attribute their qualities to me?"
He answered, "Indeed, I don't deserve such praise.
I am a foolish lout, a mere block of stone.
How can I compare with your pure nobility?
It is you who live up to the name 'precious jade.'
"When I was young I was very cocksure," replied Zhen.
"I thought myself jade which only needed polishing but after our family got into trouble, for some years I ranked lower than a pebble or tile.
Though I can't claim to have experienced prosperity and adversity in full, I've nevertheless reached a slightly better understanding of human affairs.
You have all the luxuries you can desire while your literary talent and grasp of affairs must be outstanding, so naturally your father treasures you.
This is why I think you deserve to be called 'precious jade.'
-384 This seemed to Baoyu sycophantic talk, and he did not know how to answer.
ha Huan was rather unhappy at being ignored.
Jia Lan, however, approved of what Zhen had said.
"You are too modest, sir," he chimed in.
"Regarding literary talent and the ability to manage affairs, the only way to amass genuine knowledge is through experience and study.
Though I am too young to know much about literature, when I carefully think over what I have read, a good reputation and honour rank a hundred times higher than wealth and luxury."
Baoyu wondered irritably when the boy had picked up this pedantic twaddle.
He said to Zhen, "I have heard that you too are against all that is vulgar and have a superior understanding of life.
I am very lucky to have met you today and would like to hear some of your transcendent views to cleanse my heart of vulgarity and enable me to see things in a new light.
I didn't Lhink you would take me for such a fool as to fob me off with mundane talk of that kind."
Zhen Baoyu thought, "He knows what I was like as a boy, so he suspects me of shamming.
I had better made myself clear in the hope that then we may become close friends."
So he replied, "You have spoken very sincerely, and the fact is that when I was younger I did detest those old truisms too.
As I grew older, though, and my father retired from official life, he couldn't be troubled to entertain guests and gave the task to me.
Then I saw that all those mandarins had brought glory to their families, while of men of letters not one but spoke of loyalty and filial piety, concerned to win fame for their virtue and learning in order not to have lived in vain under such a sagacious reign or fall short of the expectations of their fathers and the tutors who brought them up.
So gradually I rid myself of some of the foolish notions I had as a boy.
Now I want to seek out teachers and friends to help enlighten me.
I am fortunate to have met you who can certainly edify me.
What I said just now was truly from my heart."
By now Baoyu was thoroughly exasperated, but for politeness' sake he made an evasive answer.
Luckily a message now came from the inner quarters "If the young genflemen have finished dinner, Master Zhen is invited over for a chat."
r Baoyu seized this chance to urge Zhen Baoyu to go in and the latter accordingly went ahead, accompanied by the others to Lady Wang's apartments.
There Baoyu saw Lady Zhen in the seat of honour and paid his respects to her.
Jia Huan and ha Lan followed suit, while Zhen Baoyu paid his respects to Lady Wang.
So the two mothers confronted each other's sons.
Though Baoyu was already a married man, as Lady Zhen was advanced in years and an old relative too, she showed a great interest in him when she saw his close resemblance to her son.
Lady Wang, it goes without saying, when she took young Zhen by the hand to question him found him better mannered than her own Baoyu.
She glanced at ha Lan who, although more handsome than most, could not compare with either of them in looks.
As for Jia Huan, he was so uncouth that she could not hide to whom she felt most partial.
All the maids came in to look at the two Baoyu's.
"But how extraordinary!"
they commented.
"It's not so strange their having the same name, but they are the image of each other!
It's a good thing our Master Bao is in mourning, because if they were dressed alike there'd be no telling them apart."
Zij nan suddenly thought back fondly to Daiyu, telling herselL "What a pity Miss Lin is dead!
Otherwise she might have been willing to marry this Zhen Baoyu."
Then she heard Lady Zhen say, "The other day I heard from my husband that since our son is growing up he had begged your husband to take care of his marriage."
Lady Wang who had taken to the boy answered readily, "I'd like to act as go-between myself.
Our house had four daughters, but three are either dead or already married, and the only one left, the younger sister of our nephew Zhen, is a few years too young so it wouldn't be a good match.
However, my elder daughter-in-law has two girl cousins, both nicelooking.
One is already betrothed the other would be just right for your honourable son.
After a day or 'o I'll propose the match.
The only snag is that her family is not so well-off nowadays."
"Madam, don't stand on ceremony with us!"
protested Lady Zhen.
"What have we to boast about?
I'm afraid her family may think us too poor."
"Now that your husband has been entrusted with a mission, your for- tunes will not only be restored you're bound to prosper even more than before."
"I only hope so," replied Lady Zhen with a smile.
"In that case, I beg you to be the go-between."
When they started discussing his marriage Zhen Baoyu had taken his leave, and Baoyu escorted him back to the outer study where Jia Zheng had returned.
They stood talking there for a while until the Zhens' servant announced that his mother was leaving and wanted him to go home.
Jia Zheng told the three boys to see him out.
No more of this.
To revert to Baoyu, ever since he had met Zhen Baoyu's father and learned that his son was coming to the capital, he had been longing to meet him, sure that he would prove a kindred spirit.
However, their talk had shown him that they were as incompatible as ice and charcoal.
He went back dejectedly to his own quarters to brood in gloomy silence.
"Is that Zhen Baoyu really like you?"
Baochai asked him.
"In looks, yes but judging by the way he talks he doesn't have much understanding.
He's just a place-seeker of the lowest sort."
"There you go running people down again!
How can you be sure of that?"
"He talked and talked but said not a word about seeking for truth, just holding forth on scholarship and the management of affairs, as well as loyalty and filial piety.
Isn't such a person a toady?
It's too bad that we look alike!
The thought of him makes me wish I could change my looks!"
As this sounded nonsensical to Baochai, she said, "The way you talk is really laughable!
How can you change your looks?
Besides, he was quite right.
A man should establish himself and make a name.
Who else is as soft and sentimental as you?
Yet instead of admitting your weak character you call other people place-seekers."
Baoyu had been thoroughly exasperated by Zhen Baoyu's homily, and this rebuff from Baochai rankled still more.
His dejection made his old illness flare up again, and instead of answering he grinned inanely.
Baochai, not knowing the reason, thought he was scoffing at her to show disapproval and therefore paid no attention.
But that day he was so distracted that when Xiren and others teased him, he said nothing.
The next morning he got up looking as vacant and stupid as during his past de rangement.
Since Xichun was set on cutting off her hair and becoming a nun and Madam You was unable to talk her round, it seemed that unless they let her have her way she would commit suicide.
Though she was under constant watch that did not solve the problem.
So one day Lady Wang reported this to Jia Zheng.
Her husband stamped his foot.
"What has our East Mansion done to be reduced to this?"
he sighed.
Sending for Jia Rong to admonish him, he told him to get his mother to have a serious talk with Xichun.
"If she insists on this course, she'll no longer be a daughter of our house," he warned.
However, Madam You's exhortations only made Xichun more eager to kill herself.
"As a girl, I can't stay with the family all my life," she said.
"If my marriage proved like Second Sister's, the master and mistress would have more cause to worry, and besides she died too in the end.
So if you have any real affection for me, just count me as dead and let me become a nun to live a clean life.
Especially as I don't have to leave the house.
Green Lattice Nunnery is in our own grounds and I can practise my devotions there, while if I need anything you can see to it.
Miaoyu's maids are still there too now.
If you'll agree to this you'll be saving my life if you don't, I have no option but to die and be done with it!
If I can have my wish, when my brother comes back I shall explain to him that you didn't force me to do this but if I die he's bound to think it was you who drove me to it."
Madam You, who had always been on bad terms with Xichun, felt there was reason in this argument and went off to report it to Lady Wang but the latter had gone to Baochai's apartments.
Horrified to find Baoyu out of his mind, Lady Wang reprimanded Xiren, "How careless you all are!
Why didn't you tell me that Baoyu was ill again?"
"This illness of his is chronic," replied Xiren.
"He gets better for a while, then has a relapse.
He's been going to pay his respects to you every day, with nothing wrong with him, madam, and it's only today that his wits have wandered again.
Madam Bao was just thinking of letting you know, but was afraid you might scold us for raising a false alarm."
When Baoyu heard his mother rebuking them, his mind cleared for a moment and to defend them he said, "Don't worry, madam.
There's nothing wrong with me except that I feel rather gloomy."
"This is an old trouble of yours.
You should tell me as soon as you feel unwell, so that we can get a doctor to prescribe medicine.
What an ado there'd be if you had another bad relapse like that time when you lost your jade!"
'If you're worried, madam, you can send for a doctor and I'll take some medicine," he answered.
Lady Wang despatched maids to see to this and, as her whole concern was Baoyu, she forgot about Xichun's problem, not returning to her own quarters until the doctor had come and made out a prescription.
A few days later Baoyu was more feeble-minded and, to everyone's consternation, he would not eat.
As the termination of mourning was keeping the others busy, Jia Yun was instructed to receive the doctor and Jia Lian, being short-handed, asked Wang Ren to help attend to outside affairs.
Qiaojie was ill too after crying day and night for her mother.
So once again the Rong Mansion was in a tumult.
On the day that they returned from terminating the mourning, Lady Wang came to see Baoyu.
He was unconscious, and the whole household was frantic.
Weeping she told Jia Zheng, "The doctor refuses to prescribe any medicine.
All we can do is prepare for the last rites."
Sighing bitterly ha Zheng went over in person, and when he saw that Baoyu was indeed dying he told Jia Lian to have preparations made.
Jia Lian had to pass on his orders, but lacking money he was in a dilemma.
Just at this juncture a servant rushed in crying, "More trouble, Master Lian!"
Staggered, staring at the servant, Jia Lian demanded, "What now?"
"A monk has come to our gate bringing the jade which Master Bao lost.
He's asking for a reward of ten thousand taels."
Jia Lian spat in the fellow's face.
"Is that any reason to panic?
Don't you know last time it was a fraud?
Even if this is genuine, Baoyu is dying, so what good will the jade do him?"
"I told the monk that.
But he says if we give him the silver Master Bao will recover."
Just then they heard shouts outside, "This monk has run amuck!
He rushed in and no one could stop him."
"Preposterous!"
cried Jia Lian.
"Throw him out, quick!"
They heard another commotion, and Jia Zheng was wondering what to do when a wailing went up inside, "Master Bao is dying!"
Feeling still more distraught, he heard the monk shouting, "If you want him to live, give me the money!"
He thought, "Last time it was a monk who cured Baoyu now another has turned up who may be able to save him.
But even if it's the genuine jade, how are we to raise so much money?"
On second thoughts he decided, "Never mind.
We can worry about that if Baoyu really recovers."
He was sending for the monk when in the man came and, without so much ass paying his respects or saying a word, ran towards the inner apartments.
Jia Lian grabbed his arm protesting, "There are ladies inside how can you charge in so wildly?"
'Any delay and I'll be too late to save him!"
Then Jia Lian went over yelling, "Stop crying, everyone inside!
A monk is coming in!"
Lady Wang and the others were sobbing too bitterly to pay any attention.
As Jia Lian entered, still shouting, they turned to see a hulking monk.
Although terrified, they had no time to hide as the monk marched straight to Baoyu's kang.
Baochai slipped away then, but Xiren dared not move as Lady Wang had remained standing there.
'Benefactresses," cried the monk, "I've brought the jade."
Holding it up he added, "Hurry up and bring out the silver, then I'll save him."
Panic-stricken Lady Wang could not tell whether it was genuine or not.
"Provided you save his life, you'll get the silver," she promised.
"Hand it over then!"
the monk insisted.
"Don't worry.
We can raise that much silver anyway," Lady Wang assured him.
The monk roared with laughter and, holding the jade, lent over the kang to cry, "Baoyu, Baoyu!
Your precious jade has come back."
Lady Wang and the rest saw Baoyu open his eyes, at which Xiren cried out for joy.
"Where is it?"
Baoyu asked.
The monk placed it in his hand and he grasped it tightly, then slowly held it up to examine it closely.
"Ah!"
he exclaimed.
"At last!"
All there invoked Buddha in elation, even Baochai for getting the monk's presence.
Jia Lian coming over too now saw that Baoyu had indeed regained consciousness.
Although delighted he made off hastily.
The monk, however, overtook and grabbed him without a word, and Jia Lian had to go with him to the front of the house where he lost no time in reporting this to Jia Zheng.
Overjoyed, Jia Zheng bowed his thanks to the monk, who bowed in return then sat down, making Jia Lian suspect that he would not leave until he received his reward.
Jia Zheng, looking closely at him, saw that this was not the same monk as last time.
He asked, "Where is your monastery, and what is your name in religion?
Where did you find this jade?
How is it that the sight of it restored my son to life?"
"That I don't know," answered the monk with a smile.
"All I want is ten thousand taels of silver."
He looked so boorish that Jia Zheng dared not offend him and simply replied, "You shall have it."
"If you have it, hurry up and bring it.
I must be going."
"Please wait a little while I go inside to have a look."
"Go on then.
Don't be long about it."
Jia Zheng went inside without having himself announced and walked to Baoyu's bedside.
At sight of him his son wanted to sit up but was too weak to do so, and Lady Wang made him lie down, telling him not to move.
With a smile Baoyu showed his father the jade and said, "The precious jade has come back."
Jia Zheng glanced at it but did not examine it closely, knowing there must be some mystery about it.
"Now that Baoyu has recovered," he said to his wife, 'how are we to raise the reward?"
"We must just give the monk all we possess," she answered.
"I can't believe this monk came for the money, did he?"
asked Baoyu.
Jia Zheng nodded.
"I find it strange too, yet he keeps demanding silver."
Lady Wang suggested, "Go and entertain him first, sir."
After his father had left, Baoyu said he was hungry.
He finished a bowl of congee then asked for rice, and the serving women brought him a bowl.
His mother did not want him to eat too much, but he assured her, "It's all right, I'm better now.
"He propped himself up to finish the bowl, and very soon felt well enough to sit up.
Sheyue helped him gently up, and in her jubilation remarked tactlessly, "This really is a treasure!
Just the sight of it cured him.
How lucky it wasn't smashed that time before!"
Reminded of his quarrel with Daiyu, Baoyu changed colour, let fall the jade and toppled over backwards.
To know whether he lived or died, read the next chapter.
Chapter 116 Baoyu, His Divine Jade Recovered, Attains Understanding in the illusory Realm Jia Zheng Escorts His Mother' 5 Coffin Home to Fulfil His Filial Duty At Sheyue's reference to his jade, Baoyu fell backwards and fainted away again.
Lady Wang and the others cried out in consternation, and although they did not reproach her Sheyue knew that her ill-considered comment was to blame.
Weeping, she resolved that if Baoyu died she would follow him to the grave.
When the others failed to revive him, his mother sent to ask the monk to save him but when Jia Zheng looked for him, the monk had disappeared.
Taken aback and hearing a fresh commotion from the inner apartments, he hurried in and found Baoyu once more in a coma.
His teeth were clenched and his pulse had stopped, though when they felt his heart it was still warm.
In desperation Jia Zheng summoned a doctor to administer medicine and restore him to life.
By then Baoyu's spirit had taken flight.
Do you think he was really dead?
As if in a dream he sped to the front hall where he paid his respects to the monk who was seated there.
The monk at once rose to his feet and led him away.
Baoyu felt as light as a leaf floating through the air, and somehow without passing through the main gate they left the mansion.
After a while they came to a desolate region with a distant archway which struck Baoyu as familiar but before he could ask the monk their whereabouts, the nebulous figure of a woman approached them.
"How could there be such a beauty in a wilderness like this?"
he wondered.
"She must be a goddess come down to earth."
Going closer and gazing at her more intently, he thought he knew her yet could not identify her.
The woman greeted the monk, then disappeared, and as she did so he realized that it was Third Sister You.
Marvelling at her presence there, he was again about to question the monk when the latter pulled him through the archway.
On it was inscribed in large characters "Happy Land of -400 Truth" flanked by the couplet When false gives way to true, true surpasses false.
Though nothingness exists, being differs from nothingness.
Once through the archway they came to a palace gate, on its lintel the inscnption "Fortune for the Good, Calamity for the Licentious."
Another couplet on the two sides read Even sages cannot change the past and future Causes and effects tear the closest kin apart.
Having read this, Baoyu thought, "So here is my chance to find out about karma, past and future."
At this point he saw Yuanyang standing there beckoning to him.
"Apparently after coming all this way I'm still in the Garden," he mused.
"But why is it so changed?"
He wanted to accost her, but to his astonishment in a flash she was gone.
Going over towards where she had stood, he saw a row of side courts with tablets over their gates.
In no mood to read their inscriptions, he hurried to the place where Yuanyang had vanished.
The gate of this court was ajar, but not liking to intrude he decided to ask permission from the monk.
When he turned round, however, the monk was nowhere to be seen.
He gazed abstractedly at the magnificent hall which he had certainly never seen in the Garden, and halted to look up at the inscription "Enlightenment for the Infatuated."
The couplet on both sides read Joy and sorrow alike are false Desire and longing are folly.
Baoyu nodded to himself, sighing, and wanted to go in to ask Yuanyang what this place was.
Then realizing that it looked familiar he summoned up courage to open the gate and step in.
Yuanyang was nowhere in sight and the whole building was so eerily dark that he was about to slip away when his eye fell on a dozen or so large cabinets, their doors half open.
It suddenly occurred to him.
"When I was young, I dreamed that I came to a place like this.
What a stroke of luck my coming here again today!"
In a daze he forgot his search for Yuanyang and boldly opened the first cabinet, in which he found several albums.
Elatedly he told himself, "Most people think dreams are false, but this one was based on fact!
I never expected to have the same dream again, yet today I've recaptured it.
I wonder whether these albums are the same as those I saw last time?"
He took the topmost album entitled First Register of Twelve Beau-ties of Jinling.
Holding it he thought, "I have a faint recollection of this it's too bad that I can't remember clearly."
He opened it at the first page and saw a picture, too blurred to make out distinctly.
On the back were a few lines of indistinct writing, but by straining his eyes he deciphered a few words about a jade belt, and over these what seemed to be the word un."
Could this refer to Cousin Lin?"
he wondered, then read about a golden hairpin in the snow and marvelled at the resemblance to Baochai's name.
But when he reread the four lines consecutively, he could make no sense of them except that they seemed to suggest Daiyu and Baochai, which in itself was nothing extraordinary.
Only the words "pity" and 'sighing" were ominous.
How to interpret this?
Then he rebuked himsel "I'm doing this on the sly.
If I rack my brains too long and somebody comes, I shan't be able to read the rest."
So he leafed through the register without paying much attention to the pictures, and finally found the lines When Hare and Tiger meet, From this Great Dream of life she must depart.
At that, the truth dawned on him.
"Right!
This prediction came true!
It must mean Sister Yuanchun.
If all the others were equally clear and I could copy them down to study them, I'd be able to find out the life-spans and fortunes of all these girls.
When I went back I'd keep it secret, but knowing in advance would save me worrying so much for nothing."
He looked round but could see no writing-brush or ink, and for fear of being disturbed he read rapidly on.
One of the pictures showed a shadowy figure flying a kite, but he did not trouble to examine it carefully.
Instead he read hastily through all the twelve verses.
Some he understood at a glance, some after reflectiom others baffled him and he tried to memorize them.
Then, sighing, he picked up the third register of the beauties of Jinling.
At first he did not understand the lines This prize is borne off by an actor, And luck passes the young master by.
-400 But when he saw the picture of flowers and a mat, he wept in consternation.
Before he could read on he heard someone calling, "You're playing the fool again.
Your Cousin Lin wants you."
It sounded like Yuanyang's voice, yet when he turned he could see no one.
While he was vacillating she suddenly beckoned to him from outside the gate and he hurried joyfully over.
Yuanyang's shadowy figure walked ahead so fast that he could not overtake her.
"Good sister, wait for me!"
he cried.
She paid no aflention, continuing on her way, so that Baoyu was forced to put on a spurt.
Then he saw another fairyland with high pavilions, stately mansions with hanging eaves, and among them the indistinct figures of palace maids.
As he feasted his eyes on this scene he forgot Yuanyang and his legs carried him through a palace gate.
Inside were all manner of exotic flowers and herbs unknown to him, while in a flower-bed surrounded by a white stone balustrade grew a green plant, the tips of its leaves a light red.
He wondered what rare plant this could be that it was so specially treasured, observing that the faintest breeze set it swaying incessantly, and that though it was so small and had no blossoms its delicate grace was utterly enchanting.
He was looking on raptly when someone beside him demanded, "Where did this oaf come from to spy on our fairy plant?"
He swung round in dismay to see a fairy maid and explained to her with a bow, "While looking for Sister Yuanyang I blundered into this fairy realm.
Please pardon my presumption!
May I ask what place this is?
Why did Sister Yuanyang come here to tell me that Cousin Lin wants me?
I beg you to enlighten me."
"Who knows your cousins?"
the fairy maid retorted.
"I am keeping watch over this fairy plant, and no mortals are allowed to loiter here."
Reluctant to leave he pleaded, "Sister Fairy, if you are in charge of these fairy plants you must be the Goddess of Flowers.
Do tell me what makes this plant unique!"
"That's a long story," she answered.
"This plant, Vermilion Pearl, used to dwell on the shore of the Sacred River and was withering away -400 until it was revived by being watered every day with sweet dew by the attendant Shen Ying.
Because of this, it went down to the world of men to repay Shen Ying's kindness.
Now that it has returned to the realm of truth, the Goddess of Disenchantment has ordered me to watch over it and not let butterflies or bees molest it."
Baoyu could not fathom this.
Convinced that he had met the Goddess of Flowers and determined not to let slip this chance, he persisted, "If you are in charge of this plant, Sister Fairy, there must be others in charge of those countless rare flowers.
I won't trouble you to tell me who all of them are, but which fairy is in charge of the hibiscus?"
"That I can't tell you, but my mistress may know."
"Who is your mistress, sister?"
"The Queen of Tear-stained Bamboos."
"That's it!"
Baoyu exclaimed.
"The Queen of Bamboos, I'd have you know, is my cousin Lin Daiyu."
"Nonsense!
This is the celestial abode of goddesses.
Even if you call your cousin the Queen of Bamboos she's no Ehuang or Nuying how could my mistress be related to mortals?
If you go on talking so wildly, I'll call guards to drive you out!"
In abashed dismay Baoyu was just withdrawing when a messenger arrived to announce, "The attendant Shen Ying is invited to enter."
The fairy maid said, "I've been waiting all this time, but he hasn't put in an appearance.
So how can I send him in?'
"Isn't that him leaving now?"
Then the fairy maid hurried out calling, "Please come back, Shen Ying!"
Baoyu, thinking it was somebody else she wanted and afraid of being driven away, made off as fast as he could.
Suddenly his way was barred by a sword and he was ordered to halt.
In panic he looked up and saw Third Sister You.
Slightly reassured he pleaded, "Sister, why should you threaten me too?"
"All the men of your house are a bad lot, spoiling people's reputations and breaking up marriages!
Now that you're here I'm not going to let you off!"
Reduced to despair by this threat, Baoyu beard a voice behind him -400 call, "Sister, stop him!
Don't let him get away!"
'On my mistress' orders," Third Sister You told Baoyu, "I've been waiting for a long time.
Now that we've met, with one stroke of my sword I'm to cut through your involvements in the mundane world!"
This made Baoyu even more frantic, not that he fully understood her meaning.
Turning to run, he found Qingwen behind him and torn between sorrow and joy appealed to her, "I've lost my way all on my own, and run into enemies.
I want to go back but have none of you with me.
Thank goodness you're here, Sister Qingwen!
Do take me home at once."
"Don't be so alarmed, sir," she said.
"I'm not Qingwen but have come on our Queen's orders to take you to her.
No one is going to harm you.
Nonplussed he replied, "You say your Queen wants to see me.
Who is she?"
"This is no time to ask questions.
You'll know when you meet."
Baoyu had no choice but to follow her, and watching her carefully he felt certain she was Qingwen.
"No doubt about it, that's her face and her voice," he told himself.
"So why should she deny it?
Well, I'm too confused to bother about that now.
When I see her mistress I'll beg her to forgive me for anything I've done wrong.
After all, women are so kindhearted, she's bound to excuse my presumption."
By now they had reached a fine palace blazing with colour, with a clump of bamboos in the courtyard, outside the door several pines.
Under the eaves stood maids dressed like palace attendants who at sight of him murmured, "Is this the attendant Shen Ying?"
The maid who had brought him there said, "Yes, it is.
Go in quickly to announce him."
One of the waiting-maids beckoned Baoyu with a smile, and he followed her through several buildings to the main apartment which had a pearl curtain over its lofty door.
"Wait here till you're sent for," she told him, and in abject silence he did so while she went in, reappearing soon to say, "You may go in to pay your respects."
Another maid rolled up the portiere, and Baoyu saw a garlanded young lady in embroidered robes seated inside.
Raising his eyes to her face he -400 saw it was Daiyu.
"So here you are, cousin!"
he blurted out.
"How I've been longing for you!"
The waiting-maids outside expostulated, "This attendant has no manners!
Out you go, quick!"
One of them lowered the portie re again.
Baoyu longed to go in but dared not, yet was reluctant to leave.
He wanted to question the waiting-maids, but none of them knew him and they drove him out.
Qingwen, when he looked round for her, was nowhere to be seen.
Filled with misgivings he left disconsolately, still with no one to guide him, unable to find the way by which he had come.
He was in a quandary when he caught sight of Xifeng under the eaves of a house beckoning to him.
"Thank goodness!"
he exclaimed.
"I'm home again!
What flummoxed me so just now?"
He ran towards her crying, "So this is where you are, sister.
The people here have been plaguing me, and Cousin Lin refused to see me, I don't know why."
As he reached her he saw it was not Xifeng but Qin Keqing, the first wife of Jia Rong.
He halted and asked where Xifeng was.
Instead of answering, Keqing went inside.
Not venturing to follow her, he stood there woodenly in a daze and sighed, "What have I done wrong to make them all cut me like this?"
He burst out crying.
At once guards in yellow turbans with whips in their hands bore down on him demanding, "Where is this fellow from that he dares intrude into this fairy realm of bliss!
Off you go!"
Afraid to protest, Baoyu was trying to find a way out when in the distance he saw a group of girls approaching, chatting and laughing.
He was pleased to see that one of them looked like Yingchun.
"I've lost my way," he called to her.
"Come to my rescue!"
At once the guards behind gave chase, and as he dashed off headlong the girls changed into demons too and joined in the pursuit.
Baoyu was desperate when along came the monk who had returned his jade.
Holding up a mirror he declared, "I have come on orders from the Imperial Consort to save you."
The demons instantly vanished all left was the desolate plain.
Seizing the monk by the arm, Baoyu implored him, "I remember you were the one to bring me here, but then you disappeared.
I met many people dear to me, but they all ignored me and suddenly turned into demons.
Was that a dream or did it really happen?
Please explain this to me, father."
"Did you pry into any secrets here?"
asked the monk.
Baoyu thought, "Since he brought me to this fairy realm, he himself must be an immortal so how can I hide anything from him?
Besides, I want him to elucidate this."
He therefore answered, "Yes, I saw some registers."
"There you are!
After reading them can't you understand?
All earthly ties of affection are bewitchments.
Just bear what has happened carefully in mind, and I shall explain it to you later on."
He gave him a violent shove.
"Now go back!"
Baoyu lost his balance and fell with a cry of dismay.
His whole household was in tears when Baoyu regained consciousness.
At once they called out to him.
He opened his eyes to find himself on the kang and, seeing that the eyes of Lady Wang, Baochai and the rest were red and swollen from weeping, he calmed himself and thought, "Why, I must have died and come to life again!"
Recalling all that had befallen his spirit, and pleased that he could still remember it, he laughed aloud and exclaimed, "That's it, that's it!"
His mother summoned a doctor, thinking he was deranged again, at the same time sending maids to report to Jia Zheng that their son had recovered from his heart attack and now that he could talk there was no need to prepare for the last rites.
At this, Jia Zheng hurried over and saw that Baoyu had indeed regained consciousness.
"You luckless fool!"
he cried.
"Trying to frighten us to death!"
All unwittingly he shed tears.
Then, sighing, he called in the doctor to examine Baoyu's pulse and administer medicine.
Sheyue, who had been thinking of suicide, was equally relieved by his recovery.
Lady Wang sent for a longan cordial, and when he had taken a few sips he felt calmer.
In the general relief no one blamed Sheyue, but Lady Wang had the jade given to Baochai to hang on Baoyu's neck.
"I wonder where that monk found the jade," she remarked.
"It's -400 odd the way one moment he was asking for silver and the next he vanished.
Could he be an immortal?"
Baochai said, "Judging by the way he came and left, he can't have found the jade.
When it was lost before, it must have been this monk who took it away."
"But it was here in our house," objected Lady Wang.
"How could he have taken it?"
"If he could bring it back, he could have taken it too."
Xiren and Sheyue reminded them, "That year when the jade was lost, Lin Zhixiao consulted a fortune-teller and after Madam Bao married into our house we told her that the character he came up with was the shang 1 meaning reward.
Do you remember, madam?"
"Yes," said Baochai thinking back.
"You all said it meant we should look for the jade in a pawnshop.
Only now is it clear that it meant that the jade had been taken by a monk, as the upper part of that character is the shang for 'monk.'
"I just can't get over that monk!"
remarked Lady Wang.
"When Baoyu fell ill that time, another monk came and said we had a treasure in our house -meaning this jade -which could cure him.
Since he knew that, there must be more to this jade than meets the eye.
Besides, your husband was born with it in his mouth.
Have you ever heard of such a thing before?
But who knows after all what this jade can do or what will become of him?
It was this jade that made him fall ill, this jade that cured him, this jade that he was born with.... "She broke off here in a fresh fit of weeping.
Baoyu, who had been following their conversation, was better able now to understand what had happened when his spirit took flight.
He said nothing, however, just fixing it in his mind.
Then Xichun joined in, "When the jade was lost, we asked Miaoyu to try the planchette and it wrote 'By the ancient pine at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak... entering my gate with a smile you will meet again.'
I think 'entering the gate' is most significant.
Buddhism is the gate to sainthood I'm only afraid Second Cousin can't enter that gate."
Baoyu laughed sarcastically at this but Baochai knitted her brows, lost in thought.
.
-7680 I .
"There you go harping on Buddhism again!"
scolded Madam You.
"Haven't you dropped your idea of becoming a nun?"
Xichun smile.
"The truth is, sister-in-law, I've been abstaining from meat for some time now."
"Good gracious, child!"
exclaimed Lady Wang.
"You mustn't have these notions."
Xichun said nothing, but Baoyu could not help sighing as he recollected the verse "By the dimly lit old shrine she sleeps alone."
Then suddenly recalling the inscription for the painting of a mat and flowers, he glanced at Xiren and tears started to his eyes.
His abrupt transitions from smiles to tears puzzled the others, who could only assume that he was unhinged again, not knowing that his agitation arose from the verses he had memorized from the registers into which he had pried.
Though unwilling to speak of them, he was convinced of e truth of these predictions.
But we can return to this later.
The others saw that after Baoyu's revival his mind had cleared, and by taking medicine every day he steadily recovered his health.
This being the case, Jia Zheng turned his mind to other matters.
As there was no knowing when Jia She would be pardoned, and he did not like to leave the old lady's coffin in the temple for too long, he decided to escort it back to the south for burial and called in Jia Lian to consult him.
"Your decision is quite correct, sir," said Jia Lian.
"Not being in office now you are free to see to this important business, whereas once you take off your mourning you will probably have other demands on your time.
In my father's absence I couldn't presume to suggest this but although your decision is excellent, this is going to cost several thousand taels and it's useless to expect the police to recover our stolen property."
"I have made up my mind," said Jia Zheng, "but since the Elder Master is away I wanted to consult you on how to handle this.
You can't leave home or there would be no one in charge here.
In my opinion all those coffins should be conveyed to the ancestral graveyard, and as I can't cope single-handed I'm thinking of taking Jia Rong along, the more 50 as his wife's is one of the coffins.
Then there is your cousin Lin's.
The old lady left instructions that it should go south with hers.
I suppose -400 we shall have to borrow a few thousand taels to covef these expenses.
"Nowadays we can't count on others helpng us out," replied Jia Lian.
"As you are not in office, sir, and my father is away, we're in no position to raise a loan at present.
All we can do is moitgage some properties."
"How can we, when this mansion of ours was built by the government?"
"I don't mean this mansion we live in, but there are houses outside which can be mortgaged and redeemed again after you resume office, sir.
If in future my father returns and is given a post, that will make it easier.
My one regret is that you should have to exert yourself in this way at your advanced age, sir."
"I'm simply doing my duty by the old lady.
But you must be more prudent in running the household!"
"You can rest assured about that, sir.
I shall certainly do my best, incompetent as I am.
Besides, you will need to take quite a few servants south, and as that will leave fewer here I can cut down on expenses and get by.
If you should find yourself short of funds on the' way, sir, since you will be passing Lai Shangrong's place you can enlist his help."
"It's my own mother's funeral.
Why should I asIC other families to help?"
"Yes, sir," muttered Jia Lian, then withdrew to raise the money.
Jia Zheng told Lady Wang his plans and asked her to take charge of -400 domestic affairs, then chose an auspicious day to start this long journey.
By now Baoyu had completely recovered his health, while Jia Huan and Jia Lan were studying hard.
Jia Zheng entrusted all three to the care of Jia Lian.
"This is a year for the triennial examination," he told him.
"Huan can't sit for it while in mourning for his mother.
Lan is only a grandson, so after the mourning is over he's still entitled to take the examination and you must send Baoyu there too with his nephew.
If he is a successful candidate, it will help to atone for our faults."
Jia Lian and the boys assented.
After giving furthef instrutions to other members of the family, Jia Zheng bade farewell to tbe ancestral shrine, had sutras chanted for a few days at the temple outside the city, then -400 boarded a boat with Lin Zhixiao and others.
He did not take leave of his friends and relatives, not wanting to put them out thus only family members saw him off.
Lady Wang reminded Baoyu from time to time of his father's instructions, and checked up on his studies.
Baochai and Xiren too, it goes without saying, encouraged him to work hard.
Though he was in better spirjts after his illness, he took more fantastic notions into his head not only was he averse to rank and an official career, he had lost much of his former interest in girls.
But this was not too apparent to other people as he did not voice these views.
One day, after returning from seeing off Daiyu's coffin, Zijuan stayed disconsolately in her room to weep.
"How unfeeling Baoyu is!"
She thought.
"When he saw Miss Lin's coffin taken south he showed no sadness, shed not a tear, and instead of consoling me when I sobbed he actually laughed at me.
So all this heartless fellow's honeyed talk before was to fool us!
It's a good thing I didn't take him seriously the other night, or I'd have been taken in by him again.
One thing I can't make out, though, is his coolness towards Xiren nowadays as well.
Madam Bao has never liked too much show of feeling, but don't Sheyue and the rest resent his behaviour?
What fools most of us girls must be to have cared so much for him all that time - what can come of it in the end?"
Just then Wuer came in to see her.
Finding Zijuan in tears she asked, "Are you crying for Miss Lin again?
I see now that it's no good basing your opinion of somebody on hearsay.
Because we'd always heard how good Master Bao was to girls, my mother tried time and again to get me into his service and since coming here I've nursed him devotedly each time he was ill, yet now that he's better he hasn't a single kind word for me - he doesn't even so much as look at me!"
Tickled by this, Zijuan laughed.
"Bah, you little slut!"
she spat out.
"How do you want Baoyu to treat you?
A young girl should have some shame!
When he shows so little interest in all those who belong to his household by rights, what time has he to waste on you?"
Laughing again, she drew one finger over her cheek to shame her.
"Tell me, what's the relationship between you and Baoyu?"
she demanded.
Aware that she had given herself away, Wuer blushed furiously.
She -400 was about to explain that she wanted no special consideration from Baoyu but he had recently shown too little' to his maids, when someone outside the courtyard gate shouted, "That monk is back again.
He wants ten thousand taels of silver!
The mistress is worried and wanted Master Lian to talk to him, but master Lian isn't at home!
That monk is ranting crazily outside.
The mistress asks Madam Bao to go and discuss what to do."
To know how they got rid of the monk, read the next chapter.
Chapter 117 Two Maids Protect Baoyu's Jade Lest He Renounce the World A Worthless Son, Taking Sole Charge of the House, Revels in Bad Company When Lady Wang sent to ask for Baochai, arid Baoyu knew that the monk was outside, he hurried all alone to the front crying out, "Where is my master?"
He called repeatedly but could not find him and, reaching the gate, saw Li Gui barring the way, refusing the monk admission.
"The mistress has sent me," said Baoyu, "to invite this holy man in."
Then Li Gui let go of the monk who swaggered in and, seeing that he looked like the monk in his trance, Baoyu had an inkling of the truth.
Bowing he said, "Excuse my tardiness in welcoming you, master."
"I don't want you to entertain me," the monk replied.
"Just hand over the silver and I'll be off."
This did not sound to Baoyu the way a saint would talk moreover, the monk had a scabby head and was wearing filthy rags.
He reflected, "The ancients said, 'One who has attained the Way makes no show of it one who makes a show of it has not attained the Way.'
I mustn't let slip this chance, but agree to give him the reward so as to sound him out."
Re replied, "Please have patience, master, and sit down to wait while my mother gets it ready.
May I ask if you are from the Illusory Land of Great Void?"
"What 'illusory land'?
Whence I came, thither shall I depart.
I'm here to return you your jade.
Can you tell me where it comes from?"
When Baoyu could not answer the monk chuckled, "You don't even know your own origin yet question me!"
Baoyu had the intelligence after all he had experienced to have seen through the vanity of this earth, being simply ignorant of his own antecedents.
The monk's question awoke him to the truth.
"You don't need any silver," he cried.
"I'll returri you the jade."
"And so you should!"
laughed the monk.
Without a word Baoyu raced in to his own compound, which Baochai and Xiren had left to see Lady Wang.
He snatched the jade up from his bed and dashed out, running full tilt into Xiren who started with fright.
"The mistress said it was very good of you to entertain the monk, and she means to give him some silver," she informed him.
"What brings you back?"
'Go straight and tell her there's no need to raise any money.
I'll return him the jade instead."
"Not on any account!"
She caught him by the arm.
"This jade is your life.
If he takes it away your illness will come back!"
"Not any more.
Now I'm in my right mind again, what do I need the jade for?"
He wrenched himself free and made off.
Xiren ran frantically after him calling, "Come back!
I've something to tell you.
He cried over his shoulder, "There's nothing we need talk about."
She chased after him regardless, expostulating, "Last time you lost the jade it nearly cost me my life!
You've just got it back and if he takes it away that will be the death of us both!
You can only give it back over my dead body!"
With that, overtaking Baoyu, she caught hold of him.
"Whether you die or not I must give it back," was his desperate retort.
He pushed her with all his might, but she seized his belt with both hands and would not let go, weeping and screaming as she sank to the ground.
The maids inside hearing this darted out and found them both distraught.
"Tell the mistress, quick!"
Xiren sobbed.
"Master Bao wants to give his jade back to the monk."
When the maids ran to report this, Baoyu grew even angrier and tore at Xiren's hands to free himself but mindless of the pain she would not let go.
And when Zijuan inside heard what Baoyu meant to do, even more frantic than the rest she completely forgot her resolve to remain aloof and ran out to help restrain him.
Though he was a man and struggling hard, he could not free himself from their desperate clutches.
"So you're hanging on to this jade for dear life!"
he sighed.
"What -400 would you do if I went away myself?"
At that they burst into uncontrollable sobbing.
They were still locked together when Lady Wang and Baochai hurried over.
"Baoyu!"
wailed his mother.
"You've gone crazy again!"
At sight of her Baoyu knew he could not escape.
With a sheepish smile he said, "Why all this fuss?
Why upset the mistress for no reason at all?
I thought it unreasonable of the monk to insist on ten thousand taels, not one tael less so in a pique I came back meaning to return him the jade, saying that it was a fake and we didn't want it.
If he saw that we didn't value it, he'd be willing to accept whatever we offered."
"I thought you really meant to give it back," scolded Lady Wang.
"All right then, but why didn't you tell them clearly?
Why make them raise such a rumpus?"
Baochai put in, "If that's the case, well and good.
If you really gave the jade back, that monk is so odd that he could cause fresh trouble for our family and that would never do.
As for the reward, you can raise it by selling my jewels."
"Yes," agreed Lady Wang.
"Let's do that."
Baoyu made no objection as Baochai stepped forward to take the jade from his hand.
"There's no need for you to go out," she said.
"Her Ladyship and I will give him the money."
"I don't mind not giving him the jade," he replied, "but I must see him once more."
xiren and Zijuan were still keeping hold of him.
Baochai, having sized up the situation, told them, "Let go of him.
He can go if he wants to."
Then Xiren released Baoyu, who said with a smile, "You people think more of the jade than you do of me!
Now that you're not stopping me, suppose I go off with the monk and leave you the jade?"
In renewed alarm Xiren wanted to seize him again, but in the presence of the mistresses she could not take liberties, and Baoyu had already slipped away.
She at once sent a maid to Beiming at the inner gate with the message, "Tell the servants outside to keep an eye on Master Bao he's not in his right mind."
The girl went off on this errand.
Lady Wang and Baochai went in now and sat down to ask Xiren just what had happened, and she related in detail all Baoyu had said.
This so ' -1152 worried them that they sent word to the servants outside to wait on Baoyu and hear what the monk had to say.
The maid on her return informed Lady Wang, "Master Bao is really rather crazed.
The pages outside say he was at a loss because you wouldn't let him have the jade.
Now he's gone out and begged the monk to take him with him."
Lady Wang exclaimed in horror, then asked what the monk had replied.
"He said he wants the jade, not it's owner," the girl said.
"Doesn't he want the money then?"
asked Baochai.
"I didn't hear anything about that, madam.
Later the monk and Master Bao were laughing and chatting together about many things, but the pages couldn't understand a word."
"Stupid creatures!"
cried Lady Wang.
"Even if they don't understand, they can memorize it."
On her orders the maid hurriedly fetched one of the pages and, standing outside the window, he paid his respects.
"Though you didn't understand the talk between the monk and Master Bao, can't you repeat it to me?"
asked Lady Wang.
"All we caught were phrases like 'the Great Waste Mountain,' ' Blue Ridge Peak,' 'the Land of Great Void' and 'severing mortal entanglements', "he told her.
Lady Wang could not make head or tail of this either, but Baochai's eyes widened in alarm and she could not get a word out.
They were about to send to fetch Baoyu back, when in he came grinning and saying to himsell, "Fine, fine!"
Baochai remained speechless while his mother asked, "What is this crazy talk?"
"I'm in earnest," protested Baoyu, "yet you call me crazy!
That monk and I knew each other before and he simply wished to see me.
He never really wanted a reward but was just doing a good deed.
After he'd explained that, he vanished.
Isn't that fine?"
His mother, not believing him, sent the page to question the gateman.
"The monk has really gone," he came back to report.
"He left word that Your Ladyships needn't worry.
He wants no silver, simply wants Master Bao to pay him occasional visits.
'Just submit to fate and things -400 will take their natural course', "he said.
"So he was a good monk after all!
Did you ask where he lives?"
"The gateman said he told Master Bao, so he knows."
But Baoyu when questioned answered with a smile, "That place is far or near, depending on how you look at it.... "Wake up!"
cut in Baochai, "Stop dreaming!
The master and the mistress dote on you, and the master told you to study hard to advance yourself."
"What I have in mind will advance us all, won't it?
Don't you know the saying.
'When one son renounces the world, seven of his ancestors will go to heaven'?"
Lady Wang lamented, "What's to become of us?
First Xichun insists on renouncing the world, and now here's another.
How can I live on like this?"
She broke down and wept.
Baochai tried hard to console her and Baoyu said, "I was joking, madam.
Don't take it seriously."
His mother stopped weeping to retort, "Is this ajoking matter?"
Just then a maid came in to announce, "Master Lian is back, quite unlike his usual self.
He hopes you'll go back, madam, so that he can report something to you."
"Tell him to come in here," ordered Lady Wang in fresh alarm.
"He's known his sister-in-law since they were children, so he doesn't have to avoid her."
When Jia Lian had entered and paid his respects to her, Baochai stepped forward to greet him.
He reported, "I have just had word from my father that he's seriously ill.
He's sent for me.
Any delay and I may never see him again!"
Tears coursed down his cheeks.
"What illness did he say he had?"
asked Lady Wang.
"It started as influenza but turned into consumption, and now he's dying.
He sent a messenger posthaste with the news, warning that if I delay for so mucb as two days I shall be too late to see him.
So I've come to ask your permission to leave at once, madam.
But there's no one at home to see to things unless we rope in Qiang and Yun.
Though they aren't much good at least they are men, and if business crops up -400 outside they can report it.
"My own household is no problem.
Because Qiutong kept weeping and wailing that she didn't want to stay.
I told her family to fetch her back and that has saved Pinger a good deal of vexation.
Though Qiaojie has no one to look after her, Pinger is kind to her and shes an intelligent gid though even more wilful than her mother, madam, so I hope you will discipline her from time to time."
The rims of his eyes were red now and he dabbed at them with the silk handkerchief attached to the sachet at his waist.
"The child has her grandmother here," demurred Lady Wang.
"Why should you entrust her to me?"
'If you bring that up, madam," he muttered, "I may say something outrageous.
I can only beg you any way to be kind, as you always are, to your nephew."
He fell on his knees.
"Get up quickly!"
she said, her own eyes reddening.
"We are all one family, of course I'll help.
Only one thing the child is growing up, and if anything should happen to your father her marriage would be delayed.
If some suitable family makes a proposal, should we wait for your return or let her grandmother decide what to do?"
"Since Your Lady ships are at home, naturally you can decide without waiting for me."
'Before you go, write to the Second Master telling him there is no one responsible at home and you don't know whether your father will recover, so we hope he will have the old lady buried quickly and come back as fast as he can."
Jia Lian assented and started out, then turned back.
"We have enough servants here for the house," he said, "But there's not one in the Garden since Bao Yong went back to his master.
And Master Xue Ke has vacated that compound where Aunt Xue lived to move to their own house.
It's not good having no caretakers for all those empty lodges in the Garden, so I hope you'll send people from time to time to keep an eye on them.
Green Lattice Nunnery belongs to us too, and since Miaoyu's disappearance the nuns who attended her dare not take charge and want us to assign someone to see to things there."
-3648 ' " ' " " ' ',' ' ',' "We can't set our own house in order, so how can we handle other people's affairs?
But mind you don't mention this to Xichun, or she'll plague us again to let her be a nun.
How can a family like ours allow one of our daughters to become a nun?"
"If you hadn't raised this, madam, I wouldn't have ventured to.
But after all Cousin Xichun belongs to the East Mansion, and because she has no parents, her elder brother's away and she's hardly on speaking terms with her sister-in-law, I hear that she's often threatened to take her own life.
Since her mind is made up, if we thwart her and she really kills hersel won't that be worse than entering a nunnery?"
Lady Wang nodded.
"This business is really too much for me.
I can't make the decision that's up to her sister-in-law."
After a few further words Jia Lian went out, summoned the stewards to give them their instructions, then wrote to Jia Zheng and packed up for his journey.
Pinger naturally gave him some parting advice.
It was Qiaojie, however, who was most distressed.
Her father wished to entrust her to Wang Ren, but she was most unwilling and it upset her even more, although she could hardly say this, to learn that Yun and Qiang would be in charge of outside business.
She said goodbye to her father and settled down to live quietly with Pinger, for after Xifeng's death Fenger and Hongyu had asked leave on the pretext of illness.
Pinger would have liked to get a girl from the Jia family to keep Qiaojie company and look after her, but there was no one available nor could she get Xiluan or Sijie forrner favourites of the old lady for the latter had recently married and the former was engaged and shortly to wed. Jia Yun and Jia Qiang, having seen Jia Lian off, came in to pay their respects to Their Lady ships.
They stayed in the outer study by turns, and during the day would fool around with the servants or assemble friends to feast, taking it in turn to stand treat.
They even held gambling parties but this was kept secret from the inner apartments.
One day Lady Xing's brother and Wang Ren called and discovered Jia Yun and Jia Qiang staying there.
As they were boon companions, On the pretext of helping with family affairs they often joined in ffie ganri -400 bling and drinking parties.
The few reliable stewards had gone away with Jia Zheng and Jia Lian, leaving only some sons and nephews of Lai Da and Lin Zhixiao.
These young fellows, used to taking advantage of their parents' positions to enjoy themselves, had no idea of how to manage a household and in their elders' absence ran wild like unbridled colts.
Egged on by their two masters who were only kinsmen they did just as they pleased.
So the Rong Mansion was turned upside-down.
Jia Qiang thought of roping in Baoyu, but Jia Yun dissuaded him saying, "Don't ask for trouble.
Uncle Bao was born under an unlucky star.
One year I proposed an excellent match for him the girl's father was a provincial tax-collector, the family owned several pawnshops, and she herself was prettier than a fairy.
I went to the trouble of writing him the full particulars, but he wasn't cut out for such luck."
Glancing round at his companions he continued, "He'd already fallen for Aunt Bao!
And didn't you hear too everyone must know it that he made Miss Lin die of a broken heart?
Oh well, each one's romance is fated by heaven.
Yet he was annoyed with me because of this and since then has cold-shouldered me.
He must have imagined I wanted to make him indebted to me."
Jia Qiang nodded and did not press the point.
Neither of them knew that since meeting that monk Baoyu was eager to sever all worldly ties, and though he dared not break with his mother he was already holding aloof from Baochai and Xiren.
When the younger maids, unaware of ffiis, still tried to attract him he paid no attention.
He did not care about the family either.
Lady Wang and Baochai kept urging him to study and while he made a pretence of doing so he remained preoccupied with the fairyland to which the monk had led him, thinking all those around him vulgar creatures.
Since his own household irked him, when at leisure he would go to talk with Xichun and, seeing eye to eye, they strengthened each other's convictions.
Jia Huan and Jia Lan were left to their own devices.
Jia Huan, because his father was not at home, his own mother had died and Lady Wang paid little attention to him, joined Jia Qiang's group and when Caiyun reproached him she only got cursed for her pains.
Yuchuan, hav -400 mg seen how unbalanced Baoyu was growing, had also asked her mother to take her home.
So Jia Huan and Baoyu, each in his different way, were making themselves shunned by all.
Only Jia Lan stayed with his mother and studied hard, writing compositions which he took to school for Jia Dairu to correct but as recently the tutor had been confined to his bed the boy had at present to study on his own.
Li Wan had always been sedate and now, apart from duty calls on Lady Wang and visits to Baochai, she did not stir from her rooms, just watching her son study.
So although there were not a few inmates in the Rong Mansion, they kept to themselves, not imposing their will on others.
Thus ha Huan and Jia Qiang went from bad to worse, going so far as to steal things to pawn or sell.
And Jia Huan in particular stopped at nothing, even frequenting brothels and gambling-dens.
One day when Uncle Xing and Wang Ren were drinking with them in the outer study, being in high spirits they sent for some singsong girls to join them and propose toasts.
"The racket you make is too vulgar," objected Jia Qiang.
"I suggest we recite some verses while we drink."
"All right," agreed the rest.
"Start with the word 'moon', " he went on.
"I'll recite a line first, and we'll count round to see who has to drink when I reach the word 'moon.'
Then he must recite another line on my orders and, if he fails, must drink three big cups as a forfeit."
When they acquiesced he tossed off a cup and declaimed -774 "Winged goblets fly as we drink to the moon.
This made it Jia Huan's turn.
"Recite a line ending with 'oleander,' "he was ordered.
-774 "Silently the cold dew wets the oleander."
After this quotation he asked, "What's the other line?"
"One containing the word 'fragrance'.
-774 "Heavenly fragrance wafts down from the clouds."
"How deadly dull!"
protested Uncle Xing.
"A fat lot of literature you know, yet you pose as literati!
This isn't fun it's downright exasperat -400 mg!
Let's drop it and play a finger-game instead with the loser drinking and singing a song - 'a double dose of gall' this is called.
If someone can't sing he can tell a joke, provided it's amusing."
"Right!"
cried the rest.
They started playing wildly.
Wang Ren lost, drained a cup and sang a song which was applauded.
Then they began again and the singsong girl who lost sang Such a Pretty Young Lady.
The next loser was Uncle Xing, who when asked for a song said, "I can't sing.
I'll tell you a joke instead."
"If it doesn't make us laugh," warned Jia Qiang, "you must pay the forfeit."
Uncle Xing emptied his cup.
"Listen, gentlemen," he began.
"In a certain village stood a temple to Emperor Yuandi, with next to it the shrine of the tutelary god whom the Emperor often called over for a chat.
One day Yuandi 's temple was robbed, and he told the tutelary god to investigate.
"The tutelary god reported, 'There are no thieves in this locality.
Your officers must have slipped up and allowed thieves from outside to break in and rob you.'
"'Nonsense!'
said Yuandi.
'As the local deity, you're responsible for any thefts yet instead of catching the robbers you're accusing my officers of negligence!"
"The other said, 'If they weren't negligent, there must be something unlucky about your temple.'
"Yuandi asked, 'Do you know anything about geomancy?'
"'Let me have a look round,' the other replied.
He did this, then reported, 'You're running a risk with those double red doors behind you.
Behind my shrine is a wall, so naturally I don't lose things.
Once you build a wall behind yourself all will be well.'
"Emperor Yuandi was convinced and ordered his officers to fetch masons to build a wall.
"His officers objected, 'Nowadays no one comes to offer incense, so how are we to get the bricks and mortar and masons to build a wall?'
"Not knowing what to do, he told them to use magic but they were powerless.
"Then General Tortoise at Yuandi's feet stood up to say, 'You fellows are useless, but I have a plan.
Just pull down those red doors, and when night falls I'll stop up the doorway with my belly.
Wouldn't that do as well as a wall?'
'The other officers approved, 'Good.
This costs no money and should be very solid.'
"So General Tortoise undertook this task and for a few days all was quiet.
Then, however, things started disappearing again.
They summoned the tutelary god and told him, 'You said that once we had a wall these thefts would stop.
Now with a wall, we're still losing things how is that?'
"He answered, 'Your wall can't be sid enough.'
"'Go and see for yourself.'
they retorted.
"He examined it and it was certainly solid.
So why were things still disappearing?
However, when he felt it he exclaimed, 'I thought it was a real wall, but this is just a fake wall'! "'
All hooted with laughter, even Jia Qiang joining in.
"Fine, Foolish Uncle!"
he cried.
"Why should you abuse me without any provocation?
Hurry up and drink a big cup as punishment."
Although already tipsy Uncle Xing did so, and the others went on carousing until they were all rather drunk.
Then Uncle Xing ran down his elder sister and Wang Ren his younger, in the most virulent terms.
Jia Huan in his cups also spoke scathingly of the way Xifeng had bullied his mother and him, trampling all over them.
"People should be more considerate," said the others.
"Xifeng was so ruthless when she had the old lady's backing that now she's died sonless, leaving only one daughter.
She's suffering for her sins!"
Jia Yun, recalling how shabbily Xifeng had treated him and how Qiaojie had cried at the sight of him, joined in the general abuse till Jia Qiang said, "Let's drink!
Why gossip about other people?"
The two singsong girls asked, "How old is this daughter of hers?
What does she look like?"
"She's very good-looking," answered Jia Qiang, "and nearly fourteen already."
"It's too bad she was born into such a rich family," said one of the girls.
"If she were from a humble family, she could help her parents and -400 brothers get official titles and make pots of money."
Asked what she meant she explained, "There's a borderland prince not related to the Imperial House, a very gallant noble who is looking for a concubine.
If she took his fancy, her whole family could move into his palace.
Wouldn't that be fine?"
The others paid little attention as they went on drinking, but Wang Ren made a mental note of this.
At this point they were joined by two youngsters from the families of Lai Da and Lin Zhixiao.
"What ajolly party you gentlemen are having!"
they said.
The others stood up to rejoin, "Why are you so late?
We've been waiting for you for some time."
"This morning we were worried by a rumour about more trouble for our family.
We hurried off to investigate but it's not true."
"If it has nothing to do with us, why didn't you come earlier?"
"Though we're not directly concerned there is a connection.
You know who's in trouble?
Mr. Jia Yucun.
This morning we went there and saw him in chains and were told he was to be taken to court for trial.
Knowing what a frequent visitor he was here, we were afraid our house might be involved and therefore went to make inquiries."
"That was thoughtful of you, brothers," said Jia Yun.
"Yes, you were right to find out.
Sit down and drink a cup, then tell us about it."
After some polite deferring they sat down to drink and said, "This Jia Yucun is an able gentleman and clever climber, who holds quite a high post but is too grasping so several charges of extorting money from his subordinates have been brought against him.
Our most sagacious, benevolent Emperor is angered by nothing so much as reports of venal officials who abuse their power to oppress good citizens he therefore issued a decree for his arrest and trial.
If he is found guilty he will be in trouble if the charges prove groundless, those who impeached him will suffer.
This is a really good reign, if only we had the luck to be officials!"
"Your elder brother's in luck," the others told Lai Da's son.
"Isn't he sitting pretty as a magistrate?"
"I'm only afraid he may not remain a magistrate for long, the way he's carrying on," was the reply.
"Does he fleece people too?"
The young man nodded, then raised his cup to drink.
"What other news did you hear?"
they were asked.
"Nothing much," the two of them answered.
"Only that a number of brigands captured at the coast have been tried, and during their interrogation they revealed the whereabouts of many more, some of them lying low here in town and looking out for a chance to break into more houses.
But now all our high officials are good administrators and strategists, exerting themselves to repay the Emperor's favour, so wherever they go they quickly wipe out brigands."
"You spoke of some brigands in town.
Have they found out who robbed our family?"
"That we haven't heard.
There was some vague talk about a man from the provinces who robbed a house here and kidnapped a girl to take her to the coast because she resisted him the brigand killed her, and before he could leave the capital he was caught and executed on the spot.
"Wasn't Miaoyu in our Green Lattice Nunnery kidnapped?
Could she be the girl who was killed?"
"Yes, it must be her!"
said Jia Huan.
"How do you know?"
they asked him.
"That creature Miaoyu was disgusting, the airs she gave herself!
She was all smiles to Baoyu, yet never cast so much as a glance at me.
If it turns out to be her I'll be only too glad!"
"Women are being kidnapped all the time.
This doesn't have to be her."
"There's some indication that it is," said Jia Yun.
"The other day we heard that her serving-woman dreamed that she saw Miaoyu murdered."
The others chuckled, "A dream doesn't count!"
"Never mind about her dream," said Uncle Xing.
"Let's have supper now.
We must play for high stakes tonight."
The rest were willing and after their meal started betting heavily.
They were still at it after midnight when they heard a clamour from the inner apartments.
A servant reported, "Miss Xichun has quarrelled with Madam You, ' -400 then cut off all her hair and rushed to kowtow to Their Ladyships, begging them to let her enter a nunnery and threatening that if they won't she'll kill herself on the spot.
Their Ladyships don't know what to do and want Master Qiang and Master Yun to go in."
Jia Yun knew that Xichun had taken this into her head when left in charge of the house, and they had little chance of dissuading her.
He proposed to Jia Qiang, "Though Their Ladyships have sent for us we can't and indeed we shouldn't make any decisions.
We'll have to try to talk her round and, failing that, leave it to them to decide.
After discussing it we can write to report this to Uncle Lian so that we won't be held responsible."
Having agreed on this they went inside to see Their Ladyships, and made a show of dissuading Xichun.
She, however, was determined to renounce the world and begged them, if they would not let her leave, to give her a couple of clean rooms in which she could chant sutras and worship Buddha.
Since the two young men were unwilling to make a decision and Xichun might really commit suicide, Madam You had to decide the matter herselL "All right," she announced.
"I'll take the blame.
We'll just say that I couldn't stand my young sister-in-law and forced her to become a nun.
Of course we mustn't let news of this get out.
Here at home, with Their Ladyships as witnesses, let me take the responsibility.
Qiang will have to write to Master Zhen and your Uncle Lian."
The two young men assented.
To know whether Their Ladyships agreed or not, you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 118 A Disgruntled Uncle and Cousin Delude a Helpless Girl Alarmed by His Cryptic Talk, Wife and Concubine Reprove Their Witless Husband Madam You had convinced Their Ladyships that Xichun's case was hopeless.
"If you're set on worshipping Buddha," said Lady Wang, "it must be predestined and we really can't stop you.
It doesn't seem proper, though, for a girT from a family like ours to become a nun.
Now your sister-in-law has agreed to it and your piety is commendable, but I've one condition to make Don't shave your head.
So long as you're sincere, what does your hair matter?
Just think of Miaoyu she became a nun with long hair but who knows what change of heart she had to come to such a bad end!
Since you're set on this, we'll count your present quarters as your convent.
We'lT also have to question all your maids, and if some are willing to stay with you we won't find husbands for them for the rest we'll make other arrangements."
At this, Xichun stopped weeping and kowtowed her thanks to Their Ladyships, Li Wan and Madam You.
Then Lady Wang asked Caiping and the other maids, "Which of you want to join in your young lady's devotions?"
"Whichever of us you choose, madam," they replied.
And, inferring that they were unwilling, she started casting about for someone else.
Xiren standing behind Baoyu expected him to burst into tears and have another relapse.
But to her surprise, upsetting her even more, he Simply sighed, "How sublime!"
Though Baochai said nothing, not yet having fathomed his meaning, her heart ached to see him a victim still of delusions.
Before Lady Wang could question any more maids, Zijuan came forward and knelt down before her.
"Just now you asked who would stay with Miss Xichun," She said.
"Whom do you have in mind, madam?"
"How can I choose anyone against her will?"
was Lady Wang's reply.
"If anyone wants to, she can volunteer."
'Of course Miss Xichun's doing this of her own free will, but the girls in her service aren't willing to do the same," said Zijuan.
"I have a request to make, madam.
It's not that I want to separate the other girls from Miss Xichun, but we each have our own ideas.
I waited on Miss Lin all that time and Your Ladyship knows how good she was to me.
I can truly never repay her tremendous kindness.
When she died I longed to follow her to the grave, but as she belonged to another family and I'm a bond-slave of this house I could hardly kill myself.
Now that Miss Xichun wants to enter holy orders, I beg Your Ladyships to assign me to wait on her all my life.
If you will agree to this, I shall count it my good fortune!"
Before Lady Xing or Lady Wang could answer, Baoyu felt a pang at the thought of Daiyu and shed tears.
The others were about to ask the reason when he burst out laughing again.
"It wasn't my place to propose this," he said, stepping forward.
"But as you assigned Zijuan to my service, madam, I'm emboldened to ask you to agree so that she can realize her aspirations."
His mother objected, "When Tanchun married you nearly cried your heart out yet now that Xichun wants to become a nun, instead of trying to dissuade her you approve.
What do you mean by this?
I can't understand you."
"You've already agreed to her becoming a nun, and I assume her mind's made up on the subject.
If that's the case, there's something I'd like to tell you but if she hasn't decided yet I dare not speak out of turn."
"How ridiculous you are, cousin," protested Xichun.
"If I had't made up my mind, how could I have won round the mistresses?
I agree with what Zijuan just said.
If you let me have my way I shall count it my good fortune.
Otherwise I can always die I'm not afraid!
So just say what you have in mind."
"It can't count as disclosing any secret, as this was fated.
I'm going to recite you a poem.
The others expostulated, "Why pester us with your poems when we're all so upset?"
"It's not my poem, but one I read somewhere.
Listen."
'All right," they conceded.
"Recite it, but stop talking nonsense."
Without further argument Baoyu declaimed -720 She sees through the transience of spring, Dark Buddhist robes replace her garments fine Pity this child of a wealthy noble house Who now sleeps alone by the dimly lit old shrine.
Li Wan and Baochai exclaimed, "Oh dear!
He's bewitched."
Lady Wang, however, nodded and asked with a sigh, "Tell me truly, Baoyu, where you saw this poem?"
Not liking to disclose his dream he answered, "Don't ask me the place, madam."
Having digested the meaning she burst out sobbing, "I thought at first you were joking, but then you came out with this poem.
All right, I under-stand.
What do you expect me to do?
I shall simply have to let you do as you choose but just wait till I'm dead before you each go your own way!"
Baochai, trying to console her, felt such a stab of anguish that she could not help sobbing too, while Xiren was so prostrated with grief that Qiuwen had to support her.
Baoyu neither wept nor attempted to comfort them, simply remaining silent.
And at this point Jia Lan and Jia Huan slipped away.
To soothe Lady Wang, Li Wan said, "Baoyu must have been so upset by Xichun's decision that he started raving.
Don't take his nonsense seriously, madam.
Why not give Zijuan an answer, so that she can get up?
"What does my consent count for?"
replied Lady Wang.
"When someone's made up her mind there's no stopping her.
As Baoyu said, this was fated."
Zijuan kowtowed.
Xichun also thanked Lady Wang.
Then Zijuan kowtowed to Baoyu and Baochai too.
"Amida Buddha!
Fine!"
cried Baoyu.
"You've stolen a march on rue!"
Baochai, for all her self-control, was finding it hard to bear up.
And Xiren despite the presence of Lady Wang sobbed, "I want to be a nun with Miss Xichun too."
'You mean well," Baoyu told her gently.
"But you're not fated to enjoy this pure happiness."
"Do you mean I'm going to die?"
she cried.
Grieved as he was for her he could not tell her more, and since it was nearly dawn he urged his mother to rest, whereupon Li Wan and the others dispersed.
Caiping escorted Xichun back as usual, but was later married off and then Zijuan waited on Xichun as long as she lived, without any change of heart.
But this is anticipating.
Let us now return to Jia Zheng who was escorting the old lady's coffin south.
On his way, boatloads of troops withdrawing upstream jammed the river and held him up, much to his anxiety.
Luckily he learned from some officials from the coast that the garrison commander there had been recalled to the capital, and it relieved him to think that Tanchun must be going home.
However, he was upset, not knowing when she would be starting on her journey.
Estimating that his funds would be rnnning out, he had no choice but to write to Magistrate Lai Shangrong, the son of Lai Da, to ask for a loan of five hundred taels of silver, instructing the messenger to overtake him with the requisite sum.
Some days passed, during which his boat proceeded only a few dozen ii then his servant overtook them and, coming aboard, delivered Lai Shangrong's letter.
It pleaded poverty, and the silver sent was a paltry fifty taels.
In a rage Jia Zheng ordered the man, "Take this back at once with his letter, and tell him not to trouble."
The servant had to go back to Lai Shangrong.
Worried by the return of his letter and the silver, and aware that he had bungled things, Lai added another hundred taels and begged the servant to take this back and put in a good word for him.
The man refused, however, and left without the money.
Lai Shangrong in dismay at once wrote home to his father, urging him to ask for leave and to buy his freedom.
The Lai family requested Jia Qiang and Jia Yun to beg Lady Wang to be kind enough to release him but Jia Qiang knew that this was out of the question and told them a day later that she had refused.
Thereupon Lai Da asked for leave and sent to -400 advise his son to resign on the pretext of illness.
Lady Wang, however, knew nothing of all this.
Now Jia Qiang's lie that Lady Wang had refused to let Lai Da redeem himself had dashed' Jia Yun's hope of bettering his position in the Rong Mansion.
While gambling outside he lost heavily for several days in succession and, unable to pay up, applied to Jia Huan for a loan.
But Jia Huan had not a cent, having already squandered his mother's savings, and was unable to help anyone else.
Resenting his harsh treatment at Xifeng's hands, he decided now that Jia Lian was away to vent his spite on Qiaojie, using Jia Yun as his cat's paw.
He jeered at him, "You're a grown man, yet for lack of guts you let go a chance to make money, and instead come begging from a pauper like me!"
"That's ridiculous talk, Third Uncle," protested Jia Yun.
"Being on the spree together all the time, what chance have we to make money?"
"Didn't someone say the other day that a prince in a border province wants to buy a concubine?
Why not discuss this with Uncle Wang and marry Qiaojie off?"
"Don't take offence, uncle," retorted Jia Yun.
"But if that prince were to buy her, how could he keep on good terms with our family?"
Jia Huan whispered something into his ear, but although Jia Yun nodded he thought this too childish a notion to entertain seriously.
Just then Wang Ren turned up.
"What are you two plolling behind my back?"
he asked.
Jia Yun told him what Jia Huan had just whispered to him.
Wang Ren clapped his hands crying, "This is a fine idea!
There's money in it!
I'm only afraid you won't be able to pull it off.
If you have the nerve to, as her maternal uncle I can authorize it.
If Huan will propose it to Lady Xing I'll have a word with Uncle Xing then if the other mistresses ask about it you can speak up in favour and it should go through."
Once they had agreed to this, Wang Ren went to find Uncle Xing while Jia Yun made this proposal - in an embroidered form - to Their Ladyships.
Lady Wang was somewhat sceptical, but when Lady Xing -400 heard that her brother approved she sent to sound him out.
Uncle Xing, who had been won round by Wang Ren and hoped to share the proceeds, told his sister, "That prince is most distinguished.
If we agree to this match, even though she's not his principal wife, once she goes to his palace my brother-in-law's rank is bound to be restored and you'll be in a good position again."
Lady Xing had no mind of her own.
Taken in by Foolish Uncle's fabrications she consulted Wang Ren, who gave her even more blarney.
Then she sent to urge Jia Yun to make the proposal, and Wang Ren lost no time in despatching a messenger to the prince's palace.
Not knowing the truth of the matter, the prince ordered some of his household to inspect the girl.
Jia Yun informed them, "We've kept this secret from most of the family, just telling them that His Highness is proposing marriage.
But once it's settled, as her grandmother approves and the girl's own uncle is the guarantor, we have nothing to fear."
When they agreed to this arrangement, he sent word to Lady Xing and reported the proposal to Lady Wang.
Li Wan, Baochai and the others who were ignorant of the real facts thought it a good match and were all delighted.
On the appointed day, two ladies in magnificent costumes called.
Lady Xing welcomed them in and civilities were exchanged, the visitors treating her with due respect as she was a lady of rank.
Since the matter was not yet decided, Lady Xing instead of telling Qiaojie about it sent for her to come and meet some relatives who had called, Qiaojie, too young to suspect anything, came over with her nurse.
And Pinger accompanied them as she had certain misgivings.
She saw these two visitors dressed like ladies-in-waiting looked Qiaojie over from head to foot, after which they got up and took her hand to examine her once more then after sitting a little longer they left.
Qiaojie, most embarrassed by this scrutiny, went back to her room very puzzled and, not having heard of these relatives before, asked Pinger who they were.
Pinger had more or less guessed from their behaviour that they were looking over a prospective bride but in Jia Lian's absence, with Lady Xing in charge, she could not find out which family they came from.
Their close scrutiny was uncalled for if it was a match between families -400 of equal status and the two visitors had not behaved like members of any of the royal households with which the Jias were connected, but rather like provincials.
She decided not to tell Qiaojie this but to make certain inquiries, which she did by discreetly questioning the maids and serving-women under her, who told her everything they had heard outside.
Pinger was consternated.
Though she kept this from Qiaojie, she hurried over to tell Li Wan and Baochai, begging them to inform Lady Wang.
Lady Wang knew that this was a bad business and warned Lady Xing against it but the latter, taken in by her brother and Wang Ren, suspected Lady Wang's motives.
"My grand-daughter has reached marriageable age," she said.
"With Lian away the decision is up to me.
Besides, her own grand-uncle and maternal uncle have made inquiries, and they must surely know the facts of the case better than other people.
So I'm quite willing.
If things turn out badly, Lian and I won't hold anyone else to blame."
Lady Wang, secretly angered by such talk, forced herself to chat for a while on other matters before going off to confide tearfully to Baochai what had happened.
'Don't let this upset you, madam," said Baoyu.
"I don't think it will go through.
If it does, it's Qiaojie's fate, so you needn't intervene."
"You can't open your mouth without raving!"
his mother retorted.
"Once the matter is fixed they'll come and take her away.
And then, as Pinger says, won't your cousin Lian hold me to blame?
Not to say that she's my own grand-niece, even if she were some distant relative we'd want something better for her.
We arranged that match between Miss Xing and your cousin Xue Ke, and isn't it good the way they're living happily together?
Then there's Baoqin who's made an excellent marriage into the Mei family, which by all accounts is very comfortably off.
As for Xiangyun's marriage, that was her uncle's idea and all went well to start with, but now her husband's died of consumption and she's made up her mind never to marry again, poor thing.
How can I have the heart to let Qiaojie marry into the wrong family?"
As she was talking, Pinger called on Baochai to find out Lady Xing's intentions, and Lady Wang told her what the latter had said.
Pinger, speech- -400 less at first, fell on her knees then implored, "Qiaojie's whole future is in your hands, madam!
If we trust them, not only will the girl have a wretched life, but how are we to account for it to Master Lian when he comes home?"
"You're a sensible girl," Lady Wang replied.
"Get up and listen to me.
The Elder Mistress, after all, is Qiaojie's grandmother.
If she decides on this, how am I to stop her?"
Baoyu insisted, "It doesn't matter, if only you're clear-headed."
For fear that in his madness he might disclose her appeal to Lady Wang, Pinger did not remonstrate with him but left soon afterwards.
Lady Wang's anxiety made her heart palpitate.
She told maids to help her to her room to lie down but would not let Baoyu and Baochai attend her, saying, "A little rest will set me right."
However, she was so troubled in her mind that when word was brought that Li Wan's aunt had called she did not feel up to entertaining her.
Jia Lan came in then to pay his respects and reported, "This morning a letter came from my grandfather, which the servants at the gate brought in to my mother.
She wanted to bring it to you, but then my grand-aunt arrived, so she told me to deliver it instead, madam.
My mother will be coming presently and so will my grand-aunt, she says."
He presented the letter.
"What has your grand-aunt come for?"
asked Lady Wang.
"I don't know," he answered.
"I only heard her mention some letter from my aunt Li Qi's future in-laws."
Lady Wang realized that since a match had been arranged and betrothal gifts exchanged between Zhen Baoyu and Li Wan's cousin Li Qi, the Zhen family must be wanting to go ahead with the marriage and Aunt Li had come to discuss this.
She nodded and opened the letter, in which she read -720 My journey has been delayed by the ships all along the river returning from their successful coastal campaign.
I hear that Tanchun is coming to the capital with her father-in-law and husband, and wonder if you have any news of her.
I received Lian's letter about the Elder Master's illness, but do not know if there is more definite news.
Baoyu and Lan will shortly be taking the examination they must study hard and not slack.
It will be some time before the old lady's coffin can be conveyed to our native place.
My health is good have no worry on that score.
Tell Baoyu and the others what I have written.
Rong will write separately.
-400 To this were appended the date and Jia Zheng's signature.
Lady Wang returned the letter to Lan saying.
"Take this to show your Uncle Bao, then give it back to your mother."
Just then, however, Li Wan brought over her aunt to pay their respects, and Lady Wang offered them seats.
Aunt Li told her of the Zhen family's wish to expedite Li Qi's wedding, and they talked this over.
Then Li Wan asked Lady Wang, "Have you read the master's letter, madam?"
"Yes, I have."
Jia Lan showed it to his mother, whose comment was, "Tanchun hasn't been back once in all these years since her marriage.
Now that she's coming to the capital you can feel much easier in your mind, madam."
"Yes," said Lady Wang.
"I had palpitations of the heart just now but this news has made me feel better.
I only wonder when she will arrive."
When Aunt Li had asked whether Jia Zheng had had a good journey, Li Wan said to her son, "Did you read the letter?
It's nearly time for the examination and your grandfather has it very much on his mind.
You must take his letter to show Uncle Bao."
"They haven't passed the first degree how can they sit for the provincial examination?"
Aunt Li inquired.
Lady Wang explained, "When his grandfather was Grain Commissioner he bought him and Baoyu the rank of Imperial College Student."
Aunt Li nodded and Jia Lan went off with the letter to find Baoyu.
After seeing his mother to her room, Baoyu had gone back to amuse himself by reading the chapter "Autumn Water" in Zhuang Zi.
Baochai, coming out from the inner room and finding him utterly absorbed in a book, went over to have a look and was dismayed to discover what it was.
"Re takes that talk about 'leaving the world of men' seriously," she reflected.
"No good will come of it in the long run."
But thinking it useless to try to dissuade him, she sat down beside him lost in revene.
Baoyu noticing this asked, "What's on your mind now?"
"Since we are man and wife, you're the one I have to rely on all my life this isn't a question of my personal feelings.
Of course wealth and honour are 'transient as drifting clouds' but the sages of old set store by moral character and a firm foundation...." Without waiting for her to finish, Baoyu laid his book aside and said with a faint smile, "So you talk about 'moral character and a firm foundation' and the 'sages of old'.
Don't you know that one ancient sage taught that we 'should not lose the heart of a child?'
What's special about a child?
Simply this it has no knowledge, no judgement, no greed and no taboos.
From our birth we sink into the quagmire of greed, anger, infatuation and love and how can we escape from earthly entanglements?
I've only just realized that mortal men are like water weeds drifting together and then apart again.
Though the ancients spoke of this, no one seems to have awakened to the fact.
If you want to talk about character and foundation, tell me who has achieved the supreme primeval state?"
"Since you speak of the heart of a child," she countered, "the sages of old took it to mean loyalty and filial piety, not leaving the world and giving up all human relationships.
The constant concern of Yao and Shun, Yu and Tang, the Duke of Zhou and Confucius was to save the people and benefit the world so what they meant by the heart of a child was simply love for humanity.
What would the world come to if everyone took your advice and disregarded all natural relationships?"
Baoyu nodded and chuckled, "But Yao and Shun didn't force Chao Fu and Xu You 1 to take up office, nor did King Wu and the Duke of Zhou force Bo Yi and Shu Qi 2 to serve them."
Before he could finish, Baochai interposed, "What you're saying now is even more wrong.
If all the men of old had been like Cao Fu, XuYou, Bo Yi and Shu Qi, why should Yao and Sbun, the Duke of Zhou and Confucius be considered as sages today?
It's even more ridiculous to compare yourself with Bo Yi and Shu Qi.
They lived when the Shang Dynasty was in decline, and because they couldn't cope with the situation found some pretext to run away.
But we live under a sage Emperor, out family is deeply indebted to the state, and our ancestors have lived in luxury while in your case, particularly, since your childhood you've been treasured by the old lady while she was alive and by your parents.
Just -400 think over what you said.
Was it right or wrong?"
Baoyu made no answer, just looked up and smiled.
Baochai went on to plead, "Since you've run out of arguments, my advice to you is to take a grip on yourself and study hard because if you can pass the triennial examination, even if you stop at that, you'll be paying back your debt of gratitude for your sovereign's favour and your ancestor's virtue."
Baoyu nodded and sighed, then said, "Actually it isn't difficult to pass.
And what you said about stopping there and repaying my debt is not far wide of the mark."
Before she could answer, Xiren joined in, "Of course, we don't understand those old sages whom Madam Bao was talking about.
I just feel that those of us who've been hard at it since we were small serving Master Bao, and told off ever so often though of course that was only right -all hope he will show more consideration for us.
Besides, it's for your sake that Madam Bao has been such a dutiful daughter-in-law so even if you haven't much family feeling you shouldn't let her down.
All those legends about gods and spirits are lies - who ever saw an immortal come down to earth?
Yet when that monk from goodness knQws where talked some nonsense to you, you believed it!
How can someone with book-learning like you, Master Bao, take his advice more seriously than your parents'?"
Baoyu bowed his head and said nothing.
Before she could continue, they heard footsteps in the courtyard and someone outside the window asked, "Is Uncle Bao in?"
Recognizing Jia Lan's voice, Baoyu stood up and called cheerfully, "Come in!"
Baochai also rose to her feet as Jia Lan entered, beaming, to pay his respects to them both, after which he and Xiren exchanged greetings.
Then he presented the letter to Baoyu.
After reading it Baoyu said, "So Tanchun's coming back?"
"According to grandfather, she must be," he answered.
Baoyu nodded and seemed lost in thought.
"Did you read the end of the letter, uncle, where grandfather urges us to study hard?
Have you written any compositions these days?"
Baoyu smiled and said.
"Yes, I must write a few to keep my hand in, so that I can wangle a pass."
In that case, uncle, won't you set some subjects for us both, so that I can muddle through this examination too?
Otherwise I may have to hand in a blank paper, making a fool of mysel which would reflect badly on you, uncle, as well."
"No, you should do all right."
Baochai invited Jia Lan to take a seat, and as Baoyu was still sitting in his own place the boy sat down respectfully beside him.
They cheerfully discussed writing essays and Baochai, observing this, withdrew to the inner room.
"Judging by Baoyu's present behaviour," she thought, "he appears to have seen reason.
Yet just now he stressed that this was where he would stop what did he mean by that?"
Though Baochai still had her doubts, Xiren was delighted to hear how animatedly Baoyu was talking about essay writing and the examination.
"Merciful Buddha!"
she thought.
'He seems to have come to his senses at last after that lecture we gave him!"
As Baoyu and Jia Lan were talking, Yinger brought them tea and Jia Lan stood up to take it.
He then cousulted Baoyu about the examination rules and suggested that they might invite Zhen Baoyu over.
Baoyu appeared very willing.
Presently Jia Lan went home, leaving the letter with Baoyu, who went in cheerfully and handed it to Sheyue for safe keeping.
Coming out again he put away the volume of Zhuang Zi, then gathered together some of his favourite books on Taoism and Buddhism and told Sheyue, Qiuwen and Yinger to take them all away.
Wondering what he was up to, Baochai sounded him out playfully, "It's quite right and proper to stop reading those, but why have them taken away?"
"It's just dawned on me that these books count for nothing.
I'm going to have them burnt to make a clean sweep!"
Hearing this she was beside herself with joy.
But then he chanted softly to himself -800 Buddha's nature is not to be found in sacred canons, The fairy barque sails beyond the realm of alchemy.
She could not hear too clearly but caught the words "Buddha's nature" and "fairy barque" which caused her fresh misgivings.
As she waited to see what he would do next, Baoyu ordered Sheyue and Qiuwen to prepare a quiet room for him, and got out all his collections of the sayings of past sages as well as other famous works and poems written during examinations, which he had put in this room.
Then, to Baochai's relief, he set to work in good earnest.
Xiren was amazed by these developments.
She quietly told Baochai, 'The talking-to you gave him did the trick after all, madam.
The way you kept refuting him made him see reason.
Too bad, though, that it's rather late in the day so close to the examination!"
Baochai nodded and answered with a smile, "Success or failure in examinations is fated, regardless of how soon or late one starts to study.
We can only hope that from now on he'll stick to the right path and never be influenced again by those evil spirits!"
Since they were alone in the room she went on softly, "Of course it's good that he's seen the light at last but I'm afraid he may revert to his bad old ways and start fooling about with girls."
"Exactly, madam.
After Master Bao put his trust in that monk he cooled off towards the girls here now that he's lost faith in him, his old trouble may very well flare up again.
I don't think he ever cared much for you or me, madam.
Now Zijuan's gone, leaving just four senior maids and the only vamp among them is Wuer.
They say her mother has asked Their Ladyships to let her go home to get married however, for the time being she's still here.
Sheyue and Qiuwen are all right, but in the old days Master Bao used to fool about with them too soit looks as if Yinger is the only one in whom he's shown no interest, and she's steady girl.
I suggest that pouring his tea and fetching his water can be left to her, with some younger girls to help her.
What do you think of that, madam?"
"This is what I've been worrying about.
Your idea's a good one."
So from then on Yinger was assigned to wait on Baoyu with some younger maids.
Baoyu, however, never left his compound, just sending someone every day to pay his respects for him to Lady Wang.
And she, it goes without saying, was pleased to know how hard he was studying.
The third day of the eighth lunar month was the old lady's birthday.
Baoyu went that morning to kowtow to her shrine before going to his -400 study.
After lunch, Baochai, Xiren and some of the maids were chatting in the front room with Their Ladyships while he remained in his quiet room deep in thought, when suddenly Yinger brought in a tray of fruit and sweetmeats.
"Her Ladyship told me to bring you this, Master Bao," she announced.
"It's a sacrifice to the old lady."
Baoyu stood up to express his thanks, then resumed his seat saying, "Put it down there."
As Yinger did so she whispered, "Her Ladyship's praising you."
When he smiled she added, "Her Ladyship says, now you're working hard and will soon pass the examination and next year you'll get your third degree and an official post, living up to your parents' hopes!"
He still merely nodded and smiled.
Yinger suddenly recalled what he had said when she made him a net before.
"If you really pass, Master Bao, Madam Bao will be in luck!
Remember that year in the Garden, when you told me to make you a plum-blossom net?
You said he'd be a lucky man, whoever got the pair of us, mistress and maid.
Now you're the one in luck."
Hearing this, Baoyu felt a stirring of desire, but quickly suppressing it said with a faint smile, "You say I'm in luck and your mistress too.
How about you?"
Yinger blushed.
"What luck is there for the likes of me bondmaids for life?"
"If you can really remain a bondmaid all your life, you'll be luckier than us," he chuckled.
She was afraid he was raving again on account of what she had said, and decided to leave.
"You silly girl!"
he laughed.
"I've something to tell you."
To know what this was you must read the next chapter.
Chapter 119 Baoyu Passes the Examination with Honours and Severs Earthly Ties The Jia Family Retains Its Wealth and Titles Thanks to Imperial Favour Bewildered by Baoyu's talk, Yinger was about to leave.
"You silly girl!"
he said.
"I've something to tell you.
Since your young mistress is in luck, of course you as her maid will be lucky too, which is more than your sister Xiren can count on.
You must work hard in future, so that when your mistress prospers she may repay you for your faithful service."
The first half of this made sense to Yinger, not the last.
However all she said was, "I understand.
Madam Bao is expecting me.
When you're ready to taste the sweetmeats just send a maid to call me."
Baoyu nodded and she left.
Presently Baochai and Xiren also went back to their rooms, where we will leave them.
A few days later it was time for the examination.
Everyone else simply hoped that the two young masters would write good compositions and pass with honours but Baochai had noticed that Baoyu, though studying hard, seemed strangely detached and indifferent.
As this was the first examination for which he and Jia Lan had entered, she feared they might meet with some mishap in the throng of people and horses moreover ever since the monk's departure Baoyu had stayed indoors, and though she had rejoiced to see him studying she was sceptical about his sudden conversion and afraid of some new misfortune.
And so, the day before the examination, she sent Xiren with some maids to help Suyun pack the young gentlemen's things and when she had made sure that everything needed was ready, she went with Li Wan to ask Lady Wang to send more than the usual number of experienced stewards with them, ostensibly to prevent their being jostled in the crowd.
The next day Baoyu and Jia Lan, in clothes neither new nor shabby, presented themselves cheerfully to Lady Wang.
"This is your first examination," she warned them.
"The first time in all these years that you've ever left me.
Even when I wasn't keeping an eye on you, you were surrounded by maids and serving-women, never sleeping for a single night alone.
Today, entering for the examination, you're going to be entirely on your own, so you'll have to take care of yourselves!
Come out as soon as you've finished your compositions to find our family servants, then come straight back to set the minds of your mothers and wife at rest."
She was moved to grief as she spoke.
Jia Lan had assented to each sentence, whereas Baoyu had said nothing.
But when his mother finished he came over to kneel before her, shedding tears.
After kowtowing three times he said, "I can never repay the mother who gave birth to me.
But I shall do as well as I can in the examination, to obtain a good ju-ren degree and make you happy, madam.
Then I shall have done my duty as a son and atoned for all my faults."
This upset Lady Wang even more.
"It's good, of course, for you to feel that way," she said.
"If only the old lady could have lived to see you now!"
Weeping she tried to raise him to his feet, but Baoyu refused to getup.
"Even if the old lady can't see me, she'll know and be pleased," he answered.
"So it's all the same whether she sees me or not.
We're separated in form only, not in spirit."
This exchange made Li Wan aftaid that Baoyu was losing his mind again, besides striking her as inauspicious.
She made haste to say, "Madam, why grieve over such a happy occasion?
Especially as Brother Baoyu has recently been so sensible and dutiful, studying hard as well.
When he and his nephew have taken the examination and written some good comPositions, they'll come straight back to show what they wrote to our seniors, after which we can wait for news of their success."
She told maids to help Baoyu up.
He turned to bow to her saying, "Don't worry, sister-in-law.
We're both of us going to pass.
Later on, your Lan is going to do so well that you'll wear the costume of a high-ranking lady."
She chuckled, "I only hope it works out as you say, so that it won't have been in vain She broke off there, afraid to upset Lady Wang.
"Provided you have a good son to continue our ancestors' line," re joined Baoyu, "even though my brother hasn't lived to see it, it means he has done his duty."
Li Wan simply nodded, reluctant to say any more as it was growing late.
Baochai was most dismayed.
For not only had Baoyu's words struck her as ill-omened, so had everything said by Lady Wang and Li Wan.
Still, trying not to take it seriously she just held back her tears and kept silent.
And now Baoyu walked over to make her a deep bow.
All present, though mystified by his strange behaviour, did not like to laugh.
They were even more amazed when Baochai wept.
Baoyu told her, "I'm going now, cousin.
Take good care of the mistress and wait for my good news!"
'It's time you were off.
There's no need to maunder like this," she answered.
"So you're hurrying me?
I know it's time to be off."
He turned to look round and noticed two people missing.
"Send word for me to xichun and Zijuan," he added.
"Well, all I want to say is I shall be seeing them again."
As he sounded half rational, half crazy, the others attributed this to the fact that he had never left home before and was affected by what his mother had said.
They thought it best to speed him on his way.
"People are waiting outside," they reminded him.
"If you delay any longer you'll be late."
Baoyu threw back his head and laughed.
"I'm going now!
No more ado!
This is the end!"
The others answered cheefully.
"Go quickly."
Only Lady Wang and Baochai behaved as if this were a separation for life.Their tears coursed down and they nearly burst out sobbing as Baoyu, laughing like a maniac, went out.
Truly -774 Taking the only approach to fame and wealth, He breaks through the first door of his cage.
Let us leave Baoyu and Jia Lan for the time being.
When Jia Huan saw them set off to take the examination he was furious.
Regarding himself as the master now, he decided, "Here's my chance to avenge my mother.
All the other men of the family have gone, and as the Elder Mistress listens to me whom else do I have to fear?"
His mind made up, he called on Lady Xing, flattering her to get into her good graces.
Very gratified she said, "Now you're talking like a sensible boy!
Qiaojie's marriage is something I should decide but your cousin Lian is a fool and instead of leaving it to me, the child's own grandmother, he's entrusted it to other people!"
"That family says this branch of our house is the only one they recognize," Jia Huan told her.
"Now that it's settled, they'll be sending you rich presents, madam and once your grand-daughter's married to a prince, the Elder Master will get a high post for sure.
It's not my place to speak ill of our mistress, but after one of her daughters was made an Imperial Consort she became too overbearing!
I hope that in future Qiaojie won't be so heartless.
I must make her promise that."
"Yes, you should talk to her to let her know whom she has to thank for this.Why, even if her father were at home, he wouldn't be able to find her a better husband.
It's only that silly Pinger who thinks this match no good and says your mistress is against it too.
I suppose she begrudges us this satisfaction.
If we put this off till your cousin Lian comes back, he maY listen to them and it may fall through."
"The other side has agreed.
They're just waiting for you to send her horoscope, madam.
According to the rules of the prince's house they'll fetch her three days after receiving it.
There's one thing, though, which may not please you They say since it's forbidden to marry the granddaughter of a cashiered official, they can only carry her over quietly and the celebration will have to wait till after our Elder Master is pardoned and back in office."
"Why should I object to that?
It's only correct."
"In that case you can send the horoscope, madam."
"Don't be a fool!
We've only women at home.
You must tell Qiang to write it."
Jia Huan assented with gleeful alacrity and hurried off to give Jia Yun this message, after which they urged Wang Ren to go to the prince's residence to draw up the contract and bring back the money.
However, one of Lady Xing's maids one recommended by Pinger had overheard them and now slipped away to repeat the whole of their conversation to her.
Pinger had known that they were up to no good and had explained this to Qiaojie, with the result that the girl wept all night, insisting that they must wait for her father's return instead of accepting Lady Xing's decision.
This fresh news made her cry more bitterly, and she wanted to appeal to Lady Wang.
Pinger hastily stopped her saying, "Steady on, miss!
The Elder Mistress is your grandmother, so in your father's absence she's the one who has the say.
Besides, your uncle is acting as guarantor, and they're in cahoots, so how can you override them?
I'm only a servant, what I say doesn't count.
We must think of some way out but on no account act rashly!"
"You'd better be quick about it," said Lady Xing's maid.
"Otherwise a sedan-chair will be coming to fetch her!"
With that she left.
When Pinger had seen her of she found Qiaojie prostrated with grief.
Helping her up she said, "It's no use crying, miss.
We're not in touch with your father, and judging by what they said...." Before she could finish, a maid arrived from Lady Xing to announce, "The young lady's marriage is fixed!
Pinger is to get together all the things she'll be needing.
Her dowry can wait till Master Lian comes back."
Pinger had to agree.
On her return to the room she found that Lady Wang had called and Qiaojie was weeping in her arms.
"Don't worry, child," said Lady Wang tearfully, "Your grandmother gave me a good ticking-off because I spoke up for you so I can't see myself talking her round.
We shall have to agree but put it off while we send a servant posthaste to tell your father."
"You haven't heard the latest, madam," said Pinger.
"This morning Master Huan told Lady Xing it's the rule of the prince's house to fetch the girl there within three days of receiving her horoscope.
She's already asked Master Yun to write it out so how can we wait for Master Lian?"
The news that Jia Huan was behind this made Lady Wang speechless with rage.When she found her tongue again she gave furious orders to have him fetched but after a long search her maids reported that he had gone out that morning with Jia Qiang and Wang Ren.
'Where is Jia Yun?"
she demanded.
"He's nowhere to be found either."
They stared at each other in dismay, at a loss.
As Lady Wang could hardly take issue with Lady Xing, all they could do was weep.
A serving-woman came in at this point to announce, "The servants at the back gate say that Granny Liu's here again."
"In a family crisis like this we've no time to entertain visitors," said Lady Wang.
"Put her off with some excuse."
But Pinger demurred, "Better invite her in, madam.
As Qiaojie's godmother she should be told about this."
As Lady Wang raised no objection, the serving-woman brought in Granny Liu and greetings were exchanged.
Puzzled to find them all with red eyes, Granny Liu presently asked, "What's wrong?
You must have been grieving for Madam Lian again."
This mention of her mother made Qiaojie weep even more bitterly.
Pinger said, "Let's not beat about the bush.
Since you're her godmother you ought to know this."
She drew her aside to explain the situation.
Granny Liu was flabbergasted too.
After a while, however, she laughed and said, "A clever young lady like you must surely have listened to durm-ballads?
They describe plenty of ways and means.
It's not hard to find a way out."
"What way out have you, granny?"
asked Pinger eagerly.
"Do tell us quickly."
"It's very simple.
Don't say a word to a soul just up and leave, and that's that."
"That's easier said than done.
A young lady frorn a house like ours, where's she to go?"
"If you want to spirit her away and don't mind her coming to my village, Ill hide the young lady.
I'll get my son-in-law to find a messenger, and she can write a letter in her own hand for him to take to her father, so that he comes back at once.
How about that?"
"What if the Elder Mistress finds out?"
"Do they know that I'm here?"
"As her quarters are in the back and she's such a tartar, nobody passes on any news to her.
If you'd come by the front gate she'd have known about it, but not now that you've come in by the back."
"Then let's fix a time, and I'll get my son-in-law to come with a carriage to fetch her."
"That would take too long," said Pinger.
"Just wait here a moment."
She hurried in and took Lady Wang aside to pass on Granny Liu's proposal.
Lady Wang after thinking it over decided it would not do.
"It's the only way!"
pleaded Pinger.
"I wouldn't dare propose this to anyone else.
You can pretend to be in the dark, madam, and later ask the Elder Mistress where Qiaojie has gone.
We'll send to get Master Lian to hurry back."
Lady Wang said nothing but sighed.
Qiaojie who had overheard them begged, "Please come to my rescue, madam!
When my father comes home he's bound to be grateful to you!"
"That's settled then," said Pinger.
"You'd better go back, madam.
We'll just ask you to send someone to look after our house."
"Keep it hushed up!"
urged Lady Wang.
"And mind you both take clothes and bedding with you."
'We can only pull it off if we leave at once," replied Pinger.
"If they come back with everything fixed, then we're sunk!"
"All right.
Go and get ready quickly.
I'll see to things here."
With that Lady Wang went over to see Lady Xing, engaging her in conversation to keep her at home while Pinger sent servants to make preparations.
"Don't sneak out!"
she instructed them.
"If anybody sees you, just say that the Elder Mistress has ordered a carriage to take Granny Liu home."
So the servants at the back were told to hire a carriage, while Pinger dressed Qiaojie up to look like Qinger and hurried her out.
She herself, pretending to be seeing off Granny Liu, slipped into the carriage too when no one was looking and so they left the mansion.
Though the back gate had been open recently, there were 6nly a couple of gatekeepers on duty and though there were a few other servants around, as the place was so big and practically deserted how could they keep an eye on everything?
Besides, Lady Xing had never shown them the least consideration whereas they were all indebted to Pinger so although aware that this was wrong they connived at Qiaojie's escape.
Lady Xing, still talking with Lady Wang, had no inkling of what was afoot.
Lady Wang, however, was on tenterhooks.
After making conversation for a while she slipped over to see Baochai, who observing her distracted air asked what was worrying her.
Lady Wang told her in confidence what had happened.
"How dangerous!"
exclaimed Baochai.
"We must hurry up and stop Yun from going there."
"But I can't find Huan."
"You had better pretend to know nothing about this, madam, while I find someone to inform Lady Xing."
Lady Wang nodded and left it to her but no more of this for the time being.
Now that prince from the provinces wanted to buy some serving-maids, and on the strength of the go-between's description he sent some of his household to look Qiaojie over.
When they reported back to him he asked about her family, and not daring to deceive him they told him the truth.
On learning that she came from an old noble family, the prince exclaimed, "Out of the question!
This is strictly forbidden it would have been a fiasco!
Since I have already paid homage at court I must choose a day now to return to my post.
If anyone comes to broach this again, send him packing!"
So today when Jia Yun and Wang Ren arrived to present Qiaojie's horoscope, the prince's attendants blustered, "His Highness has given orders Anyone who tries to pass off a daughter of the Jia family as a common citizen must be arrested and tried!
In this reign of peace who dares do such a thing?"
This so terrified Wang Ren and ha Yun that they scuttled off, complaining that this had not been made clear at the start.
They parted crest-fallen.
Jia Huan, back at home waiting for news, was flustered to hear of Lady Wang's summons.
When Jia Yun came back alone his first words were, "Is it settled?"
Jia Yun stamped his foot.
'The fat's in the fire!
Someone's let the cat out of the bag!"
He described the dressing-down they had been given.
In consternation Jia Huan said, 'Now what's to be done?
After I made it sound so good to the Elder Mistress this morning, you lot have landed me in a proper mess!"
As they were wondering what to do, they heard servants inside calling that Their Ladyships wanted them.
Very sheepishly the went in.
Lady Wang looked blackly at them and exclaimed, 'A fine thing you've done, hounding Qiaojie and Pinger to death!
Hurry up and bring me their bodies!"
The two young men fell on their knees.
Jia Huan was too afraid to say a word.
Jia Yun with bowed head protested, "We would never have dared, but Grand-Uncle Xing and Uncle Wang proposed this match for Qiaojie, as we reported to Your Lady ships.
The Elder Mistress was willing, and told me to write out the horoscope.
But that family has tumed her down, so how did we hound her to death?"
"Huan told the Elder Mistress she'd be fetched away in three days," snapped Lady Wang.
'And that her relatives were the guarantors.
Isn't that what you said?
Well, I shan't question you now.
Hurry up and bring Qiaojie back.
You'll have to answer for this when the master returns!"
Lady Xing being now reduced to tearful silence, Lady Wang swore at Jia Huan, "Concubine Zhao was a bitch, and she left behind her a misbegotten scoundrel!"
She called her maids to help her back to her own quarters.
Jia Huan, Jia Yun and Lady Xing indulged in mutual recriminations, then said, "Well, let's stop blaming each other.
They can't really have killed themselves.
Pinger must have hidden her in some relative's house."
Lady Xing sent for the gatemen from the front and the back of the house and berated them.
'Do you know where Qiaojie and Pinger have gone?"
she demanded.
They answered in the same vein, 'Don't ask us, madam.
Ask the gentlemen in charge.
You've no call to storm at us.
When our mistress questions us we know what to say.
She can have us all beaten or dis missed but since Master Lian left there've been fine goings-on in the outer quarters!
We haven't been issued our monthly allowances.
They gamble, get drunk, fool about with young actors, and even bring women from outside into the house.
Isn't that so, gentlemen?"
Jia Yun and Jia Huan had nothing to say for themselves, and when Lady Wang sent to order them to find Pinger and Qiaojie immediately they only wished the earth would swallow them up.
They did not venture to question Qiaojie's household, knowing that all the maids there, detesting them, would keep her whereabouts secret.
Not daring to admit this to Lady Wang, they sent round to other relatives to ask, but in each case drew a blank.
So Lady Xing inside and Jia Huan and the others outside were given no peace for several days in a row.
Soon came the day for the examination to end, and Lady Wang was eager for the return of Baoyu and Jia Lan.
By the afternoon when there was no sign of them, she, Li Wan and Baochai sent servants out to make inquiries, but they did not come back, having no news.
Others were sent, and when these did not return either the three women felt quite distraught.
That evening, to their delight Jia Lan came back.
"Where is your Uncle Bao?"
he was asked.
Without stopping to pay his respects he sobbed, "Uncle Bao has disappeared!"
Lady Wang, dumbfounded, collapsed.
Luckily Caiyun and others were at hand to carry her to her bed and revive her but at once she started wailing.
Baochai remained speechless, dazed.
Xiren, dissolved in tears, reproached Jia Lan, "Stupid creature!
You were with him, how could you lose him?"
"In the hostel we ate and slept in the same place," he told them.
"And in the examination grounds our cells weren't too far apart, so we kept in close touch.
This morning, Uncle Bao fni shed his papers first and waited for me to hand them in together.
Then we came out together but in the crowd at the Dragon Gate he disappeared.
The servants who'd come to meet us asked me where he was and Li Gui said he'd seen him, just a few yards away, but he'd vanished in the crowd.
I sent Li Gui and others to search in different directions while I took some men with me to search all the cells.
But he wasn't there.
That's why I'm so late back."
Lady Wang was crying too much to speak, Baochai had a fair idea of the truth of the matter, while Xiren was sobbing as if she would never stop.
So Jia Qiang without waiting for orders went out with others in different directions to search.
In the Rong Mansion, plunged in gloom and half deserted, the banquet to welcome the candidates back went untouched.
Forgetting his own exhaustion, Jia Lan wanted to make another search for Baoyu, but Lady Wang restrained him.
"Child, your uncle has disappeared," she said.
"We can't have you getting lost too.
Go and rest now, there's a good boy!"
Still Jia Lan insisted on going, till Madam You and the rest managed to dissuade him.
Xichun, the only one to grasp the truth, could not divulge it.
She asked Baochai, "Did Cousin Baoyu take his jade with him?"
"Of course, he always wore it," was the answer, to which Xichun made no reply.
Xiren, recalling her attempt to snatch the jade from Baoyu, suspected the monk of spiriting him away.
Her tears fell like pearls as, sobbing and broken-hearted, she remembered Baoyu's past kindness.
"Sometimes when I provoked him he lost his temper," she thought.
"But he always had the grace to make it up later, to say nothing of his warm-hearted consideration.
When I provoked him too much, he swore he'd become a monk.
For all we know he may have kept his word!"
By now it was already the fourth watch and there was still no news.
Afraid Lady Wang would wear herself out with grief, Li Wan urged her to go and rest, and the others attended her, only Lady Xing going back to her own quarters while Jia Huan skulked out of sight.
Lady Wang sent Jia Lan to bed but herself passed a sleepless night.
At dawn, the servants came back to report that they had searched high and low without finding a trace of Baoyu.
Then Aunt Xue, Xue Ke, Xiangyun, Baoqin and Aunt Li called in turn to pay their respects and ask for news.
This went on for several days, with Lady Wang too griefstricken to eat.
She was at death's door when a servant announced, "A messenger from the coast says he comes from the Garrison Commander, and our Miss Tanchun will be arriving tomorrow."
This news relieved Lady Wang's mind, although she still grieved for Baoyu.
And the next day, sure enough, Tanchun came home.They all went out some distance to welcome her and saw that, splendidly dressed, she looked lovelier than ever.
At sight of Lady Wang's haggard looks and the red, swollen eyes of the others, she too broke down and wept before greeting them.
It distressed her to see Xichun dressed like a Taoist nun and when she learned of Baoyu's disappearance and the family's many misfortunes they all wept again.
Fortunately, with her persuasiveness and good sense she succeeded little by little in consoling Lady Wang to some extent.
The following day Tanchun's husband also called and, when informed what had happened, urged her to stay for a while to comfort the household.
The maids who had accompanied her at the time of her marriage, reunited with their old friends, talked of all that had taken place since their departure but day and night high and low alike were waiting for word of Baoyu.
One day, after the fifth watch, servants from the outer apartments came to the inner gate to announce good tidings.
A few young maids rushed in, without waiting for the senior maids' permission, and burst out, "Such good news, madam!"
Jumping to the wrong conclusion, Lady Wang stood up elatedly to ask, "Where did they find him?
Bring him in at once!"
"He's come seventh of the successful candidates."
"But where is he?"
When there was no answer she sat down again.
-400 "Who came seventh?"
asked Tanchun.
"Master Bao," they told her.
Then another shout went up outside, "Master Lan has passed too!"
The maids hurried out and came back with the announcement that Jia Lan's name was the hundred-and-thirtieth on the list.
Li Wan was naturally overjoyed, but while Baoyu was missing she dared not show it.
Lady Wang too was pleased that Jia Lan had passed but thought, "If only Baoyu were to come back how happy we all should be!"
Baochai, the only one still overcome with grief, had to hold back her tears.
All who offered congratulations said, "Since Baoyu was fated to pass, he's bound to turn up.
Besides, now as a successful candidate, he's too well-known to remain lost."
Lady Wang half convinced by this gave a wan smile, whereupon they urged her to take some nourishment.
Beiming outside the third gate was clamouring, "Now that Master Bao has passed, we're certain to find him!"
Asked what he meant he explained, "The proverb says 'A successful candidate's fame spreads throughout the world.'
Wherever he goes now, people will know about him and will have to send him back."
Those in the inner apartments commented, "That young fellow has no manners, yet he talks sense."
Xichun, however, countered, "How could a grown man like him get lost?
I suspect he's seen through the ways of the world and taken monastic vows, in which case it will be difficult to find him."
This set Lady Wang and the others weeping again.
Li Wan agreed, "Yes, since ancient times many men have given up rank and wealth to achieve Buddhahood and become immortals."
"If he's so unfilial as to abandon his parents, how can he become a Buddha?"
sobbed Lady Wang.
"People shouldn't have anything unique about them," Tanchun remarked.
"We all thought it a good thing Brother Baoyu being born with that jade but now it seems all this trouble stems from it.
Don't be angry, madam, at what I'm going to say, but if he doesn't turn up in the next few days then there must be some reason, and you'd better consider him as never having been born.
If there really is some mystery about him and he becomes a Buddha, this must be owing to your virtue in some previous existence."
Baochai said nothing, but Xiren could not bear her mental anguish her head reeled and she collapsed.
Lady Wang compassionately told some maids to help her back to her room.
Jia Huan was thoroughly mortified by the success of his brother and his nephew on top of Qiaojie's disappearance, for which he held Jia Qiang and Jia Yun to blame.
He knew that with Tanchun back this matter would not be dropped, yet he dared not hide himself.
These days he felt on thorns.
The next day when Jia Lan went to offer his thanks at court, he learned that Zhen Baoyu had also passed and so they ranked as classmates.Young Zhen, told of Baoyu's mysterious disappearance, expressed his sympathy.
The officer in charge of recommendations presented the papers of the successful candidates to the Emperor, who perused each in turn and found them all perspicuous.
Observing that the seventh candidate Jia Baoyu was a native of Jinling, as was the hundred-and-thirtieth Jia Lan, he asked, "Is either of these Jias from Jinling from the same family as the late Imperial Consort?"
His ministers sent for them to question them, then repeated Jia Lan's account of Baoyu's disappearance as well as of their antecedents.
Thereupon our sagacious, compassionate Emperor recalled the Jia family's services to the state and ordered his ministers to draw up a detailed memorial on the subject.
His Majesty in his great goodness then ordered the bureau in charge to re-investigate Jia She's case and submit their findings to him.
He also read in the report "On the Successful Conclusion of the Compaign Against Brigands at the Coast" that "the whole empire is at peace and the people are content."
In his delight he ordered his ministers to reward those officials responsible and to proclaim a general amnesty.
After Jia Lan had left the court and thanked his examiner, he heard of the general amnesty and reported it to Lady Wang.
The whole family rejoiced and only hoped that Baoyu would now return home.
Aunt Xue, even more overjoyed, made ready to ransom Xue Pan.
Then one day it was announced that old Mr. Zhen and Tanchun's husband had called to offer congratulations.
Lady Wang sent Jia Lan out to entertain them.
Presently he returned to her beaming.
"Wonderful news, madam!"
he told her.
"Mr. Zhen has heard at court that our Elder Master has been pardoned and Uncle Zhen has not only been pardoned but is to inherit the Ning Mansion's noble title.
Grandfather will keep the title of Duke of Rongguo, and after the period of mourning is to be made vice-minister of the Ministry of Works.
All the property confiscated will be returned.
The Emperor was impressed by Uncle Bao's essays, and discovered that he is the Imperial Consort's younger brother, whose good character the Prince of Beijing has vouched for.
His Majesty summoned him to court and when it was reported that according to his nephew Jia Lan he had disappeared after the examination and a search was being made for him everywhere, the Emperor decreed that all the garrisons of the capital must do their utmost to find him.This decree should set your mind at rest, madam.
Now that the Emperor has shown us such favour, Uncle Bao is bound to be found!"
Lady Wang and the rest of the family exchanged jubilant congratulations.
Only Jia Huan was frantic as he searched high and low for Qiaojie, who had left the city with Granny Liu and Pinger.
In the village Granny Liu treated her with respect, cleaning out the best rooms for her and Pinger to stay in and though she could only offer them country fare the food was fresh and clean, while with Qinger to keep her company Qiaojie felt quite at home.
When the few well-to-do families in the village heard that a young lady from the Jia Mansion was staying with Granny Liu, they flocked to see her and thought her a goddess come down to earth.
Some sent presents of vegetables and frnit, others of game, making quite a commotion.
The richest family among them, named Zhou, were millionaires owning a vast estate of good land.
Their only son, a handsome, intelligent lad of fourteen for whom his parents had procured a tutor, had just passed the county examination.When his mother saw Qiaojie she thought enviously, "Country folk like us aren't good enough for such a young lady from a noble house."
Granny Liu guessed what she was thinking.
"I know what's in your mind," she said.
"Let me propose the match."
"Don't make fun of me!"
laughed Mrs. Zhou.
"Such grand people would never agree to marry her to a family like ours."
"We'll see about that," was the reply.
And there the matter rested.
Concerned to know how the Jia family was faring, Granny Liu sent Baner to town to make inquiries.
As it happened, he found Rongning Street lined with carriages and sedan-chairs, and people in the neighbourhood informed him, "The heads of the Ning and Rong Mansions are getting back their official posts and their confiscated property.
They're going up in the world again.
Only that Baoyu of theirs who passed the examination has disappeared."
Baner was about to go happily home when some horsemen galloped up and alighted before the gate.
The gateman went down on one knee to salute the foremost.
"So you're back, Second Master," he cried.
"Congratulations!
Is the Elder Master better?"
"He is," was the smiling answer.
"Thanks to the Imperial favour, he will be home very soon.
Whose are all these carriages?"
The gateman reported, "Imperial envoys have been sent to order us to fetch back the family property."
Then the gentleman went in as if walking on air, and Baner guessed that he must be Jia Lian.
Without making further inquiries, he hurried back to tell his grandmother.
When Granny Liu heard this news, beaming with smiles she passed it on to Qiaojie with her congratulations.
Pinger exclaimed, "What a lot we owe you, granny!
If not for the way you fixed things, our young lady wouldn't be so happily placed today."
Qiaojie was still more delighted.
As they were chatting, the messenger who had taken her letter to Jia Lian came back to report, "Master Lian is extremely grateful and told me, as soon as I reached home, to escort the young lady back.
He rewarded me too with several taels of silver."
Granny Liu, gratified to hear this, had two carts prepared for them and urged Qiaojie to mount one.
But by now she felt so at home here that she was reluctant to leave, while Qinger burst into tears, unwilling to part with her.
Seeing this, Granny Liu told Qinger to go with them, and together they drove straight back to the Rong Mansion.
Earlier on, when Jia Lian had heard that his father was mortally ill and sped to his place of exile, they had wept on meeting again but gradually Jia She recovered.When Qiaojie's letter arrived, Jia Lian told his father what had happened at home and promptly started back.
On the way he heard of the general amnesty, and pressing on for another two days he reached home just as the Imperial decree had been brought.
Lady Xing was worried because there was no one to receive it, Jia Lan being too young.
Now Jia Lian's return was announced, and both joy and sadness attended this reunion, but having no time to stop and talk he hurried to the front hall to pay homage.
The Imperial envoys asked after his father and instructed him, "Come tomorrow to the Imperial Treasury to receive your bounty.
The Ning Mansion is yours to live in again."
With that they took their leave.
When Jia Lian escorted them out, he saw several countrified carts which the servants were forbidding to draw up there.
He knew from the altercation going on that Qiaojie had come back.
"Stupid bastards!"
he swore at the servants.
"When I was away you swindled us, forcing my daughter to flee, and now that they're bringing her back you bar the way!
What grudge have you got against me?"
The servants had been afraid that Jia Lian on his return would bring them to book, not grasping the situation but to their surprise he knew more about it than they did.
Standing at respectful attention they reported, "After you left, sir, some of us fell ill, some had to ask for leave.
Master Huan, Master Qiang and Master Yun were in charge we had nothing to do with this."
"You scoundrels!"
he swore.
"When I'm through with my business I'll deal with you.
Let those carts in at once!"
When Jia Lian went inside again he ignored Lady Xing.
Going instead to Lady Wang's apartments he knelt down and kowtowed to her.
"Qiaojie is back safe and sound, all thanks to you, madam!"
he said.
"I'll leave Cousin Huan out of this, but Yun is a rascal who made trouble before when left in charge of the house.
Now I've only been away a couple of months, yet look at the chaos here!
A fellow like this, I suggest we drive him away and have no more to do with him!"
"That wretch Wang Ren is just as bad," she complained.
"Don't worry, madam.
I know how to deal with them."
As they were talking, Caiyun announced Qiaojie, and the girl paid her respects to Lady Wang.
They had not been parted long, yet the thought of her narrow escape moved them both to tears, Qiaojie weeping bitterly.
Jia Lian lost no time in thanking Granny Liu, and Lady Wang made the old woman sit beside her to talk over recent events.
When Jia Lian saw Pinger he shed tears of gratitude, although he could not express his feelings in public.
And so much had she.risen in his estimation that he de cided, after his father's return, to ask to have her promoted to be his wife.
But this is anticipating.
Lady xing had feared ructions when Jia Lian found Qiaojie missing.
The news that he had gone to see Lady Wang alarmed her even more, and she sent a mald to find out what was afoot.
When the girl came back to report that Qiaojie and Grnnny Liu were talking there too, Lady Xing at last realized the trick played on her and suspected Lady Wang of selling her son agalnst her.
"But who could have sent Pinger word?"
she fumed.
Just then Qiaojie came in with Granny Liu and Pinger, followed by Lady Wang who lald the whole blame on Jia Yun and Wang Ren.
"When you heard their proposal, you naturally thought it a good one," she said.
"How were you to know what they were up to outside?"
Abashed, Lady Xing admitted to herself that Lady Wang had made the right decision.
After this, these two mistresses were on better terms.
Upon leaving Lady Wang, Pinger took Qiaojie to see Baochai, and each confided her troubles to the other.
Pinger told them, "The Emperor has shown us such favour that now our family should prosper again.
I'm sure Master Bao will come back."
Just then Qiuwen came running in frantically.
"Xiren is dying!"
she cried.
If you want to know what had happened, read the next chapter.
CHAPTER 120 On hearing from Qiuwen that Xiren was dying, Baochai hurried to her bedside with Qiaojie and Pinger.
Finding her unconscious after a heart attack they revived her with a drink of boiled water, then laid her down again and sent for a doctor.
'How did Sister Xiren fall so ill?"
Qinojie asked.
Baochai explained, '~The other evening she wept so bitterly that she fainted away.
The mistress made people help her back to sleep; but because of that commotion outside we didn't get her a doctor."
The doctor arriving just then, they withdrew.
After taking her pulse he attributed her illness to anxiety and anger, and made out a prescription accordingly.
Now Xiren had heard it rumoured that if Baoyu failed to return all his maids would be dismissed, and anxiety on this score aggravated her illness.
After the doctor had gone Qiuwen brewed medicine for her, but lying there alone she had no peace of mind.
She seemed to see Baoyu before her, then had a hazy vision of a monk who was leafing through an album and who told her, 'Don't make a wrong decision.
I'm having nothing more to do with you.
Before she could question him, Qiuwen came over saying, "Here's your medicine.
Drink it up, sister."
Xiren opened her eyes and kept to herself what she now knew had been a dream.When she had drunk the medicine she reflected, "Baoyu must have left with the monk.
That time when he tried to take the jade out, he looked as if he wanted to escape.
When I stopped him he wasn't his usual self, the rough way he pushed and shoved me without any feeling at all; and later he had less patience with Madam Bao and not the least feeling for the other girls either, as if he'd awoken to the Truth.
But even so, how can you abandon your wife?
I was sent by the mistress to wait on you, and though I've been getting the monthly allowance of a concubine, this was never publicly announced to the masters and mistresses.
If they dismiss me and I insist on staying, people will laugh at me; yet if I leave I shan't be able to bear it, remembering how good Baoyu was to me."
She could not resolve this dilemma until recalling her dream in which it had been implied that she and Baoyu were destined to part she decided, "Better die and be done with it."
The medicine had eased the pain in her heart, yet she had to lie there in discomfort for several days before getting up again to wait on Baochai.
The latter secretly shed tears of longing for Baoyu, lamenting her wretched fate; however, since her mother was preparing to ransom her brother, there was much to attend to and she had to help out.
But no more of this for the present.
ha Zheng escorting the old lady's coffin, and Jia Rong those of Keqing, Xifeng and Yuanyang, had now reached Jinling where they had them interred.
Then Jia Rong took Daiyu's coffin to be buried in her ancestral graveyard, leaving Jia Zheng to supervise the building of the tombs.
One day he received a letter from home, and the news that Baoyu and Jia Lan had passed the examination delighted him; but Baoyu's disappearance so perturbed him that he felt constrained to hurry back at once.
On the way he heard of the general amnesty and received another letter from home confirming his pardon and official reinstatement.
Much heartened, he pressed on rapidly day and night.
The day they reached the Piling post station, it suddenly turned cold and began to snow, and their boat moored in a secluded spot.
Jia Zheng sent servants ashore to deliver cards to friends in that locality, and to explain that he had no time to call and they should not trouble to call on him either, as the boat would be leaving again immediately.
Only one page remained to wait on him as he wrote a letter to send home by a messenger travelling ahead by road.
Before broaching the subject of Baoyu he paused.
Looking up through the snow, he glimpsed at the prow of the boat a figure with a shaven head and bare feet, draped in a red felt cape.This man prostrated himself before Jia Zheng, who hurried out of the cabin, meaning to raise him up and see who he was, but the man had already kowtowed four times, then stood up and made him a Buddhist salutation.
Jia Zheng was about to bow in return when he recognized his son.
"Is it Baoyu?"
he asked in amazement.
The other made no answer, looking torn between grief and joy.
"If you are Baoyu, what are you doing here, and in this costume?"
Jia Zheng asked again.
Before Baoyu could reply, a monk and a Taoist priest appeared, each taking one of his arms.
"Your worldly obligations have been fulfilled," they declared.
"Why delay your departure?"
Then all three of them glided ashore.
Though it was slippery underfoot, Jia Zheng hurried after them but could not overtake them.
However, he heard one of them chant: My home is Blue Ridge Peak, I roam the primeval void.
Who will go with me to keep me company, Returning to the Great Waste of infinity!
ha Zheng pursued them round a slope, only to find they had vanisbed.
Limp and out of breath, his heart misgave him.
Turning, he found that the page had followed him.
"Did you see those three men just now?"
Jia Zheng asked.
"Yes, sir.
As you were running after them I came too.
But then I lost sight of those three."
ha Zheng was tempted to go on, but in the white wilderness there was no one in sight.
Marvelling, he had to turn back.
When the servants returned and found their master gone, the boatman told them that he had gone ashore in pursuit of two monks and a Taoist priest.
They followed his footprints in the snow and, seeing him approaching in the distance, went to meet him and escorted him back to the boat.
After he had sat down and caught his breath he told them of his encounter with Baoyu.
They suggested searching the vicinity.
"You don't understand," he sighed.
"I saw them with my own eyes, they were not apparitions.
And I heard them chanting a most occult poem.
When Baoyu was born with jade in his mouth, I knew it was uncanny and boded no good; but because the old lady doted on him we brought him up all these years.
As for the monk and the priest, I have seen them three times.
The first time was when they came to explain the miraculous nature of the jade; the second time, when Baoyu was so ill and the monk took the jade in his hand and intoned some incantation to cure him; the third time, when he brought back the jade and I saw him sitting in the front hall, then all of a sudden he vanished.
Although that increased my misgivings, I thought Baoyu fortunate to have the protection of these Buddhist and Taoist saints.
Little did I know that Baoyu was a spirit who had come to earth to undergo certain trials, and who managed to fool the old lady for nineteen years!
Only now is it clear to me."
He shed tears.
"If Master Bao was really a Buddhist saint, he shouldn't have become ajuren," they objected.
"Why take the official examination then leave?"
"You don't understand that all the stars in the heavens, the saints in the mountains and the spirits in caves have each their own different nature.
Baoyu never showed any inclination to study, yet he'd only to glance at a book to master it.
By temperament, too, he was different from other people."
He sighed again.
They consoled him with talk of Jia Lan's success and the improvement in the family's fortunes.
Then Jia Zheng went on with his letter, describing this incident and urging the family not to grieve.
He sealed the letter and sent it off with a servant, then continued on his way.
No more of this.
Aunt Xue, after hearing of the amnesty, told Xue Ke to raise loans in various quarters until she had enough to ransom her son.
The Board of Punishments sanctioned this and after receiving the money issued an order for Xue Pan's release.
We need not dwell on their family reunion with its natural intermingling ofjoy and sorrow.
"If I ever run amuck again," swore Xue Pan, "may I be killed and disembowelled!"
His mother stopped his mouth.
"Just make up your mind to it instead of raving.
Why must you swear such a blood-curdling oath?"
she scolded.
"Now I've a proposal to make.
Xiangling's had so much to put up with since becoming your concubine, that now that your wife has killed herself and poor though we are we can still make ends meet, I suggest making her my daughter-in-law.
What do you think?"
Xue Pan nodded his agreement.
"Quite right and proper," agreed Baochai and the rest.
Xiangling flushing crimson protested, "I shall go on serving the master as his maid.
There's no need to raise my status."
Thereupon they started addressing her as the young mistress, and none of the household objected.
Then Xue Pan went to thank the Jia family, and Aunt Xue and Baochai went over too.
When all were assembled and they had talked for a while, Jia Zheng's messenger arrived and presented his letter, announcing that the master would soon be home.
Lady Wang made Jia Lan read the letter out, and when he reached the passage describing the encounter with Baoyu the whole family wept, Lady Wang, Baochai and Xiren being the most affected.
They discussed Jia Zheng's injunction to them not to mourn for Baoyu because he was a reincarnated spirit.
One said, "If he'd become an official then had the misfortune to get into trouble and ruin the family, that would have been worse.
It's better to have produced a Bodhisattva, thanks to the virtue of our master and mistress.
In fact, Lord Jing of the East Mansion practised alchemy for more than ten years yet never became an immortal.
It's harder still to become a Bodhisattva!
If you look at it this way, madam, you'll feel better."
Lady Wang confided tearfully to Aunt Xue, "I don't blame Baoyu for deserting me, it's my daughter-in-law's cruel fate that upsets me most.
When they'd only just been married a couple of years, how heartless it was of him to abandon her!"
This made Aunt Xue's heart ache too.
Baochai, weeping, was oblivious to all around her; and as the men of the family had withdrawn to the outer apartments, Lady Wang went on, "He kept me on tenterhooks all those years, till he got married and passed the examination and I was pleased to hear that Baochai was pregnant.
To think it should end like this!
If I'd known, I wouldn't have found him a wife or ruined your daughter's life!"
"This was their fate," Aunt Xue answered.
"What else could fami lies like ours have done?
It's lucky that she's with child.
If she gives birth to a son, he's bound to make good and all's well that ends well.
Look at your elder daughter-in-law: now Lan's juren and next year he'll be a court scholar doesn't that mean that he'll become an official?
After all that bitterness, she's having a taste of sweetness now to reward her for her goodness.You know my daughter, sister.
She's not flighty or petty-minded; you needn't worry about her."
Lady Wang, convinced of the truth of this, reflected, "B aochai was always a quiet, unassuming child with simple tastes; that's why this has happened to her.
It seems that everyone's lot in life is predestined!
Though she wept so bitterly, she retained all her dignity and even tried to console me she's really one in a thousand.
What a pity, though, that a boy like Baoyu lost out on his share of good fortune in this dusty world!"
Comforted by these reflections she went on to consider Xiren's case and thought, "The other maids are easily disposed of: the older ones can be married off and the younger ones kept here to wait on Baochai.
But what's to be done about Xiren?"
As there were others present, she decided to discuss this with Aunt Xue that evening.
Aunt Xue did not go home that day, staying with her heart-broken daughter to cornfort her.
However, Baochai showed her usual good sense, saying that it was no use complaining as Baoyu had been someone quite unique and this had been fated to happen.When she spoke so reasonably her mother, much relieved, went over to tell Lady Wang what she had said.
Lady Wang nodded.
"I wouldn't deserve such a good daughter-in-law if I hadn't done some good deeds!"
she sighed, giving way to grief again.
Aunt Xue consoled her for a while then raised another question.
"Xiren's only the shadow of her old self, what with pining for Baoyu," she said.
"The proper wife should stay at home as a widow, and sometimes a concubine wants to do the same; but in Xiren's case, her relationship with Baoyu was never made public."
"Exactly," said Lady Wang.
"This is just what I wanted to talk over with you.
If we dismiss her, I'm afraid she'll be unwilling, or threaten to kill herself; but I doubt whether my husband would agree to keeping her on.
That's our dilemma."
"I'm sure he would never agree, especially as he doesn't know her position and thinks her simply a maid, with no reason to stay on here.
You'll have to get one of her family to come, insist on them finding her a respectable husband, then give her a generous dowry.
Being a sensible girl and still young, she should realize that she hasn't served you for nothing and that you've treated her quite handsomely, sister.
I shall have a good talk with her too.
Even after you've sent for one of her family, you needn't tell her about it until a good match has been fixed up and we've made sure that the family's well-off and the man's presentable.
Then we can send her away.
"That's an excellent idea.
Otherwise, if I let the master dispose of her off-hand wouldn't that be the ruin of her?"
Aunt Xue nodded her agreement and after some further talk went to see Baochai.
Finding Xiren still in tears there she tried to console her; and the good-hearted girl, not being acrimonious, agreed to all she said.
"It's good of you to talk like this to a serving-maid, madam," said Xiren.
"I should never dream of disobeying the mistress."
Aunt Xue felt even more drawn to her, finding her so submissive.
Baochai also spoke of a woman's duties in life, and so they found themselves in complete accord.
A few days later, Jia Zheng arrived home and all the men went out to welcome him.
By now Jia She and Jia Zhen were also back and, meeting again, they described their experiences since parting.
But the women of the house, when they saw Jia Zheng, could not help grieving at the thought of Baoyu.
Jia Zheng urged them not to be distressed, telling Lady Wang, "This was fated.
From now on those of us outside will have to manage the family affairs with your assistance inside, on no account letting things slide as we did before.
The different households can see to their own affairs; there is no need for a general manager.
You can decide, as you think right, on everything done in our family's inner apartments."
When Lady Wang told him that Baochai was with child and suggested dismissing Baoyu's former maids, he simply nodded in silence.
The next day Jia Zheng went to court to ask the chief ministers how he should express his gratitude for the Imperial favour while still in mourning.
They petitioned the Emperor on his behal{ and the Sovereign in his great goodness granted him an audience.
When Jia Zheng had expressed his thanks and received various instructions, the Emperor asked what had become of Baoyu and marvelled at the account which Jia Zheng gave him.
The Emperor decreed, "The brilliance of Baoyu's writing must be due to his being an immortal.
Were he at court we could have promoted him.
Now, since he would never accept a noble rank, let him be given the title 'The Immortal of Literary Genius.
Jia Zheng kowtowed his thanks and withdrew, to be welcomed home by Jia Lian and Jia Zhen.
When told of the Emperor's decree, the whole household was overjoyed.
Jia Zhen reported, "The Ning Mansion has been cleaned up, and with your permission we shall move over now.
Sister Xichun can have Green Lattice Nunnery in the Garden for her devotions."
Jia Zheng made no comment, but after a pause he urged them to do their best to repay the Imperial favour.
Then Jia Lian informed him that his parents were willing to marry Qiaojie to the Zhou family.
Jia Zheng, who had heard the previous night of all that had happened to her, said, "That's for the Elder Master and Elder Mistress to decide.
We shouldn't despise country people, providing they are honest folk and their son is studious and seems promising.
Not all the officials at court are city bred, are they?"
"No, sir," agreed Jia Lian.
"But as my father is growing old and suffers from chronic asthma, he hopes to live quietly for a few years, leaving you in overall charge."
"I only wish I could live as a recluse in the country myself," Jia Zheng answered.
"But I haven't yet repaid our Sovereign's great kindness."
With that he went inside.
Jia Lian sent for Granny Liu to tell her the match was agreed on, after which she called on Lady Wang to predict that now they would win official promotion and all the family's sons and grandsons would prosper.
Just then, a maid announced Xiren's sister-in-law, from whom Lady Wang elicited that some relatives had proposed a match for Xiren with a certain Jiang family in the south city who owned houses, land and shops.
The prospective bridegroom was a few years older but he had never been married and, as far as appearances went, was one in a hundred.
Lady Wang was favourably inclined and replied, "You can agree to it.
Come back in a few days' time to fetch your sister-in-law."
She also sent to make inquiries and, on being assured that it would be a good match, informed Baochal and asked Aunt Xue to break the news gently to Xiren.
Xiren was desolated yet dared not disobey.
She remembered, that year Baoyu called on her family, she had sworn to them that she would rather die than be redeemed and go home.
"Now the mistress is set upon this," she thought.
"If I ask to stay they'll say I have no sense of shame; yet I really don't want to leave here!"
She started sobbing.
When Aunt Xue and Baochai reasoned with her she reflected, "If I died here that would be a poor return for Her Ladyship's kindness.
I'd better die at home."
So suppressing her grief she bade them all farewell, heart-rending as she found it to leave the other maids.
She mounted the carriage determined to kill herself, and when she saw her brother and sister-in-law she could not speak for sobbing.
Her brother showed her one by one the betrothal gifts sent by the Jiang family as well as the dowry he had prepared, telling her which items had been given by Lady Wang, which they had bought themselves, so that Xiren was even more at a loss for words.
After a couple of days at home she thought, "My brother's done things so handsomely, how can I cause him trouble by killing myself in his house?"
In a dilemma, she felt her heart would break yet had to bear up.
The day came to fetch the bride, and not being the type to make a scene however wronged she felt, she let herself be carried off in the sedan-chair, deferring her decision till her arrival.
However, once over their threshold, she found that the Jiangs had made scrupulous preparations according to all the correct wedding etiquette, and as soon as she entered the house she was addressed by the maid-servants as "Mistress."
All treated her so well that, once again, she did not like to bring trouble on them by committing suicide there.
That night she wept and refused her husband's advances, yet he very tenderly deferred to her wishes.
The next day when her chests were opened and he saw his old scarlet sash, he realized that this was Baoyu's maid.
At first he had thought her one of the old lady's attendants, never dreaming that she was Xiren.
Now, abashed by the memory of Baoyu's past friendship with him, he treated her even more kindly, deliberately showing her the pale green sash which Baoyu had given him in exchange.
Only then did Xiren understand that he was Jiang Yuhan.
Convinced that their marriage must have been predestined, she told him how she had meant to kill herself.
Deeply impressed by her loyalty, Jiang Yuhan showed her even more consideration so that Xiren felt she had really nowhere to die.
Now, Honourable Readers, though certain things are predestined and "cannot be helped," it is wrong for sons of concubines or ministers of vanquished states as well as for men of principle and chaste women to keep using this phrase as a handy excuse.
That was why Xiren was ranked in the Third Register.
As a former poet passing the Temple 9 f Lady Peach-blossom wrote: Since time immemorial, the hardest thing is to die; It is not the Lady of Xi 1 alone who was broken-hearted.
But let us leave Xiren embarking on a new life and return to Jia Yucun, who had been found guilty of embezzlement and condemned to punishment.
He was pardoned under the general amnesty, but ordered back to his native place and reduced to the status of a common citizen.
Having sent his family home first, he was making his way there with a baggage-cart and a page when, by the Ford of Awakening in the Stream of Rapid Reversal, he saw a Taoist priest emerge from a thatched shed to greet him.
Recognizing his old friend Zhen Shiyin, he promptly returned the greeting.
"How have you been, worthy Mr.
ha?"
asked Shiyin.
"So you are Master Zhen, Immortal One!"
replied Yucun.
"How is it that last time we met you refused to recognize me?
Later I was very worried to hear that your temple had been burned down.
Now that I am lucky enough to meet you again, I am sure your virtue must be even greater.
As for me, owing to my own inveterate folly, I've now been reduced to this."
"Last time you were a high official, so how could a poor priest claim acquaintance with you?
As an old friend I ventured to offer you some advice, but you ignored it.
However, wealth and poverty, success and failure are predestined.
How amazing that we should meet again today!
My humble temple is not far from here.
Would you care to come for a chat?"
Yucun agreed willingly.
They walked off hand in hand, followed by the page with the cart till they reached a thatched temple.
Shiyin invited Yucun in to sit down, and a boy served tea.
Asked how he had come to renounce the world, Shiyin said with a smile, "It's easily done, with the speed of thought.
Coming from the great world, sir, don't you know of a certain Baoyu who used to live in the lap of luxury?"
"Of course I do!
Recently it has been rumoured that he has entered Buddhist orders too.
I met him several times, but never dreamed he would take such a decision."
"That's where you were wrong!
I knew his strange story in advance, and had already met him at the time when the two of us talked before the gate of my old house in Renqing Lane."
"How could that be?"
exclaimed Yucun in surprise.
"With the capital so far from your honourable district!"
"I met him in spirit a long time ago."
"Then you know, no doubt, where he is now?"
"Baoyu means 'divine jade.'
Before the raid on the Rong and Ning Mansions, on the day when Baochai and Daiyu separated, that jade had already left the world of men to escape from calamity and effect a reunion.
Then, former ties of affection severed, form and essence once more became one.
It further showed its miraculous origin by passing the examination with distinction and begetting a noble son, proving that this jade is a treasure tempered by the divine powers of nature, not to be compared with ordinary objects.
It was taken to the mortal worla by me Buddhist of Infinite Space and the Taoist of Boundless Time.
Now that its mortal course is run, they have carried it back to its original place: this is what has happened to Baoyu."
Yucun, though he understood barely half of this, nodded and mar- velled, "So that's the way it was!
I'was too ignorant to know.
But why, with such a spiritual origin, was Baoyu so enamoured of girls before he became so enlightened?
Would you explain that?"
"This may be hard for you to grasp fully, sir.
The Illusory Land of Great Void is the Blessed Land of Truth.
By reading the registers twice, he saw the beginning and the ending too all set down there in detail.
How could that fail to enlighten him?
Since the fairy herb has reverted to her true form, shouldn't the jade of 'spiritual understanding' do the same?"
Yucun was mystified, but knowing that this was some divine secret he did not press for a fuller explanation.
"You have told me about Baoyu," he said.
"But there are many ladies in our humble clan; how is it that apart from the Imperial Consort all the others came to such undistinguished ends?"
"You must allow me to speak bluntly, sir.
All noble ladies come from the realm of love and retribution.
From time immemorial, carnal desire has been their cardinal sin, and they must not even immerse themselves in ~ove.
Thus Cui Yingying and Su Xiaoxiao 2 were immortals with earthly desires, while Song Yu and Sima Xiangru 3 were writers of genius whose works were wicked.
Anyone ensnared by love can come to no good end!"
Yucun absently stroked his beard and sighed.
"I have one more question, Reverend Immortal," he ventured.
"Will the Rong and Ning Mansions be restored to their former prosperity?"
"It is an immutable law that the good are favoured by fortune while the dissolute meet with calamity.
In these two mansions now, the good are laying up virtue, the bad repenting their crimes; so naturally their houses will prosper again with the orchid and fragrant osmanthus blooming together."
Yucun lowered his head in thought, then suddenly laughed, "I get it!
One of the sons of their house called Lan 4 has passed the examination; so that prediction of yours has come true.
But just now, Reverend Immortal, you spoke of 'the orchid and fragrant osmanthus blooming together, and you mentioned that Baoyu has begotten a noble son.
Is this as yet unborn son going to advance rapidly in his official career?"
"This belongs to the future," said Shiyin with a smile.
"It's not for me to predict."
Yucun had more questions on the tip of his tongue but the other, unwilling to answer them, ordered his servant to prepare food and invited Yucun to share it.
After the meal, Shiyin forestalled further questions about Yucun's own future by urging him to have a rest in his temple.
"I still have some worldly affairs to settle and must attend to them today," he explained.
"What worldly affairs can you have, Immortal One, you whose life is given to cultivating virtue?"
asked Yucun in surprise.
"Simply some private business concerned with family affection."
"What do you mean?"
Yucun was yet more amazed.
"You are unaware, sir, that my daughter Yinglian met with misfortune as a child, and at the start of your official career you judged a case in which she was involved.
She has married into the Xue family, but is dying now in childbirth leaving behind her a son to carry on the Xues' line.
Since the time has come for her to sever all mortal ties, I must go to guide her spirit."
With a flick of his sleeve he rose.
Yucun, left dazed, fell asleep in this thatched temple by the Ford of Awakening in the Stream of Rapid Reversal, while Shiyin went to conduct Xiangling to the Illusory Land of Great Void to enter her name in the record of the Goddess of Disenchantment.
As he passed the archway, he saw a monk and a priest come drifting towards him.
"Congratulations, holy men!"
he called.
"Have you severed all their entanglements of love?"
"Not completely," they replied.
"But we have brought that stupid object back with us.
We still have to return him to his original place and record his experiences in the world, so that he won't have descended there for nothing."
Shiyin saluted and left them, whereupon the monk and the priest took the divine jade to Blue Ridge Peak and left it in the place where Nu Wa had melted down stones to repair heaven.
This done, they went their different ways.
Thus: A book not of this world records events not of this world; A man with two lives reverts to his first form.
One day the Taoist immortal the Reverend Void, coming to Blue Ridge Peak again, found there the stone left unused when heaven was repaired, with the same inscription on it that he had seen before.
On reading it carefully once more, he discovered that appended to the epilogue-poem were more accounts of the denouement.
He nodded and sighed, "When I first read this strange story of Brother Stone, I said that it could be made known to the world and therefore had it transcribed.
But at that time I hadn't read how he returned to his original form and place.
This is quite a story I wonder when it was added?
Apparently Brother Stone after his descent to the world of men was burnished and awoke to the truth, which is highly gratifying!
If too many years pass and the inscription is blurred, it may be misconstrued.
I had better transcribe it again and find someone with the leisure to circulate it, to show the illusory nature of marvels, mundane matters, truth and falsehood.
Then perhaps some men tired of mortal vanity may return to the truth, or some friendly mountain spirit may enable the Stone to descend again to the world."
Thereupon he copied out the inscription again, tucked it into his sleeve and searched the haunts of splendour and wealth; but he found there only men striving to advance thier careers or to feed and clothe themselves not one had time for the story of the Stone.
However, when he reached the thatched temple by the Ford of Awakening in the Stream of Rapid Reversal, he discovered a man sleeping there and felt that here was someone sufficiently leisured to be given this Story of the Stone.
The sleeper did not wake when called, but when the Reverend Void tugged at him he sat up slowly and opened his eyes, then leafed through the manuscript before putting it down again.
"Yes, I witnessed this whole business myself," he said.
"The account you have copied out is quite correct.
I'll tell you someone who will circulate it, so that this extraordinary case can be concluded."
The Reverend Void at once asked whom he had in mind.
"Wait till such-and-such a year, month, day and hour, then go to Mourning-the-Red Studio where you will find a certain Mr. Cao Xueqin," was the answer.
"Just give him Jia Yucun's name, and tell him what you want of him."
With that he lay down and went to sleep again.
The Reverend Void bore these instructions in mind and, after no one knows how many generations or aeons, sure enough he found Mourning-the-Red Studio, where Mr. Cao Xueqin was reading an ancient history.
He gave him Jia Yucun's message and handed him the Story of the Stone.
Cao Xueqin laughed, "This certainly sounds like Jia Yucun!"
5 "How did you come to know him, sir?"
asked the Reverend Void.
"What makes you willing to pass this tale on for him?"
Mr. Cao chuckled, "They call you Void, and you really are devoid of sense!
Since this is a fictitious rustic tale, provided it contains no clerical errors or perverse contradictions, it will serve to while away the time with a couple of friends after wine and food, or to dispel loneliness some rainy evening under the lamp by the window.
It doesn't have to be vouched for or launched by men of consequence.
All these questions you ask show that you're a pig-headed pedant and won't get you anywhere!"
The Reverend Void threw back his head and laughed, then tossed him the manuscript and left saying to himself, "So it's all hot air - fantastic!
Neither author, transcriber, nor readers can tell what it is about.
It is nothing but a literary diversion to entertain readers."
When this tale later came to be read, someone wrote four lines of verse to elucidate the author's meaning, as follows: A tale of grief is told, Fantasy most melancholy.
Since all live in a dream, Why laugh at others' folly?
